
                               1 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                             January 2, 2012 Monday

This Week in Small Business: The Latino Opportunity

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1585 words



HIGHLIGHT: Plus: What did you learn in 2011?


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.

The Big Story: Consumers Are Spending

Consumer confidence increases to its highest level in eight months. Gallup
reports a 4.1 percent uptick in holiday spending. Porsche sales are up 25
percent. But Sears announces that it's closing a bunch of stores, and consumer
and business spending points to slower growth -- a forecast supported by numbers
from the advertising industry. But cheer up, this video of the best wins of 2011
will make you feel better!

The Economy: Might as Well Jump

The four-week average of weekly unemployment claims are the lowest since June
2008. The Federal Highway Administration reports that traffic is down from last
year. Home prices fall 3.4 percent and some think America is becoming a nation
of renters. But pending homes sales are the highest in a year and a half and
experts see a recovery in commercial real estate this year. A forecasting firm
is predicting a recession in 2012 (but not for the original Van Halen, which
just announced a new tour). The United States government received record demand
for its bonds in 2011. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index moved the least
since 1970. Steve Strauss of USA Today begins his list of the top trends for
small business in 2012. NPR sums up the year in four great charts.

Ideas: The Latino Opportunity

Justin Kownacki says 10 things changed his life in 2011. Matt Ryan lists five
everyday products made possible by NASA. Bad idea: taking 247 animals with you
on a plane. Cassie Murdoch reports that grocery stores are not just for ladies
anymore. The satellite launching business faces a cloudy future. But an electric
car can go more than 300 kilometers. Evangeline Gomez explains why Latino-owned
businesses are leading the recovery: "Latino-owned businesses are expected to
increase their total revenue contribution to the economy by 8 percent annually
over the 10 years from 2005 to 2015. This is more than three times the average
growth for all businesses. What does this mean: Latinos will have more economic
clout, employ a greater proportion of the population and purchase substantially
more in goods and services than they do today."

Your People: Robot Hiring

A company sues a former employee over 17,000 Twitter followers. An employer
argues that employees should not be allowed to discuss their pay. A deadline
looms for posting employee rights per the National Labor Relations Act. A boom
in robot hiring has begun. CareerBuilder says employers are "cautiously
optimistic (PDF)" about hiring in 2012, but I'm certain none of my children
qualify for this job. A majority of employees are not taking all of their
vacation time. Your employees may benefit from these tips on choosing the right
health insurance plan. Michael Flatt explains how to give feedback that works:
"I quickly learned that the team felt alienated by scattershot criticism and a
lack of recognition from the head office. Something had to change. The team and
I designed a review system to evaluate each project on a 10-point scale. That
transformed the feedback from random critiques to consistent, objective
assessments."

Start-Up: How Silicon Valley Was Built

Here are 10 San Francisco start-ups that will shake up the world of food. A new
company shows how to profit when a relationship breaks up. Scott McNealy shares
his recent start-up experience. Joe McKendrick reports on a few cool start-ups
he likes and five reasons to be optimistic about technology innovation. This
video explains how a handful of investors built Silicon Valley. Laurie
Kulikowski picks the best businesses to enter in 2012.

Marketing: Amazon Plays Guess the Religion

Amazon and Apple get high customer service marks but this little girl is upset
with the way toys are marketed. Uzi Shmilovici suggests eight ways to go viral,
including: "Embeddable virality. This method works superbly well for content Web
sites. The ability to take a piece of content and embed it anywhere on the web,
with a link back to the original website. This will put your product in front of
countless users." Amazon profiling tries to guess customer religions by gift
wrap choices. Mike Thimmesch asks whether QR codes are worth putting on trade
show displays. Fourteen experts suggest must-read social media books. Google
Plus passes 62 million users. Scott Gerber lists 13 location-based marketing
tips for entrepreneurs. Lior Levin offers five reasons live chat has untapped
potential for online selling.

Red Tape Update: Five Victories

Paychex lists 12 potential regulatory changes that small businesses should know
about. Same-sex spouses lose big on taxes and Santa Clausgets arrested for tax
fraud. A report finds that small-business investment in federal contracting is
up 21 percent over last year. Kent Hoover says entrepreneurs snagged these five
victories from Washington in 2011.

Boss of the Week: Louis CK shows how to earn big bucks in 12 days with a $5
video.

Around the World: Samoa Skips Friday

An investor defends his decision to abandon setting up a start-up fund in Chile:
"The Chilean society is less dynamic than Asia or the U.S.; a handful of
monopolistic families control the country, and won't move. Worse, these families
don't care about anything (the young, the poor  ) besides their money. They
don't have to: the country's natural resources (copper, etc.) are a disadvantage
here, because it means the rich don't need to work hard." A Chilean entrepreneur
responds. Cisco and the Moscow Business School introduce an M.B.A. executive
course. Japanese small-business sentiment continues to weaken. America is the
world's most charitable nation but also the largest jailer of citizens per
capita in the world. Brazil is now the world's sixth largest economy. Om Malik
explains why Berlin is poised to be Europe's new tech hub. Samoa skips Friday.

Around the Country: Following the Luggage

Small businesses in Kalamazoo, Mich., report improved holiday sales. For the
second time in four years, an information technology firm is named NASA's
small-business prime contractor of the year (which is almost as impressive as
this sixth-grade basketball player in North Carolina). A Colorado Springs
company that has been offering clinics for high school football coaches is
expanding next month into offering conferences for small businesses on sales,
marketing and human resources. Massachusetts gives $2.2 million in loans to life
sciences start-ups. See how your luggage travels on Delta Airlines.

Technology: Cyber Insurance

A security think tank gets hacked and insurance against cyberattacks is expected
to boom (but Grandpa isn't interested). A marijuana company buys a software
firm. Microsoft's Windows phone marketplace hits 50,000 apps but Robert Scoble
explains why the Windows Phone 7 hasn't taken off: "So, when a consumer goes
into a carrier store to buy a new phone, what is going on in the back of her/his
head? Android=safe. iOS/iPhone=safe. Everything else=not safe." Small businesses
are expected to buy more tablets in 2012. Tech companies ramp up on intern
hiring. Rieva Lesonsky reports on why now is the time to raise your I.T. budget.
PC World's Logan G. Harbaugh lists technologies that should be on our company's
radar this year. Chandra Steele lists her biggest tech disappointments of 2011.
Jeweller Magazine wonders if Apple is introducing an iWatch.

The Week's Bests

Way to Stay in Control. S. Anthony Iannarino wants us to stay in control  be
flexible: "Great salespeople follow a sales process. They know that there are
certain necessary and important outcomes that position them to win, that serve
their clients through the buying process, and that allow them to later execute
and meet their client's business outcomes. But these salespeople don't follow
the process when doing so doesn't work to achieve these outcomes. When the
roadmap isn't an accurate representation, they make adjustments."

Way to Find Humor in What You Do. Michael Hess explains why your business
doesn't have to be so serious: "Humorless, uptight companies are often paralyzed
by politics, stifling hierarchies, defensiveness, fear of failure/consequences,
and other dysfunction. A collective sense of humor and the cohesive culture it
engenders tends to minimize such toxicity."

Lessons From 2011. A business owner and data analyzer, Chris Merrick, summarizes
what he learned in 2011, including: "Anything we can do, our customers can do
better. In the early versions of (our product), customers were unable to edit
anything beyond the level of charts and dashboards -- modifications to the
actual data set had to be performed by (one of our) analysts. The stated reason
for this was that the tools we had to perform these changes were powerful and
confusing, a mix that we were afraid might lead customers to make irreversible
changes accidentally. But, as our customer base has matured, we have felt more
demand for data warehouse management tools, and as our product development team
has matured, we have recognized that the above reasons are really just lame
excuses. We can build tools that aren't confusing, and we can build in
protections for reversing accidental changes -- and that's what we're going to
do."

This week's question: What did you learn in 2011?

Marks Group


     ·    This Year in Small Business: The Best Reads
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Making Lists
     ·    Small Businesses Plan to Increase Hiring
     ·    This Week in Small Business: The Clock is Ticking
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Are Consumers (and Jobs) Back?


LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 5, 2012 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

After a Child's Death, a Religious Politician Became a Cultural Warrior

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; MAN IN THE NEWS RICHARD JOHN
SANTORUM; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1387 words


WASHINGTON -- As a teenager growing up in Butler, Pa., Rick Santorum spent
Sunday mornings as an altar boy, taking wheelchair-bound veterans to Roman
Catholic Mass. In the ninth grade, he announced his intention to hold elective
office. ''I'm going to be governor of Pennsylvania,'' he declared, according to
his brother Dan.

Years later, as a married man and a member of Congress, Mr. Santorum wove these
two strands of his life -- his faith and his political aspirations -- into one.
Then, in 1996, when he was a freshman senator, his wife, Karen, delivered a
child when she was just 20 weeks pregnant. The baby, a boy they named Gabriel,
died after two hours.

''That's when I noticed a marked difference in Rick,'' said Robert Traynham, who
spent 10 years as a Santorum aide. ''He became much more philosophical, much
more deeply religious. You could tell; he was walking with his faith.''

That experience helped deepen Mr. Santorum's opposition to abortion, and he went
on to become one of Washington's most outspoken cultural warriors. He prodded
Congress to outlaw the procedure known as partial-birth abortion, broke with a
Republican president, George W. Bush, over embryonic stem cell research and
pushed for a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage, insisting that
it is ''right for children to have moms and dads.''

Those views helped put Mr. Santorum within a whisker of beating Mitt Romney in
the Iowa caucuses on Tuesday night. Mr. Santorum has spent months waging a
low-budget, shoe-leather-intensive quest for the Republican nomination; he
visited all 99 counties in Iowa and moved his wife and seven children (including
a disabled 3-year-old daughter) there for three weeks before the Ames Straw Poll
last summer. Now, suddenly, he is a viable candidate.

''People have asked me how I've done this, sitting back at the polls and not
getting a whole lot of attention paid to us,'' Mr. Santorum told supporters in
Iowa on Tuesday night. ''How did you keep going out to Iowa, in 99 counties, and
381 town hall meetings and speeches?''

''Well,'' he went on, ''every morning when I was getting up in the morning to
take on that challenge, I've required a strength from another particular
friendship, one that is sacred. I've survived the challenges so far by the daily
grace that comes from God.''

Brash and blunt at 53, Mr. Santorum is a what-you-see-is-what-you-get
politician, unapologetic if his views offend, which they often do. He once
offhandedly invoked bestiality in arguing that states should have the right to
regulate homosexual acts. ''That is not to pick on homosexuality,'' he said.
''It's not, you know, man on child, man on dog.'' That prompted critics to
create a Web site promoting a vulgar definition of his name. He is now feuding
with Google, because the site comes up first on a search for him.

On the campaign trail, he makes the case that traditional marriage is one
prescription for the nation's economic ills. During a swing through South
Carolina this fall, he dropped in on a Christian radio station, where the host
of the drive-time talk show, Tony Beam, asked Mr. Santorum how social issues
would play in an election dominated by the economy.

Mr. Santorum did not miss a beat, launching into a long discourse on how
single-parent homes spawn poverty and government intervention. ''Government gets
bigger,'' he argued, ''when families get weaker.''

Richard John Santorum grew up in working-class Pennsylvania, the son of an
Italian immigrant father who eventually became a clinical psychologist at the
Veterans Administration Hospital in Butler. Mr. Santorum's mother was the chief
nurse there, and the Santorums -- Rick is the middle child of three -- lived in
a small three-bedroom, one-bathroom brick house on the hospital grounds. Mr.
Santorum bunked with his younger brother, Dan.

''Growing up, you had to be on your deathbed not to go to church,'' Dan Santorum
said. ''It was 200 yards from our house to walk to the church. Before Mass, my
brother and I would get the patients who were not ambulatory and we wheeled them
from their hospital rooms to the services. He served Mass and I would help wheel
the patients up for Communion, and when it was over we would wheel them back and
go home and have a family breakfast.''

Dan Santorum said he and his friends laughed at his older brother when Rick
declared he would be Pennsylvania's governor one day. But in college, at
Pennsylvania State University, Mr. Santorum studied political science and
eventually became state chairman of the College Republicans. He went on to earn
a business degree from the University of Pittsburgh and a law degree from the
Dickinson School of Law. He broke into politics working as an administrative
assistant for a state senator.

Social issues were not high on Mr. Santorum's agenda when he first ran for
Congress in 1990, said G. Terry Madonna, a political scientist at Franklin and
Marshall College who has followed Mr. Santorum for 30 years. That year, Mr.
Santorum narrowly defeated the Democratic incumbent, Doug Walgren, by painting
Mr. Walgren as an absentee congressman who spent too much time in Washington --
a charge that would later cost Mr. Santorum his Senate seat in 2006.

He arrived in Washington in 1991 and promptly made a name for himself (along
with John A. Boehner, now the speaker of the House) as a member of the so-called
Gang of Seven, who helped expose scandal in the banking practices of the House.
All seven were freshmen, all had won in a difficult year for Republicans, and
they felt emboldened.

''All of them were back-benchers who felt like they had been largely abandoned
by the national party and had a formula for success, which was connecting with
blue-collar and nontraditional Republican voters on values and economic
populism,'' said Ralph Reed, who at the time ran the Christian Coalition, an
evangelical group. ''They came into the House loaded for bear.''

Mr. Santorum promoted school vouchers and changing the welfare system, blending
his Roman Catholicism with a small-government philosophy that foreshadowed what
Mr. Bush would later call his ''compassionate conservative'' agenda. (Mr.
Santorum called it the ''community renewal agenda.'') In 1996, he was
instrumental in passing the welfare overhaul that President Bill Clinton signed
into law. He was already at work on the partial-birth abortion bill when his son
died; it did not pass until 2003.

In a swing state like Pennsylvania, Mr. Santorum was an unusual breed -- a
conservative Republican who could win. In 1994, he ran for the Senate, ousting
Harris Wofford, a Democrat. In 2000, after winning a second term, he became
chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, a leadership post that gave him a
platform. He used it.

''Conservatives liked him because he spoke their language,'' Professor Madonna
said. ''He was aggressive, and vigorous and very polarizing.''

But by 2006, Mr. Santorum was in a tough political spot. He had championed Mr.
Bush's agenda and was closely aligned with him, but the country, soured on the
Iraq war, had turned against the president.

Mr. Santorum's finances also came under scrutiny amid disclosures that he was
home-schooling his children at his family residence in Virginia while receiving
money from a Pennsylvania school district to enroll them in ''cyber school.'' He
lost badly to Bob Casey, who remains in the Senate, and his political career was
presumed dead.

Now Mr. Santorum's challenge is to position himself as a credible alternative to
Mr. Romney with little money and hardly any staff. His friends say he is
clear-eyed about the challenges. In New Hampshire, the next stop on the
Republican primary tour, voters are far more animated by fiscal issues than the
social causes that shape Mr. Santorum's political identity.

''We will be in New Hampshire,'' he told backers in Iowa on Tuesday night.
''We'll leave tomorrow. We'll spend our time there. And with your help and God's
grace, we'll have another fun night a week from now.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 6, 2012



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A
picture caption on Thursday with a Man in the News article about Rick Santorum
misidentified a network that interviewed Mr. Santorum. He was shown on Wednesday
waiting to talk to Fox News, not CNN.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Santorum waiting to be interviewed on CNN on Wednesday.
His weaving of religion and politics helped him come close to beating Mitt
Romney in Iowa.
 Tyler Carlisle, a freshman at Yale, cleaned the New Hampshire office in
preparation for the arrival of the candidate, who has spent months waging a
low-budget campaign. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN MCGLINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                            January 5, 2012 Thursday

An Online Presidential Debate That's Meant to Be Laughed At

BYLINE: DAVE ITZKOFF

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 283 words



HIGHLIGHT: Yahoo! and Funny or Die will present a satirical take on the
Republican debates, moderated by Larry King and featuring a cast of comedians
and performers including Horatio Sanz, John C. McGinley, Patrick Warburton and
Mike Tyson.


In this presidential election cycle can you handle just one more Republican
debate? If that already sounds like a joke - and we haven't even mentioned that
it will be moderated by Larry King and its panelists will include Mike Tyson -
that's precisely the goal of a satirical event that will be presented on Friday
morning by Yahoo! and Funny or Die and hopefully offer some comic relief from
The Election Season That Wouldn't End (And Yet Somehow Only Just Started).

The two online companies announced on Thursday that they would present a mock
debate, called the "Yahoo! News/Funny or Die GOP Presidential Online Internet
Cyber Debate" that will be shown on Yahoo! Web sites.

Mr. King, the former CNN host, will oversee the event, in which a cast of
comedians and actors will play most of the Republican hopefuls, including the
"Saturday Night Live" alumnus Horatio Sanz as Newt Gingrich; John C. McGinley
("Scrubs") as Rick Santorum; Patrick Warburton ("Rules of Engagement") as Gov.
Rick Perry; Leslie Jordan ("Will & Grace") as Representative Ron Paul; Greg
Germann ("Ally McBeal") as Jon Huntsman; Erin Gibson as Representative Michele
Bachmann; and Mr. Tyson as Herman Cain.

Rob Delaney, the comedian and prolific Twitter-er, will play Mitt Romney. Bryan
Safi will play Ms. Bachmann's husband, Marcus, and Reggie Brown will appear as
President Obama.

The mock debate will be shown on Friday at 8 a.m. on Yahoo! News, and will be
made available on its Yahoo! Screen video site.


     ·    Bill Maher Concert Will Introduce New Yahoo! Comedy Channel
     ·    Funny or Die: Webby Awards Choose Funny
     ·    Webby Nominations Announced
     ·    After 25 Years Sitting Down, Larry King Will Do Stand Up
     ·    Heir to the King? Larry's Son Takes the Mic


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                            January 5, 2012 Thursday

An Online Presidential Debate That's Meant to Be Laughed At

BYLINE: DAVE ITZKOFF

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 284 words



HIGHLIGHT: Yahoo! and Funny or Die will present a satirical take on the
Republican debates, moderated by Larry King and featuring a cast of comedians
and performers including Horatio Sanz, John C. McGinley, Patrick Warburton and
Mike Tyson.


In this presidential election cycle can you handle just one more Republican
debate? If that already sounds like a joke - and we haven't even mentioned that
it will be moderated by Larry King and its panelists will include Mike Tyson -
that's precisely the goal of a satirical event that will be presented on Friday
morning by Yahoo! and Funny or Die and hopefully offer some comic relief from
The Election Season That Wouldn't End (And Yet Somehow Only Just Started).

The two online companies announced on Thursday that they would present a mock
debat, called the "Yahoo! News Funny Or Die GOP Presidential Online Internet
Cyber Debate" that will be shown on Yahoo! Web sites.

Mr. King, the former CNN host, will oversee the event, in which a cast of
comedians and actors will play most of the Republican hopefuls, including the
"Saturday Night Live" alumnus Horatio Sanz as Newt Gingrich, John C. McGinley
("Scrubs") as Rick Santorum, Patrick Warburton ("Rules of Engagement") as Gov.
Rick Perry; Leslie Jordan ("Will & Grace") as Representative Ron Paul, Greg
Germann ("Ally McBeal") as Jon Huntsman, Erin Gibson as Representative Michele
Bachmann; and Mr. Tyson as Herman Cain.

Rob Delaney, the comedian and prolific Twitter-er, will play Mitt Romney. Bryan
Safi will play Ms. Bachmann's husband, Marcus, and Reggie Brown will appear as
President Obama.

The mock debate will be shown on Friday at 8 a.m. on Yahoo! News, and will be
made available on its Yahoo! Screen video site.


     ·    Bill Maher Concert Will Introduce New Yahoo! Comedy Channel
     ·    Funny or Die: Webby Awards Choose Funny
     ·    Webby Nominations Announced
     ·    After 25 Years Sitting Down, Larry King Will Do Stand Up
     ·    Heir to the King? Larry's Son Takes the Mic


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 6, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Online Presidential Debate That's Meant to Be Laughed At

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTSBEAT;
Pg. 2

LENGTH: 262 words


In this presidential election cycle can you handle just one more Republican
debate? If that already sounds like a joke - and we haven't even mentioned that
it will be moderated by Larry King and its panelists will include Mike Tyson -
that's precisely the goal of a satirical event that will be presented on Friday
morning by Yahoo! and Funny or Die and hopefully offer some comic relief from
The Election Season That Wouldn't End (And Yet Somehow Only Just Started).

The two online companies announced on Thursday that they would present a mock
debate, called the ''Yahoo! News/Funny or Die GOP Presidential Online Internet
Cyber Debate'' that will be shown on Yahoo! Web sites.

Mr. King, the former CNN host, will oversee the event, in which a cast of
comedians and actors will play most of the Republican hopefuls, including the
''Saturday Night Live'' alumnus Horatio Sanz as Newt Gingrich; John C. McGinley
(''Scrubs'') as Rick Santorum; Patrick Warburton (''Rules of Engagement'') as
Gov. Rick Perry; Leslie Jordan (''Will & Grace'') as Representative Ron Paul;
Greg Germann (''Ally McBeal'') as Jon Huntsman; Erin Gibson as Representative
Michele Bachmann; and Mr. Tyson as Herman Cain.

Rob Delaney, the comedian and prolific Twitter-er, will play Mitt Romney. Bryan
Safi will play Ms. Bachmann's husband, Marcus, and Reggie Brown will appear as
President Obama.

The mock debate will be shown on Friday at 8 a.m. on Yahoo! News, and will be
made available on its Yahoo! Screen video site.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             January 6, 2012 Friday

Man Wins Web Squatting Suit Involving His Name

BYLINE: BRIAN X. CHEN

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 347 words



HIGHLIGHT: A New York man has won a lawsuit against a woman who was accused of
registering Web domains incorporating his name and demanding $1 million in
exchange for ownership of the addresses.


 A New York man on Friday won a lawsuit against a woman whom he accused of
registering Web addresses incorporating his name and demanding $1 million for
each of them.

In a lawsuit filed in Federal District Court for the Southern District in
Manhattan, Paul Bogoni, a real estate investor, accused Vicdania Gomez of buying
the addresses paulbogoni.com and paulbogoni.org and pretending that her
3-year-old daughter Vittoria Gomez was updating the associated sites.

The Web sites' purported intent was to sell a toy airplane labeled "The Big
One," made by Ms. Gomez and her daughter. In the profile section of the Web
sites, "Vittoria" offered to sell the domains.

"I will am also selling this domain name www.PAULBOGONI.ORG and
www.PAULBOGONI.COM for $1Million (ONE MILLION DOLLARS) each," says a page on
PaulBogoni.org. The site includes a small photo of a man who court documents
indicate is Mr. Bogoni, next to a young girl.

The court ruled that Ms. Gomez had committed cyber-extortion, in accordance with
the Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act, a federal law intended to
protect individuals from online registrations of personal names and trademarks
made in bad faith.

"This case shows that people have ownership in their own names, and they can't
be used to ransom back to them for extortionate purposes or for blackmail," said
David Lin, a lawyer with Lewis & Lin who represented Mr. Bogoni.

Before the dispute over the domains, Ms. Gomez and Mr. Bogoni had a "social
relationship," according to Mr. Lin, who declined to offer further details.

When reached by phone, Ms. Gomez declined to comment.

Ms. Gomez has been ordered to remove the Web sites. PaulBogoni.com is no longer
active, and if PaulBogoni.org is not taken down, Ms. Gomez will be in violation
of a court order and subject to contempt, Mr. Lin said.


     ·    New Internet Law Limits Consumer Choices
     ·    iPhonegate: Q.&A. With Mark D. Rasch, Computer Security Expert
     ·    Google Changes Home Page, Adding Link to Privacy Policy
     ·    California Privacy Chief Says Google Should Improve Disclosure
     ·    Is Google Violating a California Privacy Law?


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 7, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cyberattack Exposes 20,000 Israeli Credit Card Numbers and Details About Users

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 471 words


JERUSALEM -- The credit card details of more than 20,000 Israelis were exposed
on the Internet in two waves this week by a hacker or team of hackers who said
they were Saudis.

Some Israeli officials described the release of the information as
cyberterrorism. Others said that it was too early to define the nature of the
attack because there was still no way yet to confirm who did it.

''You have to look at the facts: somebody is publishing information about
Israelis in order to harm the economy,'' Yoram Hacohen, the head of the Israeli
Law, Information and Technology Authority at the Justice Ministry, told Army
Radio on Friday. He said the hacker or hackers ''could be a citizen of any
country in the world'' and that ''investigations in the digital realm'' were no
trivial matter.

The initial reports on Tuesday morning were considerably more alarming: that the
details of 400,000 credit card holders had been posted online by a hacker
identifying himself as a 19-year-old from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, who used the Web
name 0xOmar. But the three credit card companies that were affected said that
many of the card numbers and details had been listed multiple times and that
some were incorrect.

Later Tuesday, the Bank of Israel's Banking Supervision Department said in a
statement that about 15,000 active accounts had been exposed.

On Thursday, a second list of about 11,000 credit cards and details about the
accounts was posted online, along with e-mail addresses, passwords and other
personal information. The credit card companies reported that only about 6,000
of those accounts were active, Israel Radio said on Friday.

The credit card companies responded swiftly, contacting the holders of the
exposed cards and blocking them from being used on the Internet or by telephone.
The Banking Supervision Department said that customers would not be responsible
for the fraudulent use of their cards, and officials said that any financial
damage would be negligible.

The credit card companies had called on the government to help in protecting
credit card information.

In August, the Israeli government approved the creation of a National Cyber
Directorate to coordinate activities of the agencies that deal with the issue.
The directorate also works to secure national infrastructures against
cyberattacks and to promote the issue in industry.

The government said at the time that the directorate had been created in the
wake of attacks like those against electricity grids in Brazil, banking systems
in Estonia and computer systems at the defense contractor Lockheed Martin.

The government has said that the Bank of Israel's Web site was hit in 2008 and
that hackers had struck at various institutions after Israel's deadly commando
raid on a Turkish ship that was part of a flotilla challenging Israel's blockade
of Gaza in 2010.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 8, 2012 Sunday
                                National Edition

Government Secrecy May Be a Relic From the Cold War and a Wave of the Future

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN.

jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE;
Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 765 words


James Warren writes a column for The Chicago News Cooperative.

On Thursday I asked four government officials who deal daily with secret
documents about the significance of the unauthorized disclosure of American
diplomatic cables by WikiLeaks.

There was silence in the meeting room at the Marriott Chicago Downtown. Then
Carl Ashley, who oversees declassification in the State Department's office of
the historian, spoke with succinct severity:

''Are you familiar with the concept of the third rail? That's how WikiLeaks is
viewed in the Department of State,'' he said, not a word more. He was referring
to ''third rail'' as a topic to be avoided because of its offensive nature
rather than part of an electric railway.

Few heard the archival insiders, including one from the Central Intelligence
Agency, discussing American state secrecy. That's too bad. There were wonderful
tidbits, like how our backlog of declassified documents is 400 million pages,
and a serious discussion of whether we go overboard with secrecy.

The modest turnout was perhaps to be expected at the annual meeting of the
American Historical Association -- an all-you-can-eat intellectual buffet with
nearly 5,000 attendees and more than 250 separate sessions -- which concludes on
Sunday.

The main order of business is the past, from ancient law to the Arab Spring,
said James Grossman, the association's executive director. People worldwide came
to explore topics touching every continent and period of history, and focusing
on farmers, nuns, kings, juvenile delinquents, mosquitoes, monsters and nomads,
you name it.

''The issues are important: whether the transformation of life in the Amazon,
the roots and effects of nuclear disasters or the intricacies of Chicago
politics, we need to understand why historical context nearly always matters,''
said Mr. Grossman, formerly a top official at the Newberry Library.

The gathering's eclectic essence offered many alternatives Thursday afternoon.

There were dueling panels on ''The (Scholarly) World Absorbs the Text: Learning
and the Literal Sense of Scripture in Early Modern Europe,'' ''Citizen Soldiers
and Civil Disorder: The National Guard, 1877-1908'' and ''The Politics of
Respectability Reconsidered: Using the Framework of Respectability to Examine
Southern Lesbian History,'' among others.

I was torn between ''Reconciling Medieval Communities: Priests, People and
Prostitutes'' and ''U.S. State Archives and Government Information Secrecy:
Access and Historical Research.''

The secretive stuff won out, so I listened to thoughtful historian-bureaucrats

Our government still reflects ''a cold war system,'' which keeps documents
classified too long, said John Fitzpatrick, who oversees national security
information at the National Archives' information security oversight office.
He's a broker between agencies with a self-interest in keeping things classified
and outside constituencies, like historians, who don't.

Executive Order 13526, signed by President Obama in 2009, is meant to speed the
declassification process. But Mr. Fitzpatrick, who previously worked at the
C.I.A., conceded that ''coming from where I come from,'' that's not a
well-understood notion.

That was underscored by Michael Warner, a former C.I.A analyst and in-house
historian, who now works as the historian for the Defense Department's Cyber
Command, which oversees our military computer networks.

In 1999 he published for in-house consumption a history of C.I.A operations in
the 1950s and '60s. In 2009, he heard that an outsider had filed a Freedom of
Information request for it, so he filed one, too. When he got the C.I.A version,
90 percent of the pages were blank. His children used the redacted copy as a
coloring book, he said.

The session's most notable moments included Mr. Warner warning that corporate
America's increasing ''cold war attitude toward secrecy and data are the wave of
the future''; high praise for superior, publicly available scholarship by the
State Department and the C.I.A; and the assertion of Peter Usowski, who runs an
in-house C.I.A. research organization, that ''we are incredibly open'' compared
with other countries and far more than Britain, ''which is more open than
anybody else.''

But there was the admonition of how secrecy can be a ''reliable facilitator of
ill-conceived policy decisions,'' according to Fredrik Logevall, a Cornell
University historian and panel moderator who concluded by asking if we
overclassify information.

''Absolutely, yes, it's overdone,'' said Mr. Fitzpatrick, just as a tray of
dishes and silver crashed to the floor outside.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 8, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Grating Santorum

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 868 words



MANCHESTER, N.H.

RICK SANTORUM was locking down the youth vote.

The man who fondly recalls nuns rapping his knuckles with rulers did some verbal
knuckle-rapping of his own on Thursday with students at a forum in Concord
hosted by New England College.

Not satisfied with mentioning homosexuality in the same breath as bestiality and
pedophilia, as he did in 2003, Santorum tried to win over the kids by equating
homosexuality with polygamy.

Even for Santorum, it was a masterpiece of antediluvian abrasiveness -- slapping
gays and Mormons at the same time.

When 17-year-old Rhiannon Pyle, visiting with her civics class from Newburyport,
Mass., pressed Santorum on how he could believe that all men are created equal
and still object to two men in love marrying, he began nonsensically frothing.

''So if everybody has the right to be happy, so if you're not happy unless
you're married to five other people, is that O.K.?'' he said, adding, ''Well,
what about three men?''

The grating Santorum was their worst nightmare of a bad teacher. He merely got
booed; he's lucky the kids didn't TP his car or soap the windows.

In a campaign where W. is an unmentionable, Santorum is an unexpected revival of
Bushian uncompassionate conservatism.

He got more scattered boos on Friday at a library in Keene and a private high
school in Dublin. In Keene, he was asked if he would protect gay rights, since
gays are ''children of God'' too.

''Serving in the military is not an unalienable right, it's a privilege, you're
selected,'' replied the candidate, who wants to restore ''don't ask, don't
tell.'' He also called marriage ''a privilege, not a right,'' for the purpose is
procreation.

Rick Perry baits gays because it's good politics; Santorum sincerely means it.
His political philosophy is infused with his uber-Catholicism but lacks
humanity.

At the Dublin event, 16-year-old Jessica Scharf asked Santorum how her
handicapped brother could be cared for without help from the federal government.
He replied, as The Times's Katharine Q. Seelye reported, that he and his wife
''bear the cost'' of a handicapped daughter; he said family, friends, neighbors
and the church could help, and that caring for someone would knit them closer.
Scharf told Seelye later that such a group was not equipped to handle her
brother, who has multiple handicaps.

New Hampshire's feisty voters don't seem as enraptured with Santorum's rigid
conservatism and sweater vests as evangelical voters in Iowa were. Many are
pushing back on the wacky worldview of Senator Slash, as Santorum was once known
for his vicious attacks on Bill Clinton and other Democrats.

He bashes President Obama as a European-style socialist and preaches fiscal
conservatism. Yet in the Senate, he made sure dollars from the socialistic
Medicare program went to Puerto Rico on behalf of a hometown firm -- Universal
Health Services -- that later gave him nearly $400,000 in director's fees and
stock options.

He was among the pay-for-play Republicans who tried to strong-arm lobbyists and
say that if you wanted to have influence you had to cough up campaign money.

While Karen Santorum was home-schooling their seven children in Virginia,
Santorum soaked the Pennsylvania taxpayers to the tune of $100,000 by enrolling
the children in a Pennsylvania cyber charter school.

The preface to Mrs. Santorum's 2003 book of moral parables teaching children
good manners was written by Joe Paterno, who warns against ''a decline of
civility and a coarsening of society.'' And he knows how that goes.

In his 2005 book, ''It Takes a Family,'' Santorum goes off on ''radical
feminists'' poisoning society: ''What happened in America so that mothers and
fathers who leave their children in the care of someone else -- or worse yet,
home alone after school between three and six in the afternoon -- find
themselves more affirmed by society?''

In Iowa, he tossed out a line about food stamps that NPR reported this way: ''I
don't want to make black people's lives better by giving them somebody else's
money.'' He later told CNN that he was ''pretty confident'' that he didn't say
''black.'' The only alternative, watching the video clip, is that he said
''blah.'' He doesn't want to make blah people's lives better by giving them
somebody else's money?

Santorum's hot politics of aggrievement have competed with Mitt Romney's cold
politics of convenience. But soon Santorum will be gone and Mittens will reign
as the calculating consultant type, unpersuasive in premium denim mom jeans, his
hair slicked and gray, a lead in a '50s B movie.

Santorum thinks he's a bold color and Romney's a pastel. But the whole
Republican field seems ensconced in a black-and-white '50s diorama. It's like
they're running for president of Leave It to Beaverland.

As Tony Soprano told Meadow, ''Out there it's the 1990s, but in this house, it's
1954.''

Correction: January 10, 2012, Tuesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A column by
Maureen Dowd on Sunday about Rick Santorum's campaigning in New Hampshire
misidentified the company from which Mr. Santorum collected director's fees and
stock options. It is Universal Health Services, not United Health Services.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Bucks)

                           January 11, 2012 Wednesday

Big Banks Struggle to Help Customers on Twitter

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 806 words



HIGHLIGHT: Offering customer service via Twitter presents challenges for big
banks.




Twitter is proving to be a vexing customer service tool for big banks, says a
new report from Javelin Strategy & Research on banks' use of social media.

Customers seem to like the speed and directness of sending a question or
complaint to their bank by Twitter, the report found. But banks must weigh the
implications of responding quickly with the need to protect a customer's
personal and financial information, like bank account numbers. As a result,
they're "struggling" with how to best use the service, Javelin found.

Javelin examined nearly 5,500 Twitter messages sent by three big banks -- Bank
of America, Wells Fargo and Citigroup -- in response to messages received during
a crucial period late last year. (Chase, one of the top four banks, has a
Twitter handle but isn't actively using the service at this point, the report
says.) Javelin analyzed the final message sent by the bank to the customer to
determine if the issue had been resolved, or if the customer had been directed
to another communications channel like a call center.

The period spanned the seven weeks from Sept. 20 to Nov. 10, a time of intense
customer frustration with large banks. It encompassed media coverage of the
Occupy Wall Street movement; outrage over Bank of America's proposed $5 monthly
debit card fee; and Bank Transfer day on Nov. 5. Twitter volume to the banks
tripled during the period, Javelin found. (Tweets are typically public and
searchable online, unless they are "direct messages" sent to an individual.)

The analysis found that over all, the banks did not do a great job of resolving
complaints via Twitter during the study period. Citigroup appeared to do the
best, resolving 36 percent of its Twitter-based complaints; Wells Fargo, 11
percent; and Bank of America, 3 percent. (That doesn't necessarily mean the
complaints weren't ultimately addressed elsewhere, but they were not resolved
via Twitter -- the customer's chosen means of communication.)

In a "vast majority" of cases, the report found, Bank of America and Wells Fargo
responded with "repetitive, scripted" answers that, in effect, put the burden on
the customer to take further action, leaving a "trail of evidence that Twitter
would be a fruitless extra step, not a time saver."

The report also found that customers tended to send inquiries and complaints to
Twitter "handles," or addresses, that they considered intuitive -- like,
@BankofAmerica, @Citi or @WellsFargo - rather than the handles that the banks
have established specifically for customer service inquiries. That meant that in
most cases, inquiries sent to imprecise handles never got answered. (Only
WellsFargo responded to any misdirected messages, the report said.)

The report also looked at 300 full Twitter conversations on Nov. 28, or Cyber
Monday, a busy day for online shopping, and found that it was "atypical" for the
banks to answer questions on Twitter.

"At Citi we strive to provide excellent customer service through every outlet
available to us, including social media and Twitter," Andrew Brent, a bank
spokesman, said in an e-mail. "We look forward to reviewing the report in
detail."

"We use Twitter to engage customers, listen to our customers and help them get
to the right place for the answers they need," said Kimarie Matthews, a vice
president in Wells Fargo's Internet Services Group. "Sometimes this means
connecting a customer with someone from Wells Fargo who is not on Twitter to
help. And, in some instances, to protect the privacy of the customer an issue is
taken offline."

"Our Twitter team is dedicated to identifying and resolving customer's
individual issues," Bank of America spokeswoman Tara Burke said in an email.
"After initial contact we take the issue off-line to protect the privacy of the
customer. We never disclose or ask our customers to disclose any confidential
information during our interactions using Twitter."

When possible, banks should answer questions directly on Twitter, the Javelin
report advises. But bank representatives must educate customers that they will
need to switch to a private, direct message, or perhaps to another mode of
communication, like phoning a call center, if account information or other
details are needed to address the issue - or, if the problem requires more than
Twitter's 140-character limit.

Banks, however, should make "reasonable efforts" to avoid forcing the customer
to explain the problem over again. "Twitter," the report says, "should be seen
as a time saver, not an extra step in a conventional service channel."

Have you used Twitter to communicate with your bank? What was your experience?


     ·    Pew Feature Illustrates Banks' Transaction Infractions
     ·    The Latest A.T.M. Skimmer Scam
     ·    Credit Union Pledges Fee-Free Checking for Life
     ·    Debit Cards With Rewards Not Extinct (Yet)
     ·    Petition on Debit Card Fee Attracts 200,000 Supporters


LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 12, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Can I Help You?' Irks the Web-Savvy Customer

BYLINE: By TAFFY BRODESSER-AKNER

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 989 words


ON a Friday morning last autumn, a reporter walked into a Gap store at the
Grove, a shopping mall in Los Angeles. A young, bright-eyed woman in jeggings
and a side ponytail bounded over with a warm greeting.

''How are you?'' she asked. ''Can I help you with anything?''

Over the next 15 minutes, four other similarly young, beaming and bejegginged
women approached with the same question. The first two circled back and asked
again how they could help.

Less than 10 minutes later, the second one said, ''Still doing good?''

And this was at a store where all the clothing is on display, with plentiful
colors and sizes.

Roxanna Booth Miller, a fund-raiser who lives in Hartford, said she has had
negative reactions to solicitous salespeople at Nordstrom, a store famous for
customer service.

''They're more subtle at Nordstrom, but the message is the same: Buy this!''
said Ms. Miller, 43. ''I try to be empathetic. They're trying to make a living,
I understand, but as I get older, I just can't keep feeling bad about it. I was
at a Victoria's Secret, trying something on in a dressing room, and a salesclerk
stood outside my door with 10 more items that she thought I'd like.''

Some shoppers may like that kind of hands-on service, but not Ms. Miller. ''I
really prefer a more solitary shopping experience,'' she said.

So does Robin Walker, a children's clothing designer in Los Angeles. She used to
shop at J. Crew and Abercrombie & Fitch in malls, but began to find the
salespeople too aggressive.

''Whenever someone sees you, it's their job to say, 'Do you need anything?' ''
said Ms. Walker, 32. ''They don't really care how you are. I'm pretty frank. I'd
say, 'I'm good for right now.' And I'd say, over and over, 'If I need something,
I'll ask you.' ''

Eventually, Ms. Walker said, she began doing most of her shopping on the
Internet, buying clothing from Gilt.com and ShopBop.com, as well as the online
portals of her favorite stores.

Intolerance of salespeople's traditional swarm-and-greet approach is
increasingly common, said Mark G. Pingol, a vice president at Envirosell, an
international consumer behavior research and consulting firm in New York.

''Sales associates have always been aggressive, but it is our exposure to new
types of self-shop retail models that have made us more attuned to their
pushiness,'' Mr. Pingol wrote in an e-mail. ''At the department store, the
beauty associate is on top of shoppers from the moment they walk into the
section. In our studies, women often described them as 'sharks' or 'vultures.'
''

A customer's attempt to get to an intended counter ''becomes as planned and
calculated as a military airstrike,'' he added.

Self-service has long infiltrated the consumer experience, most recently with
self-checkout at grocery stores. But the biggest factor affecting attitudes
toward salespeople may be the amount of time people spend shopping online, which
tends to be a solitary experience. In 2011, online shopping on Cyber Monday was
up 22 percent over the previous year, according to comScore, which tracks
Internet traffic.

''The element of control, by contrast to the salesperson service experience, is
attractive,'' said Ravi Dhar, a professor of marketing and psychology at Yale.
''You feel like you're in control of the entire experience, and people like
that. There is this notion for the millennial generation that they don't quite
like the style of salesmanship that was going on, since they were raised on
online shopping. But it might be becoming true for a larger group of people.''

Mr. Dhar and Mr. Pingol mentioned the practice adopted by Sephora, the cosmetics
chain, which asks its sales staff to hover in the background until a customer
signals for help, as an antidote for those turned off by aggressive salespeople.
Mr. Pingol said that women describe Sephora and the Apple chain, which also
prefers the soft sell, as ''playgrounds.''

A New York company, Shanker Inc., has been helping train salespeople to narrow
what its president, Martin Shanker, called the ''distancing of the customer from
salespeople.''

''This distancing is so serious today that some customers walk into stores and
hold their hand up and say, 'Just looking,' '' said Mr. Shanker, who said he has
trained the employees of luxury stores like Ralph Lauren, Burberry and Van Cleef
& Arpels. Mr. Shanker, who has worked in retail and who calls himself a
behaviorist, said he believes that customers have been turned off by years of
what he calls ''greeting cliches.''

''The customer walks into a store, and they need time to adjust their eyes to
the light,'' he said. ''They maybe never were in the store before. They want to
feel the lay of the land even if they know what they want. So if you go up to
them before they're ready and say, 'Can I help you?' which is a cliche, you
hear, 'No, thank you.' That's a silent derailer because, as subtle as that is,
the salesperson unintentionally actually pushed the customer to say no. You
don't ever ask or pose any question that would get you a no.''

The key, Mr. Shanker said, is to get salespeople comfortable with silence after
their initial approach, which runs counter to the traditional model of following
a customer around and offering information about a product the minute the
customer looks at or touches it.

As for the high level of attention at the Gap store, Nick Costino, a district
manager in Southern California, said the company was aware of customers' varying
attitudes and was adjusting accordingly.

''We see the customer with their earbuds in'' who does not want to be approached
by a sales representative, Mr. Costino said. ''Some shoppers don't want that
kind of service, especially the ones we see who have done their pre-shopping
online. But some do. That's why we have personal stylists in some stores. People
ask for that level of interaction.''

In the end, he said, ''We are working on being able to deliver on both ends of
that service spectrum.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           January 12, 2012 Thursday

Malicious Software Attacks Security Cards Used by Pentagon

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 585 words



HIGHLIGHT: Chinese hackers have deployed a new cyber weapon that is aimed at the
federal agencies and United States  businesses, security researchers say.


 Chinese hackers have deployed a new cyber weapon that is aimed at the Defense
Department, the Department of Homeland Security, the State Department and
potentially a number of other United States government agencies and businesses,
security researchers say.

Researchers at AlienVault, a Campbell, Calif., security company, said on
Thursday that they had uncovered a new variant of some malicious software called
Sykipot that targets smart cards used by government employees to access
restricted servers and networks. Traces of Sykipot malware have been found in
cyberattacks dating back to 2006, but AlienVault's researchers say this is the
first time Sykipot has compromised smart cards.

The government uses smart cards to supplement employee passwords, which have
proven easy to crack. By cracking smart cards, hackers eliminate the final
hurdle between themselves and some of the government's most sensitive
information. Mandiant, a security firm, first outlined smart card weaknesses in
a January 2011 report and said it had investigated several attacks in which
hackers used smart cards to crack into companies. The latest Sykipot strain
offers a look at how hackers are compromising smart cards and indicates who they
are after.

Researchers say this strain specifically targets smart card readers that run
ActivClient, a program made by ActivIdentity, an identity authentication company
based in Fremont, Calif.  ActivIdentity's smart cards are used by employees at
the Defense Department, Department of Homeland Security, Coast Guard, Social
Security Administration, Treasury Department and other government agencies,
along with businesses including Monsanto, BNP Paribas and Air France.

A representative for ActivIdentity said the appropriate person to respond was
not available on Wednesday, and a Pentagon spokeswoman did not follow up on a
request for comment.

AlienVault's researchers say this particular strain has been used in more than a
dozen attacks at least since March 2011. That date is embedded in the malware's
code.

Researchers believe Sykipot has its origins in China. Previous Sykipot strains
have been traced to command-and-control servers in China, and the researchers
said they discovered Chinese characters in a small snippet of code in this
latest strain.

Last December, Lockheed Martin drew attention to a previous Sykipot variant that
used an Adobe vulnerability to infect victims' machines. In that case, hackers
sent personalized emails to their victims, often from people they knew,
persuading them to open a PDF attachment. The attachment then unleashed
malicious code onto victims' machines that gave hackers access to their
restricted network and servers. Adobe has since encouraged customers to use
updated versions of its software. It did not respond to requests that it confirm
that it had patched its previous vulnerability.

Researchers said this new strain of Sykipot also used an e-mail campaign to lure
victims into opening an infected PDF attachment. But unlike previous strains,
they say this new strain also employs a keystroke logger that steals PIN numbers
for smart cards. When a target inserts a smart card into an infected machine,
hackers can log in to the server or network using their victim's smart card
credentials and tell the malware where to go and what to steal.

Exactly what Sykipot's architects have stolen is still not known. But given
ActivIdentity's client list of defense agencies, security researchers say, it is
now clear who the target is.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 13, 2012 Friday
                                National Edition

Texan's Anti-Piracy Bill Gets Home State Pushback

BYLINE: By BECCA AARONSON.

baaronson@texastribune.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1036 words


United States Representative Lamar Smith says online piracy is damaging the
United States economy and putting American lives at risk. Foreign Web sites that
distribute American-made entertainment and counterfeit products, like fake
pharmaceuticals, are ''stealing our profits, they're stealing our jobs and they
may be endangering the health of Americans,'' said Mr. Smith, a Republican from
San Antonio.

He introduced the Stop Online Piracy Act in October to tackle the problem, but
the bill has received a cold reception in Mr. Smith's home state.

Technology companies and business advocates in Texas agree that cyber crimes are
a problem, but they contend that Mr. Smith's bill would cause greater economic
damage, particularly to Texas' growing technology sector. And they say that
online pirates could find ways to evade the law. Rackspace, Facebook and eBay,
which have received economic incentives from the state to create jobs in Texas,
are among the companies opposing the bill.

''In the name of policing the online theft of intellectual property, key
lawmakers are pushing a cure that's worse than the disease,'' Lanham Napier, the
chief executive of Rackspace, a Web hosting business, wrote on the company's
blog in December.

Existing United States laws -- used by copyright holders and law enforcement
authorities to remove copyrighted or illegal content from the Internet -- do not
apply to foreign Web sites that operate outside the jurisdiction of American
courts. To effectually shut down a foreign site engaging in illegal activity,
the Stop Online Piracy Act, known as SOPA, would allow a court to order domestic
companies to cut financial ties and block American customers' access to the
site.

The bill has bipartisan support from a majority of the House Judiciary
Committee, for which Mr. Smith is chairman, and is likely to pass out of
committee when Congress reconvenes late this month. Mr. Smith said there was no
language in the bill that would harm American businesses.

''Unless Rackspace is a foreign Web site primarily dedicated to illegal
activity, it's not going to affect them or Facebook or any of the others,'' he
said.

The technology industry strongly disagrees.

Ed Black, the chief executive of the Computer and Communications Industry
Association, said the bill would fundamentally change technology companies'
relationships with customers.

''The harm is it ruins the business models for companies,'' Mr. Black said. ''We
don't want companies in a free society to act as secret police.''

If the current bill passes, a plaintiff could obtain a court order without
giving the defendant notice.

A foreign Web site accused of breaking United States law would have 48 hours to
request an appeal of the court's decision. If it does not appeal, American
companies would have five days to obey the court order or face liability for
enabling illegal activity.

Google and Yahoo would be required to remove hyperlinks to the accused Web site
in search results, PayPal and Visa would have to stop payment transactions on
the site, and Google AdWords would have to discontinue advertisements. (All of
those companies oppose the bill.)

Internet service providers and companies like Rackspace would be required to
block American users from accessing the Web site, or, as Mr. Napier put it in
his blog post, ''censor their customers with little in the way of due process.''

Rackspace estimates that a quarter of the business it conducts with its more
than 160,000 customers is overseas. Its headquarters is in an area of San
Antonio just outside Mr. Smith's district, though he represents many of the
2,300 employees who work there.

Despite the outcry, Mr. Smith stands behind the bill, which he said would
protect Texans against intellectual property theft. Mr. Smith also pointed to
Austin as a ''ripe target'' because of its thriving music and film industries.

''There is an imbalance in the degree to which intellectual property rights are
protected online,'' said Chris Castle, a lawyer who represents musicians in
Austin and supports SOPA.

He said Texans would benefit from a more clearly defined set of property rights,
because the bill would encourage investment in legitimate Internet businesses
that can profit from legally distributing artists' work. SOPA would force
American companies and individuals to take responsibility for promoting criminal
activity.

The bill faces opposition from fellow conservatives in Mr. Smith's home state
and elsewhere. Gov. Rick Perry does not support the bill, nor does the
conservative business advocacy group Americans for Job Security.

The measure would force technology companies to divert resources they could
spend on innovation, job growth and marketing for ''compliance with this new
regulatory regime,'' said Stephen DeMaura, the president of Americans for Job
Security. The extra spending on legal counsel would hurt hundreds of technology
companies in Texas, he added, and especially harm start-ups and small
businesses.

Organizations and people opposed to SOPA say the bill would ''nuke'' high-tech
companies in Mr. Smith's district, and they accuse Mr. Smith of representing the
interests of the entertainment industry over his constituents.

According to Opensecrets.org, which is run by the Center for Responsive
Politics, a nonprofit that tracks money in politics, the majority of Mr. Smith's
campaign financing, $59,300 in this year's election cycle, has come from the
entertainment industry.

But Opensecrets also reports that Mr. Smith has received $392,995 from the
entertainment industry and $387,440 from the technology industry since 1998 -- a
small difference over all.

The technology industry remains convinced that its views were under-represented
at a committee hearing on the bill and that pirates would find ways to evade the
measure's provisions. Federal lawmakers are trying to move the bill quickly, Mr.
Black said, without conducting extensive economic studies or consulting
technical experts on cybersecurity.

''You would at least hope that there would be an attempt to hear out all
stakeholders,'' Mr. Black said, ''so there could be a consensus of understanding
where there's common ground and where there are different views to try to
bend.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Servers at Rackspace, a Web hosting business, in San Antonio.
The company is opposed to a proposed anti-piracy bill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER
WHITNEY FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            January 13, 2012 Friday

Texan's Anti-Piracy Bill Gets Home State Pushback

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 112 words



HIGHLIGHT: Technology companies and business advocates in Texas agree that
online crimes are a problem, but they contend that Lamar Smith's SOPA bill would
do more harm than good.


Lamar Smith introduced the Stop Online Piracy Act in October to tackle the
problem, but the bill has received a cold reception in Mr. Smith's home state,
reports Becca Arronson in The New York Times. Technology companies and business
advocates in Texas agree that cyber crimes are a problem, but they contend that
Mr. Smith's bill would cause greater economic damage, particularly to Texas'
growing technology sector. Read more »


     ·    Daily Report: The Boycott Against SOPA Supporters
     ·    Today's Scuttlebot: Dead Benjamins and Spy Apps
     ·    Daily Report: Congress Considers Bills to Prevent Piracy
     ·    A Forward Step on Piracy in China, Software Makers Say
     ·    Illegal Downloads of Fox Shows on the Rise


LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 14, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

How Banks Fare on Twitter

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 804 words


Updated / 6:20 p.m., adding Wells Fargo comment.

Updated / 3 p.m., adding Bank of America comment.

Twitter is proving to be a vexing customer service tool for big banks, says a
new report from Javelin Strategy & Research on banks' use of social media.

Customers seem to like the speed and directness of sending a question or
complaint to their bank by Twitter, the report found. But banks must weigh the
implications of responding quickly with the need to protect a customer's
personal and financial information, like bank account numbers. As a result,
they're ''struggling'' with how to best use the service, Javelin found.

Javelin examined nearly 5,500 Twitter messages sent by three big banks -- Bank
of America, Wells Fargo and Citigroup -- in response to messages received during
a crucial period late last year. (Chase, one of the top four banks, has a
Twitter handle but isn't actively using the service at this point, the report
says.) Javelin analyzed the final message sent by the bank to the customer to
determine if the issue had been resolved, or if the customer had been directed
to another communications channel like a call center.

The period spanned the seven weeks from Sept. 20 to Nov. 10, a time of intense
customer frustration with large banks. It encompassed media coverage of the
Occupy Wall Street movement; outrage over Bank of America's proposed $5 monthly
debit card fee; and Bank Transfer day on Nov. 5. Twitter volume to the banks
tripled during the period, Javelin found. (Tweets are typically public and
searchable online, unless they are ''direct messages'' sent to an individual.)
The analysis found that over all, the banks did not do a great job of resolving
complaints via Twitter during the study period. Citigroup appeared to do the
best, resolving 36 percent of its Twitter-based complaints; Wells Fargo, 11
percent; and Bank of America, 3 percent. (That doesn't necessarily mean the
complaints weren't ultimately addressed elsewhere, but they were not resolved
via Twitter -- the customer's chosen means of communication.)

In a ''vast majority'' of cases, the report found, Bank of America and Wells
Fargo responded with ''repetitive, scripted'' answers that, in effect, put the
burden on the customer to take further action, leaving a ''trail of evidence
that Twitter would be a fruitless extra step, not a time saver.''

The report also found that customers tended to send inquiries and complaints to
Twitter ''handles,'' or addresses, that they considered intuitive -- like,
@BankofAmerica, @Citi or @WellsFargo - rather than the handles that the banks
have established specifically for customer service inquiries. That meant that in
most cases, inquiries sent to imprecise handles never got answered. (Only
WellsFargo responded to any misdirected messages, the report said.)

The report also looked at 300 full Twitter conversations on Nov. 28, or Cyber
Monday, a busy day for online shopping, and found that it was ''atypical'' for
the banks to answer questions on Twitter.

''At Citi we strive to provide excellent customer service through every outlet
available to us, including social media and Twitter,'' Andrew Brent, a bank
spokesman, said in an e-mail. ''We look forward to reviewing the report in
detail.''

''We use Twitter to engage customers, listen to our customers and help them get
to the right place for the answers they need,'' said Kimarie Matthews, a vice
president in Wells Fargo's Internet Services Group. ''Sometimes this means
connecting a customer with someone from Wells Fargo who is not on Twitter to
help. And, in some instances, to protect the privacy of the customer an issue is
taken offline.''

''Our Twitter team is dedicated to identifying and resolving customer's
individual issues,'' Bank of America spokeswoman Tara Burke said in an e-mail.
''After initial contact we take the issue off-line to protect the privacy of the
customer. We never disclose or ask our customers to disclose any confidential
information during our interactions using Twitter.''

When possible, banks should answer questions directly on Twitter, the Javelin
report advises. But bank representatives must educate customers that they will
need to switch to a private, direct message, or perhaps to another mode of
communication, like phoning a call center, if account information or other
details are needed to address the issue - or, if the problem requires more than
Twitter's 140-character limit.

Banks, however, should make ''reasonable efforts'' to avoid forcing the customer
to explain the problem over again. ''Twitter,'' the report says, ''should be
seen as a time saver, not an extra step in a conventional service channel.''

Have you used Twitter to communicate with your bank? What was your experience?

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 15, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Paperback Mass-Market Fiction: Sunday, January 15th 2012

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 892 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the January 15, 2012
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending December
31, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Paperback
           Mass-Market Fiction
This    On
Week  List
1       79 THE GIRL WITH THE DRAGON TATTOO,  by Stieg Larsson. (Vintage
           Crime/Black Lizard, $7.99.) A hacker and a journalist
           investigate the disappearance of a Swedish heiress; the first
           volume in the Millennium trilogy.
2        1 SPIRIT BOUND,  by Christine Feehan. (Jove, $7.99.) In the town
           of Sea Haven, an undercover agent insinuates himself into the
           life of an elusive woman with ties to the crime lord he?s
           determined to trap.
3        1 HIDDEN SUMMIT,  by Robyn Carr. (Mira, $7.99.) Sick of her
           ex-husband and his new wife, Leslie Petruso accepts a job in
           Virgin River, where she meets someone else who thinks he?s done
           with love.
4       67 THE GIRL WHO PLAYED WITH FIRE,  by Stieg Larsson. (Vintage
           Crime/Black Lizard, $7.99.) In the second volume of the
           Millennium trilogy, the Swedish hacker Lisbeth Salander becomes
           a murder suspect.
5       40 A GAME OF THRONES,  by George R. R. Martin. (Bantam, $8.99.) In
           the frozen wastes to the north of Winterfell, sinister and
           supernatural forces are mustering; Book 1 of "A Song of Ice and
           Fire."
6        1 MOONLIGHT IN THE MORNING,  by Jude Deveraux. (Pocket Star,
           $7.99.) A woman leaves the ruthless New York art world behind
           to spend the summer in Edilean, Va., where she?s enthralled by
           the tight-knit artistic community and a charming doctor.
7*       5 TOYS,  by James Patterson and Neil McMahon. (Vision, $9.99.) An
           operative for a secret government agency suddenly finds himself
           a hunted fugitive who must fight to save humans from
           extinction.
8        1 THE JEFFERSON KEY,  by Steve Berry. (Ballantine, $9.99.) The
           ex-government operative Cotton Malone foils an assassination
           attempt on the president and finds himself at odds with a
           secret society.
9*       7 SMOKIN? SEVENTEEN,  by Janet Evanovich. (Bantam, $8.99.) No one
           is sure why dead bodies are turning up in shallow graves on an
           empty construction lot, but it soon becomes clear that the
           bounty hunter Stephanie Plum is on the killer?s list.
10       1 YOU ... AGAIN,  by Debbie Macomber. (Mira, $7.99.) A reissue of
           two novels, ?Baby Blessed" and ?Yesterday Once More.?
11*     32 A CLASH OF KINGS,  by George R. R. Martin. (Bantam, $8.99.)
           From the citadel of Dragonstone to the shores of Winterfell,
           factions vie for control of a divided land; Book 2 of "A Song
           of Ice and Fire."
12       1 FATAL ERROR,  by J.A. Jance. (Pocket Star, $7.99.) After the
           murder of a cyber-sociopath, the former TV news anchor Ali
           Reynolds is drawn into a web of online intrigue.
13       6 THE LAND OF PAINTED CAVES,  by Jean M. Auel. (Bantam, $8.99.)
           The latest volume in a series that began with "The Clan of the
           Cave Bear," set during the ice age.
14*      1 THE DUKE IS MINE,  by Eloisa James. (Avon, $7.99.) The
           strong-willed Olivia Lytton is betrothed to the Duke of
           Canterwick ? hardly a Prince Charming ? but she?s drawn to her
           sister?s future husband, the brooding Duke of Sconce.
15       1 MINDING FRANKIE,  by Maeve Binchy. (Anchor, $7.99.) With the
           help of a devoted network of friends, family and neighbors, a
           young Dubliner reluctantly agrees to take care of a baby
           daughter he can?t recall siring.
16      11 THE LUCKY ONE,  by Nicholas Sparks. (Grand Central, $7.99.) A
           Marine returning home sets out to track down the woman whose
           photo he found in Iraq.
17      33 A STORM OF SWORDS,  by George R. R. Martin. (Bantam, $8.99.)
           Wars continue to rage over the Iron Throne as alliances are
           made and broken; Book 3 of "A Song of Ice and Fire."
18*     24 A FEAST FOR CROWS,  by George R. R. Martin. (Bantam, $8.99.)
           With the death of the monstrous King Joffrey, the seven powers
           dividing the land have reached an uneasy truce; Book 4 of "A
           Song of Ice and Fire."
19       1 TRADER OF SECRETS,  by Steve Martini. (Harper/HarperCollins,
           $9.99.) The lawyer Paul Madriani is on the trail of criminals
           who are trying to steal state-of-the-art weapons technology.
20*      4 ONE FOR THE MONEY,  by Janet Evanovich. (St. Martin?s, $8.99.)
           Stephanie Plum, a Jersey girl with Spandex bike shorts and
           turquoise eye shadow, enters the business of crime-busting when
           she?s laid off from her job as a lingerie buyer; first
           published in 1994.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

21. MR. AND MRS. ANONYMOUS,  by Fern Michaels. (Kensington)

22. MCKETTRICK'S LUCK,  by Linda Lael Miller. (HQN)

23. THE CONFESSION,  by John Grisham. (Dell)

24. CROSS FIRE,  by James Patterson. (Vision)

25. LEARNING TO LOVE,  by Debbie Macomber. (Mira)

26. WAKING UP IN CHARLESTON,  by Sherryl Woods. (Mira)

27. ADRENALINE,  by Jeff Abbott. (Grand Central)

28. MIRACLE CURE,  by Harlan Coben. (Signet)

29. LAWE'S JUSTICE,  by Lora Leigh. (Berkley)

30. GHOUL INTERRUPTED,  by Victoria Laurie. (Signet)

31. LOVER'S LEAP,  by Emily March. (Ballantine)

32. MY RUTHLESS PRINCE,  by Gaelen Foley. (Avon)

33. BORN OF SHADOWS,  by Sherrilyn Kenyon. (Grand Central)

34. THE OUTLAWS,  by W. E. B. Griffin and William E. Butterworth IV. (Jove)

35. QUINN,  by Iris Johansen. (St. Martin?s)


URL:

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 17, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Israeli Web Sites Crippled As Cyberwar Escalates

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 479 words


JERUSALEM -- Israel faced an escalating cyberwar on Monday as unknown attackers
disrupted access to the symbolically strategic Web sites of the Tel Aviv Stock
Exchange and El Al, the national airline.

A hacker identifying himself as oxOmar, already notorious for posting the
details of more than 20,000 Israeli credit cards, sent an overnight warning to
Israel's Ynet news outlet that a group of pro-Palestinian cyberattackers called
Nightmare planned to bring down the sites in the morning.

The attackers did not break into the sites' operating systems, but used a far
simpler tactic: creating an overload of access attempts. Neither the Israeli
economy nor flights in and out of the country were endangered, and the sites
appeared to be recovering within hours, but the assault left many Israelis
feeling vulnerable.

Yoni Shemesh, who is responsible for the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange Web site, said
that his team had already begun preparing for an attack a few days ago and went
on high alert after the Ynet report.

''We are putting up blocks to the hackers,'' he told Israel Radio at noon, about
three hours after the attack started. ''It is a real cyberwar.''

El Al said it took down its site as a cautionary measure as soon as unusual
activity was noticed about 10 a.m.

The Web site usually sees about 50 simultaneous access requests at any given
moment in the morning hour, according to a spokeswoman for the airline, speaking
anonymously per policy. ''As soon as we saw that the number had risen to about
1,000, we closed it down,'' she said.

A spokesman for Hamas, the Islamic militant group that controls Gaza, praised
the hackers for opening up a new resistance front against Israel.

Israel is widely considered a technological powerhouse and a hub of high-tech
industry. But Avi Weissman, the chief executive of See Security InfoSec and
Cyber Warfare College and chairman of the Israeli Forum for Information
Security, a nonprofit organization, told the radio that in the cyberrealm,
Israel may be a power ''in terms of attack, but in terms of defense, we are a
very small and pretty neglected country.

Professor Yitzhak Ben Yisrael, a military scientist who has advised the
government on cybersecurity, said that the country had been working to protect
its most vital systems in the security establishment and in the civilian sphere,
including electricity, water and trains, for more than 10 years.

The hacker oxOmar described himself as a 19-year-old from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia,
when he posted the details of the thousands of Israeli credit cards, turning
himself into a household name here. A few days later, a hacker presenting
himself as an Israeli and going by the name oxOmer -- a twist of the Saudi
handle -- countered by posting details of what he said were more than 200 Saudi
credit cards. But he did not expose the security codes, saying his aim was only
to ''alert.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Web site of the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange was hit Monday,
along with that of the airline El Al. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVER WEIKEN/EUROPEAN
PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 17, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Embracing the Pretzel

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 820 words


At debates his opponents sported ties with colors from the flag: blue or, better
yet, blistering Republican red.

He wore pink.

Onstage and on the stump, they bashed Europe and threatened a trade war with
China.

He burst spontaneously into Mandarin.

For a while Jon Huntsman was the brother from another Republican planet, one
where climate change is likely and evolution inarguable. Where it isn't girlie
Limbaugh bait to sit, as he did, for a Vogue profile illustrated with Annie
Leibovitz photographs. Where you don't have to malign the Democratic president
as the devil incarnate -- pitchfork, cloven hooves and all.

How alien and refreshing he was.

And how depressingly he snapped back into line on Monday, exiting the
presidential race by surrendering to the earth's gravity and reverting to its
familiar partisan cant.

In his withdrawal speech in Myrtle Beach, S.C., he declared that the need to get
rid of President Obama made this ''the most important election of our
lifetime.'' Not so long ago he worked for and praised that selfsame president.

He said that the remaining candidate ''best equipped to defeat Barack Obama''
was Mitt Romney -- and endorsed him. Just last week, Romney was so ''detached
from the problems that Americans are facing,'' according to Huntsman, that he
was ''completely unelectable.''

He remarked on the country's need for ''bold and principled leadership.'' Note
the ''principled'' part. And remember, as Huntsman tries to make you forget,
that videos on his Web site and his YouTube channel variously labeled Romney a
''pretzel candidate,'' an expert at the ''backflip'' and, most florid of all,
''a perfectly lubricated weather vane.'' That's one slippery inconstancy
metaphor.

On Monday those videos were suddenly gone, as Michael D. Shear noted on The
Times's political blog. And Huntsman's defeat was complete, not merely because
he lost but because conventional politics -- with all its compromises, hypocrisy
and obeisance -- won.

Of course former rivals morph into allies all the time. John McCain now makes
goo-goo eyes at Romney. Hillary Clinton endures permanent jet lag for Obama.

But Huntsman's endorsement of Romney came much more quickly than it had to and
in spite of a distaste for each other that's particularly intense.

Although both grew up wildly privileged, Romney sees Huntsman as someone who
leaned too hard on his father, never forging his own private-sector success. And
Huntsman's endorsement of McCain over him during the last Republican primary
felt like a deliberate slap.

Huntsman by many accounts seethed when Romney snagged, and benefited mightily
from, a job that he was passed over for: the stewardship of the 2002 Winter
Olympics in Salt Lake City. He squirmed as Romney tacked this way and that in
politics. In Huntsman's eyes he's a rudderless operator.

And in recent weeks Huntsman finally said as much, though he had begun his
campaign with a pledge to take the high road and though, on Monday, he implored
the remaining Republican candidates to cease ''an onslaught of negative and
personal attacks not worthy of the American people.''

With Romney, Huntsman had succumbed to the unworthy, getting negative and
personal and excising all context in order to slam the front-runner for saying,
''I like being able to fire people.'' The high road dipped into the mud.

From the start, he couldn't find any traction. He arrived late to a patch of
moderate turf already cordoned off by another Mormon scion with very good hair,
a very blonde wife and a very large brood of absurdly attractive children. To
watch footage and see photographs of the Huntsman girls and then the Romney boys
was to enter some cyber-political version of ''The Brady Bunch.'' The two clans
together tipped into wholesomeness overload.

Huntsman initially ran to Romney's left, though he possessed the more
consistently conservative record. Even when he pivoted and embraced that, he
couldn't summon the gloom and invective that the anyone-but-Mitt crowd craved.
He didn't have the spleen for it.

A sort of cool, bland reason oozed from him, and until the last two weeks a
certain political expediency seemed beyond him. Then again his personality and
past never got worked over by the Romney operation the way, say, Rick Perry's
and Newt Gingrich's did. He who never surges never need be squashed.

Huntsman is unlikely to land on the 2012 ticket. Does he have 2016 in mind?

By getting out before a miserable showing in the South Carolina primary and the
exodus of an additional candidate or two, he guaranteed himself more news
coverage and a greater air of importance than he might have received afterward.

And by hopping without pause on the Romney bandwagon, he hastened his journey
back from party outlier to dutiful soldier. Reflecting Monday on his campaign
experience, he said, ''I have seen the very best of America.'' His voice wasn't
persuasive.

His mood matched his tie. Both were blue.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            January 17, 2012 Tuesday

Even Big Companies Cannot Protect Their Data

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 932 words



HIGHLIGHT: Breaches that hit two Amazon-owned sites, Zappos.com and 6PM, over
the weekend point to an unsettling truth: even the biggest players on the Web
cannot guarantee that their customers' personal information is safe. Instead,
many security experts throw the burden back to consumers by recommending that
consumers take a more vigilant approach to protecting their personal data


9:02 p.m. | Updated

Barbara Scott just hit the trifecta of computer security breaches.

Since the New Year, Ms. Scott has been a victim of three separate cyberattacks.
Two weeks ago, the online auction site eBay said in an e-mail to her that there
had been suspicious activity on her account. On Monday, she received an e-mail
from Zappos and another from 6PM, two online shoe retailers owned by Amazon.
Both messages alerted her that - once again - her information had been
compromised.

"It's disturbing," said Ms. Scott, who works in San Diego as a director at
Redemtech, a technology services business. "Companies have to do a better job
protecting our privacy. You would think companies like eBay and Amazon have the
financial backing and wherewithal to take the proper security measures."

The breaches at Zappos and 6PM may have compromised account information for 24
million customers - the largest breach of an online retailer since a series of
cyberattacks against Sony last year that compromised 100 million customer
accounts. The attacks point to an unsettling new world in which even the
supposed stalwarts of the Internet - Amazon, eBay and even the security giants
paid to keep hackers at bay - cannot seem to keep personal information safe.

And when there is a security breach, the companies and computer security experts
more often than not resort to telling their consumers that it is up to them to
protect their data stored on the company's servers.

Zappos's chief executive, Tony Hsieh, said Sunday that customer names, encrypted
passwords, phone numbers, e-mail and mailing addresses and the last four digits
of their credit card numbers might have been stolen in the attack. But he noted
that the company quickly reset all passwords and that a separate database
containing critical credit card information had not been breached.

Mr. Hsieh- who wrote the book "Delivering Happiness" and regularly invites
customers to tour Zappos' facilities - provided no explanation about why the
data was vulnerable. He directed customers to an e-mail address because its
customer service lines "simply aren't capable" of handling the number of
expected customer inquiries.

That response angered Eric Seftel, a Zappos customer, who posted a reply to
Zappos' e-mail alert on The New York Times's Bits blog: "That's it? That's how
you respond to a security exposure that may require me to change my password on
a large number of other sites to protect myself? That's how little you think of
your customers, just drop this glib little note and wash your hands of the whole
affair? You have a legal and moral obligation to protect my information."

In an e-mail to The New York Times on Monday, Mr. Hsieh said the company did
have a security breach response plan in place before the attack but could not
discuss the specifics or about how it was breached. "Our plan specifically
includes not disclosing details of our security processes or procedures," Mr.
Hsieh said. "Just like you would not expect a casino to disclose when the
security guards change shifts."

The breaches at Amazon's sites, combined with several recent cyberattacks, could
threaten to shake consumer confidence online. Over the year-end holidays,
hackers who said they were members of the group Anonymous attacked the Web site
of Strategic Forecasting, a research firm that specializes in security and
intelligence. They dumped personal and payment details for thousands of
subscribers.

In a separate attack on India's military and intelligence servers two weeks ago,
a different group of hackers managed to find and post a segment of source code
belonging to Symantec, the largest security software company.

"There are a lot of people that are going to seriously reconsider before they
purchase anything else on the Internet," Jerry Irvine, a member of the National
Cyber Security Task Force, said in an interview on Monday.

The White House is working on a plan to increase consumers' confidence in the
security of e-commerce sites. Its initiative, called the National Strategy for
Trusted Identities in Cyberspace, works with major vendors - like banks,
technology companies and cellphone service providers - to adopt higher standards
for the way companies verify user identities and store personal data online.

But the program is less than a year old and, Mr. Irvine says, intended to be
only one step in a larger process to protect customers' identities and personal
information on the Web. "These breaches are going to be an education for people
to take a more layered approach to their security," he said.

With companies unable to provide a good solution, many companies and security
experts throw the burden back to consumers.

"It is always a good practice to use different passwords on different Web
sites," Mr. Hsieh advised. Mr. Irvine recommends that consumers protect their
personal data more vigilantly. He suggests not using e-mail addresses as user
names, creating a unique password for every Web site and refraining from saving
personal and payment details online.

"That is the only way you're going to be secure," Mr. Irvine said.

Ms. Scott said she already used complex alphanumeric passwords and updated them
on a regular basis. "Beyond that, I guess I have to be more conscious about who
I choose to do business with online," she said. "How hard can it be to find a
safe place online to buy shoes?"


     ·    Software Helps Identify Anonymous Writers or Helps Them Stay That Way
     ·    Amazon's Long Courtship of Zappos
     ·    Amazon to Acquire Zappos for $847 Million
     ·    Online Shoppers Are Rooting for the Little Guy
     ·    Will the Kindle Fire Kill E-Readers?


LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Web Attacks May Rattle Consumers

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 912 words


9:02 p.m. Updated

Barbara Scott just hit the trifecta of computer security breaches.

Since the New Year, Ms. Scott has been a victim of three separate cyberattacks.
Two weeks ago, the online auction site eBay said in an e-mail to her that there
had been suspicious activity on her account. On Monday, she received an e-mail
from Zappos and another from 6PM, two online shoe retailers owned by Amazon.
Both messages alerted her that - once again - her information had been
compromised.

''It's disturbing,'' said Ms. Scott, who works in San Diego as a director at
Redemtech, a technology services business. ''Companies have to do a better job
protecting our privacy. You would think companies like eBay and Amazon have the
financial backing and wherewithal to take the proper security measures.''

The breaches at Zappos and 6PM may have compromised account information for 24
million customers - the largest breach of an online retailer since a series of
cyberattacks against Sony last year that compromised 100 million customer
accounts. The attacks point to an unsettling new world in which even the
supposed stalwarts of the Internet - Amazon, eBay and even the security giants
paid to keep hackers at bay - cannot seem to keep personal information safe.

And when there is a security breach, the companies and computer security experts
more often than not resort to telling their consumers that it is up to them to
protect their data stored on the company's servers.

Zappos's chief executive, Tony Hsieh, said Sunday that customer names, encrypted
passwords, phone numbers, e-mail and mailing addresses and the last four digits
of their credit card numbers might have been stolen in the attack. But he noted
that the company quickly reset all passwords and that a separate database
containing critical credit card information had not been breached.

Mr. Hsieh- who wrote the book ''Delivering Happiness'' and regularly invites
customers to tour Zappos' facilities - provided no explanation about why the
data was vulnerable. He directed customers to an e-mail address because its
customer service lines ''simply aren't capable'' of handling the number of
expected customer inquiries.

That response angered Eric Seftel, a Zappos customer, who posted a reply to
Zappos' e-mail alert on The New York Times's Bits blog: ''That's it? That's how
you respond to a security exposure that may require me to change my password on
a large number of other sites to protect myself? That's how little you think of
your customers, just drop this glib little note and wash your hands of the whole
affair? You have a legal and moral obligation to protect my information.''

In an e-mail to The New York Times on Monday, Mr. Hsieh said the company did
have a security breach response plan in place before the attack but could not
discuss the specifics or about how it was breached. ''Our plan specifically
includes not disclosing details of our security processes or procedures,'' Mr.
Hsieh said. ''Just like you would not expect a casino to disclose when the
security guards change shifts.''

The breaches at Amazon's sites, combined with several recent cyberattacks, could
threaten to shake consumer confidence online. Over the year-end holidays,
hackers who said they were members of the group Anonymous attacked the Web site
of Strategic Forecasting, a research firm that specializes in security and
intelligence. They dumped personal and payment details for thousands of
subscribers.

In a separate attack on India's military and intelligence servers two weeks ago,
a different group of hackers managed to find and post a segment of source code
belonging to Symantec, the largest security software company.

''There are a lot of people that are going to seriously reconsider before they
purchase anything else on the Internet,'' Jerry Irvine, a member of the National
Cyber Security Task Force, said in an interview on Monday.

The White House is working on a plan to increase consumers' confidence in the
security of e-commerce sites. Its initiative, called the National Strategy for
Trusted Identities in Cyberspace, works with major vendors - like banks,
technology companies and cellphone service providers - to adopt higher standards
for the way companies verify user identities and store personal data online.

But the program is less than a year old and, Mr. Irvine says, intended to be
only one step in a larger process to protect customers' identities and personal
information on the Web. ''These breaches are going to be an education for people
to take a more layered approach to their security,'' he said.

With companies unable to provide a good solution, many companies and security
experts throw the burden back to consumers.

''It is always a good practice to use different passwords on different Web
sites,'' Mr. Hsieh advised. Mr. Irvine recommends that consumers protect their
personal data more vigilantly. He suggests not using e-mail addresses as user
names, creating a unique password for every Web site and refraining from saving
personal and payment details online.

''That is the only way you're going to be secure,'' Mr. Irvine said.

Ms. Scott said she already used complex alphanumeric passwords and updated them
on a regular basis. ''Beyond that, I guess I have to be more conscious about who
I choose to do business with online,'' she said. ''How hard can it be to find a
safe place online to buy shoes?''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 20, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 4680 words


Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless
otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings,
showtimes and ticket information: nytimes.com/theater.

Previews and Openings

'CQ/CX' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on Feb. 15) David Leveaux directs a
cast that includes Larry Bryggman, Tim Hopper, Arliss Howard and David Pittu in
this Atlantic Theater Company premiere by Gabe McKinley, who draws on his own
experience as a newspaper staffer. Inspired by the Jayson Blair controversy, the
play charts the rise and fall of an ambitious young, black New York Times
reporter and the collateral damage when he becomes the center of a plagiarism
scandal. Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200,
ticketcentral.com. (David Rooney)

'Gob Squad's Kitchen (You've Never Had it So Good)' (in previews; opens on
Monday) On the heels of the Under the Radar festival, where this production was
a hit in 2011, the German-British collective Gob Squad orchestrates a time warp
back to 1965, reconstructing the films of Andy Warhol in an effort to make sense
of the past for a new generation. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor
Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Rooney)

'How I Learned to Drive' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on Feb. 13) Norbert
Leo Butz and Elizabeth Reaser head the cast for this first major New York
revival of Paula Vogel's 1998 Pulitzer Prize-winning play, about the unhealthy
relationship between an adolescent girl and the manipulative uncle teaching her
to drive, both of whom are outsiders within their family. Kate Whoriskey
(''Ruined'') directs. Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212)
246-4422, 2st.com. (Rooney)

'Ionescopade' (previews start on Monday; opens on Feb. 2) First performed in
1974, this ''musical vaudeville'' is culled from the plays and poetry of the
Theater of the Absurd pioneer Eugene Ionesco, viewing the world's realities
through the prism of idiosyncratic humor. Conceived by Robert Allan Ackerman,
the show features music and lyrics by Mildred Kayden, with choreography and
direction by Bill Castellino. The cast includes Nancy Anderson, who played this
address in ''Yank!'' York Theater at St. Peter's, 619 Lexington Avenue, at 54th
Street, (212) 935-5820, yorktheatre.org. (Rooney)

'Look Back in Anger' (in previews; opens on Feb. 2) Currently represented on
Broadway with ''Seminar,'' Sam Gold has carved a significant reputation
directing new plays in recent seasons. He makes a rare foray into the vaults
with this Roundabout revival of John Osborne's landmark 1956 drama about the
volatile struggle of four people to live together in midcentury England. Adam
Driver, Sarah Goldberg, Charlotte Parry and Matthew Rhys make up the ensemble.
Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West
46th Street, (212) 352-3101, roundabouttheatre.org. (Rooney)

'The Philanderer' (in previews; opens on Sunday) Directing his sixth production
for the Pearl Theater Company, Gus Kaikkonen stages George Bernard Shaw's rarely
produced social satire, which riffs playfully on intellectual freedom and sexual
politics while taking shots at the Ibsenite dramatic model. Written in 1893, it
ran afoul of British censorship laws and was not presented publicly until 12
years later. City Center, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212,
nycitycenter.org. (Rooney)

'Russian Transport' (in previews; opens on Jan. 30) The New Group presents the
premiere of Erika Sheffer's exploration of one very particular immigrant
experience. Scott Elliott directs this family drama set in the Russian Jewish
community of Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, with a five-member cast that includes
Janeane Garofalo. Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton,
(212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)

'Rx' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on Feb. 7) Primary Stages presents this
new play by Kate Fodor (''100 Saints You Should Know'') about romance and pills,
in which a woman participating in the clinical trial of a new drug targeting
workplace depression falls for her doctor, who is also testing a pharmaceutical
cure for heartbreak. Ethan McSweeny directs an ensemble that includes Marin
Hinkle, Stephen Kunken and the always sublime Marylouise Burke. 59E59 Theaters,
59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, primarystages.org. (Rooney)

'Wit' (in previews; opens on Thursday) Cynthia Nixon returns to Manhattan
Theater Club, where her performance in ''Rabbit Hole'' earned her a Tony Award
in 2006. She stars in the Broadway premiere of Margaret Edson's Pulitzer
Prize-winning 1995 drama about a poetry professor undergoing experimental
treatment for ovarian cancer as she contemplates the irony of a life devoted to
scholarship ultimately becoming fodder for someone else's research. Lynne Meadow
directs. Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200,
telecharge.com. (Rooney)

'Yosemite' (in previews; opens on Thursday) The actor-turned-director Pedro
Pascal stages this premiere for Rattlestick of Daniel Talbott's play about three
siblings sent into the snowbound woods of the Sierra Nevada foothills to dig a
hole in which to bury a family secret. The cast includes Kathryn Erbe (''Law &
Order: Criminal Intent'') and Seth Numrich, last seen risking his life to save
his beloved steed in ''War Horse.'' Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly
Place, at 11th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com.
(Rooney)

Broadway

- 'Anything Goes' Kathleen Marshall's zesty revival of Cole Porter's hit-packed
musical embodies the essence of escapist entertainment in the 1930s, when hard
times called for bold smiles, tough wisecracks and flashy fantasies. Sutton
Foster is sensational as the nightclub evangelist Reno Sweeney (2:30). Stephen
Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ben
Brantley)

- 'The Book of Mormon' This delightful collaboration between the creators of
''South Park'' (Trey Parker and Matt Stone) and the composer of ''Avenue Q''
(Robert Lopez) is blasphemous, scurrilous and as pure-hearted as a Rodgers and
Hammerstein show. No musical has so successfully had it both ways since ''The
Producers.'' Casey Nicholaw is the witty co-director (with Mr. Parker) and
choreographer (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800)
432-7250, telecharge.com. (Brantley)

'Chinglish' David Henry Hwang's sporadically funny comedy about a bewildered
American businessman seeking his fortune in capitalist China is laid out with
the frame-by-frame exactness of a comic strip. That means this bilingual
production is easy to follow but hard to embrace with enthusiasm. Leigh
Silverman directs (2:00). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212)
239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)

'The Gershwins' Porgy and Bess' As the fatally conflicted Bess, the
extraordinary Audra McDonald is a gale force of emotion in Diane Paulus's
slimmed-down musical adaptation of the landmark 1935 opera. Otherwise, despite a
likable performance from Norm Lewis as Porgy, this production feels cloudy and
mild, only rarely acquiring the majesty of the opera that inspired it (2:30).
Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com.
(Brantley)

'Godspell' Oh, dear Lord: the beloved 1971 musical that turned biblical parables
into teachable moments has been stuffed fruitcake-full of jokey contemporary
allusions. Performed by a peppy young cast, the show is like being stuck in a
rec room with kids who have been too reckless with the Red Bull (2:30). Circle
in the Square Theater, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200,
telecharge.com. (Charles Isherwood)

'How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying' Through Sunday, Darren Criss
plays the amoral hero of Frank Loesser's 1961 musical about corporate
ladder-climbing; on Tuesday, Nick Jonas takes over. Rob Ashford directed this
largely charm-free revival (2:40). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street,
Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)

'On a Clear Day You Can See Forever' This grim, extensively reworked revival of
the Burton Lane and Alan Jay Lerner musical from 1965 appears to be suffering
from a severe case of clinical depression. Harry Connick Jr. plays a
psychiatrist in mourning. Michael Mayer directs Peter Parnell's revamped book
(2:30). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
(Brantley)

- 'Other Desert Cities' Jon Robin Baitz's family drama is so good that you may
not even realize how good it is while you're watching it. Joe Mantello directs a
sublime cast that expertly elicits the pain and the comfort of blood ties:
Stockard Channing, Rachel Griffiths, Stacy Keach, Judith Light and Justin Kirk
(2:15). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
(Brantley)

'Priscilla Queen of the Desert' The 1994 movie about Australian drag queens in
the outback becomes a hyperactively splashy karaoke musical so desperate to show
the audience a gaudy good time that the results are mostly enervating. Tony
Sheldon brings some warmth as the transsexual Bernadette, but the show is mostly
a riot of spangles, sequins and silly costumes (2:30). Palace Theater, 1564
Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)

'Relatively Speaking' This slight but mostly enjoyable trio of short plays by
Ethan Coen, Elaine May and Woody Allen won't do much to burnish their
established reputations, but the show is chock full of nifty shtick. Marlo
Thomas delights as a pampered princess with a dead husband in Ms. May's
contribution (2:15). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (877)
250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)

'The Road to Mecca' A quiet, slow and ultimately powerful revival of Athol
Fugard's three-character play about the inevitable and necessary apartness of
artists. Rosemary Harris is wonderful, a study in subliminal radiance, as an
aging South African sculptor under siege from the forces of conventionalism. Jim
Dale and Carla Gugino provide strong support in Gordon Edelstein's production
(2:30). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300,
roundabouttheatre.org. (Brantley)

'Seminar' Alan Rickman is a virtuoso of disdain in Theresa Rebeck's shiny,
facile comedy about an ego-shredding writing teacher. Full of efficiently mapped
reversals, the play feels as if it were written according to the literary
equivalent of a GPS device. Sam Gold directs a bright cast that includes Lily
Rabe and Hamish Linklater (1:40). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street,
(212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)

'Sister Act' When the good sisters of the Church of Philly Soul are rocking to
raise the gothic rafters, led by the radiant Patina Miller, all is right with
this stage adaptation of the hit movie about a club singer hiding out as a nun.
Otherwise, this story of a bad girl teaching some good ones how to get down is
innocuous but generic musical theater (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway,
at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)

'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' This retooled mega-expensive musical is no
longer an ungodly, indecipherable mess. It's just a bore. Recommended for
less-than-precocious children with a hundred dollars to burn (2:45). Foxwoods
Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
(Brantley)

'Stick Fly' Lydia R. Diamond's overstuffed but lively comedy-drama feels like a
Tyler Perry melodrama (sans Madea) as revised by an academic specializing in
issues of class in African-American culture. Condola Rashad gives the standout
performance in the director Kenny Leon's uneven production, playing a young
woman who embodies the problems of racial and class divisions that the other
characters theorize about (2:15). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212)
239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)

'War Horse' This imported British weepie, adapted from Michael Morpurgo's
children's book about a cavalry horse in World War I, has the most charismatic
matinee idol seen in ages: that's Joey, the title character, a puppet brought to
life-size life with ineffably theatrical magic (2:45). Vivian Beaumont Theater,
150 West 65th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' The most famous
bears since the three in the Goldilocks story are onstage in this adaptation of
three of the titles in the long-running children's book series by Stan and Jan
Berenstain. The show, by Michael Borton and Michael Slade, offers a pleasant
hour for small theatergoers, with a pop-flavored score and actors who inhabit
their fuzzy roles enthusiastically. But like the books, it's rather tame and
tidy; after this many years of a formula, even the Berenstain cubs are starting
to show their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little
Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com. (Laurel
Graeber)

- 'The Canterbury Tales Remixed' In his delightful one-man show, Baba Brinkman,
a medieval literature scholar, has adapted Chaucer's 14th-century masterpiece
into a hip-hop show. The conceit may sound cheesy, but Mr. Brinkman makes a
surprisingly persuasive case that the two art forms are thematically (and in
some cases, rhetorically) similar. Both feature thugs, dangerously beautiful
women, death-defying daredevils and Creflo Dollar-esque men selling salvation.
Drawing on analogies to pop anthems and celebrities like Scarlett Johansson and
Herman Cain, Mr. Brinkman demonstrates just how relevant these stories are
(1:15). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village, (866) 811-4111,
sohoplayhouse.com. (Catherine Rampell)

'Chimera' Or ''I Am My Own Sister,'' as a microbiologist carries within her the
chromosomes of her unborn twin. Suli Holum's compelling solo show, created with
Deborah Stein, delves with wit and wisdom into the biological, genetic and
philosophical ramifications of containing a vestigial human. Part of the Under
the Radar festival. Here, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South
Village, (212) 352-3101, here.org. (Eric Grode)

'Close Up Space' David Hyde Pierce plays a book editor estranged from his
daughter in Molly Smith Metzler's listless, contrived comedy, which also
features Michael Chernus as a quirky slacker and Rosie Perez as a preening
novelist (1:20). City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212,
nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)

'Dancing at Lughnasa' Charlotte Moore's production falls a little short on
atmosphere but works where it counts most, in the spirited performances of the
five women playing the poor, unmarriageable Mundy sisters in the fictional
Donegal town of Ballybeg in late summer 1936. Two decades after it was first
seen, this transporting Tony-winning memory play by the Irish dramatist Brian
Friel has lost none of its humanity or delicacy (2:05). Irish Repertory Theater,
132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Rooney)

'Dedalus Lounge' This messy but appealing play follows three friends in Ireland
as their relationship becomes more complex and their lives alternate between
hopefulness and despair (1:30). Interart Theater Annex, 500 West 52nd Street,
second floor, (800) 838-3006, royalfamilyproductions.org. (Ken Jaworowski)

'The Devil's Music: The Life and Blues of Bessie Smith' Miche Braden plays the
bawdy-talking, hooch-swilling Bessie Smith in this show that mixes Smith's songs
with talk about her life, loves and career. That format seems a bit tired, but
Ms. Braden gives it her all (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street,
Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)

'How the World Began' Catherine Trieschmann tells of a biochemistry teacher
(Heidi Schreck) from New York who gets into hot water when she makes a
dismissive aside about Christianity to a room full of young believers in
tornado-traumatized Kansas town. Thoughtful but light on dramatic firepower, the
play features a promising newcomer, Justin Kruger, as the young man who stirs up
the trouble (1:30). Peter Jay Sharp Theater, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton,
(212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Isherwood)

'It's Always Right Now, Until It's Later' Daniel Kitson, the British monologuist
extraordinaire, maps ''moments of being'' in two unremarkable, unrelated
existences. If the show sounds a bit like a Kodak ''times of your life''
commercial, know that this ardent raconteur seasons the treacle with grit, salt
and preposterously apt turns of phrase (1:30). St. Ann's Warehouse, 38 Water
Street, at Dock Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (718) 254-8779, stannswarehouse.org.
(Brantley)

'Leo' Circle of Eleven's hourlong acrobatic show, conceived and performed by
Tobias Wegner, is charming but slight physical theater. Mr. Wegner is a winning
presence, but his concept, of a man isolated in a room where the laws of gravity
don't apply, soon becomes a trap (1:10). Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410
West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Claudia La Rocco)

'Newyorkland' Temporary Distortion's latest stunning multimedia production cuts
through cliches about police officers. Part of the Coil festival (1:15).
Baryshnikov Arts Center, 450 West 37th Street, (866) 811-4111, bacnyc.org.
(Jason Zinoman)

'Outside People' Zayd Dohrn's smart but slight comedy of manners finds an
insecure New Jersey native (the likably nebbish Matthew Dellapina) plopped down
in Beijing, where he falls in love with a native (an affecting Li Jun Li) with
mysterious motives (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212)
353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org. (Isherwood)

'The Picture Box' Cate Ryan's one-act about a black man and the white young
woman he helped raise is well-meaning but thin material. The racist
house-hunting couple provide the only conflict, and they are difficult to
believe (1:20). Beckett Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton,
(212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)'Rent' Maybe they should call it
''Sublet.'' The young cast members who inhabit this premature revival of
Jonathan Larson's watershed rock opera from 1996, directed by Michael Greif,
never seem to feel truly at home. It is as if they're reluctant to make this
show their own (2:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212)
239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)

'Richard III' Kevin Spacey entertainingly out-acts everybody onstage in Sam
Mendes's valedictory production for the Anglo-American Bridge Project. Say what
you will about Mr. Spacey's histrionic excesses, he provides a sustained (and
intelligent) interpretation as Shakespeare's murderous crookback. The same
cannot be said of Mr. Mendes's staging, a grab bag of postmodern gimmicks
(3:00). Harvey Theater, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 651 Fulton Street, Fort
Greene, (718) 636-4100, bam.org. (Brantley)

'Silence! The Musical' A silly, coarse musical spin on ''The Silence of the
Lambs'' as pitched to obsessive fans (1:30). 9th Space Theater at Performance
Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101,
silencethemusical.com. (Zinoman)

'Sistas: The Musical' The script is obvious, covering virtually every issue that
might touch the lives of black women, but Dorothy Marcic's good-natured,
low-budget musical is all about the songs. From ''Ain't Nobody's Business if I
Do'' to ''Single Ladies,'' you could do a lot worse (1:30). St. Luke's Theater,
308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)

'Sleep No More' Punchdrunk, a British site-specific theater company, has taken
over three abandoned warehouses to enact the sorry sights of the murderous
Macbeths' career as a movable orgy. The result suggests what might have happened
if Stanley Kubrick (of ''The Shining'') had designed the Haunted Mansion at
Disney World (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866)
811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com. (Brantley)

'Traces' An energizing evening of acrobatics from the Montreal troupe Seven
Fingers. Think of it as cirque du cabaret, in which a group of distinctive
talents gets to show off the physical equivalents of individual song stylings
(1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (800) 982-2787,
ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)

'Untitled Feminist Show' The latest theatrical adventure from Young Jean Lee
dispenses with words entirely to present a frolicsome combination of dance and
mime, performed entirely in the nude by a half-dozen downtown theater and dance
luminaries. Untitled, but also unfocused. Part of the Coil festival (1:00).
Baryshnikov Arts Center, Jerome Robbins Theater, 450 West 37th Street, Clinton,
(212) 352-3101, ps122.org. (Isherwood)

Off Off Broadway

- 'The London Merchant, or the History of George Barnwell' This rare revival of
George Lillo's 1731 tragedy is given an excellent production that's both dark
and tense. Saturday and Sunday only (2:10). Theater of the Church of Notre Dame,
405 West 114th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 868-4444, stormtheatre.com,
smarttix.com. (Jaworowski)

'Mission Drift' A sprawling, intermittently enjoyable but indulgent musical epic
about the American ideal of expansionism and its toxic undertow. The songs,
written and often sung by the terrifically talented Heather Christian,
portraying (sort of) a Las Vegas piano-bar entertainer, are the highlight of an
evening that would be twice as much fun at about half the length. Part of the
Coil festival. Connelly Theater, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212)
352-3101, ps122.org. (Isherwood)

'That Ain't No Lady' The doyenne of New York's now-defunct annual outdoor drag
festival, Wigstock, Lady Bunny purveys bawdy stand-up and pornographic pop song
parodies in her first new cabaret act in 10 years. Looking like Dusty
Springfield on steroids and introduced ''direct from the Port Authority men's
room,'' the Lady and her show are definitely not for the prudish. But anyone
feeling nostalgic for the seedy old days before Times Square became a
tourist-friendly theme park will get a kick out of this evening of big hair and
bad manners. Tuesday only (1:30). La Escuelita Cabaret Theater, 301 West 39th
Street, (212) 631-0588, brownpapertickets.com. (Rooney)

Long-Running Shows

'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages,
340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Baby Wants Candy' A talent-rich cast accomplishes the feat of an improvised
musical. Saturday at 10 p.m. only (1:00). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street,
South Village, (866) 811-4111, sohoplayhouse.com.

'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing
African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street,
Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.

Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434
Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.

'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219
West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.

'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210
West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.

'Freckleface the Musical' Based on the actress Julianne Moore's picture book,
this children's musical transcends the usual themes about celebrating the
differences that make us special. MMAC Theater, 248 West 60th Street, (212)
239-6200; frecklefacestrawberrythemusical.com.

'Freud's Last Session' An imagined meeting of Sigmund Freud and C. S. Lewis
(1:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200,
telecharge.com.

'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search
of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th
Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Gauguin!' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin. Saturday only
(1:00). Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444,
smarttix.com.

'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson
Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.

'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West
45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.

'Love, Loss, and What I Wore' Or shoes, bags and heartaches, as retailed by Nora
and Delia Ephron and a rotating cast (1:20). Westside Downstairs, 407 West 43rd
Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac
Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200,
telecharge.com.

'Mary Poppins' Supernanny (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street,
(800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.

'Memphis' A musical focusing on an interracial romance in the early days of rock
(2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Million Dollar Quartet' This jukebox musical relates the day when Johnny Cash,
Jerry Lee Lewis, Carl Perkins and Elvis Presley all got together for an
impromptu jam (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212)
239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Miss Abigail's Guide to Dating, Mating, & Marriage' Abigail dispenses advice
about romance drawn from vintage health manuals and etiquette guides (1:30).
Downstairs Cabaret Theater at Sofia's, 221 West 46th Street,
missabigailsguide.com.

'Naked Boys Singing' That's who they are. That's what they do (1:10). New World
Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30).
Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.

'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic
Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox
musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200,
telecharge.com.

'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum
Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787,
ticketmaster.com.

'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800)
745-3000, ticketmaster.com.

Last Chance

'Cattywampus' (closes on Saturday) Miss Julie comes to Appalachia in Robert
Cucuzza's flashy but shallow adaptation of the Strindberg classic, with Jillian
Lauren as the wife of an auto dealer and D. J. Mendel as the detailer she
cavorts with fatally (1;20). Incubator Arts Project, inside St. Mark's Church,
131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 420-1916, incubatorarts.org.
(Isherwood)

- 'Follies' (closes on Sunday) The Kennedy Center's revival of James Goldman and
Stephen Sondheim's musical about a reunion of Ziegfeld-style performers looks
back as much in anger as in fondness, and that's what makes it so vibrant. Eric
Schaeffer directs an electric cast led by Bernadette Peters, Jan Maxwell, Danny
Burstein and Ron Raines (2:30). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street,
(800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)

'The Mountaintop' (closes on Sunday) Katori Hall's surprisingly thin drama,
which won the 2010 Olivier Award, depicts the last night in the life of the Rev.
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. (Samuel L. Jackson) and his encounter with a feisty
motel maid (Angela Bassett). Perhaps best regarded as a comfort play, a
nursery-room fable for grownups (1:40). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th
Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)

'World of Wires' (closes on Saturday) A slap-happy, mixed-media, cyber-age
murder mystery by Jay Scheib that smashes all sorts of walls: between screen and
stage, human and machine, reality and illusion. Its reversals won't be surprises
to anyone who's seen ''The Matrix,'' but the production has flashes of real wit
and an infectiously vital young ensemble (1:30). The Kitchen, 512 West 19th
Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, thekitchen.org. (Brantley)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'ANYTHING GOES'
 Kathleen Marshall's zesty revival of Cole Porter's hit-packed musical embodies
the essence of escapist entertainment in the 1930s, when hard times called for
bold smiles, tough wisecracks and flashy fantasies. Sutton Foster (center,
flanked by Colin Donnell, left, and Joel Grey) is sensational as the nightclub
evangelist Reno Sweeney (2:30). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street,
Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ben Brantley) (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA
KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C21)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 20, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Santorum Rose Quickly From Reformer to Insider on Capitol Hill

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE LONG RUN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1992 words


WASHINGTON -- Rick Santorum arrived on Capitol Hill as a new member of Congress
in January 1991, 32 years old and bristling with the impatience of a man looking
to kick up a fuss. Eight months later, he got his chance when he learned of
lawmaker overdrafts at the little-known House bank.

Over beers with rebellious Republican newcomers who became known as the Gang of
Seven, Mr. Santorum helped plot a freshmen's revolt. They would take to the
House floor, one by one, to shame Democratic leaders into releasing the
check-bouncers' names.

''We decided to pick a fight,'' Scott L. Klug, one of the rebels, recalled.

That fight grew into ''Rubbergate,'' a scandal that earned Mr. Santorum, who is
now seeking the Republican nomination for president, a reputation as a reformer
and helped land him in the Senate; there, he drew national attention as a
pugnacious opponent of abortion and gay rights. Now, heading into a South
Carolina primary that he hopes will establish him as the conservative
alternative to Mitt Romney, Mr. Santorum is spotlighting his time in Congress,
branding himself as a ''threat to the establishment'' who had ''shaken things up
in Washington'' and ''wasn't a member of the club.''

But a look at the arc of Mr. Santorum's political career, from his days as a
fresh-faced College Republican to his bruising defeat for a third term in 2006,
reveals a side of Mr. Santorum beyond that of reformer and abortion foe. He
emerges as a savvy operator and sharp tactician, a climber who became a member
of the Washington establishment that he had once railed against.

Mr. Santorum won election in 1990 to the House by attacking his Democratic
opponent for living in Washington while representing Pennsylvania; by 2006 his
critics said the same of him. As the third-ranking Senate Republican, he was a
point man in a controversial effort to place Republicans in lobbying jobs. And
his finances came into question, amid controversy over political donations and
tuition money he accepted.

''There was an evolution there,'' said G. Terry Madonna, a political scientist
at Franklin and Marshall College who has followed Mr. Santorum's career. ''He
went from someone who criticized the exercise of power and wanted reforms, and
turned into Mr. Insider, calling people, making deals.''

Mr. Santorum spent Thursday basking in the news that he, not Mr. Romney, was the
top vote-getter in the recent Iowa caucuses. Officials from his campaign did not
return calls or e-mails seeking comment. But John T. Doolittle, a Santorum
supporter and member of the Gang of Seven, said Mr. Santorum had simply followed
the time-worn path of the most effective legislators in Washington from both
parties.

''You come as an outsider; some people never really learn the levers of power,''
Mr. Doolittle said. ''But others, like Rick, did. You want somebody who can be
effective'' at using those levers ''to advance your values and your ideals.''

Going to Washington

On his first day of work in the Capitol, Mr. Santorum showed up with a swagger.

The 1990 election cycle had been a tough one for Republicans, and Mr. Santorum
was among a handful of newcomers who had beaten Democrats. (John A. Boehner, now
the House speaker and a fellow member of the Gang of Seven, was also in that
Republican freshman class.) Not only that, Mr. Santorum was an unabashed
conservative who had won in a swing state. He began by demanding top committee
assignments, asserting himself in a way few freshmen would.

''He was part of this group that came in, from the very first moment, and said,
'We have as much authority in this place as John Dingell or anybody who has been
here for 20 years,' '' said Mickey Edwards, a former Republican congressman.
''They did not walk in believing we are the new kids and it's our job to sit in
the back.''

Mr. Santorum had caught the political bug as a freshman at Pennsylvania State
University in the fall of 1976, when he volunteered for John Heinz, a moderate
Republican running for the Senate, to fulfill a class requirement. Soon, Mr.
Santorum's course roster was filled with classes on government. He struck
professors as ambitious, if more interested in tactics than issues.

''Most students would ask whether a policy would be worth the cost; he was
unusual in that he was interested in what would get you the most votes,'' Robert
O'Connor, a former professor, recalled. ''I remember him asking me would he be
more successful as a Democrat or a Republican.''

Mr. Santorum's party affiliation was never really in doubt. He ran the state
College Republicans and joined the staff of a Republican state senator. By the
late 1980s, as a lobbyist in Harrisburg, he was contemplating running for
office. Friends urged him to start out small, but Mr. Santorum wanted to go to
Washington.

He went after his opponent, a seven-term incumbent named Doug Walgren, accusing
him of being too entrenched in the capital. Mr. Walgren recalls one particularly
effective ad, a cartoon featuring a photograph of the congressman's home in
Washington.

''There was this creepy voice that said, 'There's something strange about this
house in Washington, D.C.,' and what was strange was that Congressman Doug
Walgren lived there,'' Mr. Walgren said. ''He vowed that he would never do
that.''

Leading a Rebellion

Not long after coming to Congress, Mr. Santorum seized on a cause after seeing a
headline in USA Today on Sept. 20, 1991, that read: ''Oops -- House Members
Bounce 4,325 Checks.'' Mr. Santorum and his freshmen friends ''were outraged,''
said Mr. Klug, who represented a Wisconsin district at the time. ''We had no
idea that this bank even existed.''

The bank was financed by House members' paychecks, with overdrafts covered by
future deposits, so no tax dollars were involved. For that reason, Norman J.
Ornstein, a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute here, said in an
interview that he viewed the uproar as ''a faux scandal.''

But the bank record-keeping was flimsy, and the idea of a private House bank
played into the notion of cronyism -- a perception that Newt Gingrich, then the
House Republican whip, was trying to fuel as he plotted a Republican overthrow
of the Democratic-controlled House.

Mr. Gingrich quietly helped orchestrate the rebellion and gave it what Frank
Riggs, another Gang of Seven member, called ''tacit support.'' But Mr. Gingrich
stayed in the background, knowing the group of newcomers was infuriating senior
Republicans, who also enjoyed the benefits of the bank.

Soon the rebels were demanding investigations of other Congressional privileges
-- the House post office, restaurant and barbershop -- with Mr. Santorum ''very
much the instigator,'' Mr. Riggs said. Mr. Ornstein remembers Mr. Santorum as
''absolutely relentless.''

If the brash young congressman from Pennsylvania irked his fellow Republicans,
he did not seem to mind.

''I came down here to shake things up,'' Mr. Santorum told The Morning Call, a
newspaper in Allentown, Pa., ''and not be shaken.''

Change of Fortune

The year 1994 was a good one for Republicans, and for Mr. Santorum. His House
district had been redrawn to make it more Democratic; fearing he might lose his
seat, he gambled and ran for the Senate. He won, beating Harris Wofford, a
Democrat appointed to the seat after Mr. Heinz died in a plane crash.

There are two ways to rise up the party ranks in the Senate: becoming a
committee chairman, which requires seniority and can take decades, or running
for a leadership position. In 2000, Mr. Santorum was elected chairman of the
Senate Republican Conference; Don Nickles, a former senator, remembers him as
''too impatient'' to wait for a chairmanship.

Instead, Mr. Nickles said, ''he was a player,'' with a leadership role that ''
increases your influence in the Senate.''

But there was a downside. Mr. Santorum, by this time active in the anti-abortion
fight, had carved out a reputation as a firebrand and a rebel. Michael Young, a
Pennsylvania pollster, says some Pennsylvanians were surprised to see their
senator become ''part and parcel of the establishment.'' Mr. Young believes
becoming conference chairman created an internal tension between Mr. Santorum's
outsider instincts and his ambition.

''I think ideology met power,'' Mr. Young said, ''and it created conflict.''

The job required Mr. Santorum to coordinate communications strategy for the
party, and also to serve as the Republican liaison to K Street, Washington's
lobbying corridor. Mr. Santorum held weekly private strategy sessions in the
Capitol with top Washington lobbyists; the sessions were intended, participants
said, as an exchange of ideas.

''It was a group he trusted, not just run-of-the-mill lobbyists,'' said Charlie
Black, a lobbyist who attended. ''He'd tell you what was going on, what they
were expecting to do on the floor, and he picked up information from us, because
a lot of times people up there lobbying for clients talk to different
senators.''

The meetings also functioned as a kind of job placement service for Republicans
-- the Senate version of the ''K Street Project,'' run by Tom DeLay, the
hard-nosed House Republican leader. At the sessions, Mr. Black said, a
Republican National Committee representative would ''hand out a list of job
openings around town where they might be looking for a Republican.'' But both he
and another lobbyist, Dan Meyer, said Mr. Santorum did not pressure firms to
hire particular candidates.

''Santorum's approach was, 'Let's make sure we're identifying openings and
working together to identify Republican candidates to consider for these jobs,
just as the Democrats do,' '' Mr. Meyer said.

The sessions drew negative press -- Mr. Young said the perception of ''cozying
up to lobbyists'' hurt Mr. Santorum as much with Republicans as with Democrats
-- and he eventually abandoned them. But in 2006, as he was running for
re-election, he caught the attention of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics
in Washington, a liberal-leaning watchdog group that had made Mr. DeLay its top
target.

The group, which goes by the acronym CREW, put Mr. Santorum on its list of the
''20 Most Corrupt Members of Congress,'' and accused him of introducing
legislation to benefit political donors -- an accusation Mr. Santorum recently
dismissed as politically motivated. ''If you haven't been sued by CREW,'' he
said during a recent debate in New Hampshire, ''you're not a conservative.''

As Mr. Santorum drew scrutiny in Washington, a political storm was brewing back
home, amid revelations that he had accepted $72,000 in tuition reimbursement
from the school district in Penn Hills, Pa., where he owns a home. The money was
for ''cyber-schooling'' his children, though they were being home-schooled at
the Santorum residence in Leesburg, Va.

Mr. Santorum said he was entitled to the money, but the local school district
balked, and eventually the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania repaid the district a
portion of the fees. Questions about his residency were dogging Mr. Santorum, as
his Democratic opponent, Bob Casey, pushed him on whether he lived in
Pennsylvania or in Washington.

''My residence is in Pennsylvania,'' Mr. Santorum insisted during one televised
debate. ''That's where I pay my taxes. That's where my driver's license is.''

For Mr. Santorum, already weighed down by his ties to an unpopular president,
George W. Bush, the tuition dispute made a bad political year worse. He lost to
Mr. Casey by 18 points. Those with memories of his early campaigns took some
satisfaction in his crushing defeat, saying things appeared to have come full
circle for the man who once said he wanted to shake up Washington. Among them
was Erin Vecchio, a Democrat and then a Penn Hills school board member, who
stirred up the residency debate.

''I remember him going after Doug Walgren,'' Ms. Vecchio said, ''and it just
really irked me.''

The Long Run: Articles in this series are exploring the lives and careers of the
candidates for president in 2012.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Santorum, above, as a freshman House member in 1991. He
quickly became a member of a self-styled group of House reformers known as the
Gang of Seven, who set out to shame House leaders over overdrafts at the House
bank. While in the Senate, Mr. Santorum unveiled his effort to keep track of
spending plans by Democrats. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TERRY CLARK
ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 CHRIS MADDALONI/ROLL CALL, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A17)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 22, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Paperback Mass-Market Fiction: Sunday, January 22nd 2012

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 900 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the January 22, 2012
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending January
7, 2012. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Paperback
           Mass-Market Fiction
This    On
Week  List
1       80 THE GIRL WITH THE DRAGON TATTOO,  by Stieg Larsson. (Vintage
           Crime/Black Lizard, $7.99.) A hacker and a journalist
           investigate the disappearance of a Swedish heiress; the first
           volume in the Millennium trilogy.
2       68 THE GIRL WHO PLAYED WITH FIRE,  by Stieg Larsson. (Vintage
           Crime/Black Lizard, $7.99.) In the second volume of the
           Millennium trilogy, the Swedish hacker Lisbeth Salander becomes
           a murder suspect.
3        2 HIDDEN SUMMIT,  by Robyn Carr. (Mira, $7.99.) Sick of her
           ex-husband and his new wife, Leslie Petruso accepts a job in
           Virgin River, where she meets someone else who thinks he?s done
           with love.
4*       2 SPIRIT BOUND,  by Christine Feehan. (Jove, $7.99.) In the town
           of Sea Haven, an undercover agent insinuates himself into the
           life of an elusive woman with ties to the crime lord he?s
           determined to trap.
5        2 THE JEFFERSON KEY,  by Steve Berry. (Ballantine, $9.99.) The
           ex-government operative Cotton Malone foils an assassination
           attempt on the president and finds himself at odds with a
           secret society.
6        2 YOU ... AGAIN,  by Debbie Macomber. (Mira, $7.99.) A reissue of
           two novels, ?Baby Blessed" and ?Yesterday Once More.?
7       41 A GAME OF THRONES,  by George R. R. Martin. (Bantam, $8.99.) In
           the frozen wastes to the north of Winterfell, sinister and
           supernatural forces are mustering; Book 1 of "A Song of Ice and
           Fire."
8*       1 MR. AND MISS ANONYMOUS,  by Fern Michaels. (Zebra/Kensington,
           $7.99.) Reunited 20 years after meeting at a fertility clinic,
           Lily Madison and Peter Kelly learn that the disappearance of
           two teenagers may be linked to the clinic, and to them.
9        1 ON LAVENDER LANE,  by JoAnn Ross. (Signet, $7.99.) Settling
           into civilian life in Shelter Bay, a former Navy Seals member
           tries to win back the woman whose heart he broke years ago.
10       2 MOONLIGHT IN THE MORNING,  by Jude Deveraux. (Pocket Star,
           $7.99.) A woman leaves the ruthless New York art world behind
           to spend the summer in Edilean, Va., where she?s enthralled by
           the tight-knit artistic community and a charming doctor.
11       1 WHISPERS IN THE DARK,  by Maya Banks. (Berkley Sensation,
           $7.99.) Nathan Kelly, part of an elite, family-run task force,
           tries to save a telepathic woman from a government group that
           wants to harness her ability to heal.
12       8 SMOKIN? SEVENTEEN,  by Janet Evanovich. (Bantam, $8.99.) No one
           is sure why dead bodies are turning up in shallow graves on an
           empty construction lot, but it soon becomes clear that the
           bounty hunter Stephanie Plum is on the killer?s list.
13       2 MINDING FRANKIE,  by Maeve Binchy. (Anchor, $7.99.) With the
           help of a devoted network of friends and family, a Dubliner
           reluctantly agrees to take care of a baby daughter he can?t
           recall siring.
14      33 A CLASH OF KINGS,  by George R. R. Martin. (Bantam, $8.99.)
           From the citadel of Dragonstone to the shores of Winterfell,
           factions vie for control of a divided land; Book 2 of "A Song
           of Ice and Fire."
15*      6 TOYS,  by James Patterson and Neil McMahon. (Vision, $9.99.) An
           operative for a secret government agency suddenly finds himself
           a hunted fugitive who must fight to save humans from
           extinction.
16       1 SKELETON COAST,  by Clive Cussler with Jack Du Brul. (Berkley,
           $9.99.) Juan Cabrillo and the crew of the Oregon rescue a woman
           who?s looking for a long-submerged ship that may hold a fortune
           in diamonds.
17*      2 FATAL ERROR,  by J.A. Jance. (Pocket Star, $7.99.) After the
           murder of a cyber-sociopath, the former TV news anchor Ali
           Reynolds is drawn into a web of online intrigue.
18       2 TRADER OF SECRETS,  by Steve Martini. (Harper/HarperCollins,
           $9.99.) The lawyer Paul Madriani is on the trail of criminals
           who are trying to steal state-of-the-art weapons technology.
19      34 A STORM OF SWORDS,  by George R. R. Martin. (Bantam, $8.99.)
           Wars continue to rage over the Iron Throne as alliances are
           made and broken; Book 3 of "A Song of Ice and Fire."
20      25 A FEAST FOR CROWS,  by George R. R. Martin. (Bantam, $8.99.)
           With the death of the monstrous King Joffrey, the seven powers
           dividing the land have reached an uneasy truce; Book 4 of "A
           Song of Ice and Fire."

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

21. MCKETTRICK'S LUCK,  by Linda Lael Miller. (HQN)

22. AFFAIRS OF STEAK,  by Julie Hyzy. (Berkley)

23. DESTINY,  by Carly Phillips. (Berkley)

24. WAKING UP IN CHARLESTON,  by Sherryl Woods. (Mira)

25. THE LAND OF PAINTED CAVES,  by Jean M. Auel. (Bantam)

26. RAVEN CURSED,  by Faith Hunter. (Roc)

27. THE SENTRY,  by Robert Crais. (Berkley)

28. ONE FOR THE MONEY,  by Janet Evanovich. (St. Martin?s)

29. THE LUCKY ONE,  by Nicholas Sparks. (Grand Central)

30. THE OUTLAWS,  by W. E. B. Griffin and William E. Butterworth IV. (Jove)

31. LEGALLY HOT,  by Lora Leigh and Red Garnier. (St. Martin's)

32. THE DUKE IS MINE,  by Eloisa James. (Avon)

33. IN TOO DEEP,  by Jayne Ann Krentz. (Jove)

34. BORN OF SHADOWS,  by Sherrilyn Kenyon. (Grand Central)

35. INNOCENT,  by Scott Turow. (Grand Central)


URL:

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 25, 2012 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

President Obama's State of the Union Address

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TEXT; Pg.

LENGTH: 6934 words


Following is the transcript of President Obama's State of the Union address on
Jan. 24, 2012, as released by the White House:

THE PRESIDENT: Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, members of Congress,
distinguished guests, and fellow Americans:

Last month, I went to Andrews Air Force Base and welcomed home some of our last
troops to serve in Iraq. Together, we offered a final, proud salute to the
colors under which more than a million of our fellow citizens fought -- and
several thousand gave their lives.

We gather tonight knowing that this generation of heroes has made the United
States safer and more respected around the world. (Applause.) For the first time
in nine years, there are no Americans fighting in Iraq. (Applause.) For the
first time in two decades, Osama bin Laden is not a threat to this country.
(Applause.) Most of al Qaeda's top lieutenants have been defeated. The Taliban's
momentum has been broken, and some troops in Afghanistan have begun to come
home.

These achievements are a testament to the courage, selflessness and teamwork of
America's Armed Forces. At a time when too many of our institutions have let us
down, they exceed all expectations. They're not consumed with personal ambition.
They don't obsess over their differences. They focus on the mission at hand.
They work together.

Imagine what we could accomplish if we followed their example. (Applause.) Think
about the America within our reach: A country that leads the world in educating
its people. An America that attracts a new generation of high-tech manufacturing
and high-paying jobs. A future where we're in control of our own energy, and our
security and prosperity aren't so tied to unstable parts of the world. An
economy built to last, where hard work pays off, and responsibility is rewarded.

We can do this. I know we can, because we've done it before. At the end of World
War II, when another generation of heroes returned home from combat, they built
the strongest economy and middle class the world has ever known. (Applause.) My
grandfather, a veteran of Patton's Army, got the chance to go to college on the
GI Bill. My grandmother, who worked on a bomber assembly line, was part of a
workforce that turned out the best products on Earth.

The two of them shared the optimism of a nation that had triumphed over a
depression and fascism. They understood they were part of something larger; that
they were contributing to a story of success that every American had a chance to
share -- the basic American promise that if you worked hard, you could do well
enough to raise a family, own a home, send your kids to college, and put a
little away for retirement.

The defining issue of our time is how to keep that promise alive. No challenge
is more urgent. No debate is more important. We can either settle for a country
where a shrinking number of people do really well while a growing number of
Americans barely get by, or we can restore an economy where everyone gets a fair
shot, and everyone does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same set of
rules. (Applause.) What's at stake aren't Democratic values or Republican
values, but American values. And we have to reclaim them.

Let's remember how we got here. Long before the recession, jobs and
manufacturing began leaving our shores. Technology made businesses more
efficient, but also made some jobs obsolete. Folks at the top saw their incomes
rise like never before, but most hardworking Americans struggled with costs that
were growing, paychecks that weren't, and personal debt that kept piling up.

In 2008, the house of cards collapsed. We learned that mortgages had been sold
to people who couldn't afford or understand them. Banks had made huge bets and
bonuses with other people's money. Regulators had looked the other way, or
didn't have the authority to stop the bad behavior.

It was wrong. It was irresponsible. And it plunged our economy into a crisis
that put millions out of work, saddled us with more debt, and left innocent,
hardworking Americans holding the bag. In the six months before I took office,
we lost nearly 4 million jobs. And we lost another 4 million before our policies
were in full effect.

Those are the facts. But so are these: In the last 22 months, businesses have
created more than 3 million jobs. (Applause.)

Last year, they created the most jobs since 2005. American manufacturers are
hiring again, creating jobs for the first time since the late 1990s. Together,
we've agreed to cut the deficit by more than $2 trillion. And we've put in place
new rules to hold Wall Street accountable, so a crisis like this never happens
again. (Applause.)

The state of our Union is getting stronger. And we've come too far to turn back
now. As long as I'm President, I will work with anyone in this chamber to build
on this momentum. But I intend to fight obstruction with action, and I will
oppose any effort to return to the very same policies that brought on this
economic crisis in the first place. (Applause.)

No, we will not go back to an economy weakened by outsourcing, bad debt, and
phony financial profits. Tonight, I want to speak about how we move forward, and
lay out a blueprint for an economy that's built to last - an economy built on
American manufacturing, American energy, skills for American workers, and a
renewal of American values.

Now, this blueprint begins with American manufacturing.

On the day I took office, our auto industry was on the verge of collapse. Some
even said we should let it die. With a million jobs at stake, I refused to let
that happen. In exchange for help, we demanded responsibility. We got workers
and automakers to settle their differences. We got the industry to retool and
restructure. Today, General Motors is back on top as the world's number-one
automaker. (Applause.) Chrysler has grown faster in the U.S. than any major car
company. Ford is investing billions in U.S. plants and factories. And together,
the entire industry added nearly 160,000 jobs.

We bet on American workers. We bet on American ingenuity. And tonight, the
American auto industry is back. (Applause.)

What's happening in Detroit can happen in other industries. It can happen in
Cleveland and Pittsburgh and Raleigh. We can't bring every job back that's left
our shore. But right now, it's getting more expensive to do business in places
like China. Meanwhile, America is more productive. A few weeks ago, the CEO of
Master Lock told me that it now makes business sense for him to bring jobs back
home. (Applause.) Today, for the first time in 15 years, Master Lock's unionized
plant in Milwaukee is running at full capacity. (Applause.)

So we have a huge opportunity, at this moment, to bring manufacturing back. But
we have to seize it. Tonight, my message to business leaders is simple: Ask
yourselves what you can do to bring jobs back to your country, and your country
will do everything we can to help you succeed. (Applause.)

We should start with our tax code. Right now, companies get tax breaks for
moving jobs and profits overseas. Meanwhile, companies that choose to stay in
America get hit with one of the highest tax rates in the world. It makes no
sense, and everyone knows it. So let's change it.

First, if you're a business that wants to outsource jobs, you shouldn't get a
tax deduction for doing it. (Applause.) That money should be used to cover
moving expenses for companies like Master Lock that decide to bring jobs home.
(Applause.)

Second, no American company should be able to avoid paying its fair share of
taxes by moving jobs and profits overseas. (Applause.) From now on, every
multinational company should have to pay a basic minimum tax. And every penny
should go towards lowering taxes for companies that choose to stay here and hire
here in America. (Applause.)

Third, if you're an American manufacturer, you should get a bigger tax cut. If
you're a high-tech manufacturer, we should double the tax deduction you get for
making your products here. And if you want to relocate in a community that was
hit hard when a factory left town, you should get help financing a new plant,
equipment, or training for new workers. (Applause.)

So my message is simple. It is time to stop rewarding businesses that ship jobs
overseas, and start rewarding companies that create jobs right here in America.
Send me these tax reforms, and I will sign them right away. (Applause.)

We're also making it easier for American businesses to sell products all over
the world. Two years ago, I set a goal of doubling U.S. exports over five years.
With the bipartisan trade agreements we signed into law, we're on track to meet
that goal ahead of schedule. (Applause.) And soon, there will be millions of new
customers for American goods in Panama, Colombia, and South Korea. Soon, there
will be new cars on the streets of Seoul imported from Detroit, and Toledo, and
Chicago. (Applause.)

I will go anywhere in the world to open new markets for American products. And I
will not stand by when our competitors don't play by the rules. We've brought
trade cases against China at nearly twice the rate as the last administration -
and it's made a difference. (Applause.) Over a thousand Americans are working
today because we stopped a surge in Chinese tires. But we need to do more. It's
not right when another country lets our movies, music, and software be pirated.
It's not fair when foreign manufacturers have a leg up on ours only because
they're heavily subsidized.

Tonight, I'm announcing the creation of a Trade Enforcement Unit that will be
charged with investigating unfair trading practices in countries like China.
(Applause.) There will be more inspections to prevent counterfeit or unsafe
goods from crossing our borders. And this Congress should make sure that no
foreign company has an advantage over American manufacturing when it comes to
accessing financing or new markets like Russia. Our workers are the most
productive on Earth, and if the playing field is level, I promise you - America
will always win. (Applause.)

I also hear from many business leaders who want to hire in the United States but
can't find workers with the right skills. Growing industries in science and
technology have twice as many openings as we have workers who can do the job.
Think about that - openings at a time when millions of Americans are looking for
work. It's inexcusable. And we know how to fix it.

Jackie Bray is a single mom from North Carolina who was laid off from her job as
a mechanic. Then Siemens opened a gas turbine factory in Charlotte, and formed a
partnership with Central Piedmont Community College. The company helped the
college design courses in laser and robotics training. It paid Jackie's tuition,
then hired her to help operate their plant.

I want every American looking for work to have the same opportunity as Jackie
did. Join me in a national commitment to train 2 million Americans with skills
that will lead directly to a job. (Applause.) My administration has already
lined up more companies that want to help. Model partnerships between businesses
like Siemens and community colleges in places like Charlotte, and Orlando, and
Louisville are up and running. Now you need to give more community colleges the
resources they need to become community career centers - places that teach
people skills that businesses are looking for right now, from data management to
high-tech manufacturing.

And I want to cut through the maze of confusing training programs, so that from
now on, people like Jackie have one program, one website, and one place to go
for all the information and help that they need. It is time to turn our
unemployment system into a reemployment system that puts people to work.
(Applause.)

These reforms will help people get jobs that are open today. But to prepare for
the jobs of tomorrow, our commitment to skills and education has to start
earlier.

For less than 1 percent of what our nation spends on education each year, we've
convinced nearly every state in the country to raise their standards for
teaching and learning -- the first time that's happened in a generation.

But challenges remain. And we know how to solve them.

At a time when other countries are doubling down on education, tight budgets
have forced states to lay off thousands of teachers. We know a good teacher can
increase the lifetime income of a classroom by over $250,000. A great teacher
can offer an escape from poverty to the child who dreams beyond his
circumstance. Every person in this chamber can point to a teacher who changed
the trajectory of their lives. Most teachers work tirelessly, with modest pay,
sometimes digging into their own pocket for school supplies -- just to make a
difference.

Teachers matter. So instead of bashing them, or defending the status quo, let's
offer schools a deal. Give them the resources to keep good teachers on the job,
and reward the best ones. (Applause.) And in return, grant schools flexibility:
to teach with creativity and passion; to stop teaching to the test; and to
replace teachers who just aren't helping kids learn. That's a bargain worth
making. (Applause.)

We also know that when students don't walk away from their education, more of
them walk the stage to get their diploma. When students are not allowed to drop
out, they do better. So tonight, I am proposing that every state -- every state
-- requires that all students stay in high school until they graduate or turn
18. (Applause.)

When kids do graduate, the most daunting challenge can be the cost of college.
At a time when Americans owe more in tuition debt than credit card debt, this
Congress needs to stop the interest rates on student loans from doubling in
July. (Applause.)

Extend the tuition tax credit we started that saves millions of middle-class
families thousands of dollars, and give more young people the chance to earn
their way through college by doubling the number of work-study jobs in the next
five years. (Applause.)

Of course, it's not enough for us to increase student aid. We can't just keep
subsidizing skyrocketing tuition; we'll run out of money. States also need to do
their part, by making higher education a higher priority in their budgets. And
colleges and universities have to do their part by working to keep costs down.

Recently, I spoke with a group of college presidents who've done just that. Some
schools redesign courses to help students finish more quickly. Some use better
technology. The point is, it's possible. So let me put colleges and universities
on notice: If you can't stop tuition from going up, the funding you get from
taxpayers will go down. (Applause.) Higher education can't be a luxury - it is
an economic imperative that every family in America should be able to afford.

Let's also remember that hundreds of thousands of talented, hardworking students
in this country face another challenge: the fact that they aren't yet American
citizens. Many were brought here as small children, are American through and
through, yet they live every day with the threat of deportation. Others came
more recently, to study business and science and engineering, but as soon as
they get their degree, we send them home to invent new products and create new
jobs somewhere else.

That doesn't make sense.

I believe as strongly as ever that we should take on illegal immigration. That's
why my administration has put more boots on the border than ever before. That's
why there are fewer illegal crossings than when I took office. The opponents of
action are out of excuses. We should be working on comprehensive immigration
reform right now. (Applause.)

But if election-year politics keeps Congress from acting on a comprehensive
plan, let's at least agree to stop expelling responsible young people who want
to staff our labs, start new businesses, defend this country. Send me a law that
gives them the chance to earn their citizenship. I will sign it right away.
(Applause.)

You see, an economy built to last is one where we encourage the talent and
ingenuity of every person in this country. That means women should earn equal
pay for equal work. (Applause.) It means we should support everyone who's
willing to work, and every risk-taker and entrepreneur who aspires to become the
next Steve Jobs.

After all, innovation is what America has always been about. Most new jobs are
created in start-ups and small businesses. So let's pass an agenda that helps
them succeed. Tear down regulations that prevent aspiring entrepreneurs from
getting the financing to grow. (Applause.) Expand tax relief to small businesses
that are raising wages and creating good jobs. Both parties agree on these
ideas. So put them in a bill, and get it on my desk this year. (Applause.)

Innovation also demands basic research. Today, the discoveries taking place in
our federally financed labs and universities could lead to new treatments that
kill cancer cells but leave healthy ones untouched. New lightweight vests for
cops and soldiers that can stop any bullet. Don't gut these investments in our
budget. Don't let other countries win the race for the future. Support the same
kind of research and innovation that led to the computer chip and the Internet;
to new American jobs and new American industries.

And nowhere is the promise of innovation greater than in American-made energy.
Over the last three years, we've opened millions of new acres for oil and gas
exploration, and tonight, I'm directing my administration to open more than 75
percent of our potential offshore oil and gas resources. (Applause.) Right now
-- right now -- American oil production is the highest that it's been in eight
years. That's right -- eight years. Not only that -- last year, we relied less
on foreign oil than in any of the past 16 years. (Applause.)

But with only 2 percent of the world's oil reserves, oil isn't enough. This
country needs an all-out, all-of-the-above strategy that develops every
available source of American energy. (Applause.) A strategy that's cleaner,
cheaper, and full of new jobs.

We have a supply of natural gas that can last America nearly 100 years.
(Applause.) And my administration will take every possible action to safely
develop this energy. Experts believe this will support more than 600,000 jobs by
the end of the decade. And I'm requiring all companies that drill for gas on
public lands to disclose the chemicals they use. (Applause.) Because America
will develop this resource without putting the health and safety of our citizens
at risk.

The development of natural gas will create jobs and power trucks and factories
that are cleaner and cheaper, proving that we don't have to choose between our
environment and our economy. (Applause.) And by the way, it was public research
dollars, over the course of 30 years, that helped develop the technologies to
extract all this natural gas out of shale rock - reminding us that government
support is critical in helping businesses get new energy ideas off the ground.
(Applause.)

Now, what's true for natural gas is just as true for clean energy. In three
years, our partnership with the private sector has already positioned America to
be the world's leading manufacturer of high-tech batteries. Because of federal
investments, renewable energy use has nearly doubled, and thousands of Americans
have jobs because of it.

When Bryan Ritterby was laid off from his job making furniture, he said he
worried that at 55, no one would give him a second chance. But he found work at
Energetx, a wind turbine manufacturer in Michigan. Before the recession, the
factory only made luxury yachts. Today, it's hiring workers like Bryan, who
said, ''I'm proud to be working in the industry of the future.''

Our experience with shale gas, our experience with natural gas, shows us that
the payoffs on these public investments don't always come right away. Some
technologies don't pan out; some companies fail. But I will not walk away from
the promise of clean energy. I will not walk away from workers like Bryan.
(Applause.) I will not cede the wind or solar or battery industry to China or
Germany because we refuse to make the same commitment here.

We've subsidized oil companies for a century. That's long enough. (Applause.)
It's time to end the taxpayer giveaways to an industry that rarely has been more
profitable, and double-down on a clean energy industry that never has been more
promising. Pass clean energy tax credits. Create these jobs. (Applause.)

We can also spur energy innovation with new incentives. The differences in this
chamber may be too deep right now to pass a comprehensive plan to fight climate
change. But there's no reason why Congress shouldn't at least set a clean energy
standard that creates a market for innovation. So far, you haven't acted. Well,
tonight, I will. I'm directing my administration to allow the development of
clean energy on enough public land to power 3 million homes. And I'm proud to
announce that the Department of Defense, working with us, the world's largest
consumer of energy, will make one of the largest commitments to clean energy in
history - with the Navy purchasing enough capacity to power a quarter of a
million homes a year. (Applause.)

Of course, the easiest way to save money is to waste less energy. So here's a
proposal: Help manufacturers eliminate energy waste in their factories and give
businesses incentives to upgrade their buildings. Their energy bills will be
$100 billion lower over the next decade, and America will have less pollution,
more manufacturing, more jobs for construction workers who need them. Send me a
bill that creates these jobs. (Applause.)

Building this new energy future should be just one part of a broader agenda to
repair America's infrastructure. So much of America needs to be rebuilt. We've
got crumbling roads and bridges; a power grid that wastes too much energy; an
incomplete high-speed broadband network that prevents a small business owner in
rural America from selling her products all over the world.

During the Great Depression, America built the Hoover Dam and the Golden Gate
Bridge. After World War II, we connected our states with a system of highways.
Democratic and Republican administrations invested in great projects that
benefited everybody, from the workers who built them to the businesses that
still use them today.

In the next few weeks, I will sign an executive order clearing away the red tape
that slows down too many construction projects. But you need to fund these
projects. Take the money we're no longer spending at war, use half of it to pay
down our debt, and use the rest to do some nation-building right here at home.
(Applause.)

There's never been a better time to build, especially since the construction
industry was one of the hardest hit when the housing bubble burst. Of course,
construction workers weren't the only ones who were hurt. So were millions of
innocent Americans who've seen their home values decline. And while government
can't fix the problem on its own, responsible homeowners shouldn't have to sit
and wait for the housing market to hit bottom to get some relief.

And that's why I'm sending this Congress a plan that gives every responsible
homeowner the chance to save about $3,000 a year on their mortgage, by
refinancing at historically low rates. (Applause.) No more red tape. No more
runaround from the banks. A small fee on the largest financial institutions will
ensure that it won't add to the deficit and will give those banks that were
rescued by taxpayers a chance to repay a deficit of trust. (Applause.)

Let's never forget: Millions of Americans who work hard and play by the rules
every day deserve a government and a financial system that do the same. It's
time to apply the same rules from top to bottom. No bailouts, no handouts, and
no copouts. An America built to last insists on responsibility from everybody.

We've all paid the price for lenders who sold mortgages to people who couldn't
afford them, and buyers who knew they couldn't afford them. That's why we need
smart regulations to prevent irresponsible behavior. (Applause.) Rules to
prevent financial fraud or toxic dumping or faulty medical devices -- these
don't destroy the free market. They make the free market work better.

There's no question that some regulations are outdated, unnecessary, or too
costly. In fact, I've approved fewer regulations in the first three years of my
presidency than my Republican predecessor did in his. (Applause.) I've ordered
every federal agency to eliminate rules that don't make sense. We've already
announced over 500 reforms, and just a fraction of them will save business and
citizens more than $10 billion over the next five years. We got rid of one rule
from 40 years ago that could have forced some dairy farmers to spend $10,000 a
year proving that they could contain a spill -- because milk was somehow
classified as an oil. With a rule like that, I guess it was worth crying over
spilled milk. (Laughter and applause.)

Now, I'm confident a farmer can contain a milk spill without a federal agency
looking over his shoulder. (Applause.) Absolutely. But I will not back down from
making sure an oil company can contain the kind of oil spill we saw in the Gulf
two years ago. (Applause.) I will not back down from protecting our kids from
mercury poisoning, or making sure that our food is safe and our water is clean.
I will not go back to the days when health insurance companies had unchecked
power to cancel your policy, deny your coverage, or charge women differently
than men. (Applause.)

And I will not go back to the days when Wall Street was allowed to play by its
own set of rules. The new rules we passed restore what should be any financial
system's core purpose: Getting funding to entrepreneurs with the best ideas, and
getting loans to responsible families who want to buy a home, or start a
business, or send their kids to college.

So if you are a big bank or financial institution, you're no longer allowed to
make risky bets with your customers' deposits. You're required to write out a
''living will'' that details exactly how you'll pay the bills if you fail -
because the rest of us are not bailing you out ever again. (Applause.) And if
you're a mortgage lender or a payday lender or a credit card company, the days
of signing people up for products they can't afford with confusing forms and
deceptive practices -- those days are over. Today, American consumers finally
have a watchdog in Richard Cordray with one job: To look out for them.
(Applause.)

We'll also establish a Financial Crimes Unit of highly trained investigators to
crack down on large-scale fraud and protect people's investments. Some financial
firms violate major anti-fraud laws because there's no real penalty for being a
repeat offender. That's bad for consumers, and it's bad for the vast majority of
bankers and financial service professionals who do the right thing. So pass
legislation that makes the penalties for fraud count.

And tonight, I'm asking my Attorney General to create a special unit of federal
prosecutors and leading state attorney general to expand our investigations into
the abusive lending and packaging of risky mortgages that led to the housing
crisis. (Applause.) This new unit will hold accountable those who broke the law,
speed assistance to homeowners, and help turn the page on an era of recklessness
that hurt so many Americans.

Now, a return to the American values of fair play and shared responsibility will
help protect our people and our economy. But it should also guide us as we look
to pay down our debt and invest in our future.

Right now, our most immediate priority is stopping a tax hike on 160 million
working Americans while the recovery is still fragile. (Applause.) People cannot
afford losing $40 out of each paycheck this year. There are plenty of ways to
get this done. So let's agree right here, right now: No side issues. No drama.
Pass the payroll tax cut without delay. Let's get it done. (Applause.)

When it comes to the deficit, we've already agreed to more than $2 trillion in
cuts and savings. But we need to do more, and that means making choices. Right
now, we're poised to spend nearly $1 trillion more on what was supposed to be a
temporary tax break for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans. Right now,
because of loopholes and shelters in the tax code, a quarter of all millionaires
pay lower tax rates than millions of middle-class households. Right now, Warren
Buffett pays a lower tax rate than his secretary.

Do we want to keep these tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans? Or do we want to
keep our investments in everything else - like education and medical research; a
strong military and care for our veterans? Because if we're serious about paying
down our debt, we can't do both.

The American people know what the right choice is. So do I. As I told the
Speaker this summer, I'm prepared to make more reforms that rein in the
long-term costs of Medicare and Medicaid, and strengthen Social Security, so
long as those programs remain a guarantee of security for seniors.

But in return, we need to change our tax code so that people like me, and an
awful lot of members of Congress, pay our fair share of taxes. (Applause.)

Tax reform should follow the Buffett Rule. If you make more than $1 million a
year, you should not pay less than 30 percent in taxes. And my Republican friend
Tom Coburn is right: Washington should stop subsidizing millionaires. In fact,
if you're earning a million dollars a year, you shouldn't get special tax
subsidies or deductions. On the other hand, if you make under $250,000 a year,
like 98 percent of American families, your taxes shouldn't go up. (Applause.)
You're the ones struggling with rising costs and stagnant wages. You're the ones
who need relief.

Now, you can call this class warfare all you want. But asking a billionaire to
pay at least as much as his secretary in taxes? Most Americans would call that
common sense.

We don't begrudge financial success in this country. We admire it. When
Americans talk about folks like me paying my fair share of taxes, it's not
because they envy the rich. It's because they understand that when I get a tax
break I don't need and the country can't afford, it either adds to the deficit,
or somebody else has to make up the difference -- like a senior on a fixed
income, or a student trying to get through school, or a family trying to make
ends meet. That's not right. Americans know that's not right. They know that
this generation's success is only possible because past generations felt a
responsibility to each other, and to the future of their country, and they know
our way of life will only endure if we feel that same sense of shared
responsibility. That's how we'll reduce our deficit. That's an America built to
last. (Applause.)

Now, I recognize that people watching tonight have differing views about taxes
and debt, energy and health care. But no matter what party they belong to, I bet
most Americans are thinking the same thing right about now: Nothing will get
done in Washington this year, or next year, or maybe even the year after that,
because Washington is broken.

Can you blame them for feeling a little cynical?

The greatest blow to our confidence in our economy last year didn't come from
events beyond our control. It came from a debate in Washington over whether the
United States would pay its bills or not. Who benefited from that fiasco?

I've talked tonight about the deficit of trust between Main Street and Wall
Street. But the divide between this city and the rest of the country is at least
as bad -- and it seems to get worse every year.

Some of this has to do with the corrosive influence of money in politics. So
together, let's take some steps to fix that. Send me a bill that bans insider
trading by members of Congress; I will sign it tomorrow. (Applause.) Let's limit
any elected official from owning stocks in industries they impact. Let's make
sure people who bundle campaign contributions for Congress can't lobby Congress,
and vice versa -- an idea that has bipartisan support, at least outside of
Washington.

Some of what's broken has to do with the way Congress does its business these
days. A simple majority is no longer enough to get anything - even routine
business - passed through the Senate. (Applause.) Neither party has been
blameless in these tactics. Now both parties should put an end to it.
(Applause.) For starters, I ask the Senate to pass a simple rule that all
judicial and public service nominations receive a simple up or down vote within
90 days. (Applause.)

The executive branch also needs to change. Too often, it's inefficient, outdated
and remote. (Applause.) That's why I've asked this Congress to grant me the
authority to consolidate the federal bureaucracy, so that our government is
leaner, quicker, and more responsive to the needs of the American people.
(Applause.)

Finally, none of this can happen unless we also lower the temperature in this
town. We need to end the notion that the two parties must be locked in a
perpetual campaign of mutual destruction; that politics is about clinging to
rigid ideologies instead of building consensus around common-sense ideas.

I'm a Democrat. But I believe what Republican Abraham Lincoln believed: That
government should do for people only what they cannot do better by themselves,
and no more. (Applause.) That's why my education reform offers more competition,
and more control for schools and states. That's why we're getting rid of
regulations that don't work. That's why our health care law relies on a reformed
private market, not a government program.

On the other hand, even my Republican friends who complain the most about
government spending have supported federally financed roads, and clean energy
projects, and federal offices for the folks back home.

The point is, we should all want a smarter, more effective government. And while
we may not be able to bridge our biggest philosophical differences this year, we
can make real progress. With or without this Congress, I will keep taking
actions that help the economy grow. But I can do a whole lot more with your
help. Because when we act together, there's nothing the United States of America
can't achieve. (Applause.) That's the lesson we've learned from our actions
abroad over the last few years.

Ending the Iraq war has allowed us to strike decisive blows against our enemies.
From Pakistan to Yemen, the al Qaeda operatives who remain are scrambling,
knowing that they can't escape the reach of the United States of America.
(Applause.)

From this position of strength, we've begun to wind down the war in Afghanistan.
Ten thousand of our troops have come home. Twenty-three thousand more will leave
by the end of this summer. This transition to Afghan lead will continue, and we
will build an enduring partnership with Afghanistan, so that it is never again a
source of attacks against America. (Applause.)

As the tide of war recedes, a wave of change has washed across the Middle East
and North Africa, from Tunis to Cairo; from Sana'a to Tripoli. A year ago,
Qaddafi was one of the world's longest-serving dictators - a murderer with
American blood on his hands. Today, he is gone. And in Syria, I have no doubt
that the Assad regime will soon discover that the forces of change cannot be
reversed, and that human dignity cannot be denied. (Applause.)

How this incredible transformation will end remains uncertain. But we have a
huge stake in the outcome. And while it's ultimately up to the people of the
region to decide their fate, we will advocate for those values that have served
our own country so well. We will stand against violence and intimidation. We
will stand for the rights and dignity of all human beings - men and women;
Christians, Muslims and Jews. We will support policies that lead to strong and
stable democracies and open markets, because tyranny is no match for liberty.

And we will safeguard America's own security against those who threaten our
citizens, our friends, and our interests. Look at Iran. Through the power of our
diplomacy, a world that was once divided about how to deal with Iran's nuclear
program now stands as one. The regime is more isolated than ever before; its
leaders are faced with crippling sanctions, and as long as they shirk their
responsibilities, this pressure will not relent.

Let there be no doubt: America is determined to prevent Iran from getting a
nuclear weapon, and I will take no options off the table to achieve that goal.
(Applause.)

But a peaceful resolution of this issue is still possible, and far better, and
if Iran changes course and meets its obligations, it can rejoin the community of
nations.

The renewal of American leadership can be felt across the globe. Our oldest
alliances in Europe and Asia are stronger than ever. Our ties to the Americas
are deeper. Our ironclad commitment -- and I mean ironclad -- to Israel's
security has meant the closest military cooperation between our two countries in
history. (Applause.)

We've made it clear that America is a Pacific power, and a new beginning in
Burma has lit a new hope. From the coalitions we've built to secure nuclear
materials, to the missions we've led against hunger and disease; from the blows
we've dealt to our enemies, to the enduring power of our moral example, America
is back.

Anyone who tells you otherwise, anyone who tells you that America is in decline
or that our influence has waned, doesn't know what they're talking about.
(Applause.)

That's not the message we get from leaders around the world who are eager to
work with us. That's not how people feel from Tokyo to Berlin, from Cape Town to
Rio, where opinions of America are higher than they've been in years. Yes, the
world is changing. No, we can't control every event. But America remains the one
indispensable nation in world affairs - and as long as I'm President, I intend
to keep it that way. (Applause.)

That's why, working with our military leaders, I've proposed a new defense
strategy that ensures we maintain the finest military in the world, while saving
nearly half a trillion dollars in our budget. To stay one step ahead of our
adversaries, I've already sent this Congress legislation that will secure our
country from the growing dangers of cyber-threats. (Applause.)

Above all, our freedom endures because of the men and women in uniform who
defend it. (Applause.) As they come home, we must serve them as well as they've
served us. That includes giving them the care and the benefits they have earned
- which is why we've increased annual VA spending every year I've been
President. (Applause.) And it means enlisting our veterans in the work of
rebuilding our nation.

With the bipartisan support of this Congress, we're providing new tax credits to
companies that hire vets. Michelle and Jill Biden have worked with American
businesses to secure a pledge of 135,000 jobs for veterans and their families.
And tonight, I'm proposing a Veterans Jobs Corps that will help our communities
hire veterans as cops and firefighters, so that America is as strong as those
who defend her. (Applause.)

Which brings me back to where I began. Those of us who've been sent here to
serve can learn a thing or two from the service of our troops. When you put on
that uniform, it doesn't matter if you're black or white; Asian, Latino, Native
American; conservative, liberal; rich, poor; gay, straight. When you're marching
into battle, you look out for the person next to you, or the mission fails. When
you're in the thick of the fight, you rise or fall as one unit, serving one
nation, leaving no one behind.

One of my proudest possessions is the flag that the SEAL Team took with them on
the mission to get bin Laden. On it are each of their names. Some may be
Democrats. Some may be Republicans. But that doesn't matter. Just like it didn't
matter that day in the Situation Room, when I sat next to Bob Gates -- a man who
was George Bush's defense secretary -- and Hillary Clinton -- a woman who ran
against me for president.

All that mattered that day was the mission. No one thought about politics. No
one thought about themselves. One of the young men involved in the raid later
told me that he didn't deserve credit for the mission. It only succeeded, he
said, because every single member of that unit did their job -- the pilot who
landed the helicopter that spun out of control; the translator who kept others
from entering the compound; the troops who separated the women and children from
the fight; the SEALs who charged up the stairs. More than that, the mission only
succeeded because every member of that unit trusted each other -- because you
can't charge up those stairs, into darkness and danger, unless you know that
there's somebody behind you, watching your back.

So it is with America. Each time I look at that flag, I'm reminded that our
destiny is stitched together like those 50 stars and those 13 stripes. No one
built this country on their own. This nation is great because we built it
together. This nation is great because we worked as a team. This nation is great
because we get each other's backs. And if we hold fast to that truth, in this
moment of trial, there is no challenge too great; no mission too hard. As long
as we are joined in common purpose, as long as we maintain our common resolve,
our journey moves forward, and our future is hopeful, and the state of our Union
will always be strong.

Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.
(Applause.)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday

Officer's Use of a Tracking Feature Leads to an Arrest in an iPhone Theft

BYLINE: MATT FLEGENHEIMER

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 232 words



HIGHLIGHT: The police said an officer used a tracking feature on his iPhone to
locate and arrest a man suspected of stealing a woman's iPhone at a handbag
store on Thursday night.


If only Siri could have warned him.

The police said an officer used a tracking feature on his iPhone to locate and
arrest a man suspected of stealing a woman's iPhone at a handbag store on
Thursday night.

About 7 p.m., according to an account that the victim gave to the police, a man
walked into a handbag store, near 57th Street and Avenue of the Americas in
Manhattan, where the woman was sitting. He brandished a black handgun and fled
after stealing the woman's iPhone, the police said.

After a fruitless canvass of the area, one officer, Robert Garland, tried
another tack. Using the 24-year-old victim's iTunes account information and the
iCloud feature on his own phone, Mr. Garland was able to track the victim's
iPhone.

Officers then followed the cyber-scent to the area near 49th Street and Eighth
Avenue. As they searched the area, the suspect, who the police said had placed
the phone in his boot, walked past the officers. The victim's phone began to
beep. And, soon, the suspect was placed under arrest.

The police identified him as George Bradshaw, 40, of New Lots Avenue in
Brooklyn, and said he was charged with robbery.


     ·    Second Suspect Charged in Sex-Attack Pattern
     ·    Council Members Call for Change to Marijuana Possession Law
     ·    Police Officer Pleads Guilty to Robbing Drug Dealers
     ·    Would-Be Burglar's Tools: Gun, Cane, Oxygen Tank
     ·    Mayor Defends Kelly, but Says Anti-Muslim Film Caused Damage


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            January 27, 2012 Friday

Charter School Releases an Ad Supporting Cuomo

BYLINE: THOMAS KAPLAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 491 words



HIGHLIGHT: Renaissance Charter High School for Innovation filmed a video
inspired by Governor Cuomo's declaration in his State of the State address that
he intended to be a lobbyist for public school students.


ALBANY - As he girds for confrontation with what he calls the state's
educational bureaucracy, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has found an unexpected ally
singing his praises on cable television: a group of high school students in East
Harlem.

Earlier this month, ninth and tenth graders at the Renaissance Charter High
School for Innovation filmed a video inspired by Mr. Cuomo's declaration in his
State of the State address that he intended to take a second job as a lobbyist
for public school students.

A nonprofit group that supports charter schools, the New York City Charter
School Center, saw the video and was impressed. With a few tweaks to make it
television-ready, and a modest outlay by the charter center, the clip has been
playing this week as a 30-second commercial on NY1, the New York City cable news
channel.

The Charter School Center is the latest group to take to the airwaves to praise
the governor: last year, a coalition of business leaders called the Committee to
Save New York spent nearly $12 million supporting his agenda, mostly through
television and radio advertising.

The charter center's ad buy is quite small, and its spot was only scheduled to
be shown for a few days. But Mr. Cuomo, who has been able to spend relatively
little from his campaign treasury thanks to ads running on his behalf from
outside groups, is apparently grateful. Last week, he provided the ultimate
virtual show of support: he posted a link to the video on his Twitter account.

David Golovner, the charter center's vice president of policy and advocacy, said
the video showed that "students got the governor's message," and that the group
wanted to turn it into a full-fledged television commercial in order to draw
more attention to the issues at hand and the students' support for them.

In their video about Mr. Cuomo, several students list the various
constituencies, from superintendents to bus drivers, who have lobbyists in
Albany. The spot concludes with a voiceover saying that Mr. Cuomo had pledged to
take on a second job as a lobbyist for students, and a smiling young woman who
says, "My governor, my lobbyist."

Filming a video was a natural step for the students: the charter school, which
includes grades 9 through 12 and opened in the fall of 2010, is keen on what its
principal, Nicholas Tishuk, described as project-based learning, and students
previously put together a video after a state senator, Jeffrey D. Klein of the
Bronx, met with students last month to discuss cyber-bullying.

"As a principal and as someone who follows education policy, I was really
inspired by the governor's speech, personally," Mr. Tishuk said. "When I shared
it with the kids, they were like, 'This is great'."


     ·    Cuomo Stays Quiet on Christie's Plan to Put Gay Marriage on Ballot
     ·    Christie Takes Mild Swipe at Cuomo on Tax Plan
     ·    Improving the City With Vigilance for All
     ·    Video of Cuomo's State of the State Address
     ·    Gearing Up for Cuomo's State of the State Address


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 29, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Paperback Mass-Market Fiction: Sunday, January 29th 2012

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 911 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the January 29, 2012
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending January
14, 2012. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Paperback
           Mass-Market Fiction
This    On
Week  List
1       81 THE GIRL WITH THE DRAGON TATTOO,  by Stieg Larsson. (Vintage
           Crime/Black Lizard, $7.99.) A hacker and a journalist
           investigate the disappearance of a Swedish heiress; the first
           volume in the Millennium trilogy.
2       69 THE GIRL WHO PLAYED WITH FIRE,  by Stieg Larsson. (Vintage
           Crime/Black Lizard, $7.99.) In the second volume of the
           Millennium trilogy, the Swedish hacker Lisbeth Salander becomes
           a murder suspect.
3        2 SKELETON COAST,  by Clive Cussler with Jack Du Brul. (Berkley,
           $9.99.) Juan Cabrillo and the crew of the Oregon rescue a woman
           who?s looking for a long-submerged ship that may hold a fortune
           in diamonds.
4        3 THE JEFFERSON KEY,  by Steve Berry. (Ballantine, $9.99.) The
           ex-government operative Cotton Malone foils an assassination
           attempt on the president and finds himself at odds with a
           secret society.
5        3 HIDDEN SUMMIT,  by Robyn Carr. (Mira, $7.99.) Sick of her
           ex-husband and his new wife, Leslie Petruso accepts a job in
           Virgin River, where she meets someone else who thinks he?s done
           with love.
6*       3 YOU ... AGAIN,  by Debbie Macomber. (Mira, $7.99.) A reissue of
           two novels, ?Baby Blessed" and ?Yesterday Once More.?
7        3 SPIRIT BOUND,  by Christine Feehan. (Jove, $7.99.) In the town
           of Sea Haven, an undercover agent insinuates himself into the
           life of an elusive woman with ties to the crime lord he?s
           determined to trap.
8        2 MR. AND MISS ANONYMOUS,  by Fern Michaels. (Zebra/Kensington,
           $7.99.) Reunited 20 years after meeting at a fertility clinic,
           Lily Madison and Peter Kelly learn that the disappearance of
           two teenagers may be linked to the clinic, and to them.
9        3 MOONLIGHT IN THE MORNING,  by Jude Deveraux. (Pocket Star,
           $7.99.) A woman leaves the ruthless New York art world behind
           to spend the summer in Edilean, Va., where she?s enthralled by
           the tight-knit artistic community and a charming doctor.
10      42 A GAME OF THRONES,  by George R. R. Martin. (Bantam, $8.99.) In
           the frozen wastes to the north of Winterfell, sinister and
           supernatural forces are mustering; Book 1 of "A Song of Ice and
           Fire."
11*      9 SMOKIN? SEVENTEEN,  by Janet Evanovich. (Bantam, $8.99.) No one
           is sure why dead bodies are turning up in shallow graves on an
           empty construction lot, but it soon becomes clear that the
           bounty hunter Stephanie Plum is on the killer?s list.
12       3 MINDING FRANKIE,  by Maeve Binchy. (Anchor, $7.99.) With the
           help of a devoted network of friends and family, a Dubliner
           reluctantly agrees to take care of a baby daughter he can?t
           recall siring.
13*      2 ON LAVENDER LANE,  by JoAnn Ross. (Signet, $7.99.) Settling
           into civilian life in Shelter Bay, a former Navy Seals member
           tries to win back the woman whose heart he broke years ago.
14       7 TOYS,  by James Patterson and Neil McMahon. (Vision, $9.99.) An
           operative for a secret government agency suddenly finds himself
           a hunted fugitive who must fight to save humans from
           extinction.
15*      1 THE SENTRY,  by Robert Crais. (Berkley, $9.99.) After
           intervening to help a pair of Katrina refugees who run a Los
           Angeles eatery, the former cop Joe Pike discovers they aren?t
           as innocent as they seem.
16      34 A CLASH OF KINGS,  by George R. R. Martin. (Bantam, $8.99.)
           From the citadel of Dragonstone to the shores of Winterfell,
           factions vie for control of a divided land; Book 2 of "A Song
           of Ice and Fire."
17       3 TRADER OF SECRETS,  by Steve Martini. (Harper/HarperCollins,
           $9.99.) The lawyer Paul Madriani is on the trail of criminals
           who are trying to steal state-of-the-art weapons technology.
18*      1 THE OUTLAWS,  by W. E. B. Griffin and William E. Butterworth
           IV. (Jove, $9.99.) His top-secret government unit disbanded,
           Charley Castillo investigates a deadly biohazard material he
           thought had been destroyed.
19       3 FATAL ERROR,  by J.A. Jance. (Pocket Star, $7.99.) After the
           murder of a cyber-sociopath, the former TV news anchor Ali
           Reynolds is drawn into a web of online intrigue.
20      26 A FEAST FOR CROWS,  by George R. R. Martin. (Bantam, $8.99.)
           With the death of the monstrous King Joffrey, the seven powers
           dividing the land have reached an uneasy truce; Book 4 of "A
           Song of Ice and Fire."

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

21. ONE FOR THE MONEY,  by Janet Evanovich. (St. Martin?s)

22. A STORM OF SWORDS,  by George R. R. Martin. (Bantam)

23. WE'LL MEET AGAIN,  by Mary Higgins Clark. (Simon & Schuster)

24. DAMAGE,  by John Lescroart. (Signet)

25. WAKING UP IN CHARLESTON,  by Sherryl Woods. (Mira)

26. TOM CLANCY'S ACT OF VALOR,  by Dick Couch and George Galdorisi. (Berkley)

27. THE LAND OF PAINTED CAVES,  by Jean M. Auel. (Bantam)

28. MCKETTRICK'S LUCK,  by Linda Lael Miller. (HQN)

29. THE LUCKY ONE,  by Nicholas Sparks. (Grand Central)

30. PREDATOR,  by Patricia Cornwell. (Berkley)

31. INNOCENT,  by Scott Turow. (Grand Central)

32. PREACHERS FURY,  by William W. Johnstone with J.A. Johnstone. (Pinnacle)

33. WHISPERS IN THE DARK,  by Maya Banks. (Berkley Sensation)

34. CROSS FIRE,  by James Patterson. (Vision)

35. IN TOO DEEP,  by Jayne Ann Krentz. (Jove)


URL:

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                            January 31, 2012 Tuesday

Iranian Authorities Arrest Four Over Facebook Beauty Contest

BYLINE: J. DAVID GOODMAN

LENGTH: 410 words



HIGHLIGHT: Iran's state Cyber Police said it had arrested two men and two women
responsible for maintaining a Facebook page that encouraged people to send
photos for a virtual beauty contest.


To the question "Am I hot or not?" the Iranian authorities gave a resounding
answer to thousands of young people who posted glamorous shots of themselves to
Facebook in recent weeks: Don't even ask.

Iran's state Cyber Police on Monday said that it had arrested two men and two
women, for "promoting vulgarity and corruption." The four had maintained a
Facebook page that acted as a kind of HotOrNot.com for the social media age,
Golnaz Esfandiari reported on Radio Free Europe's Persian Letters blog.

The move comes amid a crackdown against behavior that Iran's authorities believe
violates or threatens the country's cultural values. This month, new rules were
announced requiring users of Internet cafes to register with personal
information before using computers, and the police shut down dozens of shops
selling Barbie dolls, which are seen as promoting Western culture. Iran is also
reportedly preparing a censored national Internet to replace the global Web.

And this month, Iran's Supreme Court upheld a death sentence for a blogger and
programmer, Saeed Malekpour, who was convicted of promoting pornographic sites
after his video taped confession in 2008.

The Facebook beauty contest page attracted more than 27,000 followers, many of
whom posted brushed studio portraits with come-hither stares. Some posed on
motorcycles, horseback or, in the case of one mop-topped young man, on top of
bales of hay.

The police said the site's four arrested administrators had confessed their
crimes. The most recent posting to the page on Tuesday was said to be from the
police and read:

In the name of God, we inform you that the page "Daaf and Paaf" is now under
police control. The four main managers of this group have been identified and
arrested on the charge of inciting and encouraging individuals to access vulgar
content through the Internet.

That post garnered more than 800 responses, many of which condemned the punitive
action, according to Ms. Esfandiari.

Though the authorities claimed to have control over the page, posting an image
of a Cyber Police seal and a Do Not Enter sign, users could still access the
page on Tuesday morning. It was unclear whether the page would be taken down.


     ·    Report Claims Syrian Rebels Moved Iranian Hostages to Lebanon
     ·    Indian Authors Protest Threats to Rushdie by Reading From His 'Satanic
          Verses'
     ·    Iran Offers U.S. Tiny Replica of Lost Drone
     ·    Video From Iran Shows Bombing Aftermath
     ·    Iran Calls Video Games Part of C.I.A. Plot


LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           February 2, 2012 Thursday

New Chief Takes on a Sony That Is a Shadow of Its Former Self

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 94 words



HIGHLIGHT: Sony warned it expected to post a fourth consecutive annual loss, of
$2.9 billion, as sluggish sales and natural disasters weighed on its bottom
line.A new chief executive must get the company back on track.


The Sony of today, of which Kazuo Hirai is to take the helm, is a shadow of its
former self, mirroring a decline in the wider Japanese consumer electronics
industry, reports Hiroko Tabuchi of The New York Times. "I hold a very severe
sense of crisis," Mr. Hirai said at a news conference Thursday. Read more »


     ·    Sony Selects Its Video Games Chief as New Leader
     ·    The BlackBerry, Trying to Avoid the Hall of Fallen Giants
     ·    Insurance Against Cyber Attacks Expected to Boom
     ·    Sony Keeps Its Wager on Game Consoles With Vita
     ·    Release Date in U.S. Set for New Sony Mobile Game Console


LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 5, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Death of the Cyberflaneur

BYLINE: By EVGENY MOROZOV.

The author of ''The Net Delusion: The Dark Side of Internet Freedom.''

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1999 words


Palo Alto, Calif.

THE other day, while I was rummaging through a stack of oldish articles on the
future of the Internet, an obscure little essay from 1998 -- published, of all
places, on a Web site called Ceramics Today -- caught my eye. Celebrating the
rise of the ''cyberflaneur,'' it painted a bright digital future, brimming with
playfulness, intrigue and serendipity, that awaited this mysterious online type.
This vision of tomorrow seemed all but inevitable at a time when ''what the city
and the street were to the Flaneur, the Internet and the Superhighway have
become to the Cyberflaneur.''

Intrigued, I set out to discover what happened to the cyberflaneur. While I
quickly found other contemporaneous commentators who believed that flanerie
would flourish online, the sad state of today's Internet suggests that they
couldn't have been more wrong. Cyberflaneurs are few and far between, while the
very practice of cyberflanerie seems at odds with the world of social media.
What went wrong? And should we worry?

Engaging the history of flanerie may be a good way to start answering these
questions. Thanks to the French poet Charles Baudelaire and the German critic
Walter Benjamin, both of whom viewed the flaneur as an emblem of modernity, his
figure (and it was predominantly a ''he'') is now firmly associated with
19th-century Paris. The flaneur would leisurely stroll through its streets and
especially its arcades -- those stylish, lively and bustling rows of shops
covered by glass roofs -- to cultivate what Honore de Balzac called ''the
gastronomy of the eye.''

While not deliberately concealing his identity, the flaneur preferred to stroll
incognito. ''The art that the flaneur masters is that of seeing without being
caught looking,'' the Polish sociologist Zygmunt Bauman once remarked. The
flaneur was not asocial -- he needed the crowds to thrive -- but he did not
blend in, preferring to savor his solitude. And he had all the time in the
world: there were reports of flaneurs taking turtles for a walk.

The flaneur wandered in the shopping arcades, but he did not give in to the
temptations of consumerism; the arcade was primarily a pathway to a rich sensory
experience -- and only then a temple of consumption. His goal was to observe, to
bathe in the crowd, taking in its noises, its chaos, its heterogeneity, its
cosmopolitanism. Occasionally, he would narrate what he saw -- surveying both
his private self and the world at large -- in the form of short essays for daily
newspapers.

It's easy to see, then, why cyberflanerie seemed such an appealing notion in the
early days of the Web. The idea of exploring cyberspace as virgin territory, not
yet colonized by governments and corporations, was romantic; that romanticism
was even reflected in the names of early browsers (''Internet Explorer,''
''Netscape Navigator'').

Online communities like GeoCities and Tripod were the true digital arcades of
that period, trading in the most obscure and the most peculiar, without any sort
of hierarchy ranking them by popularity or commercial value. Back then eBay was
weirder than most flea markets; strolling through its virtual stands was far
more pleasurable than buying any of the items. For a brief moment in the
mid-1990s, it did seem that the Internet might trigger an unexpected renaissance
of flanerie.

However, anyone entertaining such dreams of the Internet as a refuge for the
bohemian, the hedonistic and the idiosyncratic probably didn't know the reasons
behind the disappearance of the original flaneur.

In the second half of the 19th century, Paris was experiencing rapid and
profound change. The architectural and city planning reforms advanced by Baron
Haussmann during the rule of Napoleon III were particularly consequential: the
demolition of small medieval streets, the numbering of buildings for
administrative purposes, the establishment of wide, open, transparent boulevards
(built partly to improve hygiene, partly to hamper revolutionary blockades), the
proliferation of gas street lighting and the growing appeal of spending time
outdoors radically transformed the city.

Technology and social change had an effect as well. The advent of street traffic
made contemplative strolling dangerous. The arcades were soon replaced by
larger, utilitarian department stores. Such rationalization of city life drove
flaneurs underground, forcing some of them into a sort of ''internal flanerie''
that reached its apogee in Marcel Proust's self-imposed exile in his cork-lined
room (situated, ironically, on Boulevard Haussmann).

Something similar has happened to the Internet. Transcending its original
playful identity, it's no longer a place for strolling -- it's a place for
getting things done. Hardly anyone ''surfs'' the Web anymore. The popularity of
the ''app paradigm,'' whereby dedicated mobile and tablet applications help us
accomplish what we want without ever opening the browser or visiting the rest of
the Internet, has made cyberflanerie less likely. That so much of today's online
activity revolves around shopping -- for virtual presents, for virtual pets, for
virtual presents for virtual pets -- hasn't helped either. Strolling through
Groupon isn't as much fun as strolling through an arcade, online or off.

THE tempo of today's Web is different as well. A decade ago, a concept like the
''real-time Web,'' in which our every tweet and status update is instantaneously
indexed, updated and responded to, was unthinkable. Today, it's Silicon Valley's
favorite buzzword.

That's no surprise: people like speed and efficiency. But the slowly loading
pages of old, accompanied by the funky buzz of the modem, had their own weird
poetics, opening new spaces for play and interpretation. Occasionally, this
slowness may have even alerted us to the fact that we were sitting in front of a
computer. Well, that turtle is no more.

Meanwhile, Google, in its quest to organize all of the world's information, is
making it unnecessary to visit individual Web sites in much the same way that
the Sears catalog made it unnecessary to visit physical stores several
generations earlier. Google's latest grand ambition is to answer our questions
-- about the weather, currency exchange rates, yesterday's game -- all by
itself, without having us visit any other sites at all. Just plug in a question
to the Google homepage, and your answer comes up at the top of the search
results.

Whether such shortcuts harm competition in the search industry (as Google's
competitors allege) is beside the point; anyone who imagines information-seeking
in such purely instrumental terms, viewing the Internet as little more than a
giant Q & A machine, is unlikely to construct digital spaces hospitable to
cyberflanerie.

But if today's Internet has a Baron Haussmann, it is Facebook. Everything that
makes cyberflanerie possible -- solitude and individuality, anonymity and
opacity, mystery and ambivalence, curiosity and risk-taking -- is under assault
by that company. And it's not just any company: with 845 million active users
worldwide, where Facebook goes, arguably, so goes the Internet.

It's easy to blame Facebook's business model (e.g., the loss of online anonymity
allows it to make more money from advertising), but the problem resides much
deeper. Facebook seems to believe that the quirky ingredients that make flanerie
possible need to go. ''We want everything to be social,'' Sheryl Sandberg,
Facebook's chief operating officer, said on ''Charlie Rose'' a few months ago.

What this means in practice was explained by her boss, Mark Zuckerberg, on that
same show. ''Do you want to go to the movies by yourself or do you want to go to
the movies with your friends?'' he asked, immediately answering his own
question: ''You want to go with your friends.''

The implications are clear: Facebook wants to build an Internet where watching
films, listening to music, reading books and even browsing is done not just
openly but socially and collaboratively. Through clever partnerships with
companies like Spotify and Netflix, Facebook will create powerful (but latent)
incentives that would make users eagerly embrace the tyranny of the ''social,''
to the point where pursuing any of those activities on their own would become
impossible.

Now, if Mr. Zuckerberg really believes what he said about cinema, there is a
long list of films I'd like to run by his friends. Why not take them to see
''Satantango,'' a seven-hour, black-and-white art-house flick by the Hungarian
auteur Bela Tarr? Well, because if you took an open poll of his friends, or any
large enough group of people, ''Satantango'' would almost always lose out to
something more mainstream, like ''War Horse.'' It might not be everyone's top
choice, but it won't offend, either -- that's the tyranny of the social for you.

Besides, isn't it obvious that consuming great art alone is qualitatively
different from consuming it socially? And why this fear of solitude in the first
place? It's hard to imagine packs of flaneurs roaming the streets of Paris as if
auditioning for another sequel to ''The Hangover.'' But for Mr. Zuckerberg, as
he acknowledged on ''Charlie Rose,'' ''it feels better to be more connected to
all these people. You have a richer life.''

IT'S this idea that the individual experience is somehow inferior to the
collective that underpins Facebook's recent embrace of ''frictionless sharing,''
the idea that, from now on, we have to worry only about things we don't want to
share; everything else will be shared automatically. To that end, Facebook is
encouraging its partners to build applications that automatically share
everything we do: articles we read, music we listen to, videos we watch. It goes
without saying that frictionless sharing also makes it easier for Facebook to
sell us to advertisers, and for advertisers to sell their wares back to us.

That might even be worth it if frictionless sharing enhanced our online
experience; after all, even the 19th-century flaneur eventually confronted
advertising posters and murals on his walks around town. Sadly, frictionless
sharing has the same drawback as ''effortless poetry'': its final products are
often intolerable. It's one thing to find an interesting article and choose to
share it with friends. It's quite another to inundate your friends with
everything that passes through your browser or your app, hoping that they will
pick something interesting along the way.

Worse, when this frictionless sharing scheme becomes fully operational, we will
probably read all our news on Facebook, without ever leaving its confines to
visit the rest of the Web; several news outlets, including The Guardian and The
Washington Post, already have Facebook applications that allow users to read
their articles without even visiting their Web sites.

As the popular technology blogger Robert Scoble explained in a recent post
defending frictionless sharing, ''The new world is you just open up Facebook and
everything you care about will be streaming down the screen.''

This is the very stance that is killing cyberflanerie: the whole point of the
flaneur's wanderings is that he does not know what he cares about. As the German
writer Franz Hessel, an occasional collaborator with Walter Benjamin, put it,
''in order to engage in flanerie, one must not have anything too definite in
mind.'' Compared with Facebook's highly deterministic universe, even Microsoft's
unimaginative slogan from the 1990s -- ''Where do you want to go today?'' --
sounds excitingly subversive. Who asks that silly question in the age of
Facebook?

According to Benjamin, the sad figure of the sandwich board man was the last
incarnation of the flaneur. In a way, we have all become such sandwich board
men, walking the cyber-streets of Facebook with invisible advertisements hanging
off our online selves. The only difference is that the digital nature of
information has allowed us to merrily consume songs, films and books even as we
advertise them, obliviously.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gustave Caillebotte's ''Paris Street
 Rainy Day,'' from 1877. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICH LESSING/ART RESOURCE, NY)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 5, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Parents Test Boundaries Of Neglect

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 889 words


Until last Sunday, when Dalisha Adams, 26, a security guard, was arrested after
being accused of depositing her two young daughters at an intersection in
Canarsie, Brooklyn, with a stack of diapers, the emblem of bad parenting had
been sticking most tenaciously to Xiao Xu Wu, a Manhattan mother accused of
leaving her child untended in a casino hotel in Connecticut.

Two weeks ago, Ms. Wu, a resident of the Wise Towers, a public-housing
development on West 90th Street, found herself charged with risking injury to a
minor after, the authorities said, she left her 5-year-old son by himself in her
room at the Mohegan Sun while she gambled. The police arrived after the boy,
awake from a nap, called 911 sounding calm and playful to report that he was
alone and watching television. According to Ms. Wu, who appeared in court with
an interpreter of Mandarin, the boy had been alone for an hour. As she said to
prosecutors, she didn't feel she had done anything particularly wrong.

Fingerprinting of Ms. Wu quickly revealed that she faced even greater troubles:
she was wanted not only by federal immigration officials, but also by the
authorities in North Carolina, where there was an outstanding warrant for her
arrest on charges that she had trafficked in counterfeit Louis Vuitton handbags.
The mere fact that she had conducted her East Coast Vegas field trip on a
Tuesday, when most 5-year-olds are in school, makes Ms. Wu an extreme
counterpoint to the stereotype of the Chinese mother pushing her kindergartner
toward John von Neumann-levels of numerical analysis.

But putting the rest of her history aside, we might ask whether the isolated act
of leaving a child capable of using a phone in a locked hotel room is in and of
itself ''reprehensible'' and ''horrific,'' as observers summoned by local news
outlets immediately and inevitably declared. (The Mohegan Sun, which perhaps
believes it is doing something valuable by providing gambling parents with
baby-sitting services for children as young as 6 weeks old, quickly issued a
statement condemning Ms. Wu and promoting its various options for child care,
which include areas called Kids Quest and Cyber Quest, both open until 2 a.m. on
Friday and Saturday nights.)

Posing the question at all -- is it O.K. to leave a young child alone? -- might
seem vaguely insane, but the law is surprisingly opaque on the issue. After
casinos opened in Connecticut, the state made it illegal to leave a child under
the age of 12 unsupervised in a public commercial place for a period presenting
a ''substantial risk'' to the child's well-being. Substantial risk goes
essentially undefined. In New York, New Jersey and Connecticut (and in nearly
every other state in the country), the law says nothing about the age at which a
child might appropriately be left at home alone.

In and around the city and amid the communitarian spirit that can sometimes take
hold in apartment buildings, especially those with young families, some parents
are comfortable leaving children by themselves. Baby monitors, some of which can
extend in range the equivalent of up to two city blocks or even more, have made
it possible for parents to dine with neighbors and spare the expense of child
care. As with so many parenting matters, this is a practice that some people
view as efficient and reasonable and others regard as complete lunacy.

Amie O'Toole, a mother who recently moved to California, told me that in the
small apartment building where she lived in Morningside Heights, a monitor
allowed her to go across the hall and socialize with her neighbor when her child
was sleeping. The neighbor, in turn, would occasionally go out to dinner with
her husband, leaving the apartment and depositing her monitor with Ms. O'Toole,
who listened out for the child.

The standard rationalization for this, one much in evidence on parenting message
boards, is that in New York City, going next door, from one 1,200-square-foot
apartment to another, say, is really no different from living in a house in
Larchmont, where you might put your baby to sleep on the third floor and eat
dinner on the patio.

Cara Birnbaum, a mother of two living in a skinny row house in Jersey City, has
made this analogy. When her oldest child was a year old and sleeping well, she
said, she and her husband went to a bar on the corner with their monitor,
knowing precisely at what table they were still within range. They've eaten at a
neighbor's. ''It has given us pause,'' she said. ''Even though we are right next
door, there is definitely a 'should-we-be-doing this feeling' on my part. It's a
little disconcerting to walk out the door with a bottle of wine and a baby
monitor.'' With a 4-month-old at home, the practice has been temporarily
suspended.

Of course, the risk in any of this, however perceptibly minor, is Something
Awful Happening -- in which case, the law, despite the absence of a statute,
would not necessarily extend its munificence. In New York State and elsewhere,
the courts have broad discretion in determining child neglect. It would be one
thing to tell a judge that you left a child alone to take your aunt to
chemotherapy, but potentially quite another to explain that you did so because
you needed a breather and some pinot blanc.

Blackjack takes things to another level altogether.

E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HOW FAR AWAY? Clockwise from above: Baby monitors have been
used by parents as a tool to slip away
an empty stroller outside a daycare center in Brooklyn
and Xiao Xu Wu, accused of leaving her 5-year-old alone in a casino hotel room.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JULIE GLASSBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 WFSB.COM) (MB7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 5, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Recess: Change the World

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 809 words


A BATTLE between a class of fourth graders and a major movie studio would seem
an unequal fight.

So it proved to be: the studio buckled. And therein lies a story of how new
Internet tools are allowing very ordinary people to defeat some of the most
powerful corporate and political interests around -- by threatening the titans
with the online equivalent of a tarring and feathering.

Take Ted Wells's fourth-grade class in Brookline, Mass. The kids read the Dr.
Seuss story ''The Lorax'' and admired its emphasis on protecting nature, so they
were delighted to hear that Universal Studios would be releasing a movie version
in March. But when the kids went to the movie's Web site, they were crushed that
the site seemed to ignore the environmental themes.

So last month they started a petition on Change.org, the go-to site for Web
uprisings. They demanded that Universal Studios ''let the Lorax speak for the
trees.'' The petition went viral, quickly gathering more than 57,000 signatures,
and the studio updated the movie site with the environmental message that the
kids had dictated.

''It was exactly what the kids asked for -- the kids were through the roof,''
Wells told me, recalling the celebratory party that the children held during
their snack break. ''These kids are really feeling the glow of making the world
a better place. They're feeling that power.''

The opportunities for Web naming-and-shaming through Change.org caught my eye
when I reported recently on sex traffickers who peddle teenage girls on
Backpage.com. I learned that a petition on Change.org had gathered 86,000
signatures calling for the company to stop accepting adult ads.

My next column was about journalists being brutalized in Ethiopian prisons. A
19-year-old college freshman in Idaho, Kelsey Crow, read the column and started
a petition to free those journalists -- and in no time gathered more than 4,000
signatures.

Does that matter? Does Ethiopia's prime minister, Meles Zenawi, care what a band
of cyber citizens thinks of him? Skepticism is warranted, but so far Change.org
petitions have seen some remarkable successes.

Ecuador, for example, used to run a network of ''clinics'' where lesbians were
sometimes abused in the guise of being made heterosexual. A petition denouncing
this practice gathered more than 100,000 signatures, leading Ecuador to close
the clinics, announce a national advertising campaign against homophobia, and
appoint a gay-rights activist as health minister.

The masterminds of the successful campaigns aren't usually powerful or
well-connected. Mostly, they just brim with audacity and are on a first-name
basis with social media.

Take Molly Katchpole. Last fall, as a 22-year-old nanny living in Washington,
D.C., she was peeved by a new $5-a-month fee for debit cards announced by Bank
of America, with other banks expected to follow. She took an hour to write a
petition, her first.

''After a month it had 306,000 signatures,'' Katchpole told me. ''That's when
the banks backed down.'' Bank of America and other financial institutions
withdrew plans for the fee.

Soon afterward, she started a second petition, protesting a $2 charge imposed by
Verizon for paying certain bills online. In 48 hours it had attracted more than
160,000 signatures -- and Verizon withdrew the fee.

Katchpole parlayed her successes into a job with a new advocacy group, Rebuild
the Dream, which seeks to improve the economic well-being of middle-class
families.

As for Change.org, it is growing explosively. Founded in 2007, it is a B
Corporation -- a hybrid of a for-profit company and a charity, seeking to make
profits for social good -- and began to soar a year ago. It is now growing by
one million members a month.

''We're growing more each month than the total we had in the first four years,''
said Ben Rattray, 31, the founder. He said that 10,000 petitions are started
each month on the site, and that each success leads to countless more copycat
campaigns.

Change.org has grown from 20 employees a year ago to 100 now, in offices on four
continents. By the end of this year, Rattray plans to have offices in 20
countries and to operate in several more languages, including Arabic and
Chinese. He recognizes that the site may be blocked in China, but shrugs.

''If ultimately we're not getting leaders to ban our site, we're not doing our
job,'' he said.

Meanwhile, what about those 14 kids in Wells's fourth-grade class? I asked them
what their next initiative on Change.org would be. They are still discussing
options, but one possibility is to reduce waste by calling on companies to stop
bombarding the public with telephone books and instead distribute them only to
people who request them.

It's absurd to think that 14 fourth graders could accomplish anything so
sensible. But then again, they've already shown that the Web can turn the world
upside down.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday

Dividing the 105th

BYLINE: AL BAKER

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 486 words



HIGHLIGHT: A city councilman is trying, once again, to split the police precinct
in two.


The Police Department's 105th Precinct runs along the city's border with Nassau
County, from the northern reaches of Queens to Kennedy International Airport, in
the south.

Fourteen years after City Councilman Mark S. Weprin, Democrat of Queens,
appealed to the Giuliani administration to split it in two, he is supporting
legislation in Albany to do the same.

"Sadly, the situation has not changed," Mr. Weprin said in a recent statement.

Back then, in 1998, Mr. Weprin was a state assemblyman and fighting to divide
the 105th Precinct into two sections over residents' concerns that its
boundaries were too vast to allow for effective police coverage - the precinct
stretches about 12 miles from end to end.

Today, as a city councilman, Mr. Weprin is still hoping the change can come
about through bills introduced by State Senator Tony Avella and Assemblyman
Edward C. Braunstein, both Democrats of Queens.

"This is a battle worth fighting," Mr. Weprin said.

Staying Safe Online

The Citizens Crime Commission of New York City has a new cybercrime feature on
its Web site to help New Yorkers protect their computer systems and pocketbooks
from hackers and identity thieves.

In addition to primers on subjects like phishing (in which criminals try to
steal personal information from someone online by posing as a well-known company
or institution), and pharming (rerouting users to phony Web sites), the
cybercrime page, a portal for information from the F.B.I., is chock full of
sobering statistics. For example: 35 complaints are received per hour by the
Internet Crime Complaint Center,  and United States businesses lost $4 billion
to online fraud in 2008, at the peak of illegal computer hacking activities.

Just before the new feature went up on the Crime Commission's Web site late last
month, its president, Richard Aborn, moderated a panel discussion on cyber crime
that was co-sponsored by the Crime Commission and the Institute for Public
Knowledge at New York University.

"Cybercrime is a product of the Internet age," Mr. Aborn said. "It transcends
geographic borders and legal jurisdictions, but unlike a dark alley late at
night, the threat is far less obvious. The Crime Commission is proud to partner
with the F.B.I. to make sure that individuals and businesses can protect
themselves against this costly and serious crime."

Helping the Family of a Fallen Officer

A benefit is being planned for the four daughters of Officer Peter J. Figoski,
who was shot dead while responding to a robbery in Brooklyn in December.
(Separately, the Peter Figoski Scholarship Fund, established to help support the
education of his daughters, ages 14 to 20, has raised more than $2 million).

The benefit will be held on Feb. 27 at the Lindenwood Diner and Restaurant at
2870 Linden Boulevard, in Brooklyn. Fliers around 1 Police Plaza, adorned with a
Patrolmen's Benevolent Association logo, say the event will begin around 9 p.m.


LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday

Dividing the 105th

BYLINE: AL BAKER

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 486 words



HIGHLIGHT: A city councilman is trying, once again, to split the police precinct
in two.


The Police Department's 105th Precinct runs along the city's border with Nassau
County, from the northern reaches of Queens to Kennedy International Airport, in
the south.

Fourteen years after City Councilman Mark S. Weprin, Democrat of Queens,
appealed to the Giuliani administration to split it in two, he is supporting
legislation in Albany to do the same.

"Sadly, the situation has not changed," Mr. Weprin said in a recent statement.

Back then, in 1998, Mr. Weprin was a state assemblyman and fighting to divide
the 105th Precinct into two sections over residents' concerns that its
boundaries were too vast to allow for effective police coverage - the precinct
stretches about 12 miles from end to end.

Today, as a city councilman, Mr. Weprin is still hoping the change can come
about through bills introduced by State Senator Tony Avella and Assemblyman
Edward C. Braunstein, both Democrats of Queens.

"This is a battle worth fighting," Mr. Weprin said.

Staying Safe Online

The Citizens Crime Commission of New York City has a new cybercrime feature on
its Web site to help New Yorkers protect their computer systems and pocketbooks
from hackers and identity thieves.

In addition to primers on subjects like phishing (in which criminals try to
steal personal information from someone online by posing as a well-known company
or institution), and pharming (rerouting users to phony Web sites), the
cybercrime page, a portal for information from the F.B.I., is chock full of
sobering statistics. For example: 35 complaints are received per hour by the
Internet Crime Complaint Center,  and United States businesses lost $4 billion
to online fraud in 2008, at the peak of illegal computer hacking activities.

Just before the new feature went up on the Crime Commission's Web site late last
month, its president, Richard Aborn, moderated a panel discussion on cyber crime
that was co-sponsored by the Crime Commission and the Institute for Public
Knowledge at New York University.

"Cybercrime is a product of the Internet age," Mr. Aborn said. "It transcends
geographic borders and legal jurisdictions, but unlike a dark alley late at
night, the threat is far less obvious. The Crime Commission is proud to partner
with the F.B.I. to make sure that individuals and businesses can protect
themselves against this costly and serious crime."

Helping the Family of a Fallen Officer

A benefit is being planned for the four daughters of Officer Peter J. Figoski,
who was shot dead while responding to a robbery in Brooklyn in December.
(Separately, the Peter Figoski Scholarship Fund, established to help support the
education of his daughters, ages 14 to 20, has raised more than $2 million).

The benefit will be held on Feb. 27 at the Lindenwood Diner and Restaurant at
2870 Linden Boulevard, in Brooklyn. Fliers around 1 Police Plaza, adorned with a
Patrolmen's Benevolent Association logo, say the event will begin around 9 p.m.


LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            February 10, 2012 Friday

Anonymous Says It Knocked C.I.A. Site Offline

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 334 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hackers claimed responsibility for knocking the Web site of the
Central Intelligence Agency offline, under the banner of the hacking collective
Anonymous. By late Friday afternoon, the site was still unavailable.


 Hackers claimed responsibility for knocking the Web site of the Central
Intelligence Agency offline on Friday, under the banner of the hacking
collective Anonymous. By late Friday afternoon, the site was still unavailable.

On Twitter, an account affiliated with Anonymous said it was responsible for the
attack, which appeared to be one that involved bombarding the site with traffic
until it ground to a halt, rather than an intrusion into the agency's computer
systems.

Anonymous has been conducting a broad campaign against federal agencies. The
group  intercepted a conference call between the Federal Bureau of Investigation
and Scotland Yard and released a 16-minute recording of the call last Friday.
Hours after that attack, the hackers took down the Web site and stole the e-mail
of the law firm that had represented Staff Sgt. Frank Wuterich, the soldier
accused of killing 24 unarmed civilians in Haditha, Iraq, in 2005.

"This is going to happen more and more frequently - they're unstoppable," said
Jerry Irvine, a member of the National Cyber Security Task Force. "Why can't
they be stopped? Because security technologies have not kept up with the extent
of the vulnerabilities that exist."

Hackers affiliated with Anonymous stepped up their hacking campaign in the last
month after federal authorities shut down Megaupload, a popular file-sharing
site charged with copyright infringement.

It was not clear whether Friday's attacks were tied to the Megaupload
prosecution or how coordinated Anonymous's attacks are. On Friday,  hackers also
took down the Web site of the Mexican National Chamber of Mines and claimed to
have stolen its e-mail. On the  bulletin board Pastebin, the hackers said the
attack was in retaliation for Mexican miners' "extreme" working conditions.


     ·    Symantec Says Hackers Tried Extortion
     ·    Hackers Release More Data From Stratfor
     ·    One on One: Cole Stryker, Author of 'Epic Win for Anonymous'
     ·    Android Is No. 1 Target of Mobile Hackers
     ·    Bits Pics: Anonymous Protests in San Francisco


LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 11, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hackers Interrupt Service at the C.I.A.'S. Web Site

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 310 words


Hackers claimed responsibility for knocking the Web site of the Central
Intelligence Agency offline on Friday, under the banner of the hacking
collective Anonymous. By late Friday afternoon, the site was still unavailable.

On Twitter, an account affiliated with Anonymous said it was responsible for the
attack, which appeared to be one that involved bombarding the site with traffic
until it ground to a halt, rather than an intrusion into the agency's computer
systems.

Anonymous has been conducting a broad campaign against federal agencies. The
group intercepted a conference call between the Federal Bureau of Investigation
and Scotland Yard and released a 16-minute recording of the call last Friday.
Hours after that attack, the hackers took down the Web site and stole the e-mail
of the law firm that had represented Staff Sgt. Frank Wuterich, the soldier
accused of killing 24 unarmed civilians in Haditha, Iraq, in 2005.

''This is going to happen more and more frequently - they're unstoppable,'' said
Jerry Irvine, a member of the National Cyber Security Task Force. ''Why can't
they be stopped? Because security technologies have not kept up with the extent
of the vulnerabilities that exist.''

Hackers affiliated with Anonymous stepped up their hacking campaign in the last
month after federal authorities shut down Megaupload, a popular file-sharing
site charged with copyright infringement.

It was not clear whether Friday's attacks were tied to the Megaupload
prosecution or how coordinated Anonymous's attacks are. On Friday, hackers also
took down the Web site of the Mexican National Chamber of Mines and claimed to
have stolen its e-mail. On the bulletin board Pastebin, the hackers said the
attack was in retaliation for Mexican miners' ''extreme'' working conditions.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                            February 12, 2012 Sunday

What the Grammys Mean for the Numero Group Label

BYLINE: BEN SISARIO

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 867 words



HIGHLIGHT: Ken Shipley and Rob Sevier of the Chicago record label the Numero
Group discuss their Grammy nominations.


LOS ANGELES - "Where's Neil Diamond?"

Ken Shipley has hunted down some of the rarest records in existence as one of
the founders of the Numero Group, a Chicago record label that specializes in
painstakingly researched reissues of music from the obscure margins of pop. But
on Friday evening he was zooming through Amoeba Records, the giant music store
in Hollywood, looking for the Neil Diamond section. "I want to see what we're up
against," he said.

Numero is nominated for two Grammy Awards this year for "Syl Johnson: Complete
Mythology," a monolith of a boxed set tracking the works of one of soul music's
semi-forgotten figures, who is best known for singing on Hi Records, Al Green's
label, in the 1970s, and for his 1967 song "Different Strokes," which has been
sampled by hip-hop acts dozens of times.

Mr. Shipley is nominated in the best album notes category (against Mr. Diamond,
for his collection "The Bang Years 1966-1968"), and the label is also nominated
in the best historical album category. In a wide-ranging chat in a back room at
Amoeba, Mr. Shipley and Rob Sevier, another of the Numero partners, spoke
candidly about what the Grammys mean (and don't mean) for a small label
nominated in one of the dozens of non-televised categories, and what's next for
Numero.

Q.

What would a Grammy win mean for you guys?

A.

Rob Sevier: In our niche, we don't know that there's an actual measurable sales
push that happens with the Grammys, and sales are what is most meaningful to a
small label. It's a new experiment for us.

Ken Shipley: The other side of that is that it does kind of legitimize our last
eight or nine years of work in a mainstream sense. It says that if you do good
work then it will be recognized by your peers.

Sevier: So, like, our moms?

Shipley: No, I mean in our community. If you were Grammy Award-winning producer
Rob Sevier releasing a new LP, it means something more than just, record slob
Rob Sevier.

Sevier: Sure. But at the same time I'm sure the transient hotels of the world
have a few Grammy winners living in them.

Q.

Your categories are in the pre-televised ceremony, so if you win only a few
thousand people at most would see you accept the award. Is there still any sense
that winning it can have any big mainstream impact?

A.

Shipley: If you win there are probably 1,000 to 1,500 people sitting there
watching you, and all of those people are somebody. This isn't some Tom, Dick
and Sally off the street winning a radio contest to come to the Grammys. These
are people that are part of your industry, and you're getting recognized by
these people, who are going to say, "I don't know who that is, but I'm going to
look into it."

When they say it's "music's biggest night," it's really the music business's
biggest night.

Sevier: We feel like outsiders here. Not in a bad way. But we live in Chicago,
and our lives are pretty different from a lot of the guys we encounter here. I
ride my bike eight miles to the office in the Chicago winter. These guys are
living pretty good lives in their little corners of the industry. I'm not saying
we're never going to get there...

Shipley: I am.

Q.

So why did you decide to submit the album for the award?

A.

Shipley: Six or seven years ago we submitted two albums, and of course we didn't
get nominated. It's not like our feelings got hurt, but it felt like a waste.

Sevier: We had to send, like, 15 copies of each album. And we were like, we're
not throwing away 15 copies of anything.

Shipley: It just solidified our outsider status. But then our work got better.
We went from being a dinky little label to doing what some people consider
important work. An acquaintance of ours, Henry Owings, a Grammy member who had
won for the Charley Patton box set, said: "You guys, more than anybody, should
submit for the Grammys, because you're doing something new and interesting. I'm
sick of having to vote for all this garbage." So we submitted "Light: On the
South Side."

[That set was nominated last year for best boxed set, but lost to the White
Stripes.]

Then when we did the Syl Johnson box, that to me felt like a superior work.  Rob
and I had been working on the research for close to four years, by the time it
was finished.

Q.

And did you say to yourself, "I want a Grammy for this"?

A.

Shipley: I'd be lying if I didn't feel that if this is our best work, we deserve
it.

Q.

What's next for Numero?

A.

Shipley: We are trying to take Numero and say, it's not a record label, it's a
system. Rob has an idea to take music and apply it to the system, whether it's
indigenous people from Malaysia, or funk and soul from Toronto, or yacht rock,
or garage from Mexico City. Or our next project, Codeine, a white indie-rock
band from New York in the '90s. It's how we make records that is going to become
more important to us over the next five years.

Syl in a lot of ways is a micro version of us being able to say, here's one
thing that we can do really well.

Sevier: It's us saying that this is the substance with the best possible style.


     ·    Cyber Furor Over Chris Brown's Appearance at Grammys
     ·    40 Million Tune In for Grammys
     ·    Adele Is 6 for 6 at the Grammy Awards
     ·    Cabaret Group Creates a Houston Tribute on the Fly
     ·    Sunday Morning Updates on Whitney Houston


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            February 13, 2012 Monday

Sony Offers a Perpetual Game With the Vita

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 104 words



HIGHLIGHT: The PlayStation Vita takes aim at people who would like to keep
playing a console game even when they leave the house.


With sales of tablet computers and mobile phones expected to increase steadily
over the next few years, the market for portable video game consoles is starting
to come under pressure, analysts say. Despite that, reports Tanzina Vega of The
New York Times, Sony is hoping to recapture some of its video game luster with
the PlayStation Vita, its newest hand-held game player. Read more »


     ·    What Xbox Wants to Be When It Grows Up
     ·    Quick Bits: From Laptops to Lapdogs
     ·    New Chief Takes on a Sony That Is a Shadow of Its Former Self
     ·    The BlackBerry, Trying to Avoid the Hall of Fallen Giants
     ·    Insurance Against Cyber Attacks Expected to Boom


LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           February 14, 2012 Tuesday

Hacking Group Attacks Weapons Maker

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 528 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hackers observing the one-year anniversary of the uprising in Bahrain
attacked Combined Systems, a company based in Jamestown, Pa., saying that the
attack was in retaliation for the company's sale of chemical weapons "to repress
our revolutionary movements."


 While many celebrated Valentine's Day on Tuesday, hackers celebrated a
different holiday: the one-year anniversary of the uprising in Bahrain,
sometimes called the February 14 Revolution. They attacked  Combined Systems, a
company based in Jamestown, Pa., saying that the attack was in retaliation for
sales by the company of chemical weapons "to repress our revolutionary
movements."

On Monday night, hackers who say they are members of the collective known as
Anonymous claimed responsibility on Twitter for taking down the Web site of
Combined Systems. They also claimed to have stolen employee names, e-mails,
addresses, passwords and client lists, and threatened the site's administrators
that if they helped Combined Systems rebuild its Web site, they would expose
those companies' client lists and e-mails as well.

The hackers claimed to have been inside the company's network for some time but
said they were forced to take down the site after Google alerted the company
that a hacker had broken into its Web hosts. The hackers posted some of the
stolen e-mails on the online bulletin board site Pastebin, including one e-mail,
dated Feb. 10, from a Combined Systems Web developer who wrote, "Looks like our
Web hosts got hacked."

"It's clear the hackers did their research," said Jerry Irvine, a member of the
National Cyber Security Task Force and chief information officer at Prescient
Solutions. "They had been grabbing information for a long time. I'm sure this
company spends millions of dollars a year on security, protecting their
manufacturing facilities so people can't come in and steal their product, but
they let people come in and steal their e-mails and intellectual property. They
need to spend as much protecting their I.T. parameters as they do their physical
parameters."

Combined Systems did not respond to requests for comment. The company, which
counts the Carlyle Group as an investor, describes itself as a "tactical weapons
company" and has been accused by journalists and human rights groups of selling
tear gas canisters and grenades to Arab governments.

Last year, Amnesty International said Combined Systems had shipped a total of 46
tons of ammunition, including "chemical irritants and riot control agents such
as tear gas" to Egyptian security forces.

The attack on Combined Systems is part of a much broader campaign Anonymous has
conducted recently against federal agencies and security groups. Last Friday,
the group knocked the C.I.A. Web site offline.  A week earlier,  the group
intercepted a conference call between the Federal Bureau of Investigation and
Scotland Yard and released a 16-minute recording of the call. Hours after that
attack, the hackers took down the Web site and stole the e-mail of the law firm
that had represented Staff Sgt. Frank Wuterich, the soldier accused of killing
24 unarmed civilians in Haditha, Iraq, in 2005.

As of Tuesday afternoon, the Combined Systems site was still down.


     ·    Anonymous Says It Knocked C.I.A. Site Offline
     ·    Symantec Says Hackers Tried Extortion
     ·    Hackers Release More Data From Stratfor
     ·    One on One: Cole Stryker, Author of 'Epic Win for Anonymous'
     ·    Android Is No. 1 Target of Mobile Hackers


LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           February 14, 2012 Tuesday

How Much Have Foreign Hackers Stolen?

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 721 words



HIGHLIGHT: Security experts warn that digital espionage by entities in China and
Russia is a real and growing threat. It is difficult to quantify the scope of
the problem as companies are hesitant to discuss breaches, or are unaware they
were breached. But most experts agree that the problem is only getting worse as
foreign hackers improve their capabilities and Americans transition to a mobile
workplace.


Hackers in China and Russia, security experts say, are habitually breaking into
foreign travelers' mobile devices, leapfrogging into their corporate networks
and stealing sensitive government information and corporate trade secrets, often
undetected. I explored this issue in an article in Saturday's New York Times.

But how much have they stolen? Nobody really knows. Most companies I spoke with
were reluctant to discuss security breaches or even disclose what policies, if
any, they had put in place to protect their trade secrets. In most cases,
security experts say, companies do not realize they have been compromised until
long after the fact. Yet nearly everyone I spoke with agreed that as hackers
improve their capabilities, and as Americans migrate to a mobile workplace, the
problem has only grown worse.

In testimony before the House Committee on Financial Services last September,
A.T. Smith, the assistant director of the United States Secret Service,
estimated that in 2010, cyberthieves abroad stole 867 terabytes of data from the
United States, or "nearly four times the amount of data collected in the
archives of the Library of Congress."

That much is now "taken on a daily basis," said Mike McConnell, the former
director of national intelligence and now vice chairman at Booz Allen Hamilton
in a recent interview. "The volume is staggering."

Mr. McConnell said that in evaluating computer systems "of consequence"- at
government agencies, Congress and in the private sector - he had yet to
encounter one computer that had not been compromised by an advanced persistent
threat.

Joel Brenner, formerly the nation's top counterintelligence official at the
office of the director of national intelligence, said the problem was "huge, but
it hasn't been persuasively quantified yet." He added, "Trade secrets can be
measured in so many different ways and most companies don't know they've been
targeted."

Mr. Brenner was the first to alert American companies to the threat of digital
espionage by foreign hackers in the lead-up to the Beijing Olympics. In a 2008
travel advisory, his office cautioned travelers that foreign security services
and criminals could track their every move using their mobile devices, and
remotely activate their microphones, even if their phones were switched off. If
a customs official asked to examine a device, or if a hotel room was searched,
the advisory warned, "You should assume the device's hard drive has been
copied."

Four years later, security officials say the pace of China's corporate espionage
campaign has accelerated. "Within the last four years, cyber-espionage has
gotten exponentially worse as their capabilities have gotten exponentially
better," said Representative Mike Rogers, the Michigan Republican who is
chairman of the House intelligence committee. "The biggest threat, when it comes
to cyber-espionage today, is the sheer volume with which China seeks to steal
our intellectual property for its own prosperity."

Mr. Rogers said that at a closed forum at Stanford University last month, which
included executives from Cisco, Google, Intel and Oracle, each company
acknowledged that it had been hacked and each said they believed China was the
culprit.

Enabling matters, security experts say, are American workers themselves. It is
far easier to steal trade secrets when Americans carry them around on their
personal devices. According to a report by International Data Corporation, half
of all mobile devices used in the workplace last year were employee-owned.
Workers were connecting these devices to their corporate networks and using them
to transmit confidential information, often without so much as a four-digit
password.

"We never let go of these things," said Tom Kellermann, chief technology officer
at AirPatrol, a wireless security company. "We work with them; we even sleep
next to them. That's the dark side of Web 3.0. Once someone hacks your device,
they don't just hack the back end, they hack your network. They can turn your
camera and microphone on. They can hack your whole life."


     ·    Lax Security Exposes Voice Mail to Hacking, Study Says
     ·    The Therapist May See You Anytime, Anywhere
     ·    Daily Report: Facebook's Mobility Challenge
     ·    Google's 'Bouncer' Service Aims to Toughen Android Security
     ·    RIM Offers Programmers Free BlackBerry Tablets for Their Apps


LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           February 14, 2012 Tuesday

Senators Introduce Security Bill and Warn of Hacker Threat

BYLINE: SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 365 words



HIGHLIGHT: Lawmakers pushing for swift passage of an online security law to
protect power grids and other essential services from hackers invoke the 9/11
terror attacks. The bill also calls on private companies to share information
about threats and breaches.


 Want swift action on a complicated, contentious piece of legislation aimed at
guarding against hackers? Invoke Sept. 11.

That's the lesson to be learned from the rhetoric around the long-awaited online
security legislation introduced in the Senate on Tuesday.

"I fear that when it comes to protecting America from cyberattack it is Sept.
10, 2001, and the question is whether we will confront this existential threat
before it happens," Senator Joseph Lieberman, an independent from Connecticut
and a co-sponsor of the bill, told his colleagues, according to a prepared text
sent by his office.

Never mind that it's Valentine's Day. There was more dread than love on the
Senate floor.

Senator Lieberman's colleague, Senator Jay Rockefeller, Democrat of West
Virginia, echoed the warning. "We are on the brink of what could be a calamity,"
he said. "A widespread cyberattack could potentially be as devastating to this
country as the terror attacks that tore apart this country 10 years ago."

Senate bill 2105 would authorize the federal government to regulate the security
of privately owned critical infrastructure, including power grids,
telecommunications networks and nuclear power plants. Much of that
infrastructure is controlled by Internet-connected systems and susceptible to
being hacked. Under the bill, the Department of Homeland Security would
establish computer security regulations for critical infrastructure companies
and levy penalties on those companies that fell afoul of the law.

The bill also calls on private companies to share information about threats and
breaches with each other and the government, a provision that Senator Dianne
Feinstein of California had pressed for.

She too invoked you know what. "Alongside terrorism, cybersecurity is perhaps
the No. 1 threat facing our nation today, but many obstacles exist that prevent
the cooperation and coordination needed to deter this growing threat," she said
in a statement.

A hearing on the bill is scheduled for Thursday.


     ·    Insurance Against Cyber Attacks Expected to Boom
     ·    Hacked Chamber of Commerce Opposed Cybersecurity Law
     ·    Tech Talk Podcast: Google's Social Network
     ·    Facebook Joins With McAfee to Clean Spam From Site


LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday

Cyber Furor Over Chris Brown's Appearance at Grammys

BYLINE: JAMES C. MCKINLEY JR.

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 653 words



HIGHLIGHT: Some say that Chris Brown, who pleaded guilty to assaulting Rihanna
three years ago, should not have been invited to the show.


Chris Brown's performances at the Grammy Awards on Sunday night, three years
after he assaulted his former girlfriend Rihanna, is being debated online.

It started on Sunday night when several musicians and music critics assailed the
show's organizers for allowing Mr. Brown to perform. Miranda Lambert, the
country star, posted on Twitter during the show, saying "He beat on a girl...not
cool that we act like that didn't happen."  (She also suggested that Mr. Brown
listen to her song "Gunpowder & Lead," about the need to avenge domestic
violence, and she said that he should be "be put back in his place.")

Not cool that we act like that didn't happen. He needs to listen to Gunpowder
and lead and be put back in his place. Not at the Grammys.

- Miranda Lambert (@Miranda_Lambert)13 Feb 12

Others echoed her sentiment. The New Yorker music critic Sasha Frere-Jones
called Mr. Brown's appearance "one of the Grammys' weirdest choices ever." And
Jeffrey Goldberg of The Atlantic tweeted:

Chris Brown? I don't look to the Grammys for moral clarity, but, really? Do the
words 'felony assault' mean anything at all?

- Jeffrey Goldberg (@Goldberg3000)13 Feb 12

Then Mr. Brown shot back on Tuesday night in a series of comments on Twitter
that have since been deleted.  According to New Music Express and MTV.com, Mr.
Brown wrote: "Strange how we pick and choose who to hate! Let me ask u this. Our
society is full of rappers (which I listen to) who have sold drugs (poisoning).
But yet we glorify them and imitate everything they do. Then right before the
worlds eyes a man shows how he can make a Big mistake and learn from it, but
still has to deal with day to day hatred! You guys love to hate!!! But guess
what??? HATE ALL U WANT BECUZ I GOT A GRAMMY Now!"  He ended the rant with an
expletive.


 Those comments drew fire from several music bloggers. Laura Snapes of the New
Music Express said Mr. Brown "may have owned up to making a mistake, but remarks
like these hardly demonstrate that he has 'learned from it' and added "what's
equally as pernicious as Brown's lack of remorse is the way that the culture
industry at large has decided to gloss over what he did."  Marlow Stern at the
Daily Beast made a similar point.

By Wednesday morning someone had started an RIP Chris Brown movement on Twitter,
which became one of the social media sites trending topics.  Mr. Brown's fans
were infuriated.

Mr. Brown, who is still on probation for the assault conviction, played an
unusually prominent role in Sunday's awards ceremony, winning for best R&B album
for "F.A.M.E.,"performing a big song-and-dance number early in the show and
taking part in an electronic dance music segment.

Just before the 2009 Grammys, Mr. Brown assaulted Rihanna in a car outside a
party. The police said he punched her, put her in a headlock and nearly choked
her. He later pleaded guilty to a count of felony assault and was sentenced to
five years' probation. The conviction nearly derailed his career, as sales of
his albums plummeted, but he made a comeback with  "F.A.M.E." last year.

On Monday morning Neil Portnow, president of the Recording Academy, which gives
out the Grammys, defended the decision to have Mr. Brown perform on the grounds
that he had made a good album. "Clearly, our voting membership rated highly
Chris's musical work this past year," Mr. Portnow told The Associated Press. He
added, "If we're going to get into trying to personally evaluate artists in
terms of their personal lives, that's a slippery slope that we wouldn't want to
get into."  The same day on "CBS This Morning," Ken Ehrlich, the longtime
producer of the awards show, said, "I just believe people deserve a second
chance."


     ·    Prosecutor Asks for More Evidence in Chris Brown Case
     ·    Rihanna Postpones Malaysia Concert
     ·    Chris Brown Charged With Making Criminal Threats
     ·    The Grammys: Does Anyone Stand a Chance Against Adele?
     ·    Chris Brown to Perform at the Grammys


LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            February 17, 2012 Friday

Preparing for DDoS Attacks or Just Groundhog Day

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 693 words



HIGHLIGHT: A number of companies help Web sites fight basic cyber attacks and
unexpected traffic, but most are prohibitively expensive. CloudFlare, a
two-year-old San Francisco start-up, helps defend Web sites from cyber attacks
on the cheap. Two years in, it counts Groundhog.org, Metallica and Stratfor as
customers.


 A "distributed denial of service" attack - or what security gurus call a DDoS
attack - is a little like what happens to Groundhog.org on Groundhog Day.

For 364 days out of the year, nobody cares about groundhog fun facts. And then
on Groundhog DayBOOM! Third-graders, Bill Murray fans and TV weather newscasters
flock to the site to see what the sleepy, plague-resistant, 15-pound creature's
shadow might mean for the winter's forecast.

For years, Groundhog.org would inevitably crash on the only day every year that
Americans care most about their groundhogs.

The same is true for a Web site undergoing a DDoS attack. For most days of the
year, a site can accommodate a predictable flow of traffic. But flood it with
unexpected traffic for a day and you'll knock it offline. In the last month,
DDoS attacks have crashed the Web sites of the Central Intelligence Agency,
Citigroup, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the White House. The
Shadowserver Foundation, which tracks botnets, witnessed more than 300 DDoS
attacks across the Web last Tuesday alone.

A number of companies help Web sites fight against DDoS attacks and unexpected
traffic, including Akamai, Limelight and Level 3 Communications. But their
services can be prohibitively expensive. Akamai, which serves NBC, Reuters, BBC
and other large news sites, starts its listing price at $15,000 a month, and
charges more for sites with large amounts of traffic.

It would not make sense for sites like Groundhog.org or Stratfor, the
intelligence group hit by hackers over the holidays, to fork over tens of
thousands of dollars a month on the infrastructure to sustain one day of traffic
a year, or an unexpected cyber attack.

CloudFlare, a San Francisco start-up, offers a similar service on the cheap. It
distributes a site's traffic across its many data centers and can quickly
recognize and filter out a DDoS attack before it hits a company's network. It
offers basic services for free and charges more for premium services like
additional security or site management. Most customers pay $20 a month, though
its largest enterprise customers pay as much as $2,000 a month.

Matthew Prince, CloudFlare's chief executive, said his company was able to cut
costs because of the plummeting cost of bandwidth - the amount of data that can
be accommodated in a given amount of time - and because it used "extremely
efficient" microprocessors.

CloudFlare says it costs the company $7.68 to serve a million page views, which
includes bandwidth and hardware costs. By comparison, Mr. Prince estimates that
Facebook - which is considered particularly data savvy given the amount of
traffic it handles - spends 10 times that much. Mr. Prince claims that based on
his analysis of Facebook's monthly active users and costs from its S-1 filing,
and a DoubleClick estimate of Facebook page views, Facebook spends $79 per one
million clicks.

CloudFlare was started in September 2010. Less than two years later, it can
count Groundhog.org, Metallica and Stratfor as customers. (Stratfor enlisted the
service after its recent cyberattack). Two months ago, the Committee to Protect
Journalists asked CloudFlare to protect MakaAngola.org, a site that reports on
government corruption in Angola, from repeated efforts to knock the site offline
with DDoS attacks.

Mr. Prince said some of CloudFlare's first customers surprised him. Turkish
escort services were among the first to sign up. He learned their sites were
frequent targets for DDoS attacks from Turkey's religiously minded hackers.

Mr. Prince said CloudFlare's network experiences "more traffic than Amazon,
Wikipedia, Zynga, Twitter, Bing and AOL combined" and claimed the service was
signing up 1,500 new customers a day -- which is all the more astonishing when
you consider that CloudFlare has yet to hire one salesperson or spend one dollar
on marketing.

Apparently, hackers are doing their marketing for them.


     ·    Even Big Companies Cannot Protect Their Data
     ·    Malware Hits Computerized Industrial Equipment
     ·    What We're Reading: Vanishing Text Messages and Online News Habits
     ·    McAfee Says Microsoft Flaw Was a Factor in Cyberattacks
     ·    Twitter Restores Service After Attack


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 22, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mayor Defends Monitoring Of Muslim Students on Web

BYLINE: By AL BAKER and KATE TAYLOR; William K. Rashbaum contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 933 words


Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg on Tuesday defended the New York Police Department's
monitoring of the Web sites of Muslim student groups at more than a dozen
universities across the Northeast, framing the effort as one way to guard
against the threat of terrorism.

''The Police Department goes where there are allegations, and they look to see
whether those allegations are true,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at an appearance at the
Brooklyn Public Library. ''That's what you would expect them to do. That's what
you would want them to.''

The mayor's support of the department's intelligence-gathering came as officials
at several universities expressed deep concern over what they called a manner of
police activity that they had been in the dark about for years.

Yale University's president, Richard C. Levin, said in an e-mail on Sunday to
students and faculty and staff members, ''I am writing to state, in the
strongest possible terms, that police surveillance based on religion,
nationality or peacefully expressed political opinion is antithetical to the
values of Yale, the academic community and the United States.''

Dr. Levin added: ''The Yale Muslim Students Association has been an important
source of support for Yale students during a period when Muslims and Islam
itself have too often been the target of thoughtless stereotyping, misplaced
fear and bigotry.''

According to an internal Police Department report from Nov. 22, 2006, an officer
from the Cyber Intelligence Unit had the ''daily routine'' of monitoring the Web
sites, blogs and forums of Muslim student groups at 16 universities, including
several in New York City and across the state, as well as Ivy League colleges.
The report was first disclosed in an article by The Associated Press on Saturday
that described various police efforts to monitor Muslim students.

The report, labeled ''Weekly MSA Report,'' catalogs six events in 2006 at three
universities and includes the names of lecturers and, in one case, of a
University at Buffalo student who posted a message about one event. It
highlights, for instance, that Muslim students at Buffalo that week publicized
an event featuring Muslim scholars from abroad. It details how Muslim students
at New York University offered religious instruction for new converts, and it
says that at Rutgers a prayer day was announced online.

Thirteen other Muslim student associations -- including the one at Yale and
another at the University of Pennsylvania -- did not post any plans online that
caught the attention of the Police Department during that week in 2006. But the
report is notable for what it does not say: It remains unclear if anyone from
the department attended the events or if the information led to further
inquiries by the police. The report, stamped ''N.Y.P.D. Secret,'' indicates it
was specifically prepared for Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly.

Paul J. Browne, the Police Department's chief spokesman, has pointed out that
the information in the report came from ''open sources'' on the Internet. On
Tuesday, the mayor echoed that notion in responding to criticism from Yale.

''If going on Web sites and looking for information is not what Yale stands
for,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, ''I don't know.''

The mayor also repeated assertions by the police that several convicted
terrorists had been involved in Muslim student associations.

''Of course, we're going to look at anything that's publicly available, in the
public domain,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''We have an obligation to do so, and it is
to protect the very things that let Yale survive.''

Mr. Browne said the Police Department ''assembled reports,'' in 2006 and 2007,
on Muslim student associations' activity from whatever information it could
glean in the public domain.

''Some of the most dangerous Western Al Qaeda-linked/inspired terrorists since
9/11 were radicalized and/or recruited at universities in MSAs,'' Mr. Browne
said via e-mail. ''We were focused on radicalization and/or recruitment,
specifically by groups like Al Muhajiroun, Islamic Thinkers Society, Revolution
Muslim and others.''

But Mr. Browne and a spokesman for the mayor did not answer repeated questions
about whether such efforts were continuing. The A.P., in its article Saturday,
reported that in April 2008 an undercover officer accompanied Muslim students
from the City College of New York on a white-water rafting trip in upstate New
York and listed the attendees' names in a report. Mr. Bloomberg said he had ''no
idea'' about such a trip.

A spokesman for the City College of New York said that he could not verify that
the rafting trip had occurred, but that the college did not ''accept or condone
any investigation of any student organization based on the political or
religious content of its ideas, just as we would not accept or condone any
student organization that does not abide by the law.

''Absent specific evidence linking a member of the City College community to
criminal activity, we do not condone this kind of investigation.''

Last week, Robert Hornsby, a spokesman for Columbia University, said he was
unaware of any police monitoring of students, but added, ''We would obviously be
concerned about anything that could chill our essential values of academic
freedom or intrude on student privacy.''

John Beckman, a spokesman for New York University, said, ''N.Y.U. stands in
fellowship with its Muslim students in expressing our community's concerns over
these activities.''

And John DellaContrada, a spokesman for Buffalo, said that the university
''would not voluntarily cooperate'' if asked by the police to aid in
surveillance.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            February 24, 2012 Friday

Morning Buzz, Feb. 24

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER REEVE

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 373 words



HIGHLIGHT: What we're reading this morning, including articles about taxi
drivers who were involved in fare hikes and two children who were saved from a
house fire in Queens.


new model of health care provision for the elderlya woman and her four
grandchildrenanticipated publishing of New York teachers' ratingsgraduating
students who did not meet requirementsof the fifth public school employee to be
charged with sexual crimesa tree cutting and trimming exercise in northern
Manhattanpolice officer's claim that the Bronx's 42nd Precinct applies a quota
systemN.Y./Region section


At a press briefing on Thursday, a spokesman denied any wrongdoing on the part
of the New York Police Department after news emerged that the police force had
been monitoring Muslims in Newark. [Daily News]

The Taxi and Limousine Commission  over 19,000 taxi drivers who were involved in
fare hikes that officials believe netted $1.1 million from passengers between
2008 and 2010. [New York Post]

Today marks the beginning of the trial for the man accused of cyber-bullying his
Rutgers University roommate in 2010. Three days after the defendant tweeted
about a sexual encounter involving his gay roommate, Tyler Clementi, Mr.
Clementi jumped to his death off the George Washington Bridge. [Daily News]

Greenwich Village's Community Board 2 voted down an N.Y.U. expansion plan on
Thursday. Some community members are concerned that the plan, if executed, will
change their neighborhood's character. [NY 1]

A former police officer and a Walgreens maintenance worker saved a 9-month-old
baby and a little girl from a home blaze in Queens, catching them when they fell
from a second-floor window. [Daily News]

Air traffic controllers at Westchester County Airport were caught sleeping in
the control tower. [Fox 5]

Two teenagers accused of robbing an 81-year-old man before pushing him onto the
subway tracks have been apprehended. [The Brooklyn Paper]

The chief executive officer of an insurance-holdings firm after buying a
full-floor co-op on Fifth Avenue for $20.5 million. Since buying the unit, he
says he has discovered some $3 million worth in defects. [New York Post]

The newly revamped Knicks were no match for the Miami Heat on Thursday, as Miami
put a damper on the recent wave of Linsanity. The final score was 102-88. [ESPN]


     ·    Morning Buzz, Feb. 23
     ·    Morning Buzz, Feb. 22
     ·    Morning Buzz, Feb. 21
     ·    Morning Buzz, Feb. 16
     ·    Morning Buzz, Feb. 15


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Campaign Stops)

                            February 24, 2012 Friday

Campaigning Against the Modern World

BYLINE: TOM FERRICK JR.

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1289 words



HIGHLIGHT: Rick Santorum isn't happy with the first Catholic president either.


As a journalist who covered Rick Santorum in Pennsylvania for years, I can
understand the Tea Party's infatuation with him. It's his anger. It is in
perfect synch with the constituency he is wooing.

Even at the height of his political success, when he had a lot to be happy
about, Santorum was an angry man. I found it odd. I was used to covering
politicians who had good dispositions - or were good at pretending they had good
dispositions.

Santorum was different. You could easily get him revved by bringing up the wrong
topic or taking an opposing point of view. His nostrils would flare, his eyes
would glare and he would launch into a disquisition on how, deep down, you were
a shallow guy who could not grasp the truth and rightness of his positions.

Late in his 2006 re-election campaign, for example, when Santorum was seeking a
third term in the Senate, he was set off by a question from a public school
teacher at a street fair in Harrisburg who said she was "so sorry that some of
our money paid for the education of your children in Virginia." The Santorums
had been home-schooling some of their children in Virginia through a program run
by the Western Pennsylvania Cyber Charter School. After a fierce exchange with
the woman, Santorum sarcastically complained: "It's just a curious bias of the
media around here. It's wonderful. One person says something negative and the
media rushes and covers that. The wonderful balanced media that I love in this
community." It's a YouTube moment.

Santorum had reason to be peeved. He was running against the Democrat Bob Casey.
He was trailing by double digits and knew he was going to lose. He was not a
happy camper, but then he rarely is.

As he has shown in the Republican debates, Santorum can be equable. The anger
usually flares on matters closest to his heart: faith, family and morals. And
if, by chance, you get him started on the role of religion in American life, get
ready for a Vesuvius moment.

Outside of these areas, he was more pragmatic. Then and now, Santorum held
predictably conservative views, but he was astute enough to bend on some issues
and be - as he put it in the Arizona debate - "a team player."

In the Senate, he represented a state with a relentlessly moderate-to-centrist
electorate so when campaigning he emphasized the good deeds he did in
Washington. Editorial board meetings with Santorum usually began with him
listing federal money he had brought in for local projects.

People who don't know him - and just see the angry Rick - don't realize what a
clever politician Santorum is. He didn't rise to become a Washington insider
through the power of prayer. He may say the Rosary, but he knows his
Machiavelli.

That said, Santorum's anger is not an act.  It is genuine. It has its roots in
the fact that he had the misfortune to be born in the second half of the 20th
century. In his view, it was an era when moral relativism and anti-religious
feeling held sway, where traditional values were ignored or mocked, where
heretics ruled civic and political life. If anything, it's gotten worse in the
21st, with the election of Barack Obama.

Leave it to Santorum to attack Obama on his theology, of all things. He sees the
president as an exemplar of mushy, feel-good Christianity that emphasizes
tolerance over rectitude, and the love of Jesus over the wrath of God.
Predictably, Santorum is angry at that version of Christianity. He sees it as
weak tea.

As a fellow Catholic, I understand the roots of Santorum's Christianity. We read
the same Baltimore Catechism, the Cliffs Notes of Catholicism for grade school
children in our era. At Mass, we inhaled incense and recited the  From an early
age, we both ingested large doses of Catholic theology and its elegant
practitioners - Augustine, Jerome, Aquinas.

And there we part ways. Like many American Catholics, I struggle with the
church's teachings as they apply to the modern world. Santorum does not.

I once wrote that Santorum has one of the finest minds of the 13th century. It
was meant to elicit a laugh, but there's truth behind the remark. No Vatican II
for Santorum. His belief system is the fixed and firm Catholicism of the Council
of Trent in the mid-16th century. And Santorum is a warrior for those beliefs.

During the campaign, he has regularly criticized the media for harping on his
public statements on homosexuality, contraception, abortion, the decline in
American morals. Still, he can't resist talking about them. These are the issues
that get his juices flowing, not the deficit or federal energy policy.

For instance, I can't think of many Catholics - I can't think of many - who
would want to get into an argument over the use of contraceptives. Santorum is,
of course, the exception.

In 2010, Santorum delivered a little-noticed speech in Houston to mark the 50th
anniversary of John F. Kennedy's address in the same city before a convention of
Protestant ministers. Kennedy went before the group to alleviate fears that if a
Catholic was elected president of the United States, the Pope would rule
America. As Kennedy said at the beginning of his speech: "I believe in an
America where the separation of church and state is absolute."

Santorum went to Houston not to praise Kennedy but to bash him. To Santorum, the
Kennedy speech did permanent damage because it led to secularization of American
politics. He said it laid the foundation for attacks on religion by the secular
left that has led to denial of free speech rights to religious people. "John F.
Kennedy chose not to just dispel fear," Santorum said, "he chose to expel
faith."

In Santorum's view, Kennedy's speech led to a debasement of the first freedom -
the freedom of religion - so that it is now on "the lowest rung of interests to
be considered when weighing rights against one another."

But to grasp the full weight of Santorum's argument you have to hear him out:

Ultimately Kennedy's attempt to reassure Protestants that the Catholic Church
would not control the government and suborn its independence advanced a
philosophy of strict separation that would create a purely secular public square
cleansed of all religious wisdom and the voice of religious people of all
faiths. He laid the foundation for attacks on religious freedom and freedom of
speech by the secular left and its political arms like the A.C.L.U and the
People for the American Way. This has and will continue to create dissension and
division in this country as people of faith increasingly feel like second-class
citizens.

One consequence of Kennedy's speech, Santorum said,

is the debasement of our First Amendment right of religious freedom. Of all the
great and necessary freedoms listed in the First Amendment, freedom to exercise
religion (not just to believe, but to live out that belief) is the most
important; before freedom of speech, before freedom of the press, before freedom
of assembly, before freedom to petition the government for redress of
grievances, before all others. This freedom of religion, freedom of conscience,
is the trunk from which all other branches of freedom on our great tree of
liberty get their life.

As so it went for 5,000 words. It is a revelatory critique of the modern world
and Santorum quoted G.K. Chesterton, Edmund Burke, St. Thomas Aquinas and Martin
Luther King to give heft to his assertions.

That said, it was an angry speech, conjuring up images of people of faith
cowering before leftist thought police. Who could rescue us from this
predicament? Who could banish the secularists and restore religious morality to
its throne?

For Rick Santorum, those are rhetorical questions.



     ·    'Politics is a Team Sport'
     ·    Can Santorum Win in November?
     ·    Mitt Romney's Thirst
     ·    Rick Santorum's Pincer Movement
     ·    A Widow's Wisdom


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 26, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sunday Dialogue: Nuclear Energy, Pro and Con

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1436 words


A letter arguing for nuclear power touched off a lively debate. Here is a
sampling.

The Letter

To the Editor:

On Feb. 9 the Nuclear Regulatory Commission voted to license two new nuclear
plants in Georgia, raising two questions: Do we need nuclear power? Can we build
safe nuclear plants? The answer to both is yes!

The world's energy needs are growing. By midcentury the world's population is
expected to be nine billion, nearly 30 percent more than today's.

More important, the push by developing countries to increase their standard of
living is inexorably tied to a corresponding increase in energy consumption.
World electricity consumption by midcentury will probably be between two and
four times what it is today. And our aging power plants will have to be replaced
before then.

This enormous demand for new generating capacity must be met while also
containing global warming and minimizing pollution and other environmental
damage. But how?

Solar and wind energy are nowhere near ready to take on this kind of load. Coal,
oil and gas are polluters and major carbon dioxide generators -- hence major
contributors to global warming. Oil and gas also have geopolitical issues.
Nuclear power is the only major electricity source that is both ready and does
not contribute to global warming.

There is no question that nuclear plants must be built with the highest regard
to safety. Modern nuclear plant designs therefore incorporate greatly enhanced
safety features that, for example, allow a reactor to shut down and cool itself
by natural forces like gravity and natural circulation, without external
electrical power. Fukushima could not happen in these plants.

We need all the electricity sources we can get. Let's not exclude clean and safe
nuclear energy.

ZVI J. DORON Pittsburgh, Feb. 21, 2012

The writer is a retired nuclear engineer and a co-author of a book (in German)
about energy and climate policies.

Readers React

Nuclear power is the most expensive technological failure of the modern age.
Three Mile Island, Chernobyl and Fukushima top the list of its negatives. But in
strict economic terms, it cannot compete. Solar, wind, geothermal, hydro and
other forms of green power are cheaper, cleaner, safer, faster to build, require
no federal limits on liability and create no radioactive waste. The same is true
of increased efficiency and conservation. It's time to recognize reality and
leave atomic energy behind.

HARVEY WASSERMAN Bexley, Ohio, Feb. 22, 2012

The writer is the author of ''Solartopia! Our Green-Powered Earth.''

I am writing in strong support of Mr. Doron's letter identifying nuclear energy
as the only clean and reliable answer to the world's future energy needs. It is
the only nonpolluting energy source that can provide the steady base needs of
the power grid into the future.

As he says, the modern nuclear plants as approved for Georgia are passively
safe, requiring no operator intervention to shut down in an emergency. One
design, the Generation IV Integral Fast Reactor, goes even further in providing
an answer to the waste problem through recycling and use of all the energy
available in the fuel.

Modern reactors are being built overseas in many countries. If the United States
is to be a major player in the world's energy future, we must advance our
nuclear power programs as quickly as possible. LINWOOD L. LEE Jr. Stony Brook,
N.Y., Feb. 22, 2012

The writer is professor emeritus of physics at Stony Brook University.

Mr. Doron is correct that long-term economic growth requires investment in new
generating capacity while curbing traditional and global warming pollutants. But
increasing reliance on nuclear power is one of the costliest ways to achieve
that goal.

The price tag for a new nuclear reactor is the biggest obstacle. Wall Street
won't finance one unless taxpayers co-sign, and the nuclear industry tried and
failed to obtain more than $100 billion in federal loan guarantees. Skyrocketing
construction cost estimates and the lack of financing -- coupled with falling
natural gas and renewable technology prices -- mean that it is highly unlikely
that more than a handful will be built in the United States over the next two
decades.

Finally, Mr. Doron's contention that new nuclear reactor designs ''incorporate
greatly enhanced safety features'' is contradicted by the fact that the design
selected for the two new reactors in Georgia, the Westinghouse AP1000, has a
weaker containment, less redundancy in safety systems, and fewer safety features
than current reactors.

It is too soon to judge whether the industry and its regulators have learned
from their mistakes. In the meantime, let's go forward with energy efficiency
and renewables. They cost less and don't generate waste that remains dangerously
radioactive for thousands of years.

ELLEN VANCKO Washington, Feb. 22, 2012

The writer is project manager for nuclear energy and climate change at the Union
of Concerned Scientists.

Assuming that Mr. Doron's assertion that modern nuclear power plants can be
operated safely is accurate, he leaves two important questions unanswered.
First, how can we safely dispose of the spent fuel rods? And how can the world
monitor the enrichment of uranium to the level needed for power plants, but
insufficient for nuclear weapons?

Although construction of safe nuclear power plants may be feasible, and may help
meet rising energy needs in the short term, ignoring the longer term
implications of nuclear power may lead to even bigger problems.

CRAIG V. VANSANDT Carlisle, Pa., Feb. 22, 2012

Mr. Doron is right that nuclear technology is ready and does not cause global
warming, but he is wrong not to mention the problems of unresolved waste
storage, earthquakes, exposure to cyber and regular terrorism or the potential
concentration of the fuel for military use.

He is right that the new Westinghouse design of the reactors approved for
Georgia, with its gravity-based natural water circulation, is a step in the
right direction, but he is wrong to imply that this is enough.

The key safety problem is manual operation. If the Fukushima reactors were
automatically flooded as soon as the earthquake was detected, not manually and
only several hours after the tsunami hit, there would have been no accident.

And Mr. Doron is wrong about renewable energy! In only a couple of years, all
the roofs of new buildings could be covered by solar instead of regular shingles
and could be provided with bidirectional meters to guarantee the continuous
availability of electricity and the creation of millions of jobs.

Yes, Mr. Doron is right that our aging nuclear plants have to be shut down, but
he is wrong to suggest that we can afford to build new ones or that solar energy
is not ready to take over. It is, and it is not only safe, clean and
inexhaustible, but also a fuel that is free.

BELA LIPTAK Stamford, Conn., Feb. 22, 2012

The writer is an industrial safety consultant.

The Writer Responds

The writers' replies range from full support to total rejection of nuclear
power, with tacit agreement on one point: no expressed desire to see fossil
fuels in our energy future. Yet coal and gas produce 70 percent of our
electricity, and total demand is growing. It remains up to nuclear and renewable
energies to fill the gap.

Some of the concerns of Mr. VanSandt and others are red herrings. Enrichment of
uranium to bomb grade is unrelated to civilian nuclear power; see Iran's
centrifuges. Disposal of spent fuel is a political, not a technical, issue;
Nevadans don't want the Yucca Mountain waste repository, just as Cape Codders
don't want wind turbines off ''their'' shore. And the AP1000's safety is
enhanced by fewer active components, not compromised as Ms. Vancko suggests.

Construction cost overruns notwithstanding, most nuclear power plants produce
electricity at competitive costs. Modern designs are modular, smaller and
quicker to build (less interest costs), thus further improving economics.

The advantages of renewables are a given. But solar and wind together now
produce less than 2.5 percent of our electricity, forecast by the federal
government to grow to 3.5 percent by 2035 -- a far cry from Mr. Liptak's vision
of solar shingles on every roof ''in only a couple of years.'' Hydropower
remains steady at 6 percent. This is no ''Solartopia'' (to borrow from Mr.
Wasserman's book title).

Both nuclear and renewables are clean, noncarbon electricity generators that
should be supported, but the vision that renewables alone can do the job in the
next few decades is wishful thinking. Nuclear power is ready; let's not get
caught short.

ZVI J. DORON Pittsburgh, Feb. 23, 2012

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MORGAN BLAIR)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 26, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Twitter Death Hoaxes, Alive and Sadly, Well

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER.

Follow and send comments and suggestions to @mattfleg.

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; #TRENDINGNYC; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 540 words


JUST about every day, and often more frequently, Twitter kills a public figure.

More precisely, someone starts a death rumor on the service -- often without
warning or reason, without attribution and without any truth to the claim.

As the faux-death toll has swelled -- ensnaring Cher and Chris Brown, Tiger
Woods and Keanu Reeves, Jackie Chan and President Obama -- something resembling
a formula has emerged. Condolences are expressed. Shock turns to skepticism.
Barbs are traded in a search for the original culprit. Character limits are
exhausted. And all parties move on to the next topic.

Recently, though, the death and funeral of Whitney Houston -- combined with a
persistent string of bogus ''RIP Madonna'' Twitter posts trending in New York
last week -- threatened this fragile equilibrium, exposing the dual consequences
of the hoaxing scourge. One real death strips the humor from the spurious ones.
And a deluge of falsehoods compromises Twitter as a go-to source for breaking
news.

''Ok,'' one user wrote as the Madonna hoax was realized, ''we have gone tooooo
far now.''

Even before the lie spread widely -- during Ms. Houston's televised funeral
service in Newark, no less -- the finger-pointing had begun. ''Lady Gaga fans
trended 'RIP Madonna,' '' posted@WeThinkMiley, a fan account for Miley Cyrus.
''1) It's not funny, we just recently lost Whitney. 2) Gaga is NOT the best. 3)
No one likes you.''

Perhaps because of their passionate fan bases on Twitter, musicians,
particularly rap or hip-hop artists, have long been the most popular targets
among hoaxers in the New York area. In December, the death of the North Korean
ruler Kim Jong-il made ''RIP Lil Kim'' -- for the female rapper -- a popular
topic, though in this case at least some of the confusion appeared genuine.

For celebrities, there is no playbook for addressing reports of one's own death.
Most ignore the attention -- easy for Madonna, who has no Twitter account.

And in this case, the singer's fans quickly quelled the gossip for her, tagging
posts with three simple words: ''Madonna Is Immortal.'' Others engaged in cyber
-retribution, writing, ''RIP Lady Gaga.''

''Why don't you grow up?'' chimed in @KingMikeJ, a fan account for Michael
Jackson, defending Lady Gaga.

Of course, some stars seem to revel in the rumors. When a fan informed @snooki,
from MTV's ''Jersey Shore,'' that ''RIP Snooki'' had been a popular topic this
month, she responded, ''SWeet!!'' And when another user commented that the
''other 629 Pokemon'' characters would miss the diminutive reality television
star, Snooki deemed the joke the ''best thing I've ever read.''

For the most relentless hoax, though, a typed response may be insufficient proof
of one's pulse. In December, spurred by feverish Twitter reports of his death,
Jon Bon Jovi posted a link to a picture on his band's account, @BonJovi. In it,
the singer smiled as he held a sheet of paper with the day's date and a message.

''Heaven,'' it read, ''looks a lot like New Jersey.''

#trendingnyc

A trending topic is drawn from a periodic sampling by The New York Times of
locally trending popular terms reported by Twitter in the past week, with posts
of specific New York interest highlighted. Follow and send comments to
@mattfleg.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: STILL HERE: The Twitter-sphere tried killing off Madonna.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN MCNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                            February 27, 2012 Monday

Report Details Repression in Iran Ahead of Vote

BYLINE: J. DAVID GOODMAN

LENGTH: 475 words



HIGHLIGHT: Amnesty International has released a new report detailing the Iranian
government's tightening grip on speech and civil society.


A new report from Amnesty International released on Monday paints a portrait of
the Iranian government's tightening grip on speech and civil society.

Dozens of Iranian artists, journalists, bloggers and human rights activists have
been arrested in what the rights group calls a "wave of repression" that began
with the disputed presidential elections of 2009 and has surged ahead of
parliamentary elections this week.

"They're just arresting anyone who doesn't toe the line," Elise Auerbach, the
group's Iran country specialist, said in a telephone interview. "The government
just seems to be tightening the noose around freedom of information in Iran."

The 70-page report, published on Monday, gathers together many examples that
have been previously reported in the press -- from the arrests of BBC filmmakers
to the house arrests of the opposition leaders Mehdi Karroubi and Mir Hussein
Mousavi - in order to construct an argument that the situation in the country
has deteriorated over time. More than 10 journalists and bloggers have been
arrested in recent weeks, according to the report.

One of the most prominent dissidents discussed in the report is Jafar Panahi,
the celebrated filmmaker whose case was discussed on The Lede earlier today.

The Times reported last month that the Iranian government appeared to have begun
a quiet campaign to short-circuit protests and dissent ahead of parliamentary
elections scheduled for March 2.

Even after the crackdown in 2009, Ms. Auerbach said, people still felt that they
could communicate with the outside world. But with more recent sentences of
journalists and bloggers, she said, there is a new climate of uncertainty and
fear. "All bets are off," she said.

She pointed to the case of Saeed Malekpour, who, according to CNN, lives in
Toronto but was arrested while visiting family in Iran in 2008. He had created a
program to upload photographs and was sentenced to death on charges related to
spreading pornography. "That would not have happened a few years ago," she said.

A year after Iran first created a security force dedicated to hunting down
political opponents and  punishing dissent and countering the spread of
information on social networks, the country's cyber-crimes police force has
become fully operational in recent weeks throughout Iran, according to the
report.

Last month, the force shut down a Facebook page that called on Iranian users to
upload attractive photos of themselves and compare their attractiveness with
that of other users on the network. More consequentially, it has begun closely
monitoring Internet cafes.


     ·    Iran Claims an Oscar Win, Warily
     ·    Rights Group Says Libya's Militias Are 'Out of Control'
     ·    Access to Google Sites Returns in Iran, as Mysteriously as It
          Disappeared
     ·    Israeli Ad Jokes About Strikes on Iran's Nuclear Program
     ·    Cardboard Cutouts of Khomeini Are Mocked Online


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           February 28, 2012 Tuesday

Interpol Site Knocked Offline Following Anonymous Arrests

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 341 words



HIGHLIGHT: Interpol's Web site went down Tuesday just hours after the
international police agency announced the arrest of 25 suspected members of the
hacking collective Anonymous in Argentina, Chile, Colombia and Spain.


Interpol's Web site went down Tuesday just hours after the international police
agency announced the arrest of 25 suspected members of the hacking collective
Anonymous in Argentina, Chile, Colombia and Spain.

On Twitter, hackers affiliated with Anonymous took credit for the attack and
openly encouraged their sympathizers to keep Interpol's site offline by flooding
its servers with traffic.

The attack followed Interpol's announcement Tuesday that it had arrested
suspected Anonymous hackers in an operation it called Operation Unmask. With
cooperation from authorities in Argentina, Chile, Colombia and Spain, Interpol
said it seized 250 pieces of technology equipment and mobile phones at 40
premises across 15 cities. Interpol said authorities had seized credit cards and
cash from the some of the hackers, ages 17 to 40.

Interpol said it started the operation in mid-February following a series of
coordinated cyber attacks against Spanish political parties' Web sites;
Colombia's defense ministry and presidential Web sites; Chile's national
library; Endesa, a Chilean electricity company; and other targets.

The same hackers who claimed credit for bringing down Interpol's site on Twitter
also recently claimed credit for an attempted attack on a Vatican Web site last
August that was unsuccessful.

The arrest follows a string of increasingly bold attacks by Anonymous. Earlier
this month, the group knocked the C.I.A. Web site offline. A week earlier, the
group intercepted a conference call between the Federal Bureau of Investigation
and Scotland Yard and released a 16-minute recording of the call. Since then,
hackers affiliated with Anonymous even threatened to "shut the Internet down on
March 31" by attacking servers that perform switchboard functions for the
Internet.

As of Tuesday evening, Interpol's site was still down.


     ·    Daily Report: Anonymous Feeds Stolen E-Mail to WikiLeaks
     ·    Hacking Group Attacks Weapons Maker
     ·    Anonymous Says It Knocked C.I.A. Site Offline
     ·    Symantec Says Hackers Tried Extortion
     ·    Hackers Release More Data From Stratfor


LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 29, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

25 Suspects Held In Hacking Cases Across 4 Countries

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 515 words


PARIS (AP) -- Twenty-five suspected members of the loose-knit Anonymous hacker
movement have been arrested in a sweep across Europe and South America,
Interpol, the global police agency, said on Tuesday.

The arrests, in Argentina, Chile, Colombia and Spain were carried out by
national law-enforcement officers working under the support of Interpol's Latin
American Working Group of Experts on Information Technology Crime, Interpol said
in a statement.

Those arrested, who ranged in age between 17 and 40, are suspected of planning
coordinated cyber-attacks against institutions including Colombia's defense
ministry and presidential Web sites, Chile's Endesa electricity company and
national library, and other targets.

The arrests followed an ongoing investigation begun in mid-February, which
comprised searches of 40 locations in 15 cities and included the seizure of 250
pieces of information technology equipment and mobile phones, Interpol said.

Among the 25 people arrested were four suspected Anonymous hackers seized in
connection with attacks on Spanish political party Web sites, the Spanish police
announced. A national police statement said two servers used by the group in
Bulgaria and the Czech Republic have been blocked. It said the four arrested
included the suspected manager of Anonymous's computer operations in Spain and
Latin America, who was identified only by his initials and the aliases
''Thunder'' and ''Pacotron.''

The four are suspected of defacing websites, carrying out denial-of-service
attacks and publishing data online about police assigned to the royal palace and
the premier's office.

Anonymous has no real membership structure. Hackers, activists, and supporters
can claim allegiance to its freewheeling principles so it is not clear what
impact the arrests will have. Some Internet chatter appeared to point to the
possibility of a revenge attack on Interpol's Web site, but the police
organization's home page appeared to be operating normally late Tuesday.

Interpol, whose headquarters are in Lyon, France, has no arrest or investigative
powers. It facilitates intelligence sharing to help police forces around the
world work together.

Anonymous, whose genesis can be traced back to a popular United States image
messaging board, has become increasingly politicized amid a global clampdown on
music piracy and the international controversy over the publication of
classified documents by WikiLeaks, a group with which many Anonymous supporters
identify.

Authorities in Europe, North America and elsewhere have made dozens of arrests,
and in retaliation, Anonymous has increasingly attacked law enforcement,
military and intelligence-linked targets.

The group turned the tables on the authorities last month by listening in on a
conference call between the F.B.I., Scotland Yard and other foreign police
agencies about their joint investigation into Anonymous and its allies.

One Twitter account purportedly associated with Anonymous's Brazilian wing said
the latest sweep would fail. ''Interpol, you can't take Anonymous,'' the message
read. ''It's an idea.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                              March 2, 2012 Friday

Winehouse Foundation Gives Scholarship to School Where Singer Studied

BYLINE: JAMES C. MCKINLEY JR.

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 262 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Amy Winehouse Foundation will finance a scholarship at the Sylvia
Young Theater School in London.


A foundation set up in memory of the singer Amy Winehouse  after her death last
year from alcohol poisoning will provide a scholarship to a London theater
school where she studied voice as a girl, the Winehouse family said. The
scholarship to the Sylvia Young Theater Schoolwill go to a child whose family
cannot afford to pay the tuition, the singer's father, Mitch Winehouse, told
Reuters.

Ms. Winehouse was only 13 when she auditioned at the school and impressed the
founder with her version of "On the Sunny Side of the Street."   The Amy
Winehouse Foundation was set up by her family after the singer's death in July
to provide treatment to young drug addicts and alcoholics.  Best known for her
song"Rehab," she was only 27 when she died.

Ms. Winehouse, who helped to revive soul music in Britain with her sassy tone
and no-nonsense lyrics, had a short but brilliant career, making two critically
acclaimed albums before she was derailed by drug and alcohol abuse. That wild
streak was evident  even when she attended the Young school as a teenager; she
dropped out before finishing and had behavioral problems.

"It would be wonderful to find another Amy, but there was only one Amy," the
school's founder, Sylvia Young, told Reuters. "We would be happy to find a
singer, dancer or actor who has a special talent."


     ·    Winehouse Tops Album Chart in Britain
     ·    Amy Winehouse Cancels European Tour
     ·    Cyber Furor Over Chris Brown's Appearance at Grammys
     ·    After Grammys Performance, Catholic League Asks: 'Is Nicki Minaj
          Possessed?'
     ·    Bands to Follow Their Frontmen Into Rock Hall of Fame


LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                              March 2, 2012 Friday

Obama Gets a Facebook Upgrade

BYLINE: MATT FLEGENHEIMER

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 423 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Obama's Facebook page adopted the site's new Timeline
feature on Thursday, and it starts with a jab at those who question the
authenticity of his birth certificate.


On Thursday, another Facebook user adopted the site's new Timeline feature,
regaling followers with the minutiae typical of the world's cyber capital of
oversharing.

He worked at an ice cream parlor in 1978. He started his current job in 2009. He
takes lots of pictures with his wife and kids.

This particular account holder, however, has the force of more than 25 million
"likes" behind him. And a pretty powerful army.

Indeed, as Facebook announced that the Timeline feature would be expanded to
branded pages for businesses and public figures, President Obama'sFacebook page
adopted the new format on Thursday, offering visitors a peek at his extended
biography, a deluge of pictures and videos from his campaign and presidency, and
a jab at those who question the authenticity of his birth certificate.

The first date on the timeline is Aug. 4, 1961, the president's birthday. The
message reads, "Made in the USA" and includes a photo of his birth certificate,
emblazoned onto a coffee mug, which is available for $22.50 on Mr. Obama's
campaign Web site.

Subsequent posts provide snippets of Mr. Obama's history, both familiar and
little known. His first job was at the counter of a Baskin-Robbins in 1978 - a
fact that inspired 73 "likes" by late Thursday evening. He played tennis and
basketball and participated as a concert choir singer at the Punahou School in
Hawaii (21 likes).

In 1989, he met a woman named Michelle Robinson at a law firm in Chicago (30
likes). They married on Oct. 3, 1992, (165 likes, though an accompanying
photograph may have skewed the results).

More recent years are dominated by political fodder: images of jaunts with
voters in Peterborough, N.H., and Erie, Pa. (and one baby in Toledo, Ohio);
Michelle Obama's speech at the Democratic National Convention in 2008; the
president addressing the United Nations General Assembly; and, recently, Mr.
Obama serenading the crowd with Al Green's "Let's Stay Together" at a
fund-raiser at the Apollo Theater in New York.

Atop the page, visitors encounter a table of net job creation totals, by month,
from December 2007 to the present. (Many commenters disputed the figures
Thursday.) And a photo dated Feb. 26 depicts a supporter holding a white board
that lists the president's accomplishments.

Still, if "likes" are the metric, the most popular post on the Timeline Thursday
was probably the first. Beneath the image of the "Made in the USA" mug, 485
visitors expressed their approval.

"This was the first thing I checked for in the timeline," one wrote. "Well
done."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                              March 5, 2012 Monday

This Week in Small Business: An Immense Fiscal Cliff

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1708 words



HIGHLIGHT: Plus: When was the last time you were in a video store?


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.

The Big Story: The Chairman's Surprise

In his report to Congress, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman,
expresses surprise at how fast unemployment is falling and warns lawmakers that
our nation is headed for a "massive fiscal cliff." New research from the Federal
Reserve Bank of St. Louis says there is more than enough kindling to start an
inflation inferno. These charts show that it's not just the Fed's liquidity pump
that is lifting markets. The Senate is pushing bills to help small businesses
and House Republicans unveil a jobs package. A new report suggests the wealthy
are more likely to cheat and lie. The Mathbabe says economists don't understand
the financial system.

The Data: On the Cost ff Living

A survey of finance professionals reports that global trade is drying up. The
Truck Tonnage Index falls. Ted Kavadas updates 10 scary charts. Manufacturing
expansion slows. Housing prices decline to a new post-bubble low. Orders for
durable goods (PDF) fall. The Restaurant Performance Index dips. Gross Domestic
Product is revised up and consumers are spending more as their confidence nears
pre-recession levels. Auto sales jump. Pending home sales suggest an improving
market. And five leading economic indexes increase. You tell me: does the cost
of living really outweigh the benefits?

The Economy: Gas Prices

Kevin Drum answers questions about gas prices, which are hindering some
small-business owners and benefiting others.  A study says entrepreneurs are
optimistic about 2012. A pessimist and an optimist talk at TED. The Small
Business Administration's Karen Mills says small manufacturers are driving job
creation and economic growth. A new world record for paper airplane throwing is
achieved.

Management: Don't Listen to Customers

New data show that women are making less than men at every level (and single
women are advised to travel with a wedding ring). CNBC's Becky Quick gives a
piece of her mind to sexist business owners. Steve Blank explains how listening
to your customers can kill your start-up: "Your job is not to make every
possible customer happy." But Jason Trevisan says that giving a "bear hug" to
your customers will make your company worth more. Mariam Noronha gives advices
on how to manage people effectively. Alessandro Di Fiore says not to let a
spreadsheet determine where you locate your business. Christopher Penn explains
what killed this four-star restaurant. American workers would trade pay for
better retirement benefits.

Ideas: More Daily Deals?

Jill Donenfeld explains how she started her home chef service. An Israeli
start-up uses technology to help women find the perfect bra. The winners of the
2012 Short Tale Awards for excellence in the use of short video in front office
sales, marketing and service are announced. Small Business Trends lists its 2012
small-business book awards. Constant Contact gets into the daily deals business.
This 28-year-old entrepreneur's start-up is on a tear. A newspaper in France is
published once every four years. Steven Chu says that battery innovation is
alive and well in the United States, and a small company may be close to cutting
battery costs in half. Intel Capital is looking to invest $100 million in
"connected car tech." Here are four ways small businesses can score with
"gamification." A new service helps developers create coupon and loyalty
applications that can work with credit cards. This 8-year-old girl is a life
coach who will solve your everyday problems.

Marketing: Tiny Budgets

This cool infographic shows how small businesses are using social media. The
data show that Pinterest is used mostly by adults, and Debbie Hemley suggests
what your business can do with the site. Here are three things retailers can
learn from mom-and-pop Facebook stores. Twitter is trying to lure small
businesses with its advertising platform. A Nascar driver tweets from his car
and gains more than 100,000 followers in two hours. Google Plus users spent just
3.3 minutes per visit on the site in January. American Express publishes a video
on the importance of Foursquare. Ramon Ray gives six reasons savvy businesses
use e-mail instead of social media, and TJ McCue shares 24 more e-mail marketing
applications. Businesses that blog generate more e-mail traffic. Jill Konrath's
video explains why you should never send funny items to your prospects. Rieva
Lesonsky reports that small-business marketing budgets for 2012 are "tiny." The
data show that 2011's Small Business Saturday was a hit. Richard Moross says
that business cards can still pack a punch. Dan Taylor suggest five ways to
generate leads with LinkedIn, including: "With the mission of positioning
yourself as a thought leader in your industry, go ahead and share some content
with your LinkedIn contacts that you find interesting. Does it seek to solve a
potential customer's problem? Bingo!"

Finance: Surviving on $350,000 a Year

Banks posted their most profitable year since 2006, and some say we are
experiencing a boon in low-cost borrowing. Small businesses are borrowing more.
A new site helps small companies manage receivables and collections. A new
service will help start-ups and freelancers get paid on time. The online
payments platform WePay adds invoicing. A mobile application service that
connects consumers with businesses in order to improve customer service receives
$2.7 million in financing. Here are six factors to consider when choosing an
online credit card processor. New research indicates that business owners are
unprepared for retirement. Neil Sisson shows why heloves "crowd-funding" for
start-ups. And Ben Horowitz reveals the lies that losers tell, including: "Just
because we missed the intermediate milestones doesn't mean we won't hit our
product schedule." Could you survive on $350,000 a year?

Red Tape: Healthier Towns

The Internal Revenue Service releases better guidance on the health care tax
credit for small businesses. Many states are taking a wait-and-see approach on
new insurance exchanges. A House subcommittee votes to repeal the Affordable
Care Act's "death panels." The solution to our health care problems? Move to a
town with more small businesses (they have healthier people!). An insurance
consultant warns business owners not to assume that the fate of the Affordable
Care Act rests solely with constitutional review by the Supreme Court. Ramesh
Ponnuru blames small businesses for killing corporate-tax reform, and Jody
Westby says cyber legislation will cost businesses and hurt the economy. Ross
Kenneth Urken shares a few tax audit horror stories. Kimberly Palmer lists 10
things you should know about your 2011 taxes, including: "Independent income
often means you can deduct business expenses." Sage's Small Business Sentiment
(PDF) survey finds that the cost of business, high taxes and excessive
regulations could hinder growth in 2012.

Boss of the Week: Tony Lee, who goes from janitor to business owner and rescues
an Ohio factory.

Around the Country: The 'Smoffice'

Regional manufacturing expanded in Richmond (PDF) and Dallas, but neither city
is located in the country'shappiest  state. Here is how Google's search changes
will affect local businesses around the country. Google kicks off a program to
get more North Carolina small businesses online while a contest in Durham offers
entrepreneurs the chance to win six months in the "Smoffice" -- the world's
smallest office. Not to be outdone, South Carolina introduces a Web site for
entrepreneurs. A Tennessee city with superfast Internet service invites
innovators to play. A New York state small-business development center helps
small wineries export products to China, and a Santa Cruz, Calif.,
small-business development center gets rave reviews. A grizzly bear visits with
tourists in Alaska.

Tech: Windows 8

Windows 8 for consumers is released, and Tom Krazit says it's Microsoft's most
important release in years. Here are five killer Web apps for business.
Salesforce.com puts a halt to its building plans. The State Departmentswitches
to Chrome, and Google offers a million dollars to anyone who can hack its
browser. Patrick Kiger offers tech tips for road warriors. Bees go robotic.
Computer programmers are among the most sleep deprived (if you're reading this
and still awake, you probably don't live in the South). Verizon's Galaxy Tab 7.7
arrives. Even after this announcement, there are still 1,000 Blockbuster stores.
A leisurely game of table tennis turns awesome.

The Week's Bests

Approach to sales. Kevin Daw says candidates for sales roles need specific
personality traits, like empathy: "In order to know how best to approach selling
your product, you must first discover where there is a need for your goods and
services, and understand that need. This varies greatly from prospect to
prospect, and therefore you must fully understand the particular business
strategy of each, and empathize with their unique situations, for the best shot
at pitching them something they truly need and therefore are likely to buy from
you."

Way to invest. Jeremy Grantham shares 10 investment lessons: "Try to contain
natural optimism. Nobody likes a Debbie Downer, but on Wall Street it's bad for
business. Optimism can win friends and influence people, but it's a lousy
investment strategy. You have to be willing to hear bearish, bad news about the
risks you've taken with your money - and to make informed decisions about it."

Way to Treat a Journalist. Dmitry Dragilev explains how start-ups can build
lasting relationships with journalists: "Date before you pitch. Don't expect to
pitch someone who doesn't know you or your product, in the hopes that person
will understand the story and details just right - all in a few days. Instead,
build a strong relationship that benefits both of you - it's the only way you
can ensure great news coverage of your product launch."

This Week's Question: When was the last time you were in a video store?

Marks Group


     ·    This Week in Small Business: Redefining Small
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Lessons From Chuck Norris
     ·    Economic Indicator? How About Picture Framing?
     ·    This Week in Small Business: The Bacon Milkshake
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Jobs!


LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 6, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sony Confirms Cyber Theft of Jackson Tracks

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 177 words


This could be bad for Sony, in many senses of the word: that media giant has
confirmed that several tracks recorded by Michael Jackson were stolen from its
Web site after it was hacked, BBC News reported. Sony has not said what Jackson
tracks were taken, but in 2010 it closed a $250 million deal with the singer's
estate to acquire his back catalog (including best-selling albums like
''Thriller'' and ''Bad'') and to release previously unheard recordings,
beginning with a posthumous album, ''Michael,'' that went on sale in December of
that year. Last April a Sony online network for its PlayStation game consoles
was hacked, compromising the personal data of some 77 million users; the Sony
Music Japan site and Sony Ericsson online store were also hacked in the
following weeks. The BBC said the Jackson tracks were taken during this time. In
May two British men, James Marks and James McCormick, were arrested in
connection with the hacks and are to go on trial next January.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                             March 6, 2012 Tuesday

Hackers Lash Out at LulzSec Leader Turned 'Snitch'

BYLINE: J. DAVID GOODMAN

LENGTH: 743 words



HIGHLIGHT: Activists affiliated with hacker groups reacted with anger and
disdain at the man said to be the leader of Lulz Security almost as soon as the
story of his cooperation with the F.B.I. emerged on Tuesday.


"The federal government is run by a bunch of cowards," read a post to the
Twitter account of The Real Sabu, who added an unkind embellishment to describe
the type of cowards he meant.

"Don't give in to these people," he added. "Fight back. Stay strong."

That was Monday.

The Federal Bureau of Investigations announced on Tuesday that the man behind
that account, Hector Xavier Monsegur, known online as Sabu among other aliases,
had pleaded guilty to computer crimes on Aug. 15, 2011. Mr. Monsegur had been
cooperating with law enforcement officials to provide information on the hacking
group Lulz Security, according to a report by Fox News that included pictures of
a 28-year-old man said to be Mr. Monsegur.

Before his arrest, Mr. Monsegur appeared to have been the leader of Lulz
Security, or LulzSec, a group thought to be closely affiliated with Anonymous, a
larger online collective of so-called hacktivists. (These computer activists
differ from mainstream cybercriminals in that they describe their attacks as
being motivated by ideals rather than financial gain.) Five other members of the
group were arrested on Tuesday, as my colleague Somini Sengupta reported.

Hacktivists reacted with anger at Mr. Monsegur almost as soon as the story of
his cooperation with the F.B.I. emerged on Tuesday. The Twitter account of
WikiLeaks, which has expressed sympathy with Anonymous and LulzSec, described
him as a "traitor" soon after the Fox News story was posted.

Luzsec "leader" Sabu a traitor cooperating with feds, according to FOX
foxnews.com/scitech/2012/0#anonymous#luzsec

- WikiLeaks (@wikileaks) March 6, 2012

That was followed by a string of updates, under a profane hashtag critical of
Mr. Monsegur, from an account affiliated with Anonymous. The posts stressed that
actions under the banner of Anonymous would not be halted by the arrests. "You
can't snitch on an idea," a post read.

Mr. Monsegur's own Twitter account also came under scrutiny on Tuesday for signs
that he had been cooperating with the federal authorities. Indeed, he posted
several updates on Monday that touched on dealing with pressure from the
authorities, but he appeared to advise others on Twitter against cooperating and
not to let others get away with doing so.

These posts had a different ring on Tuesday, as Jeffrey Carr, a computer
security expert, observed.

"So you're telling me," he asked at one point during a discussion with another
Twitter user, "if you get locked up, and your nosey neighbor who dropped the
dime on you runs free - you would simply ignore?"

He also wrote at one point on Monday: "The feds at this moment are scouring our
lives without warrants. Without judges approval. This needs to change. Asap."

Fox News reported that Mr. Monsegur, who took his alias from a Staten
Island-born professional wrestler, Sabu the Elephant Boy, had been working for
the F.B.I. since his arrest last August. A copy of the charges against him,
filed on Aug. 15, 2011, was posted on Tuesday.

Less than two months before his arrest, logs of conversations between Sabu and
others at LulzSec were leaked to The Guardian after the group hacked a company
affiliated with the F.B.I. Sabu reportedly told those who quit LulzSec in the
wake of that attack that they were "not up for the heat."

"You realize we smacked the FBI today," he wrote. "This means everyone in here
must remain extremely secure."

Among the details to emerge on Tuesday about Mr. Monsegur's background: he lived
in a public housing project on Manhattan's Lower East Side, Fox News reported,
and he may have attended one of New York's elite public high schools, according
to BuzzFeed. (Coincidentally, the school, Stuyvesant High School, served as the
backdrop for several scenes in the 1995 film "Hackers.")

In 2007, The Times reported on a Monsegur family whose elderly matriarch lived
in what appeared to be the same housing project, the Jacob Riis Houses in
Manhattan. Her son, Hector Monsegur, then 40-years-old, was prevented from
visiting his mother because of a drug conviction in 1997.

It was not immediately clear whether Mr. Monsegur, the hacker arrested on
Tuesday, was related. A person in law enforcement told The Times he had been
living with his grandmother in the Jacob Riis Houses.


     ·    Israel Denies Hackers Knocked Government Sites Offline
     ·    Chinese Magazine Says Reporter's E-Mail Was Hacked
     ·    Appeal to Obama From British Hacker's Mother
     ·    Are 'Cyber-Militias' Attacking Kyrgyzstan?
     ·    Google Ocean Arrives


LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Choice)

                             March 8, 2012 Thursday

$10,000 Bachelor's Degrees Now Available in Texas

BYLINE: TANYA CALDWELL

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 181 words



HIGHLIGHT: In the latest effort to make higher education more affordable,
college officials in Texas have announced that some bachelor's degrees will cost
less than a Kia.


In the latest effort to make higher education more affordable, college officials
in Texas have announced that some bachelor's degrees will cost less than a Kia,
the Texas Tribune reports:

Speaking today on a SXSWEdu panel in Austin, officials from a few Texas
community colleges and universities said that $10,000 bachelor's degrees are
available now - and more will be within the year.

Gov. Rick Perry famously called on the development of a $10,000 degree in his
State of the State address in 2011. The proposal met with criticism at the time,
but Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board Chairman Fred Heldenfels said it
was misunderstood. "It's not intended to be a bargain degree," he said, offering
the metaphor of a no-frills, rapid-rail route rather than an ocean-going cruise.

The collaborating schools are Texas A&M-San Antonio and Alamo Colleges, and
Texas A&M-Commerce and South Texas College. The collaborations mean that a
bachelor's degree in information technology with an emphasis on cyber security
at Texas A&M-San Antonio will cost about $9,700, a university official said.


LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            March 10, 2012 Saturday

Retailers Add Gadgets for Shoppers at Ease With Technology

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 74 words



HIGHLIGHT: Retailers like Macy's and Nordstrom are accommodating younger
consumers who prefer using technology to research products instead of asking
employees.


Retailers like Macy's and Nordstrom are accommodating younger consumers who
prefer using technology like tablet computers to research products instead of
asking employees, reports Stephanie Clifford in The New York Times. Read more »


     ·    A Digital Wallet Now Available on Some Smartphones
     ·    How People Shopped Online This Holiday Season
     ·    Daily Report: Holiday Gadgets
     ·    Cyber Monday Shopping Surpasses Expectations
     ·    Retailers Enliven Catalog Offerings Through Apps


LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                             March 12, 2012 Monday

Europe Must Defend Itself

BYLINE: BRIGITTE ADèS

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 824 words



HIGHLIGHT: Guest commentator Brigitte Ad&#232;s writes that with the U.S.
cutting nearly a half-trillion dollars in defense spending over ten years,
Europe and NATO must evolve. The question is, are they ready?


After President Barack Obama's announcement this year of significant changes to
the U.S. defense strategy, the world has mostly focused on the shift toward Asia
and the Pacific. However. this is only one aspect of the new U.S. posture. It
also has a great impact from a European defense point of view, as senior
American strategists and NATO officials told me during the meeting of NATO
defense ministers in Brussels last month.

In the Pentagon's new "Strategic Guidance," released in January, the ability to
conduct two simultaneous and prolonged wars - one of the constants of American
military doctrine since the end of World War II - is being discarded. This has a
particular significance for the United States' NATO partners: if the U.S. is
involved in a conflict, it will need to call in allies if it wants to wage a
second war.

This official text indicates a willingness to downgrade the doctrines of
counterinsurgency (COIN) used in Afghanistan and in Iraq. As we know, this
strategy of long-term commitment of troops on the ground has had mixed results
and certainly didn't win the hearts and minds of local populations, as the
Americans expected. This change is bound to be welcomed by the British and the
French, also involved in Afghanistan, but aware from past experience of the
difficulties linked to counterinsurgencies.

Since 1963, the French political establishment has turned away from
"counterinsurgency" as a war-winning strategy. It is therefore ironic that until
recently the U.S. military academies extensively taught the precepts of a French
officer, David Galula, whose  guidelines  despite initial success in the 1950s
in Algeria, were not followed by the French, but whom General David Petraeus,
formerly Commander of the United States Central Command, called "the Clausewitz
of counterinsurgency".

From now on, the Pentagon will favor "high impact and low footprint" operations.
To this end, the American military says it is prepared to encourage U.S. allies
to share capabilities and interoperability for coalition operations. In this
context, the success of the Franco-British intervention in Libya, proving that
the Europeans can efficiently lead a light operation, is bound to comfort the
Americans. The Americans preferred to exercise "leadership from behind" in the
conflict in Libya and provided the necessary logistics, including 70 percent of
the air power.

With the Pentagon budget being cut to save $487 billion over the next decade,
the United States has announced its intention to reduce the presence of American
troops in Europe, including removing two of four combat brigades, and replacing
them with rotating forces. This will undoubtedly worry some European countries
close to Russia, including the Baltic States.

But among the Western allies, the French and the British have long anticipated a
withdrawal of U.S. troops and have been more forward than most in their attempts
to promote the idea of a European defense, as evidenced by the Franco-British
agreement signed in Lancaster in November 2010. Nevertheless, looking at the
agreement closely, the content seems motivated by budgetary constraints rather
than by a genuine desire to build an independent European defense. Against the
backdrop of severe economic crisis, it is unlikely that Europeans will
accelerate the building of a common defense. And NATO will therefore remain
Europe's primary defense organization in the years to come.

Senior NATO officials confirmed to me their intention to adapt to the new
American policy, and to the changing world, with a more flexible approach. They
say they look forward to new, more flexible partnerships within NATO and even
with outside partners, adapted to new challenges, such as cyber warfare,
environmental crisis and energy security.

In a briefing with defense editors in Brussels, a NATO officer said : "We are
already engaged in military counter piracy in the Indian Ocean, and we intent to
be forward looking and contribute to the flow of vital resources securing
commercial routes. We are also ready to envisage punctual operations in the Asia
Pacific region."

He explained that Australia's forces engaged in Afghanistan were greater in
number than those of many NATO members. "Afghanistan has served as a catalyst,"
he added. "It has set up a new culture. We must keep working on the links which
have been made through joint operations so far. We must invest in permanent ties
by having global partners such as Australia, Japan. South Korea, India and even
China. We are connecting NATO to the global landscape."

In the "Strategic Guidance,'' the Pentagon was sure to repeat Article 5, the
anchor of NATO, stipulating that an armed attack against one member of the
alliance is an attack against all members.


     ·    Afghanistan: When Even the Danes Turn on the War...
     ·    No Easy Exit From Afghanistan
     ·    Sorry Seems to Be the Hardest Word
     ·    Damage Control (Again) in Afghanistan
     ·    Excitable Boy, They All Said


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                             March 13, 2012 Tuesday

Watch Your Language! (In China, They Really Do)

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1269 words



HIGHLIGHT: Fifty cents. Scaling the wall. Buying soy sauce. Mayor Lymph. River
crab. These words - mild, silly, inoffensive - are part of the subversive
lexicon now being used by bloggers to ridicule the government and confound the
Internet censors in China. The so-called "resistance discourse" online is due
for harsher official scrutiny starting this week.


HONG KONG - Scaling the wall. Buying soy sauce. Fifty cents. A mild collision.
May 35. Mayor Lymph. River crab.

These words - mild, silly, inoffensive - are part of the subversive lexicon
being used by Chinese bloggers to ridicule the government, poke fun at Communist
Party leaders and circumvent the heavily censored Internet in China. A popular
blog that tracks online political vocabulary, China Digital Times, calls them
part of the "resistance discourse" on the mainland.

Internet usage in China, of course, is massive. A single microblogging site,
Sina Weibo, has more than 300 million users. Nationwide there are some 460
million users of the Internet, and more than 300 million Chinese can access it
on their cellphones. No need to mention the numbers on Twitter and Facebook:
They're blocked by the Chinese government.

Internet traffic is examined with a thoroughness and ruthlessness that is almost
admirable in its scope. The term "Great Firewall" is appropriate and descriptive
- and also banned by the censors. The government prefers its own name for its
Internet surveillance program - the Golden Shield Project.

The system ferrets out pornography and commercial scams, but it also blocks
certain search terms. Its algorithms sniff out words or names it considers
politically odorous. It sometimes deletes offending messages altogether.

More than 16 percent of all messages in China get deleted, according to a study
by the Language Technologies Institute at Carnegie Mellon University in
Pittsburgh. The survey, published in the online journal First Monday, analyzed
70 million messages sent last summer, mostly on Sina Weibo.

"Weibo users - whose numbers recently surpassed 300 million  - realize the days
of unfettered, anonymous criticism may be drawing to a close,'' writes Andrew
Jacobs, a colleague in the Beijing bureau of The New York Times. "Beginning on
March 16, new government regulations will require real-name registration.''

In short, no more anonymity.

"Another rule will require Sina Weibo to review the posts of those who have more
than 100,000 followers," Mr. Jacobs says. "Those 'harmful' to national
interests, according to the rules, must be summarily deleted within five
minutes.''

The Carnegie Mellon team found "295 terms with a high probability of being
censored." China Digital Space has compiled its own impressive dictionary of
political slang and terminology, along with etymologies and back stories.

So good luck searching for terms like Tibet, immolation, the Dalai Lama, Falun
Gong, democracy movement, Sheng Xue (dissident writer), Ai Weiwei (outspoken
artist), Liu Xiaobo (imprisoned Nobel laureate), June 4 (date of the Tiananmen
Square massacre in 1989), and Playboy (the magazine).

From time to time over the past year, the words jasmine, Egypt, Jon Huntsman
(the former American ambassador) and Occupy Beijing also have been banned.

And after the Fukushima nuclear disaster last March, online searches for the
term "iodized salt'' were blocked, presumably to quash the rumor racing across
China that eating large quantities of salt would prevent radiation poisoning.

Two of the most pointed online jabs are "grass-mud horse" and "river crab."

Another colleague in Beijing, Michael Wines, has explicated the origin of
grass-mud horse, describing the horse as "a mythical creature  whose name, in
Chinese, sounds very much like an especially vile obscenity.''

(Interested readers can scale our own well-mannered firewall and find a fuller
description of the terminology here.)

"Conceived as an impish protest against censorship,'' Mr. Wines writes, "the
foul-named little horse has not merely made government censors look ridiculous,
although it has surely done that. It has also raised real questions about
China's ability to stanch the flow of information over the Internet - a project
on which the Chinese government already has expended untold riches, and written
countless software algorithms to weed deviant thought from the world's largest
cyber-community.''

A subtitled video of the gamboling horse ([#x8349][#x6ce5][#x9a6c]) is here -
they're actually alpacas - and Ai Weiwei singing the equine anthem in Chinese is
.

Perry Link, the author of "Liu Xiaobo's Empty Chair," described the use of code
words and Aesopian allegory by Mr. Liu and other popular bloggers like Han Han:
"Harmony, for example, is a key word used in the government's rhetoric, and
Internet writers use , or river crab, which is a near-homonym ([#x6cb3][#x87f9]
) of the Chinese word for harmony, to mean repression.''

To be harmonized, these days, is to be censored.

"Officials are aware, of course, of its barbed meaning on the Internet,'' said
the Chinese writer Yu Ha in an essay in the IHT Magazine, "but they can hardly
ban it, because to do so would outlaw the 'harmonious society' they are
plugging. has been hijacked by the public.''

A handful of the underground terms we mentioned earlier, with characters from
China Digital Times:

*  "A humorous way for netizens to distance themselves from a sensitive or
political topic."  The etymology derives from an on-the-street TV interview
about a celebrity scandal. A man interviewed at random, according to China
Digital Times, issues a profanity and says he has no connection to the matter,
proclaiming, "I was just out buying some soy sauce."  ([#x6253][#x9171][#x6cb9])

*  Bo Xilai, the powerful head of the Communist Party in the megacity of
Chongqing, has been entangled in a mysterious political scandal in recent weeks.
So his temporary absence from a session of the National People's Congress last
week sent rumors flying online. Many bloggers reported that they were gathering
information "over the wall" or were "scaling the wall'' - that is, going beyond
the Internet firewall, using a tunnel or proxy. At one point, there were
mentions of big doings ([#x51fa][#x5927][#x4e8b][#x4e86]) in "the tomato,"
(\xE8\xA5[#x7ea2][#x5e02]), which in Mandarin sounds like "western red city," a
new online euphemism for Chongqing. To scale the wall: \xE7\xBB[#x5899].

*  China Digital Times calls this "a code word for its near homophone, Charter
08," the democracy manifesto that enraged the government and turned up its
paranoia dial to 11. Mr. Liu, the principal author of Charter 08, remains in
prison. ([#x6dcb][#x5df4]\xE5\x8E\xE9\x95)

*  A subway crash in Shanghai last fall injured hundreds of passengers, and the
accident occurred shortly after a high-speed rail crash that killed dozens and
injured nearly 200. The rail incident outraged many Chinese, and the authorities
were on alert for mass  protests.

"The evening after the accident, CCTV, Xinhua and a Shanghai television station
all reported that 'a mild collision' occurred on Shanghai's Metro Line 10,' ''
according to China Digital Times. "The claim that this was a mild accident
elicited the derision of netizens who felt that the reporting was more intended
to dampen fears about China's train system than report what actually occurred.
The phrase 'mild collision' instantly became an Internet buzzword.''
(\xE8\xBB[#x5ea6]\xE8[#x5c3e])

*  "Netizens first coined the term 'Fifty Cent Party' to refer to undercover
Internet commentators who were paid by the government to sway public opinion''
by posting pro-Beijing statements, reputedly for 50 cents a shot, according to
China Digital Times.  ([#x4e94][#x6bdb][#x515a])

"Now, however, the term is used to describe anyone who actively and publicly
posts opinions online that defend or support government policy. As such, the
so-called Fifty Cent Party has become the object of much scorn for many
netizens.''

* In other words, June 4. Also on the censors' blacklist are any consecutive
combinations of the numbers 6, 4 and 89.
([#x4e94][#x6708][#x4e09][#x5341][#x4e94][#x65e5])


     ·    A Love-Hate Relationship With Facebook


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 14, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Interest In Hacking As Threat To Security

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 862 words


WASHINGTON -- During the five-month period between October and February, there
were 86 reported attacks on computer systems in the United States that control
critical infrastructure, factories and databases, according to the Department of
Homeland Security, compared with 11 over the same period a year ago.

None of the attacks caused significant damage, but they were part of a spike in
hacking attacks on networks and computers of all kinds over the same period. The
department recorded more than 50,000 incidents since October, about 10,000 more
than in the same period a year earlier, with an incident defined as any
intrusion or attempted intrusion on a computer network.

The increase has prompted a new interest in cybersecurity on Capitol Hill, where
lawmakers are being prodded by the Obama administration to advance legislation
that could require new standards at facilities where a breach could cause
significant casualties or economic damage.

It is not clear whether the higher numbers were due to increased reporting amid
a wave of high-profile hacking, including the arrest last week of several
members of the group Anonymous, or an actual increase in attacks.

James A. Lewis, a senior fellow and a specialist in computer security issues at
the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a policy group in
Washington, said that as hacking awareness had increased, attacks had become
more common. He said that the attacks on the nation's infrastructure were
particularly jarring.

''Some of this is heightened awareness because everyone is babbling about it,''
he said of the reported rise in computer attacks. ''But much of it is because
the technology has improved and the hackers have gotten better and people and
countries are probing around more like the Russians and Chinese have.''

He added: ''We hit rock bottom on this in 2010. Then we hit rock bottom in 2011.
And we are still at rock bottom. We were vulnerable before and now we're just
more vulnerable. You can destroy physical infrastructure with a cyberattack just
like you could with a bomb.''

The legislation the administration is pressing Congress to pass would give the
federal government greater authority to regulate the security used by companies
that run the nation's infrastructure. It would give the Homeland Security
Department the authority to enforce minimum standards on companies whose service
or product would lead to mass casualties, evacuations or major economic damage
if crippled by hackers.

The bill the administration backs is sponsored by Senators Joseph I. Lieberman,
independent of Connecticut, and Susan Collins, Republican of Maine. It has
bipartisan support, and its prospects appear good. Senator John McCain,
Republican of Arizona, is sponsoring a more business-friendly bill that
emphasizes the sharing of information and has fewer requirements for companies.

Last week on Capitol Hill, Janet Napolitano, the secretary of Homeland Security;
Robert S. Mueller III, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and
Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, made their
pitch to roughly four dozen senators about why they should pass the
Lieberman-Collins bill.

At a closed-door briefing, the senators were shown how a power company employee
could derail the New York City electrical grid by clicking on an e-mail
attachment sent by a hacker, and how an attack during a heat wave could have a
cascading impact that would lead to deaths and cost the nation billions of
dollars.

''I think General Dempsey said it best when he said that prior to 9/11, there
were all kinds of information out there that a catastrophic attack was
looming,'' Ms. Napolitano said in an interview. ''The information on a
cyberattack is at that same frequency and intensity and is bubbling at the same
level, and we should not wait for an attack in order to do something.''

General Dempsey told the senators that he had skipped a meeting of the National
Security Council on Iran to attend the briefing because he was so concerned
about a cyberattack, according to a person who had been told details of the
meeting. A spokesman for General Dempsey said the chairman had ''sent his vice
chairman to the meeting on Iran so that he could attend the Senate meeting and
emphasize his concern about cybersecurity.''

''His point was about his presence at the cyber exercise rather than a value
judgment on the 'threat,' '' the spokesman, Col. David Lapan, said.

Experts say one of the biggest problems is that no part of the government has
complete authority over the issue. The Central Intelligence Agency and the
National Security Agency give the government intelligence on potential attacks,
and the F.B.I. prosecutes hackers who break the law. The Department of Homeland
Security receives reports about security breaches but has no authority to compel
business to improve their security.

''Nobody does critical infrastructure of the dot-com space where America now
relies on faith healing and snake oil for protection,'' Mr. Lewis said. ''The
administration wants it to be the Department of Homeland Security, but the
department needs additional authorities to be effective.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Janet Napolitano, the secretary of Homeland Security, asked
senators last week to pass a cybersecurity bill co-sponsored by Senators Joseph
I. Lieberman and Susan Collins, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES
 STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES0 (A21)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Gadgetwise)

                            March 14, 2012 Wednesday

An App for Watching for Personal Data Breaches

BYLINE: DAMON DARLIN

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; personaltech

LENGTH: 371 words



HIGHLIGHT: AllClear ID, an identity protection service that scans the Internet
for stolen information, will offer a free app for the iPhone and iPad to alert
users when their personal or financial records have been compromised. The app
alerts users if their credit card and Social Security numbers have been stolen.



Want to know if your identity has been stolen? Or if your or your child's Social
Security number is being pawned off on the Internet?

There's an app for that.

On Wednesday, AllClear ID, an identity protection service that scans the
Internet for stolen information, will offer a free mobile app for the iPhone and
iPad to alert users when their personal or financial records have been
compromised. The free app alerts users if their credit card and Social Security
numbers have been stolen or if thieves are using their child's identity.
(Not-so-fun fact: Your child is 51 more times likely to become a victim of
identity theft than you.)

Once users get alerts, they have the option of speaking with an AllClear ID
investigator to manage their case. The company said it would charge consumers
only for premium features like credit monitoring and a $1 million identity theft
insurance policy, which cost $14.95 a month.

The mobile app will siphon information from the National Cyber-Forensics and
Training Alliance, an organization that works with law enforcement agencies and
companies like PayPal and Microsoft as a repository for stolen consumer
information. Any time these agencies or companies encounter stolen credentials,
they send it to the alliance. Until now, the alliance reported any stolen
credentials to the companies that issued them. The AllClear ID mobile app is the
first time the alliance will be able to alert consumers directly.

"This is the first time there has been a bridge between the front line and
consumers," Bo Holland, All Clear ID's chief executive, said in an interview on
Monday. "It will make a big difference in slowing this crime down."

This is AllClear ID's first foray into the consumer space. The company was
founded in 2004 as Debix. It typically worked with large companies after a
security breach to protect consumers' identities. Sony enlisted the service
after it was hacked last year. So did the State of Ohio.

Judging by the growing number of security breaches these days, that's a
lucrative endeavor. Among AllClearID's shareholders are Facebook's former
financial officer, Gideon Yu, and its former security chief, Max Kelly.


     ·    Videos of Kinect Hacks in Action
     ·    How to Know if You've Been Hacked


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 18, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

While You Were Gone

BYLINE: By CRISTINA GARCIA.

Cristina Garcia's most recent novels are ''The Lady Matador's Hotel'' and
''Dreams of Significant Girls.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1344 words


THE VANISHERS

By Heidi Julavits

284 pp. Doubleday. $26.95.

The darkly comic world of Heidi Julavits's latest novel contains warring
psychics, missing people who've deliberately vanished themselves, twisted
avant-garde filmmakers, absent mothers, striving academics, plastic surgery
enthusiasts, Sylvia Plath obsessives -- and the people who love to hate and
pursue all of them. Beneath this hyperactivity, the novel deals, fundamentally,
with the ''economics of revenge'' and a daughter's search for her mother. It is
told in Julavits's signature style: sharp-eyed, sardonic, hilarious.

The author of three previous novels (''The Mineral Palace,'' ''The Effect of
Living Backwards'' and ''The Uses of Enchantment'') and a founding editor of the
literary magazine The Believer, Julavits is at her acrobatically linguistic best
here. Nearly every page contains a showstopping description or insight. A
Barcelona chair becomes a fully eroticized object -- ''the angle of recline, the
shortened legs, the offered-to-the-sky cant of the seat, it was engineered
perfectly for someone to give, for someone to receive'' -- while a pair of
plastic surgery patients, ''given their gigantic white head-bandages and the
underwater slowness with which they moved,'' resemble ''very relaxed
astronauts.''

The novel's narrator is Julia Severn, a talented young student at a renowned
institute for psychics in New Hampshire, where she is acolyte to the
narcissistic Madame Ackermann. Julia is chosen to be her idol's stenographer, a
job that entails transcribing the ''regressions'' for which Madame Ackermann has
become famous in the occult world. Except that the Queen of Divination's trance
states are a huge, yawning bore. In part to spare her teacher the embarrassment
of coming up empty, Julia begins to fabricate Madame Ackermann's memories,
telling her that ''she'd spoken in the voice of an Argentinian-born
psychotherapist living in London during the Falklands war, a woman who'd engaged
in amatory adventures with her cabinet patients in order to acquire strategic
military information for her brother, a commander of the Argentine Navy.'' And
so on.

Madame Ackermann grows suspicious of these increasingly elaborate deceptions but
soon discovers discrepancies in one of Julia's tall tales that reveal her
student's emerging psychic talents. In a jealous rage, Madame Ackermann -- who
eerily resembles Julia's dead mother -- inflicts a near-lethal psychic attack on
her hapless stenographer, who then retreats into a pill-popping, zombielike
existence in New York City. ''I'm living the dream,'' Julia deadpans to an
inquiry regarding her copious ingestion of prescription medications.
''Bewildered girl in her mid-20s moves to the big city . . . and dulls her
existential disorientation with drugs.''

Julia's narrative voice is superb. Funny, self-deprecating, exquisitely attuned,
she speaks as if the entire acreage of her skin were a listening device. Nothing
is lost on her, and she's as unsparing about herself as she is of those around
her. This pointed, fragile honesty makes her a winsome heroine, even in the most
far-fetched of circumstances. When her father and stepmother, Blanche, visit her
out of concern for her health, their awkward interactions provide first-rate
drawing-room comedy. Julia's father, a sinkhole specialist who remains
emotionally paralyzed over his previous wife's death, ''expressed physical
affection like a bad mime. He threw himself at me and administered the Heimlich
maneuver of hugs.'' Meanwhile Blanche, a wacky, well-meaning sort, is a voice of
easily skewered earnestness.

After months of illness and a dead-end job as a showroom model at a flooring
company, where she is made to fake speaking Arabic, Julia is lured -- partly
through trickery, partly through a desire for revenge -- into searching for a
missing French filmmaker, Dominique Varga. The catalysts for this mission are
Alwyn, a morose connoisseur of arty underground pornography films, and Alwyn's
partner, an ambitious, thwarted academic (is there any other kind?) named
Colophon. They persuade Julia to undergo a psychic rehabilitation in hopes that
she'll track down Varga, a blisteringly scathing artist many people might have
wanted dead. Julia has her own reasons for joining this Pyrrhic search, having
discovered that her birth mother -- who committed suicide when Julia was only a
month old -- spent time with Varga shortly before her death.

Julia is thus inducted into the murky world of the ''vanishers,'' where the
extremely distraught are helped to disappear in a kind of witness protection
program. Their only trace: a vast library of goodbye testimonial films, ''a
living mortuary, a hopeful grief museum,'' to which Julia halfheartedly
contributes in order to stage her own temporary disappearance.

This, however, is where the story goes awry. As Julia regains her powers, first
at a European safe house that doubles as a plastic surgery recovery center, then
at another that treats schizophrenics (and is unfortunately named
Breganz-Belken), the plots and subplots, double dealings, surgical
impersonators, paparazzi, hallucinations, thefts and swaddling of wounds,
psychic and otherwise, begin to drag on the novel's momentum.

While the language remains vivid, its satisfactions are overwhelmed by the
confusion of the overdetermined plot. In her search, Julia is subjected to
traumatizing regressions, a recurring wolf apparition that appears behind her
eyelids (Madame Ackermann's psychic signature), cyber-baiting by an unknown
stalker, creepy attention from a Hungarian skin-care heiress and real-life
discoveries (of an extraordinary cache of Varga photographs, for instance) that
contribute, piecemeal, to revelations about her mother's past. Over all, the
stakes feel artificially pumped up by the hectic narrative, which labors to
deliver forced surprise after forced surprise. Earlier, Julia professes a
mistrust of happenstance: ''After a while you can begin to feel stalked by
coincidence, or as though you can manipulate the world by expressing a narrative
desire -- this thread is loose, this thread inconclusive.'' Regrettably, ''The
Vanishers'' becomes a victim of its own dizzying coincidences.

s a result, the novel's more serious concerns -- deliberations on how the past
suffuses the present, the ultimate unknowability of another's grief, the
painstaking task of constructing history in the absence of witnesses, the weight
of emotional inheritances -- are swamped by less interesting minutiae. For many
of the characters here, vanishing becomes a way of life, of coping with the
unbearable, of transmuting identity into a more manageable, if anonymous,
existence. Identity, like so much unwanted history, is a burden to be shed.
Underscoring these preoccupations are intermittent allusions to the suicide of
Sylvia Plath, which play like a recurring loop of a grainy family movie.

Julia asks herself: Would she prefer to have her mother dead, or to have her
alive but unknown to her? ''My answer was ugly and unequivocal. Given the
choice, I'd prefer her dead. To kill yourself was to say to your family members,
I can no longer live with myself. To vanish was to say, I can no longer live
with you.'' Such feelings are compounded by the loss of Madame Ackermann,
Julia's dubious mother substitute. But this potentially fascinating terrain gets
lost in the hermetic clutter of who is deceiving (or being deceived by) whom.

One of the pleasures of reading novels is the possibility of stopping time and
savoring, for a brief eternity, a character's deepest yearnings and
illuminations. When Julavits pauses long enough to let us catch our breath, the
results are frequently remarkable. Toward the end of the book Julia assumes a
kind of emotional kinship with Plath's orphaned children, who must know ''the
sad ways that a mother's love can be amplified or reduced to acts both
monumentally considerate and monumentally selfish.'' For heartbreaking pleasures
like these, I would, despite this novel's flaws, still follow Julavits anywhere.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF HEIDI JULAVITS BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Make the Punishment Fit the Cyber-Crime

BYLINE: By EMILY BAZELON.

Emily Bazelon, a senior editor at Slate, is writing a book about bullying called
''Sticks and Stones.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 876 words


New Haven

LAST week, a New Jersey jury convicted Dharun Ravi of invasion of privacy, and
for good reason. Mr. Ravi activated the webcam in his room at Rutgers so he
could watch his roommate, Tyler Clementi, meet up with a male date. Worse, he
broadcast his plans to do it again over Twitter, inviting his friends to watch.
That kind of spying should be out of bounds on a college campus.

What's out of whack about Mr. Ravi's case is the harsh punishment he now faces:
as much as 10 years in prison, for a 20-year-old who'd never been in legal
trouble before.

Mr. Ravi could go away for years because, on top of spying, he was convicted of
a hate crime: bias intimidation, a conviction probably influenced by Mr.
Clementi's subsequent suicide. According to New Jersey's civil rights law, you
are subject to a much higher penalty if the jury finds that you committed one of
a broad range of underlying offenses for the purpose of targeting someone
because of his race, ethnicity, religion, disability, gender or sexual
orientation.

The idea of shielding vulnerable groups is well intentioned. But with the nation
on high alert over bullying -- especially when it intersects with computer
technology and the Internet -- these civil rights statutes are being stretched
to go after teenagers who acted meanly, but not violently. This isn't what civil
rights laws should be for.

New Jersey passed one of the country's first hate crimes statutes in 1981,
outlawing the burning of crosses or placing of swastikas to terrorize and
threaten violence. In 1990, the legislature added extra prison time for racial,
ethnic or religious prejudice. ''From now on hate crimes will be serious
crimes,'' Governor Jim Florio said upon signing the bill, citing ''a phone call
in the middle of the night or vandalism that leaves hateful symbols in its wake
or racial slurs.''

In New Jersey, cases with bias intimidation charges have typically included an
underlying offense of significant violence. People have been found guilty under
the civil rights law for throwing punches while yelling a racial epithet, for
beating a man with a metal rod while cursing him for being from India, and for
threatening to shoot a driver, employing a racial slur and then tailgating him
for miles. These are cases in which prejudice twists into ugly and serious harm.

Teenagers have also previously been charged with bias intimidation. One boy was
convicted for being the ringleader of a bunch of children who ganged up on a
girl, calling her a lesbian. Another teenager got in trouble for shoving a boy,
using a racial slur and threatening to hang him from a tree. But as juveniles,
the kids in these cases were spared harsh punishment. The boy who did the
shoving was ordered to spend 10 days in juvenile detention and read the book
''Black Like Me.''

Mr. Ravi was 18 years old when he spied on Mr. Clementi, legally an adult, but
he did things that reek of immature homophobia. He told a friend he wanted to
''keep the gays away,'' and when he set up his webcam a second time, his tweets
and texts showed that he was giddily trading on Mr. Clementi's homosexuality to
get attention.

Was Mr. Clementi intimidated by Mr. Ravi's spying? The record is mixed, but
inflected by Mr. Clementi's suicide a day after the second spying incident.
Though it's not clear how much Mr. Ravi's actions influenced his roommate's
decision to take his own life, the proximity in time is chilling.

Given how broadly the civil rights laws are written, it's not surprising that
prosecutors turned to them to ramp up the charges against Mr. Ravi, especially
because this normally increases the pressure on a defendant to plead guilty. The
state then made Mr. Ravi a fair offer: community service in exchange for
admitting to invading Mr. Clementi's privacy. It was Mr. Ravi's mistake not to
take it.

And yet, if Mr. Ravi spends years in prison, his case will set an alarming
precedent of disproportional punishment. The spying he did was criminal, but it
was also, as his lawyer put it, ''stupid kid'' behavior.

Mr. Ravi isn't the only person caught in this legal snare. After bullying was
blamed for the suicide two years ago of Phoebe Prince, a 15-year-old in South
Hadley, Mass., prosecutors criminally charged six teenagers. That time, the
district attorney used the state's civil rights laws to directly blame five of
them for Phoebe's death. Like Mr. Ravi, they faced a sentence of up to 10 years.
Never mind that the Massachusetts law had previously been used against violent
racist thugs. Because it was broadly written, like New Jersey's, prosecutors
could seize upon the law because it ''sent a message'' about bullying, as one of
them later said.

The Massachusetts cases ended with a whimper: After the district attorney who
brought the civil rights charges left office, her successor dropped the charges
against one teenager and wisely resolved the cases against the other five, who
admitted some wrongdoing, with probation and community service.

Mr. Ravi, of course, will not be so lucky. States like New Jersey and
Massachusetts should narrow their civil rights laws so that he's not the first
of many stupid but nonviolent young people who pay a too-heavy price for our
fears about how kids use technology to be cruel.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JEFFREY ALAN LOVE)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 21, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Crime, Punishment and the Rutgers Case

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 913 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Jury Finds Spying in Rutgers Dorm Was a Hate Crime'' (front page, March
17):

This case raises critical questions for the gay community and for us all. How do
we balance justice and compassion? Should this young man be imprisoned for up to
10 years for a cruel and immature act that had a dreadful consequence he did not
foresee and would not have wished?

What is accomplished by imprisoning him, apart from satisfying our urge for
retribution? Is this really the way to end bullying, or are we in danger of
becoming the bullies we abhor?

We suggest that Dharun Ravi be sentenced to work for a gay rights organization.
There his prejudices would be confronted every day simply by coexisting with
people whom he might grow to like and respect.

We hope that a prominent gay rights organization will intervene in the
sentencing hearing, saying: ''Justice has been served. We applaud that. The
message has gone out that harassment and bullying of gay people will not be
tolerated. However, we do not support the maximum sentence for this young man
and ask the court for leniency.''

STEPHEN KARAKASHIAN ORLANDO RODRIGUEZ PHYLLIS RODRIGUEZ Milwaukie, Ore., March
18, 2012

The writers are, respectively, a gay rights activist, a criminologist, and a
peace and reconciliation activist. The Rodriguezes' son died in the Sept. 11
attack.

To the Editor:

When I came out my freshman year in college (1979-80). I was fortunate to have a
very secure roommate who smiled after my awkward little speech and said, ''You
did that very well!'' There was not a moment's subsequent discomfort.

Not everyone was so lucky. My freshman-year dorm hall was a fraught place, with
most of us living relatively unsupervised for the first time. There was
drinking, casual sex, drugs, self-absorption, bad manners, horrible eating
habits and heightened social pressure with the constant scrutiny of our
hallmates. And this was decades before Twitter and Facebook.

I don't excuse Dharun Ravi's deplorable behavior, but I feel that adding today's
technology and social media to the usual confusion of being a dorm-living
freshman is creating a perfect storm that is just too much for some
18-year-olds. I advise student housing directors not to think of this as an
isolated case of bad behavior, but to ponder how to protect our young adults
from themselves and one another as they navigate dorm living's rocky terrain.

ELISABETH OCHS San Francisco, March 17, 2012

To the Editor:

I find myself looking at the front-page photograph of 20-year-old Dharun Ravi,
convicted of 15 offenses against his college roommate, who committed suicide by
jumping off the George Washington Bridge when they were both freshmen two years
ago.

I have two sons, 22 and 18. As a mother I strongly relate to the parents of both
young men. Could my sons, living away from home for the first time, take
advantage of another person, thinking it was somehow humorous or
inconsequential? There are a number of popular comedy films, like ''Animal
House,'' depicting outrageous behaviors on college campuses that are considered
funny by many.

Is the convicted young man a scapegoat, guilty only of a prank gone wrong? As
for the victim and his family, my heart goes out to them. I hope that we learn
from these horrendous experiences.

NANCY BUCCIARELLI Huntington Beach, Calif., March 19, 2012

To the Editor:

Re ''Verdict Repudiates Notion of Youth as Legal Defense'' (news article, March
18):

The Rutgers bias crime conviction was no surprise. The instant the student
defendant elected not to take the stand, the ''jerky kid'' defense was doomed.
The defendant had one shot -- to persuade the jury that what he did was a stupid
college prank that went awfully wrong. And the jury had to hear it from him,
along with a heavy dose of remorse. To hear that argument made only by his
lawyers undermined his defense.

PETER C. ALKALAY Scarsdale, N.Y., March 19, 2012

To the Editor:

After more than 30 years of representing teenagers across the nation, I was
flabbergasted that a former federal prosecutor would say that the guilty verdict
for Dharun Ravi means ''that the notion of innocent youth as a shield to
culpability might not hold as much sway as it once did in court.''

Since at least the early 1980s untold thousands of teenagers, many as young as
13 or 14, have been either charged in or transferred to adult court every year.
Our prisons are teeming with adults convicted as teenagers.

The mantra of the prosecutorial and law enforcement establishments that ''if you
are old enough to do the crime, you are old enough to do the time'' has been
warmly embraced by jurors for decades. Given the long history of our
population's unwillingness to forgive youth crime, the prospects for a defense
based solely on ''youthful indiscretion'' were dimmed long ago.

PAUL MONES Portland, Ore., March 18, 2012

To the Editor:

Re ''Make the Punishment Fit the Cyber-Crime,'' by Emily Bazelon (Op-Ed, March
20):

I disagree with Ms. Bazelon's view that the punishment for Dharun Ravi is too
harsh. Mr. Ravi was an adult and unquestionably malicious and hateful in his
actions.

We don't give adults a ''pass'' when they commit serious crimes at 18, and if
done out of hate, whether racial bigotry or homophobia, such crimes are
rightfully accorded special status and harshly punished.

We should have zero tolerance for hate crimes in our pluralistic society, and no
exception should be made in the case of Mr. Ravi.

LEONARD HEYMAN Mountain View, Calif., March 20, 2012

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                             March 23, 2012 Friday

Seriously Retro: Some 78s for Record Store Day

BYLINE: BEN SISARIO

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 413 words



HIGHLIGHT: You can once again listen to music going round and round at 78 rpm.


Record Store Day, the annual retail promotion started in 2008 to help struggling
independent record stores, has to a great degree been about the fetish of
collecting vinyl records. If you're interested in that Pavement or Big Star
record available only on that day you better get in line early, because there
may be 500 collectors ahead of you trying to get one of the 300 copies available
(and then put it on eBay).

This year's Record Store Day is April 21, and it continues an odd trend in that
fetishization. For true believers it's no longer enough simply to buy a 33 1/3-
or 45-rpm record; the only way to go is 78. Yes, 10-inch records playing at 78
revolutions per minute, a format that was largely extinct by 1960.

Following earlier 78 specials by the Beach Boys and Nick Lowe, Tompkins Square,
a San Francisco label that specializes in deluxe packages of historical material
(like the excellent "People Take Warning! Murder Ballads & Disaster Songs,
1913-1938"), will this year be releasing what it says will be the first in a
series of 78s. It will issue 500 copies of two records: Luther Dickinson, of the
rock band North Mississippi Allstars, doing solo guitar renditions of
"Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah" and "Beautiful Dreamer," with "Nobody Knows the Trouble I've
Seen" and "Peace in the Valley" on the B-side; and the bluegrass patriarch Ralph
Stanley singing "Single Girl" and "Little Birdie." Josh Rosenthal, the owner of
the label, says the songs will not be released in any other formats, although
the label is streaming Mr. Dickinson's B-side online.

As for why, Mr. Rosenthal made it sound not so totally crazy. "A lot of new
turntables play 78s, and many 78 collectors listen to their records on modern
equipment," he said in a statement. "Tom Waits, Elvis Costello and Nick Lowe
have all recently released 78s. So I thought it would be fun to start a line of
them."

So get in line. Other special vinyl releases for Record Store Day this year
include a double album of the Flaming Lips with diverse collaborators (Yoko Ono,
Nick Cave, Lightning Bolt); Arcade Fire remixes; Metallica's "Beyond Magnetic,"
with outtakes from its last album; and a Buck Owens coloring book with a
flexi-disc in red, white or blue.


     ·    Adele and Houston Grammy Booms Continue
     ·    Winehouse Foundation Establishes Scholarship
     ·    Cyber Furor Over Chris Brown's Appearance at Grammys
     ·    After Grammys Performance, Catholic League Asks: 'Is Nicki Minaj
          Possessed?'
     ·    Bands to Follow Their Frontmen Into Rock Hall of Fame


LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                             March 26, 2012 Monday

Aretha Franklin Plans a New Album With Clive Davis

BYLINE: JAMES C. MCKINLEY JR.

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 207 words



HIGHLIGHT: Aretha Franklin announced at her 70th birthday party that she would
be "recording with Clive again."


 Aretha Franklin says she has resurrected her partnership with Clive Davis, the
record executive who engineered her comeback in the 1980s, and will record a new
album, The Associated Press reported.

Ms. Franklin made the announcement during a short interview at her 70th birthday
party on Saturday night in the Helmsley Park Lane Hotel in Manhattan.  Mr.
Davis, the chief creative officer for Sony Music Entertainment, sat next to Ms.
Franklin for most of the night. "I have re-signed with Clive Davis, so I'm
recording with Clive again," Ms. Franklin said. She added that next month "we're
going to sit together and decide what it is we're going to record."

Mr. Davis brought Ms. Franklin to Arista Records in the early 1980s when her
career was at a low ebb after her falling out with Atlantic Records. At Arista
she re-established herself as a hit maker with the album "Jump to It" in 1982,
and, despite some personal setbacks and tragedies, recorded the commercially
successful "Who's Zoomin' Who?" in 1985.


     ·    Seriously Retro: Some 78s for Record Store Day
     ·    Adele and Houston Grammy Booms Continue
     ·    Winehouse Foundation Establishes Scholarship
     ·    Franklin and Wonder to Sing at Houston's Funeral
     ·    Cyber Furor Over Chris Brown's Appearance at Grammys


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Stealing Isn't Stealing

BYLINE: By STUART P. GREEN.

Stuart P. Green is a professor at Rutgers Law School in Newark and author of the
forthcoming ''13 Ways to Steal a Bicycle: Theft Law in the Information Age.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 996 words


THE Justice Department is building its case against Megaupload, the hugely
popular file-sharing site that was indicted earlier this year on multiple counts
of copyright infringement and related crimes. The company's servers have been
shut down, its assets seized and top employees arrested. And, as is usual in
such cases, prosecutors and their allies in the music and movie industries have
sought to invoke the language of ''theft'' and ''stealing'' to frame the
prosecutions and, presumably, obtain the moral high ground.

Whatever wrongs Megaupload has committed, though, it's doubtful that theft is
among them.

From its earliest days, the crime of theft has been understood to involve the
misappropriation of things real and tangible. For Caveman Bob to ''steal'' from
Caveman Joe meant that Bob had taken something of value from Joe -- say, his
favorite club -- and that Joe, crucially, no longer had it. Everyone recognized,
at least intuitively, that theft constituted what can loosely be defined as a
zero-sum game: what Bob gained, Joe lost.

When Industrial Age Bob and Joe started inventing less tangible things, like
electricity, stocks, bonds and licenses, however, things got more complicated.
What Bob took, Joe, in some sense, still had. So the law adjusted in ad hoc and
at times inconsistent ways. Specialized doctrines were developed to cover the
misappropriation of services (like a ride on a train), semi-tangibles (like the
gas for streetlights) and true intangibles (like business goodwill).

In the middle of the 20th century, criminal law reformers were sufficiently
annoyed by all of this specialization and ad hoc-ness that they decided to do
something about it.

In 1962, the prestigious American Law Institute issued the Model Penal Code,
resulting in the confused state of theft law we're still dealing with today.

In a radical departure from prior law, the code defined ''property'' to refer to
''anything of value.'' Henceforth, it would no longer matter whether the
property misappropriated was tangible or intangible, real or personal, a good or
a service. All of these things were now to be treated uniformly.

Before long, the code would inform the criminal law that virtually every law
student in the country was learning. And when these new lawyers went to work on
Capitol Hill, at the Justice Department and elsewhere, they had that approach to
theft in mind.

Then technology caught up.

With intangible assets like information, patents and copyrighted material
playing an increasingly important role in the economy, lawyers and lobbyists for
the movie and music industries, and their allies in Congress and at the Justice
Department, sought to push the concept of theft beyond the basic principle of
zero sum-ness. Earlier this year, for example, they proposed two major pieces of
legislation premised on the notion that illegal downloading is stealing: the
Preventing Real Online Threats to Economic Creativity and Theft of Intellectual
Property Act (PIPA) and the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA).

The same rhetorical strategy was used with only slightly more success by the
movie industry in its memorably irritating advertising campaign designed to
persuade (particularly) young people that illegal downloading is stealing.
Appearing before the program content on countless DVDs, the Motion Picture
Association of America's much-parodied ad featured a pounding soundtrack and
superficially logical reasoning:

You wouldn't steal a car.

You wouldn't steal a handbag.

You wouldn't steal a mobile phone.

You wouldn't steal a DVD.

Downloading pirated films is stealing.

Stealing is against the law.

Piracy: It's a crime.

The problem is that most people simply don't buy the claim that illegally
downloading a song or video from the Internet really is like stealing a car.
According to a range of empirical studies, including one conducted by me and my
social psychologist collaborator, Matthew Kugler, lay observers draw a sharp
moral distinction between file sharing and genuine theft, even when the value of
the property is the same.

If Cyber Bob illegally downloads Digital Joe's song from the Internet, it's
crucial to recognize that, in most cases, Joe hasn't lost anything. Yes, one
might try to argue that people who use intellectual property without paying for
it steal the money they would have owed had they bought it lawfully. But there
are two basic problems with this contention. First, we ordinarily can't know
whether the downloader would have paid the purchase price had he not
misappropriated the property. Second, the argument assumes the conclusion that
is being argued for -- that it is theft.

So what are the lessons in all this? For starters, we should stop trying to
shoehorn the 21st-century problem of illegal downloading into a moral and legal
regime that was developed with a pre- or mid-20th-century economy in mind.
Second, we should recognize that the criminal law is least effective -- and
least legitimate -- when it is at odds with widely held moral intuitions.

Illegal downloading is, of course, a real problem. People who work hard to
produce creative works are entitled to enjoy legal protection to reap the
benefits of their labors. And if others want to enjoy those creative works, it's
reasonable to make them pay for the privilege. But framing illegal downloading
as a form of stealing doesn't, and probably never will, work. We would do better
to consider a range of legal concepts that fit the problem more appropriately:
concepts like unauthorized use, trespass, conversion and misappropriation.

This is not merely a question of nomenclature. The label we apply to criminal
acts matters crucially in terms of how we conceive of and stigmatize them. What
we choose to call a given type of crime ultimately determines how it's
formulated and classified and, perhaps most important, how it will be punished.
Treating different forms of property deprivation as different crimes may seem
untidy, but that is the nature of criminal law.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MIKEL JASO)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            March 29, 2012 Thursday

Furniture Meets the Digital Age

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 45 words



HIGHLIGHT: A number of furniture designers have been struggling to adapt to the
proliferation of devices like the iPad, e-readers and ever-thinner flat-screen
TVs.


A number of furniture designers have been struggling to adapt to the
proliferation of devices like the iPad, e-readers and ever-thinner flat-screen
TVs.Read more »


     ·    Cyber Monday Shopping Surpasses Expectations
     ·    What We're Reading: Conan's Twitter Buddy and New York in Pixels


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                            March 29, 2012 Thursday

Europe Cracks Down on Cybercrime

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 495 words



HIGHLIGHT: Internet crime costs billions of euros a year, but a lack of
coordination between countries has hampered efforts to detect and prosecute
offenders. The Union moved this week to change that.


LONDON - The European Union is preparing new steps to crack down on bot-herders,
identity thieves, web hijackers and other online fraudsters who are skimming
millions of euros a day from a growing number of its half billion citizens.

In separate initiatives this week, the European Commission, which implements EU
policy, proposed a new cybercrime center, and an EU committee proposed mandatory
jail time across all 27 member states for some online offenses.

The Commission said cybercrime was a global and cross-border phenomenon that now
brought more profits for organized crime - $388 billion a year worldwide - than
the global trade in marijuana, cocaine and heroin combined. In Europe, however,
action to detect and prosecute it was hampered by inadequate information sharing
between national jurisdictions.

Trained investigators, prosecutors and judges were not available in all member
states and investigative and forensic capacities varied across the EU, the
Commission said.

The new center, set to open in the Netherlands early next year, will focus on
organized crime gangs engaged in online fraud, online predators who sexually
exploit children, and hackers who attack critical infrastructure and IT systems.
It will be located at the headquarters of Europol, the European criminal
intelligence agency in The Hague.

The Commission estimated that more than a third of EU citizens now bank online
and the incidence of fraud is growing. "Moreover, the extent of cyber-attacks
affecting public and private information systems clearly increased in 2011 and
early 2012," the Commission said.

It quoted official British figures that showed cybercrime was costing British
businesses alone (EURO)21 billion a year. German police reported the number of
cases of ''phishing" in online banking rose from less than 2000 incidents in
2008 to over 5000 in 2010.

On Tuesday, a committee of the European Parliament proposed a new law that would
include mandatory minimum jail sentences across the EU for some computer crimes.
At present, cybercrime is dealt with differently in the various member states.

"We are dealing here with serious criminal attacks, some of which are even
conducted by criminal organizations," said Monika Hohlmeier, a German member of
the Parliament. "The financial damage caused for companies, private users and
the public side amounts to several billions each year."

The committee proposed a minimum jail sentence of two years for crimes such as
computer hacking and up to five years for aggravated offenses, such as operating
botnets - networks of computers infected with malicious software and then used
to "phish" and "spam."

And what's a "bot-herder"? That's someone who sets up and runs a botnet. For
more on that, read my colleagues Nick Wingfield and Nicole Perlroth on
Microsoft's latest campaign to crack down on internet crime.


     ·    Making Money Keeping Marriage Sexy
     ·    Putin Offers to Save Europe From Decline and Irrelevance
     ·    Greece Opts to Open the Bailout Box


LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                             March 30, 2012 Friday

Chinese Grad Student Hacks Indian Military Research Firms

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 372 words



HIGHLIGHT: More than 200 security breaches reported, all traced to one former
graduate student.


India's military preparedness and the possibility of defense breaches has
dominated the news after Army chief V.K.. Singh's letter to Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh surfaced recently calling India's weapons "obsolete."

Amid a raging debate about who should be blamed for leaking the letter, India's
cyber security is actually under attack, from a Chinese former graduate student
who now works for Tencent, China's leading internet portal company.

Areport released Friday by Trend Micro, a computer security firm, "describes
systematic attacks on at least 233 personal computers," Nicole Perlroth writes
in The New York Times. "The victims include Indian military research
organizations and shipping companies; aerospace, energy and engineering
companies in Japan; and at least 30 computer systems of Tibetan advocacy groups,
according to both the report and interviews with experts connected to the
research. The espionage has been going on for at least 10 months and is
continuing, the report says."

The e-mail "bait" the hackers used to get access to computers is chilling:

Each attack began, as is often the case, with an e-mail intended to lure victims
into opening an attachment. Indian victims were sent an e-mail about India's
ballistic missile defense program. Tibetan advocates received e-mails about
self-immolation or, in one case, a job opening at the Tibet Fund, a nonprofit
based in New York City. After Japan's earthquake and nuclear disaster, victims
in Japan received an e-mail about radiation measurements.

Each e-mail contained an attachment that, when clicked, automatically created a
backdoor from the victim's computer to the attackers' servers. To do this, the
hackers exploited security holes in Microsoft Office and Adobe software. Almost
immediately, they uploaded a directory of the victims' machines to their
servers. If the files looked enticing, hackers installed a remote-access tool,
or rat, which gave them real-time control of their target's machine. As long as
a victim's computer was connected to the Internet, attackers had the ability to
record their keystrokes and passwords, grab screenshots and even crawl from that
machine to other computers in the victim's network.

Read the full article here.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 3, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

How China Steals Our Secrets

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. CLARKE.

Richard A. Clarke, the special adviser to the president for cybersecurity from
2001 to 2003, is the author of ''Cyber War: The Next Threat to National Security
and What to Do About It.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 809 words


Washington

FOR the last two months, senior government officials and private-sector experts
have paraded before Congress and described in alarming terms a silent threat:
cyberattacks carried out by foreign governments. Robert S. Mueller III, the
director of the F.B.I., said cyberattacks would soon replace terrorism as the
agency's No. 1 concern as foreign hackers, particularly from China, penetrate
American firms' computers and steal huge amounts of valuable data and
intellectual property.

It's not hard to imagine what happens when an American company pays for research
and a Chinese firm gets the results free; it destroys our competitive edge.
Shawn Henry, who retired last Friday as the executive assistant director of the
F.B.I. (and its lead agent on cybercrime), told Congress last week of an
American company that had all of its data from a 10-year, $1 billion research
program copied by hackers in one night. Gen. Keith B. Alexander, head of the
military's Cyber Command, called the continuing, rampant cybertheft ''the
greatest transfer of wealth in history.''

Yet the same Congress that has heard all of this disturbing testimony is mired
in disagreements about a proposed cybersecurity bill that does little to address
the problem of Chinese cyberespionage. The bill, which would establish
noncompulsory industry cybersecurity standards, is bogged down in ideological
disputes. Senator John McCain, who dismissed it as a form of unnecessary
regulation, has proposed an alternative bill that fails to address the
inadequate cyberdefenses of companies running the nation's critical
infrastructure. Since Congress appears unable and unwilling to address the
threat, the executive branch must do something to stop it.

In the past, F.B.I. agents parked outside banks they thought were likely to be
robbed and then grabbed the robbers and the loot as they left. Catching the
robbers in cyberspace is not as easy, but snatching the loot is possible.

General Alexander testified last week that his organization saw an inbound
attack that aimed to steal sensitive files from an American arms manufacturer.
The Pentagon warned the company, which had to act on its own. The government did
not directly intervene to stop the attack because no federal agency believes it
currently has the authority or mission to do so.

If given the proper authorization, the United States government could stop files
in the process of being stolen from getting to the Chinese hackers. If
government agencies were authorized to create a major program to grab stolen
data leaving the country, they could drastically reduce today's wholesale theft
of American corporate secrets.

Many companies do not even know when they have been hacked. According to
Congressional testimony last week, 94 percent of companies served by the
computer-security firm Mandiant were unaware that they had been victimized. And
although the Securities and Exchange Commission has urged companies to reveal
when they have been victims of cyberespionage, most do not. Some, including
Sony, Citibank, Lockheed, Booz Allen, Google, EMC and the Nasdaq have admitted
to being victims. The government-owned National Laboratories and federally
funded research centers have also been penetrated.

Because it is fearful that government monitoring would be seen as a cover for
illegal snooping and a violation of citizens' privacy, the Obama administration
has not even attempted to develop a proposal for spotting and stopping vast
industrial espionage. It fears a negative reaction from privacy-rights and
Internet-freedom advocates who do not want the government scanning Internet
traffic. Others in the administration fear further damaging relations with
China. Some officials also fear that standing up to China might trigger
disruptive attacks on America's vulnerable computer-controlled infrastructure.

But by failing to act, Washington is effectively fulfilling China's research
requirements while helping to put Americans out of work. Mr. Obama must confront
the cyberthreat, and he does not even need any new authority from Congress to do
so.

Under Customs authority, the Department of Homeland Security could inspect what
enters and exits the United States in cyberspace. Customs already looks online
for child pornography crossing our virtual borders. And under the Intelligence
Act, the president could issue a finding that would authorize agencies to scan
Internet traffic outside the United States and seize sensitive files stolen from
within our borders.

And this does not have to endanger citizens' privacy rights. Indeed, Mr. Obama
could build in protections like appointing an empowered privacy advocate who
could stop abuses or any activity that went beyond halting the theft of
important files.

If Congress will not act to protect America's companies from Chinese
cyberthreats, President Obama must.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                             April 3, 2012 Tuesday

Lineup Coming Together for Tribute to Curtis Mayfield

BYLINE: BEN SISARIO

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 175 words



HIGHLIGHT: Kyp Malone, Tunde Adebimpe and Mavis Staples are among those who will
take part in a tribute to Curtis Mayfield at the Lincoln Center Festival in
July.


A super-fly lineup is taking shape for the 70th-birthday tribute to Curtis
Mayfield at the Lincoln Center Festival this summer. So far Lincoln Center has
signed up Kyp Malone and Tunde Adebimpe of TV on the Radio; the gospel and soul
star Mavis Staples; Dr. Lonnie Smith, the jazz organist; and the young rapper
and singer Aloe Blacc.

They -- and others to be announced, Lincoln Center said -- will perform with the
current version of the Impressions, Mayfield's classic vocal group of the 1960s,
and a 14-piece band under the direction of the Dap-Kings guitarist Binky
Griptite. (The current Impressions include Sam Gooden, who has been with the
group since 1958; Fred Cash, a member since 1960; and Reggie Torian, who joined
in 1973.) Mayfield died in 1999 at age 57.

The concert will be on July 20 at Avery Fisher Hall.


     ·    Aretha Franklin Plans a New Album With Clive Davis
     ·    Seriously Retro: Some 78s for Record Store Day
     ·    Adele and Houston Grammy Booms Continue
     ·    Winehouse Foundation Establishes Scholarship
     ·    Cyber Furor Over Chris Brown's Appearance at Grammys


LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                             April 5, 2012 Thursday

On Bullying: Resources and Questions for Writing or Discussion

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN and HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1173 words



HIGHLIGHT: An updated collection of resources on a topic regularly in the news
for the past two years. Has all the attention on this subject helped? Tell us
your thoughts.


  Updated | October 16, 2012 with a new photograph, more resources and links for
easier navigation.

Use the links below to navigate this page to find resources on bullying and
cyberbullying:


     ·    Some Questions for Discussion or Writing
     ·    Learning Network Lesson Plans and Other Teaching Materials
     ·    Learning Network Student Opinion Questions
     ·    New York Times Articles
     ·    New York Times Opinion Pieces
     ·    Other Resources on the Web


After Phoebe Prince died, we asked students, What Can Be Done to Stop Bullying?
Later that year, when Tyler Clementi committed suicide, we asked What Should the
Punishment Be for Acts of Cyberbullying? Hundreds of students wrote in to
discuss both questions. That summer, we also posted a collection of resources on
bullying for teachers and parents.

In May of 2012 we collaborated with the Op-Ed columnist Nicholas D. Kristof to
hold an essay contest on bullying. Here, he writes about the contest winners in
his column.

Bullying and cyberbullying seem to be in the news more than ever. Visit the
related Times Topics page and you'll find articles about:


     ·    the trial of Dharun Ravi and Rutgers University one year after the
          suicide of Tyler Clementi;
     ·    a TV anchor who stands up to "bully" a viewer who complains about her
          weight;
     ·    the controversy over the 2012 "Bully" documentary;
     ·    charges of antigay bullying in student suicides in Minnesota;
     ·    and news of a number of initiatives - from state curriculums to a
          White House conference to a foundation created by Lady Gaga - devoted
          to addressing the problem.


What do you think: Has all the attention to this subject by parents, educators,
legislators and filmmakers helped?

Below you'll find our new, comprehensive list of resources, including lesson
plans, Times articles, links to organizations around the Web, and a list of
questions that we hope will inspire writing and discussion on this important
subject.

Some Questions for Discussion or Writing

The following questions are suggested by the related Times or Learning Network
materials that are linked above them.

From "Teenagers Tell Researchers It's a Cruel, Cruel Online World":


     ·    Have you witnessed "people being mean or cruel" online, as 88 percent
          of teens say they have? Have you joined in?
     ·    How can the use of social media "echo and amplify" bullying?


From "Bullying Law Puts New Jersey Schools on Spot":


     ·    Do you agree with the statement, "There is no such thing as an
          innocent bystander when it comes to bullying"?
     ·    Are laws like New Jersey's Anti-Bullying Bill of Rights necessary, or
          do they go too far?


From "Gossip Girls and Boys Get Lessons in Empathy":


     ·    Can empathy be taught?


From an Op-Ed,  "Bullying as True Drama":


     ·    Would you say there is bullying in your school, or would you just say
          there is "drama"?
     ·    What's the difference between "drama" and behavior that is more
          serious?
     ·    Why might the language adults use to talk about bullying ("victim" and
          " perpetrator," for instance) be alienating to young adults?


From "Behind Every Harassed Child? A Whole Lot of Clueless Adults," A.O. Scott's
review of the movie "Bully":


     ·    How can adults - often unwittingly - contribute to the problem of
          bullying?
     ·    To what extent do you think cruelty is "embedded" in our schools and
          in our society as a whole?


From "The Bleakness of the Bullied," Charles M. Blow's column about the bullying
he endured at age 8:


     ·    How does it feel to a child to be bullied?


From our lesson plan, 'A Troubling Trend': Discussing Bullying and Anti-Gay
Attitudes:


     ·    What, if anything, can be done to make schools safer and more
          inclusive?


Learning Network Resources

Lesson Plans and Other Teaching Materials:

Lesson | 'A Troubling Trend': Discussing Bullying and Anti-Gay Attitudes

Reader Idea | A Student-Driven Bullying Curriculum

Lesson | No Place for Bullies: Holding Anonymous Discussions to Reflect on
Solutions

Lesson | Does Motivation Matter? Debating the Legal Category of Hate Crime

Lesson | Who's Got the Power? Reflecting on Healthy and Abusive Relationship
Dynamics

Lesson | Responding in Kind: Writing Essays About Choosing Kindness in the Face
of Cruelty

Lesson | Many Reasons Why: Reflecting on Teen Depression

Lesson | Monkey See, Monkey Do: Considering the Social Ecosystems of Schools by
Learning About a Baboon Troop

Lesson | Hall Monitors: Investigating Violence in Schools

Guest Post | 10 Ways to Talk to Students About Sensitive Issues in the News

Reading Club | Should Character Be Taught? Students Weigh In

Teaching Resources Series | Adolescent Health

Q. and A. | How Facebook Use Correlates With Student Outcomes

Student Opinion Questions:
 All of the following questions are still open to student comment:

Does Mitt Romney's High School Bullying Matter?

Should the R Rating for 'Bully' Be Changed?

Can Kindness Become Cool?

How Should Schools Address Bullying?

What Should the Punishment Be for Acts of Cyberbullying?

What Can Be Done to Stop Bullying?

How Do You Use Facebook?

How Much Do You Gossip?

Who Has the Power in School Social Life?

Are You Popular, Quirky or Conformist?

Do You Unknowingly Submit to Peer Pressure?

Does Your Digital Life Have Side Effects?

Selected Recent New York Times Content:

Articles:

On Facebook, Bullies 'Like' if You Hate

School Bullies Prey on Children With Autism

Family of Boy, 12, Who Hanged Himself Points to Bullying

A Star Athlete Makes a Big Move Off the Field

Film Review: "Behind Every Harassed Child? A Whole Lot of Clueless Adults"

"Bullying Law Puts New Jersey Schools on Spot"

"In Suburb, Battle Goes Public on Bullying of Gay Students"

"Minnesota School District Reaches Agreement on Preventing Gay Bullying"

Motherlode: "What Works to End Bullying?"

Motherlode: "How Do We Define Bullying?"

"Accusations of Bullying After Death of Staten Island Teenager"

SchoolBook: "Bullying Changes a School, One Child at a Time"

Well: "Talking About the It Gets Better Project"

"Rutgers Verdict Repudiates Notion of Youth as Defense"

From the Opinion Pages:

Nicholas D. Kristof: The Winning Essays Are ...

Nicholas D. Kristof: "Born to Not Get Bullied"

Bill Keller: "Tyler and Trayvon"

Bill Keller: "Tyler and Trayvon, Continued ..."

Charles M. Blow: "The Bleakness of the Bullied"

Op-Ed: "Bullying as True Drama"

Op-Ed: "Make the Punishment Fit the Cyber-Crime"

Times Multimedia

Interactive | Coming Out: Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender Teenagers Talk
About Their Lives

Slide Show | In Skidmore, Mo., a Killing Lingers

 Other Resources on the Web

The Bully Documentary Project | Toolkit for EducatorsThe Bully Documentary
Project | Share Your Bully StoriesU.S. Department of Education |
StopBullying.govBit Strips | Stop Bullying Comic ChallengeNational Council of
Teachers of English | Resolution on Confronting Bullying and HarassmentMedline
Plus | BullyingThe It Gets Better ProjectEducation.com | BullyingNational Crime
Prevention Council | BullyingTeaching Tolerance | Bullying


     ·    How Should Schools Address Bullying?
     ·    How Should Educators and Legislators Deal With Minors Who 'Sext'?
     ·    Do You Ever 'Mix It Up' and Socialize With Different People at School?
     ·    Rutgers Spying Defendant Sentenced to 30-Day Jail Term
     ·    Should the R Rating for 'Bully' Be Changed?


LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             April 10, 2012 Tuesday

One on One: Asheem Chandna, Venture Capitalist

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1245 words



HIGHLIGHT: Asheem Chandna, a partner at Greylock Partners, is a board member at
Imperva and Palo Alto Networks and an investor in more than a dozen
security-focused start-ups. He talks about how the nature of the cybersecurity
threat is changing and what opportunities lie ahead.


Every week now, we get a jolting reminder of just how vulnerable our personal,
financial and national security information is to hackers - and how inadequate
existing security solutions have become.

But here in Silicon Valley, for all the feverish talk of innovation and
billion-dollar start-ups, few entrepreneurs and investors seem eager to take on
the security juggernauts Symantec and McAfee and address what has become a
growing and complex threat.

They would do well to pay more attention. Imperva, a data security company that
went public last year, finished 2011 as the year's top performing initial public
offering. Its stock jumped 93 percent from its first day of trading. By
comparison, shares of LinkedIn, arguably the year's most anticipated offering,
rose 40 percent.

This year, Silicon Valley and Wall Street are salivating over Facebook's
impending I.P.O. But a smaller faction is awaiting the public debut of Splunk, a
big-data security company that plans to go public at a $946 million valuation.
Others are watching Palo Alto Networks, a fast-growing maker of online security
products that filed to go public last Friday.

Asheem Chandna, a partner at Greylock Partners, is a board member at Imperva and
Palo Alto Networks and an investor in more than a dozen security-focused
start-ups. He talks in this edited interview about how the nature of the
cybersecurity threat is changing and what opportunities lie ahead.

Q. We hear about consumer Internet companies like Facebook, Twitter and more
recently, Pinterest, all the time. But less attention is given to - and there
seems to be less innovation and investment in - cybersecurity. Why?

 A. We're starting to see a resurgence in the number of pitches for
security-focused start-ups. Corporations continue to cite security as a growing
and significant priority. This year, they are expected to spend over $30 billion
on security products.

A lot of chief security officers compare the security world to their television.
They have seven different remote controls but none communicate with one another.
When is the security world going to develop a universal remote?

Unfortunately, utopia is not around the corner. The complexity of the threat
continues and the technology is still catching up. But there is lot of room for
innovation ahead. Right now, corporate security spending can be broken down into
three large buckets: identity management and authentication tools; antivirus
solutions; and network security, which includes firewalls and intrusion
detection systems. But chief security officers continue to deploy these
technologies separately and I haven't seen many start-ups that are looking to
bridge that gap.

So where are you seeing the bulk of the innovation?

We've seen tons of pitches around mobile security. Also, intrusion detection and
prevention systems. A third area would be companies that are applying big data
to security threats. A fourth is cyber weaponry. Entrepreneurs are building
software exploits that give governments the ability to monitor and, if needed,
attack individuals or governments in foreign countries.

Have you backed any cyber weaponry start-ups?

No, we have not. You have to ask whether a company like that could ever go
public. Also, you would want to be sure that the business is completely aligned
with the U.S. government - that they would not just sell their technology to the
highest foreign bidder.

You mentioned "big data." IBM recently came out with a new "big data" security
solution. So did Cisco. Both claim to identify rogue employees and hackers
before they steal critical information, but it is still unclear how effective
these systems can be. Are we starting to see the fruits of big data analysis? Or
is it too early?

It's still early to see the fruits of big data analysis applied to security. The
foundational technologies are only now becoming available to customers. The
predictive analytics are yet to come.

Employees continue to bring their personal devices to work and bring proprietary
data home. What are companies doing to address the "B.Y.O.D." - Bring Your Own
Device - phenomenon?

More companies are allowing employees to bring their own devices to work. We're
seeing  a boom in mobile device management and application management software.
We backed Zenprise. Their technology allows organizations to let employees bring
whatever device they want into the workplace. It gives I.T. departments full
control over corporate data on the device and allows employees to still maintain
privacy around their personal data and apps. If an employee's device gets lost,
for example, the I.T. department has the ability to erase any sensitive,
corporate data from afar without touching any of the employee's personal data.

BlackBerry used to be businesses' de facto device. Now that RIM is declining in
popularity, which device will replace the BlackBerry?

Clearly Apple has invaded the enterprise with iPhones and iPads. That will
continue to be the case, though Android is gaining share, especially abroad.
Windows 8 is still the wild card.

The National Security Agency recently developed a secure Android phone. Will we
see more of this?

Government agencies are looking to develop locked-down versions of mobile
devices, with stripped down operating systems and additional layers of security
wrapped around. Android is going to be deployed by government and intelligence
agencies looking to develop such devices.

You're a member of the Defense Venture Catalyst Initiative (DeVenCI). What is
it?

The DeVenCi program was set up by the Department of Defense to bypass
bureaucracy and accelerate the deployment of new defense technologies. Two-dozen
venture capitalists are actively helping match up the D.O.D. with new start-ups.
They will periodically send us their requirements and outline new areas where
they need help and we will try to pair them up with smaller companies.

Where are they looking for help?

Across the board. The U.S. government is about to dramatically increase its
spend on cyber. In the past it was difficult for smaller companies to access
government budgets because they had to go through approved purchasing lists and
deal with middlemen at government approved contractors like Honeywell and
Northrop Grumman. These avenues are starting to open because the government
realizes it needs to get access to these technologies much quicker. They can't
afford to wait.

How is the nature of the cybersecurity threat changing?

If you went back a decade ago, hackers were in it for bragging rights. Today, it
has evolved into a much more sophisticated threat. The commercial dollars at
stake are much higher now. And we're seeing foreign governments spy on
corporations and government agencies. When I speak with sources inside
Washington, many acknowledge that China has recruited a huge pool of "personnel"
focused on cyber and that it is much larger than anything the U.S. has in place.

The U.S. is at risk of falling behind on the battlefield of the future. D.C. is
increasingly reaching out to Silicon Valley because they have to accelerate the
deployment of new technologies. They've typically parachuted in and flown back,
but they may want to consider setting up a permanent government outpost here.


     ·    Daily Report: Old Money, New Tech
     ·    Security Event Features Fearmongers, Buzzwords and a Love for
          Anonymous
     ·    Security Meeting Focuses on the Basics
     ·    I.B.M. Turns to Big Data Algorithms for Computer Security
     ·    A Start-Up Rewards Savers, Not Spenders


LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             April 10, 2012 Tuesday

One on One: Asheem Chandna, Venture Capitalist

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1011 words



HIGHLIGHT: Asheem Chandna, a partner at Greylock Partners, is a board member at
Imperva and Palo Alto Networks and an investor in more than a dozen
security-focused start-ups. He talks about how the nature of the cybersecurity
threat is changing and what opportunities lie ahead.


Every week now, we get a jolting reminder of just how vulnerable our personal,
financial and national security information is to hackers - and how inadequate
existing security solutions have become.

But here in Silicon Valley, for all the feverish talk of innovation and
billion-dollar start-ups, few entrepreneurs and investors seem eager to take on
the security juggernauts Symantec and McAfee and address what has become a
growing and complex threat.

They would do well to pay more attention. Imperva, a data security company that
went public last year, finished 2011 as the year's top performing initial public
offering. Its stock jumped 93 percent from its first day of trading. By
comparison, shares of LinkedIn, arguably the year's most anticipated offering,
rose 40 percent.

This year, Silicon Valley and Wall Street are salivating over Facebook's
impending I.P.O. But a smaller faction is awaiting the public debut of Splunk, a
big-data security company that plans to go public at a $946 million valuation.
Others are watching Palo Alto Networks, a fast-growing maker of online security
products that filed to go public last Friday.

Asheem Chandna, a partner at Greylock Partners, is a board member at Imperva and
Palo Alto Networks and has invested in more than a dozen security-focused
start-ups. He talks in this edited interview about how the nature of the
cybersecurity threat is changing and what opportunities lie ahead.

Q.


A.

We're starting to see a resurgence in the number of pitches for security-focused
start-ups. Corporations continue to cite security as a growing and significant
priority. This year, they are expected to spend over $30 billion on security
products.

Q.


A.

Unfortunately, utopia is not around the corner. The complexity of the threat
continues and the technology is still catching up. But there is lot of room for
innovation ahead. Right now, corporate security spending can be broken down into
three large buckets: identity management and authentication tools; antivirus
solutions; and network security, which includes firewalls and intrusion
detection systems. But chief security officers continue to deploy these
technologies separately and I haven't seen many start-ups that are looking to
bridge that gap.

Q.


A.

We've seen tons of pitches around mobile security. Also, intrusion detection and
prevention systems. A third area would be companies that are applying big data
to security threats. A fourth is cyber weaponry. Entrepreneurs are building
software exploits that give governments the ability to monitor and, if needed,
attack individuals or governments in foreign countries.

Q.


A.

No, we have not. You have to ask whether a company like that could ever go
public. Also, you would want to be sure that the business is completely aligned
with the U.S. government - that they would not just sell their technology to the
highest foreign bidder.

Q.


A.

It's still early to see the fruits of big data analysis applied to security. The
foundational technologies are only now becoming available to customers. The
predictive analytics are yet to come.

Q.


A.

More companies are allowing employees to bring their own devices to work. We're
seeing  a boom in mobile device management and application management software.
We backed Zenprise. Their technology allows organizations to let employees bring
whatever device they want into the workplace. It gives I.T. departments full
control over corporate data on the device and allows employees to still maintain
privacy around their personal data and apps. If an employee's device gets lost,
for example, the I.T. department has the ability to erase any sensitive,
corporate data from afar without touching any of the employee's personal data.

Q.


A.

Clearly Apple has invaded the enterprise with iPhones and iPads. That will
continue to be the case, though Android is gaining share, especially abroad.
Windows 8 is still the wild card.

Q.


A.

Government agencies are looking to develop locked-down versions of mobile
devices, with stripped down operating systems and additional layers of security
wrapped around. Android is going to be deployed by government and intelligence
agencies looking to develop such devices.

Q.


A.

The DeVenCi program was set up by the Department of Defense to bypass
bureaucracy and accelerate the deployment of new defense technologies. Two-dozen
venture capitalists are actively helping match up the D.O.D. with new start-ups.
They will periodically send us their requirements and outline new areas where
they need help and we will try to pair them up with smaller companies.

Q.


A.

Across the board. The U.S. government is about to dramatically increase its
spend on cyber. In the past it was difficult for smaller companies to access
government budgets because they had to go through approved purchasing lists and
deal with middlemen at government approved contractors like Honeywell and
Northrop Grumman. These avenues are starting to open because the government
realizes it needs to get access to these technologies much quicker. They can't
afford to wait.

Q.


A.

If you went back a decade ago, hackers were in it for bragging rights. Today, it
has evolved into a much more sophisticated threat. The commercial dollars at
stake are much higher now. And we're seeing foreign governments spy on
corporations and government agencies. When I speak with sources inside
Washington, many acknowledge that China has recruited a huge pool of "personnel"
focused on cyber and that it is much larger than anything the U.S. has in place.

The U.S. is at risk of falling behind on the battlefield of the future. D.C. is
increasingly reaching out to Silicon Valley because they have to accelerate the
deployment of new technologies. They've typically parachuted in and flown back,
but they may want to consider setting up a permanent government outpost here.


     ·    Daily Report: Old Money, New Tech
     ·    Security Event Features Fearmongers, Buzzwords and a Love for
          Anonymous
     ·    Security Meeting Focuses on the Basics
     ·    I.B.M. Turns to Big Data Algorithms for Computer Security
     ·    A Start-Up Rewards Savers, Not Spenders


LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

To Replace Bin Laden on Most Wanted List, a Teacher in a Pornography Case

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 718 words


WASHINGTON -- Shortly after Osama bin Laden was killed last May, the Federal
Bureau of Investigation sent out a request to field offices across the country:
Nominate fugitives who could fill bin Laden's place on the bureau's 10 Most
Wanted list.

The choice is more complicated than simply finding a violent criminal who has
committed a high-profile crime. In recent years, bureau officials have also
tried to select other dangerous fugitives who may have been hiding in plain
sight but could be recognized by the public because they have distinctive
physical features.

On Tuesday, the F.B.I. finally filled bin Laden's place on the list, adding Eric
J. Toth, a schoolteacher from the Washington area accused of possessing child
pornography. It was the first time since 2009 that the F.B.I. had added a
fugitive to the list.

''We have had a couple of vacancies on the list that we've been trying to
fill,'' said Kevin L. Perkins, the F.B.I.'s acting executive director for
criminal and cyber operations, referring to the spots left by bin Laden and the
Boston crime boss James (Whitey) Bulger, who was arrested last June.

In fact, just last month, officials were preparing to ask the bureau's director
for approval to choose a fugitive accused of killing three police officers in
Puerto Rico. But then that person was caught.

Using most-wanted posters to enlist the public's help in catching criminals
dates to the early part of J. Edgar Hoover's tenure as the head of the F.B.I. in
the early 1930s, when the face of the notorious bank robber John Dillinger was
on a ''public enemies list.''

In 1950, the bureau began using the list of 10 Most Wanted Fugitives. The first,
Thomas Holden, was accused of killing his wife and two brothers-in-law. A little
more than a year later, he was caught and ultimately sent to prison on Alcatraz
Island in San Francisco.

Since then, the F.B.I. has caught 464 of 494 fugitives on the list. Some have
been captured quickly: Billie Austin Bryant, wanted for the murder of two F.B.I.
agents, was apprehended in 1969 just two hours after being added. A suspect in
an armed robbery, Victor Manuel Gerena, has evaded authorities since 1983.

As American society has changed, so too has the list. For decades, the F.B.I.
list was displayed in post offices. But as the number of postal patrons has
dropped, the bureau has put the list on social networking sites like Facebook
and Twitter, and on billboards.

''It's a big country, and you can easily hide if you are a fugitive,'' said
Thomas W. Repetto, the author of several books on crime and policing. ''But when
you get on the list, you are pretty close to getting caught. Sometimes it takes
time, but if you are a fleeing criminal it is not a good place to be.''

The types of ''most-wanted'' criminals have also changed. Instead of
highlighting just the most violent and high-profile criminals, ''every once in a
while we break the mold,'' Mr. Perkins said, referring to the choice of
physically distinctive fugitives.

That said, six of the fugitives on the current list are accused of murder.

Mr. Toth, the fugitive added to the list on Tuesday, was arrested in 2008 after
child pornography images were found on a camera in his possession. He
disappeared shortly thereafter.

Mr. Toth, 30, attended Cornell for a year before transferring to Purdue
University, where he graduated with an education degree. He ''has often been
described as a computer 'expert' and has demonstrated above-average knowledge
regarding computers, the Internet, and security awareness,'' according to
information released by the F.B.I. on Tuesday.

The F.B.I. said that Mr. Toth ''possesses an education background conducive to
gaining employment in fields having a connection to children'' and that he might
advertise himself as a tutor. Since 2008, he is believed to have traveled to
Virginia, Illinois, Indiana, Wisconsin, Minnesota and Arizona.

The authorities believe they have a good chance of catching Mr. Toth because he
has distinctive features.

''He has a mole under one of his eyes. He is tall and lanky,'' Mr. Perkins said.
''He is the type of person that I hope, with a little exposure from being on the
Top 10 list, will lead to individuals calling in, saying, 'That guy works in a
day care center,' or is a teaching assistant or works down the street.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eric J. Toth, a teacher from the Washington area, was added to
the F.B.I. list on Tuesday. Osama bin Laden, his predecessor on the list, was
pictured with other fugitives in October 2001. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN
CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            April 12, 2012 Thursday

Sony Chief Unveils Plans to Revive Company

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 68 words



HIGHLIGHT: Kazuo Hirai said he would focus Sony's resources away from its
unprofitable television business and more toward mobile devices, cameras and
games. Read more »


Kazuo Hirai said he would focus Sony's resources away from its unprofitable
television business and more toward mobile devices, cameras and games. Read more
»


     ·    Sony Offers a Perpetual Game With the Vita
     ·    New Chief Takes on a Sony That Is a Shadow of Its Former Self
     ·    The BlackBerry, Trying to Avoid the Hall of Fallen Giants
     ·    Insurance Against Cyber Attacks Expected to Boom
     ·    Sony Keeps Its Wager on Game Consoles With Vita


LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 15, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Out of Adversity, Visions of Life

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; AN ART CRITIC IN AFRICA;
Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2278 words


ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast

SALIF DIABAGATE, an artist here in this nation's financial capital, stands by a
pile of sodden debris outside his bungalow studio. He reaches for a bit of
sticking-out cloth, gives it a tug, then pulls until he frees some canvas
painted with symbols and words. He spreads it out, creased and dirty, on the
ground.

''I made this to look like a traditional hunter's shirt with amulets and
talismans,'' he says, pointing to small pouches sewn on the painting's surface.
''The soldiers must have thought it was dangerous. Bad magic.''

The soldiers were government troops who, a year earlier, had broken into the
studio and bivouacked there when violence gripped Abidjan during the climax of a
decade of civil war. Mr. Diabagate, now in his early 40s, was in Berlin for a
show when ''the crisis,'' as it is called, erupted. He couldn't get back until
it was over. By then the damage was done. The soldiers had burned his sculptures
and dumped his paintings in the rain.

Could this one be salvaged? Probably not. He'd have to focus on making new work,
though no one was buying. ''Art is what you give up,'' he says, ''if you're
trying to hold on to cash.''

Even in stable times life can be hard for artists in West Africa. Not that art
ever stops being made. Cities like Abidjan, Dakar in Senegal, and Bamako in Mali
are saturated in it. Murals cover public walls and the sides of trucks and
buses. Pottery, metalwork and weaving, in styles new and old, fill open-air
markets. Portraits of jazzy beauties, Sufi saints and culture heroes (Che,
Mandela, Obama, Madonna) are for sale everywhere.

But the elements that in the West make a healthy contemporary scene --
galleries, museums, collectors, journals, critics and a steady, responsive
audience -- are in short supply. And the degree of isolation of individual
artists from others across the continent and from art developments worldwide is
almost inconceivable to an urban Westerner who takes instant global
communication for granted.

Both despite and because of such isolation, local artist networks coalesce
occasionally into tight and efficient collectives like Huit Facettes in Dakar,
more often as loose affinity groups of fellow art students and friends. For a
visitor, like this art critic on a monthlong trip in Africa, such groups can be
difficult to find in cities that have nothing resembling art neighborhoods. But
they're there.

So are a few alternative spaces, conceived on a Western model, often with
Western backing, like Raw Material Company in Dakar; Appartement 22 in Rabat,
Morocco; and Zoma Contemporary Center in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Raw Material,
run by Kuoho Koyo, a curator from Cameroon, encompasses a gallery, a library
stocked with foreign catalogs and magazines, and a cafe-bar. It's more than just
an urbane hangout. You could practically live there.

And there is one large-scale mechanism for artists in West Africa to show their
work: the broad, typically biennial surveys of new art. Bankrolled by government
money -- much of this comes from France, which still wields powerful cultural
influence over its former colonies -- these showcases are designed to grab
global attention and bring in the larger art world.

Yet even in these ostensibly international forums Africa and its artists remain
oddly set apart. The two oldest still-functioning events of this kind in Africa,
Dak'Art in Senegal and the Photography Biennial in Bamako, are restricted to
exhibiting primarily artists from this continent (or, rarely, foreign artists of
African descent). Partly for that reason attendance stays small. From outside,
these shows are seen as provincial; at home, they're viewed as events for
foreigners.

And whether they're strong or weak -- the 2011 Bamako biennial, in late fall,
was strong, visually ambitious and cosmopolitan in its thinking -- they suggest
some basic questions about contemporary art here and across the continent.

What, for example, does the ''African'' in African contemporary art mean, if
anything? Is African, as a brand, an asset or a liability? Must art signal its
African-ness -- make reference, say, to traditional forms or African subjects --
to succeed in an exotica-loving global market? Likewise, can updated versions of
traditional African forms -- ceramics, for example, or performance -- be
presented as contemporary, without forfeiting, to Western eyes, an aura of
authenticity?

In the end these questions fold into a more general one: How can 21st-century
Africa, on its own terms, join the larger world? AT LEAST AT ONE TIME AND IN ONE
PLACE African contemporary art meant something positive and functionally
specific: in Senegal during the immediate postcolonial era, the arts were a
cornerstone of a national developmental strategy.

Under the label Negritude, Leopold Sedar Senghor, the Paris-educated poet who
became his country's first president in 1960, promoted an aesthetic that blended
African culture, black racial consciousness and European Modernism. Artists who
adhered to his racial philosophy and his approved painting style --
semi-abstraction incorporating tribal motifs -- got lots of exposure. Senghor
pushed their careers hard at home and abroad.

After he left office in 1980, however, the state support ended. Resistant art
trends had sprung up, and Negritude fell into disesteem. Critics were calling it
a tool of power politics designed to aggrandize a leader. They viewed its
celebration of blackness, simultaneously ingratiating and isolating, as
neo-colonialist in its effect, calculated to keep African art from integrating
internationally.

More than half a century later Negritude's uneasy ghost lingers. But many
younger artists born during the Senghor years are fed up with its latter-day
incarnation, Afrocentricity, which they find constricting and retrograde. The
Senegalese painter Soly Cisse, who was born in 1969, exhibits internationally
and divides his time between Dakar and Europe, points to an art education system
that has Negritude veterans as its high-ranking teachers. ''Art is a way of
looking at the world, whether you're black or white,'' he says. ''Identity in
Africa is a prison.''

Walk through the streets of Dakar, Abidjan or Bamako and the first impression is
of wide-open vitality: of unrushed, everyday busyness, constant but rarely
chaotic. Ask a question, and you're likely to find yourself in a fast-moving
conversation, which will often touch, volubly, on local and national politics.

That vitality came through in the recent Bamako photography biennial, which took
place well before the recent military coup and rebel separatist incursions that
have thrown the country into turmoil. Subtitled ''For a Sustainable World,'' it
was an intensely, topically African show. Many of the most vivid images were of
ecological nightmares in progress throughout West Africa. A separate North
African section documented the inebriating first days of the Arab Spring. The
photographs made clear that no one is more alert to Africa's problems and
promise than Africans themselves.

Photography has an interesting history on the continent. It arrived in the
mid-19th century and was soon being used by Africans and Europeans alike,
interchangeably, often for commercial purposes. So it doesn't come, as oil
painting does, with cultural baggage. Photography is equally Western and
African, always modern, and in the digital age easy to distribute and market.

For those reasons, among others, it was the medium that finally put contemporary
African art on the market radar a few decades ago. The specific images that
caught on were portraits of urban Africans taken from the 1940s through the
1960s by two Malian photographers, Seydou Keita (1921-2001) and Malick Sidibe,
now in his 70s. Both men worked out of cramped storefront shops in Bamako -- Mr.
Sidibe's studio is still in operation -- making the city a natural site for the
biennial.

Yet the show itself demonstrates a basic bind that a lot of African artists find
themselves in. The biennial started in 1994 as an informal collaboration among
several French and Malian photographers who, working in teams, took Mali as
their subject and exhibited the results in Bamako, then in Paris. The Paris show
was a hit, and the French government agreed to finance the project as a biannual
event. But with sponsorship came guidelines: The biennial would be all, or at
least mostly, African.

The decision raised protests. Why must African art continue to be corralled off
into an ethnographic corner, pigeonholed by place of origin, particularly when
the medium being used is culturally neutral? Isn't an all-African show yet
another example of how the global -- that is, Western -- market espouses
diversity but insists on separation, imposes isolation in the form of
acceptance? (These questions were not lost on some of the show's organizers, who
a few years back changed the official exhibition title from ''Biennial of
African Photography'' to ''African Photography Biennial.'')

But there were solid counterarguments too -- for example, that opportunities for
African artists to show their work are so few that the biennial should be
devoted to providing them. Even more important, an all-African show would,
ideally, allow Africans to control their own image, to replace the
Afro-pessimism commonly seen in the international media with a nuanced vision of
the continent. By projecting such a view African artists could both affirm their
origins and claim their place in a global society.

And nuanced the 2011 biennial was, as it took you from cyber-revolutionaries in
Tunis to e-waste dumps in Accra and on to fantasy Africas, future and past. The
show would have looked striking anywhere. In Bamako -- a huge, impoverished,
low-rise village of a city on the Niger River -- it looked both on target and
strikingly anomalous, spread over a half-dozen locations and out into the
streets in the form of bannerlike enlargements.

The artists, flown in for the opening, huddled and buzzed, connecting up with at
least a few curators and collectors, and with African colleagues they otherwise
would never have met. The biennial itself wasn't getting much traffic, though:
early reports of terrorist attacks in northern Mali were starting to keep
travelers away. But with a spinoff exhibition due to open in Paris, Africa's
boundaries seem to be expanding. The mood was upbeat. ABIDJAN HAS BEEN UPBEAT
TOO. In December its skyscraper skyline was ablaze with Christmas lights.
Worrisome parliamentary elections went smoothly. People talked about a country
in recovery, speculating that the city would soon again be the French-style
metropolis, with galleries and boutiques, it was before the crisis.

But signs of damage lingered in burned-out buildings and bullet-pocked walls.
And there is evidence that African art's worst enemy can be Africa itself. The
Museum of Civilizations of Ivory Coast near the center of town was closed,
ostensibly for inventory taking after it was looted of millions in art during
the crisis. At one point recently its main exhibition hall was completely bare
except for a few carved masks in storage boxes and a jumble of Christian Lattier
sculptures on the floor.

Lattier was Ivory Coast's greatest 20th-century artist. Born in 1925, he studied
in Paris, where he broke with the French academic practice of modeling in
plaster and began weaving figures from copper wire, a technique used in
traditional African art.

After independence he settled in Abidjan and taught here until his death in
1978. Unattached to any Western movement or style, and undervalued in his home
country in his time, he was a man of conflicts, cultural and personal. You sense
this in his sculptures, made from rice-sack hemp hand-twisted into cords wrapped
around armatures, of freakish animals, crucifixions and sardonic riffs on
traditional African masks -- or rather on Picasso's riffs on such masks. Talk
about international networking: Lattier was an African and a Modernist quoting
Picasso quoting Africa.

Lattier also turned out public sculptures, the best known being an giant relief
called ''The Three Ages of the Cote d'Ivoire'' for Abidjan's international
airport. When the airport was renovated in 2000, the relief was taken down and
carted away. For years it lay, a tangle of frayed cord and rusting metal, on a
patch of grass outside a government building, the Palace of Culture. (It was
recently moved to the National Library.) Periodically Salif Diabagate will bring
interested visitors to see it.

On one fall visit he surveyed the wreck, checking for termites and sweeping away
a pair of discarded trousers left draped over the framework. Lattier, a star of
a high, half-forgotten cultural moment in Africa, is his hero. He remembered
seeing ''The Three Ages of the Cote d'Ivoire'' at the airport as a child: ''I
was blown away by it. Someone told me that there was nobody left who could do
that kind of thing. So I decided I wanted to be an artist.''

For years he has planned to restore the piece, though no one asked him to until
the government started to show interest some months ago. His Abidjian dealer
tells him he's crazy, tells him to make his own art. But saving the Lattier is a
personal matter. It's about preserving African art history, which is also his
own history, and assuring the future of both.

The project will require huge amounts of time, money, labor. With luck the
government will come through with its promised support. Before the crisis, when
he was selling art here and abroad, doing the job out of love seemed possible.
Now it is beyond his means.

AN ART CRITIC IN AFRICA: Seeing culture on its own terms. First of four
articles.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A cyclist passes an ad for the African Photography Biennial,
one of the continent's oldest survey exhibitions, in Bamako, Mali. (AR1)
In Bamako, Mali, budding gallerygoers grabbing a leisurely lawn's-eye view of
offerings at the African Photography Biennial, an ambitious and cosmopolitan
show last year.
The biennial began in 1994 as a French and Malian collaboration. The French now
partly sponsor it, but the artworks are almost entirely African.
Salif Diabagate salvaging work damaged by soldiers who occupied his home during
Ivory Coast's civil war. (AR24)
New technology meeting old practices on the streets of downtown Abidjan, the
financial center for Ivory Coast, in November 2011.
 Mr. Diabagate is determined to restore ''The Three Ages of the Cote d'Ivoire,''
a seminal work by the Ivory Coast great Christian Lattier. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON
WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR25)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 18, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Using His Software Skills With Freedom, Not a Big Payout, in Mind

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER.

E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com; Twitter: @jimdwyernyt

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 779 words


Nadim Kobeissi, master hacker, summoned for interrogation multiple times as a
teenager by cyber-intelligence authorities in Beirut, Lebanon, sat in the
backyard of a restaurant in Brooklyn, astounded that he was being treated to
lunch.

''Please,'' he protested, ''you shouldn't pay for my omelet.''

Mr. Kobeissi, 21, now a college student in Montreal, spent the weekend in New
York City with elders of his tribe, software code writers who have ambitions
that do not involve making suitcases of money off clever applications for
sharing photographs online.

This group was building a project called Cryptocat, which has a simple,
countercultural goal: people should be able to talk on the Internet without
being subjected to commercial or government surveillance.

''The whole point of Cryptocat is that you click a link and you're chatting with
someone over an encrypted chat room,'' said Mr. Kobeissi, who was born in
Lebanon and said he had lived through four wars. ''That's it. You're done. It's
just as easy to use as Facebook chat, Google chat, anything.''

The Arab Spring showed that the power of the Internet and Web communications is
a multi-edged blade, with activists able to organize through social media and to
get their stories out, and authoritarian governments often able to target the
activists by following the trail of digital crumbs.

Among the conspicuous sources of information are the chat transcripts often kept
on commercial servers, making it easy to see who was talking, what they talked
about, and when the conversations took place. Cryptocat and a few other services
disguise the content of chat messages so that they look like gibberish to anyone
who does not have the encryption key. There is nothing new about encryption
technology, but it is a brain-breaking subject, and the tools for using it are
tricky.

Mr. Kobeissi started building Cryptocat a year ago in his bedroom with the goal
of making it simple to encrypt an online conversation. He had help last weekend
from the Guardian Project, a group of developers who are trying to make mobile
phones secure. They figured out a way to encrypt a chat on an Android phone by
shaking it, taking advantage of the motion detectors in many smartphones. This
will generate the digits that are part of the encryption process.

''You can dance with your phone to encrypt it,'' Mr. Kobeissi said.

Up to 10 people can speak privately to one another at a time in a Cryptocat chat
room, a feature that distinguishes it from other encryption chat services. It is
not ready for use by people in life-and-death situations, Mr. Kobeissi said, but
it can give people a place to avoid everyday monitoring of routine conversation.

''Cryptocat is an enabling, positive technology, and it's an alternative,'' said
Jacob Appelbaum, a developer with the Tor project, which routes Web traffic in
ways that help disguise sites that people have visited. ''A key thing here is
that it is an experiment, with valid criticisms. It's not perfect. But it is
important that we have people who are interested and knowledgeable about
computer security who are working on these things, not just for money, and not
just to break into people's computers.''

The group met over the weekend at a code-a-thon organized by Julia Angwin of The
Wall Street Journal, which has chronicled the spread of commercial surveillance
in everyday technology in a vital series of articles and engaging online
demonstrations called What They Know. A recent article in Wired magazine
detailed big advances in United States government surveillance capabilities. Mr.
Appelbaum and a documentary filmmaker, Laura Poitras, are holding a teach-in
Friday evening at the Whitney Museum of American Art on the subject of
surveillance.

The invention of powerful tools to thwart the commercial and governmental
collection of personal data has been criticized as creating hiding places for
terrorists and online sexual predators. Mr. Kobeissi said he had been startled
by those complaints. ''Evil people have been evil forever,'' he said. ''I don't
think they're going to stop being evil or become more evil because of
Cryptocat.''

He appears to be wide open and unguarded about himself.

''I love it when people criticize me,'' he said, pausing for a second and then
amending his words. ''When they criticize me technically.''

His ambitions with Cryptocat are not financial, though he is trying to raise
$2,000 to cover his costs for the next year. ''Money is great, money is
amazing,'' he said. ''It's not like money is something I don't understand. I
understand what it is. I care more about making something nice that people can
use, and it's free and it makes a difference.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nadim Kobeissi, 21, started building the encrypted chat program
Cryptocat. He met other code writers in New York with similar goals over the
weekend. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday

Nissan Is Latest Company to Get Hacked

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 529 words



HIGHLIGHT: Nissan said it was hacked two weeks ago. The intruders stole
employees' log-in credentials, but the company said its intellectual property
and consumer data had not been breached. The incident is just the latest in a
string of cyberattacks on companies, in which the culprit is difficult to trace.



Nissan confirmed its computer systems were hacked two weeks ago.

The Japanese automaker said that hackers broke into its network and stole
employees' usernames and encrypted passwords. The company said it first noticed
an abnormality on its network Friday, April 13, when it discovered a piece of
malicious malware had targeted employees' log-in credentials and was
transmitting them back to an outside computer server. Nissan did not say which
employees had been targeted, what division they worked in or what the intruders
may have been after. The company tracked the intrusions back to an Internet
protocol address, but said it did not give much indication of who was behind the
attack.

"We do know the I.P. addresses but it really does not tell you a whole lot,"
said David Reuter, a Nissan spokesman. "Hackers can bounce things off servers
all over the world, so the entry I.P. address is not necessarily where the hack
originates. The trail goes cold pretty quickly."

Nissan said it waited a week to disclose the attack to customers and employees
while it closed open holes in its network and cleaned up its systems with the
help of outside security consultants. On Friday, Andy Palmer, a Nissan executive
vice president, disclosed the attack in a statement and said there was no
indication any customer, employee or intellectual property data had been stolen.

The attack is just the latest in a string of cyberattacks on corporations, the
majority of which, experts say, go undisclosed or unnoticed.

"There are two types of companies: companies that have been breached and
companies that don't know they've been breached," Shawn Henry, the F.B.I.'s top
former cyber cop who recently joined thecybersecurity start-up CrowdStrike,said
in an interview. "I've seen behind the curtain. I've been in all the briefings.
I can't go into the particulars because it's classified, but the vast majority
of companies have been breached."

Attributing the breaches back to specific actors can be difficult, Mr. Henry
noted, but said "The primary adversary is foreign intelligence services that are
stealing corporate information."

Recently, American officials and security researchers have pointed the finger at
China.

"Japanese industry is very concerned about Chinese intruders, and now it appears
names are coming to public notice," said Richard Bejtlich, the chief security
officer at Mandiant Corporation, a leading incident response and computer
forensics company.

Last month, security researchers were able to trace a widespread computer attack
on companies in Japan and India and on Tibetan activist groups back to specific
hackers in China. And in December, the United States Chamber of Commerce
confirmed that it, too, had been compromised by Chinese hackers.

But, Mr. Henry noted, "Dozens of countries have offensive cyber capabilities and
cyberespionage plans in place. It's not just one particular country that is
doing this."


     ·    Hacked Chamber of Commerce Opposed Cybersecurity Law
     ·    Opinion: The Cybercrime Wave That Wasn't
     ·    Daily Report: Hacking Attacks Are Linked to Man at Chinese Firm
     ·    Cybersecurity Researchers Team Up to Combat Online Crime
     ·    New Interest in Hacking as Threat to Security


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday

Social Media 1, Indian Government 0

BYLINE: HEATHER TIMMONS

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 862 words



HIGHLIGHT: A viral video of the Congress Party's former spokesman illustrates
the difficulty of controlling what is on the Internet.


The futility of the Indian government's attempts to control what is posted on
Facebook, YouTube and other social media sites was thrown into high relief this
week, after a video purportedly showing Congress spokesman Abhishek Manu Singvi
having sex in his office resulted in his resignation.

Mr. Singhvi, who also is a prominent lawyer, said the video was a fake, but
resigned from his spokesman spot and from a parliamentary law committee he
headed Monday evening, to "prevent even the slightest possible parliamentary
disruption," he said in a statement.

The video, which has now been viewed by hundreds of thousands of people on
YouTube and other social media sites, is neither explicit, nor immediately
incriminating - most of it appears to show little more than the top of Mr.
Singhvi's balding head, in profile, bobbing above the top of his desk. He might
be waxing his office floor, or searching somewhat frantically for a dropped
contact lens.

Still, a Delhi High Court injunction on April 13 banned television stations from
broadcasting the video, which was originally distributed to media outlets on a
CD. Perhaps frustrated by their inability to show the footage in question,
India's television news stations have been engaged in unusually highbrow debate
about whether India actually needs stricter privacy laws for public figures.

There's no such talk on social media sites, though.

The video was quickly posted on Facebook, Pirate's Bay and other social media
and video-sharing sites. While a Facebook page especially created for it has
been taken down, there are now dozens of versions of the video on YouTube, in
increasingly pixelated versions as users copy and post it again and again. (One
YouTube user even helpfully posted a video of the Facebook page, and filmed the
process of opening all the links on the page.)

Social media companies received requests from Indian law enforcement officials
and court orders asking them to remove the video, which they did, executives in
social media companies said on background. But it kept popping up again and
again.

Tejinder Pal Singh Bagga of the Delhi-based Bhagat Singh Kranti Sena, a
right-wing group, told wire service IANSthat he posted the video on Twitvid,
which allows users to distribute videos via Twitter. "I am not afraid of these
people and they deserve this," he said. "I am prepared for any consequences," he
said.

Facebook officials said they couldn't comment on the situation. The page in
question that featured the Singhvi video was created with by a "fake" user,
which is against Facebook's rules.

Google received a copy of a generic court order from Mr. Singhvi's lawyers on
April 24 asking it to remove the video, which it followed.

"Our policy prohibits inappropriate content, on YouTube and our community
effectively polices the site for inappropriate material," the company said in an
e-mailed statement. Inappropriate material includes videos that "contain
pornography, harassment, content that violates privacy, illegal acts or explicit
violence violate the YouTube community guidelines," it said. Users can flag
content they feel is inappropriate, she said, and then the company's staff
reviews the content and removes it if it violates guidelines. "In addition,
Google acts to promptly remove an offending video if a court order requires it,"
the statement said.

But since Google has taken down the first offensive videos and copies of videos,
others have sprung up. Per Google's general policy, these will only be removed
if YouTube users or others complain about them.

On Wednesday, the Delhi High Court dismissed a petition by the Bar Council of
Delhi (of which Mr. Singhvi is a member) seeking to take action against Mr.
Singhvi's driver, who had allegedly originally distributed the CD.

Investigating who first introduced the video to social media sites and
circulated it there is next to impossible, Internet experts say.

"No country, even though its law might say so, is able to exercise jurisdiction
across the world" on the Internet, said Sunil Abraham, the executive director of
Bangalore's Center for Internet and Society, a research and advocacy group.
Because India does not have a bilateral cyber-crime agreement with the United
States (as the European Union does), getting American companies like Facebook
and Google to take down or investigate the source of content that offends Indian
government officials can be a slow and cumbersome process, he said.

The Indian government may never be able to track down who first posted the
video, Mr. Abraham said. "Drawing a chain of causality and trying to arrive at
the first person who introduced it onto the Internet is a bit of a complicated
task," he said. "Even if you find one version of the story, there might be
another one," he said. In addition, the Indian government might only be able to
access records from Indian telecommunications providers, he said, and related to
Indian ISP addresses.


     ·    The Politics of Pandering in India
     ·    Bickering and Government Inaction Marked the Year in India
     ·    Will the Middle Class Stick by Team Anna?
     ·    Newswallah: In the English-Language Press Tuesday
     ·    Newswallah: In the English-Language Press Friday


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

House Votes To Approve Disputed Hacking Bill

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 652 words


WASHINGTON -- Defying a veto threat from President Obama, the House on Thursday
passed a bill that encourages intelligence agencies and businesses to share
information about threats to computer systems, including attacks on American Web
sites by hackers in China and other countries.

The vote was 248 to 168, as 42 Democrats joined 206 Republicans in backing the
bill. The ''no'' votes were cast by 140 Democrats and 28 Republicans, including
a number who described the measure as a potential threat to privacy and civil
liberties.

Under the bill, the federal government can share classified information with
private companies to help them protect their computer networks. Companies, in
turn, could voluntarily share information about cyberthreats with the government
and would generally be protected against lawsuits for doing so if they acted in
good faith.

The White House opposed the bill, saying it could ''undermine the public's trust
in the government as well as in the Internet by undermining fundamental privacy,
confidentiality, civil liberties and consumer protections.''

In addition, the White House said the government should set ''minimum
cybersecurity performance standards'' for the private sector -- an approach
resisted by House Republican leaders.

''The White House believes the government ought to control the Internet,
government ought to set standards and government ought to take care of
everything that's needed for cybersecurity,'' said Speaker John A. Boehner.
''They're in a camp all by themselves.''

''We can't have the government in charge of our Internet,'' Mr. Boehner added.

The Senate is working on a more comprehensive bipartisan bill that directs the
secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to issue regulations to protect
''critical infrastructure,'' including the electric power grid, water and sewer
systems, transportation hubs and financial service networks.

In confidential briefings on Capitol Hill, administration officials have
expressed alarm about the damage that could be done by malicious attacks on
computer systems and networks that have become an indispensable part of everyday
life. Supporters of the bill said China was stealing jobs by pilfering
proprietary information and valuable trade secrets stored in American computers.

The House bill was written by Representatives Mike Rogers, Republican of
Michigan and chairman of the House intelligence committee, and C. A. Dutch
Ruppersberger of Maryland, the senior Democrat on the panel.

They accepted many amendments to protect privacy, but not enough to satisfy
advocacy groups like the American Civil Liberties Union or the Center for
Democracy and Technology. The civil liberties union criticized the bill as ''a
privacy disaster.''

However, Mr. Rogers said the sharing of information with the government was
''all voluntary,'' and he added, ''There is no government surveillance, none,
not any in this bill.''

The bill says that ''cyber threat information'' shared with the federal
government by the private sector can be used for five purposes: to protect
computer systems; to investigate cybersecurity crimes; to protect people from
''serious bodily harm''; to protect ''the national security of the United
States''; and to prevent the sexual exploitation or kidnapping of children.

Some members of both parties said they worried that the bill could lead to
violations of privacy.

''We do have a real cyberthreat in this country, and this bill is an honest
attempt to deal with it,'' said Representative Joe L. Barton, Republican of
Texas, who voted against the legislation.

''But the absence of explicit privacy protections for individuals is, to me, a
greater threat to democracy and liberty than the cyberthreats that face
America.''

The House Democratic leader, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, said,
''The threat of cyberattack is a real one, but the response must balance freedom
and security.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             April 27, 2012 Friday

House Votes to Approve Disputed Cybersecurity Bill

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 95 words



HIGHLIGHT: The vote on a cybersecurity bill defies a promised presidential veto
on a bill that encourages intelligence agencies and businesses to share
information on cyberthreats.


Defying a veto threat from President Obama, the House on Thursday passed the
Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA) bill that encourages
intelligence agencies and businesses to share information about threats to
computer systems, including attacks on American Web sites by hackers in China
and other countries. Read more »


     ·    Nissan Is Latest Company to Get Hacked
     ·    Senators Introduce Security Bill and Warn of Hacker Threat
     ·    Insurance Against Cyber Attacks Expected to Boom
     ·    Hacked Chamber of Commerce Opposed Cybersecurity Law
     ·    Tech Talk Podcast: Google's Social Network


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                             April 30, 2012 Monday

Judge Dismisses Suit Over Cuts in Grammy Awards

BYLINE: PATRICIA COHEN

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 254 words



HIGHLIGHT: Musicians had filed the suit to protest the elimination of more than
two dozen categories for Grammy Awards.


A New York judge has dismissed a lawsuit filed against the Recording Academy's
decision last year to slash the number of Grammy Awards by nearly 30 percent,
The Associated Press reported.

The lawsuit was brought by a handful of Latin jazz musicians including Bobby
Sanabria who argue that the elimination of categories for Latin jazz, Hawaiian
music, zydeco and American Indian music discriminates against certain ethnic
groups. The Academy also did away with separate categories for male and female
vocalists. Eliminating the awards - which bring attention not only to the
winners but also to their musical genres - has done the musicians irreparable
harm, Mr. Sanabria and his fellow musicians contend.

Neil Portnow, the president of the National Academy of Recording Arts and
Sciences, who has defended the reduction of Grammy categories to 78 from 109,
applauded the ruling by New York State Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey Oing  to
dismiss the suit. He said that the decision "makes it very clear in the eyes of
our legal system" that the academy had done "all of the changes that we've made
through our process based on our own rules, regulations and bylaws."

Mr. Sanabria said he had not yet ruled out an appeal. "It's disappointing but I
expected this to be a long fight," he said.


     ·    Cyber Furor Over Chris Brown's Appearance at Grammys
     ·    Lineup Coming Together for Tribute to Curtis Mayfield
     ·    Aretha Franklin Plans a New Album With Clive Davis
     ·    Seriously Retro: Some 78s for Record Store Day
     ·    Adele and Houston Grammy Booms Continue


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Media Decoder)

                             April 30, 2012 Monday

Has the Correspondents' Dinner Become a Nerd Unity Conference?

BYLINE: DAVID CARR

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 1293 words



HIGHLIGHT: The arm-candy arms race at the White House Correspondents'
Association dinner now includes digital firepower.


Late on Saturday evening at the Bloomberg-Vanity Fair party after the White
House Correspondents' Association annual dinner, Judd Apatow, a Hollywood
director-producer who was a long way from home, asked who might be interesting
to talk to. There were a lot of folks to pick from, including David Axelrod,
President Obama's political strategist; the retired general and former Secretary
of State Colin L. Powell; and New York's mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg. He was
standing near Eric E. Schmidt, the executive chairman of Google, so an
introduction was made.

"Wow, I had to do a double take when I heard his name," Mr. Apatow said, adding
later that the company is "so central to my life. It threw me. It was like
suddenly being introduced to the person who invented fire."

It takes a lot to impress Mr. Apatow, and the rest of the people at the party, a
mix of government, entertainment and, yes, technology luminaries. This year, the
correspondents' association dinner scanned as a summit between giant warring
factions that set aside differences, if not agendas, and came together to party
deep into the night. Just last January, traditional entertainment companies and
their allies in government sought to rewire the Internet to slow down pirates.
Hollywood is still mad that technology threatens cherished and lucrative
distribution models; and even though one of the pieces of antipiracy
legislation, SOPA, was derailed, Silicon Valley remains miffed that politicians
tried to apply Beltway convention to the consumer Internet.

Still, that all seemed in the distant past this weekend. Google co-hosted a
warm-up party with The Hollywood Reporter on Friday evening at the W Hotel -- "I
heard Lindsay will be here in five minutes!" gushed one young lady as she and
pals stared into their BlackBerries at the party in vast basement of the W. ABC
partnered with Yahoo for a predinner cocktail at The Washington Hilton. Tech
luminaries -- including Jack Dorsey, a founder of Twitter; Dennis Crowley, a
founder of Foursquare; and Elon Musk, a founder of PayPal -- were at the dinner
and also at the constellation of parties that have grown up around the event,
such as The New Yorker party at the W on Friday night, Tammy Haddad's
brunch-on-steroids on the day of the event, and the MSNBC party following the
dinner.

Washington, as we all know, is the seat of brute power, but it will never be
mistaken for a cool place. (Give or take the president, who seems to have the
cool thing going on, perhaps not always to his advantage.) The mischief and
merriment at the dinner began back in 1987 when Michael Kelly, then a reporter
for The Baltimore Sun, brought Fawn Hall, Oliver North's shred-happy assistant,
to the dinner.

An arm-candy arms race ensued and the correspondents' dinner has since borrowed
heat by bringing in performers from television and film.  This year, Lindsay
Lohan, Kim Kardashian and members of the cast of "Glee" and "Modern Family" were
in attendance.

As noted by Jimmy Kimmel, this year's host, what had been a hermetic celebration
of political journalism has become a maypole for all sorts of interests: "Here
is one room we have members of the media, politicians, corporate executives,
advertisers, celebrities. Everything that is wrong with America is here
tonight."

And now tech companies, which have generally kept their distance from
government, have jumped into the froth.

"I think they are definitely the new cool kids on the block," said Beth Kseniak,
executive director of public relations at Vanity Fair. "Dennis Crowley was our
dinner guest, as was Jack Dorsey. Most of them have also been our guests at the
Oscar party."

After the bruising fight over SOPA -- that is, the Stop Online Piracy Act --
Washington was apparently in the mood to work out some sort of détente with the
burgeoning tech sector, and given the potential regulatory overhang on their
core businesses, the interest was requited.

"Silicon Valley understands the importance of Washington now, especially post
SOPA," Mr. Schmidt wrote in an e-mail following the weekend. "For example, there
are a number of conflicting cyber-security laws being discussed and it's
important to get those right. To deal with Washington, you have to be in
Washington including its social scene which is, to say, robust."

Google and other technology companies have beefed up their lobbying presence in
Washington, but an open bar at a festive event celebrating journalists expresses
fealty and interest in a way K Street lobbyists really can't. Besides, it makes
for a fun spectator sport: haters can find plenty to work with in all the
Beltway bacchanalia, and having a sitting president make jokes about eating dogs
and putting one on the top of Air Force One is always going to light up the
Twitter board.

Take a step back and various lions making nice with all manner of lambs is not
as odd as it sounds. The correspondent's dinner carries the nickname #nerdprom
on Twitter, in part because it is run by journalists who were very smart,
earnest and industrious, but were probably not invited to the cool table in the
high school cafeteria.

Similarly, the lions of Silicon Valley were likely not social adepts earlier in
life, but now find themselves in receipt of another kind of cachet. One group of
nerds can reach deep into a lengthy piece of legislation and pull out
significant implications while the other group can construct entire kingdoms out
of lines of code.

Kate Nocera of Politico said the phrase "First time cool" was often used in
Washington to describe the powerful who were probably finding social traction to
be a new experience in their lives. (A few of us gathered for some chain-store
Italian down the street during the dinner and then rushed back to the hotel
lobby to watch the jokes on television. The New York Times decided back in 2007
that it would no longer participate in the dinner.)

In an e-mail, Mr. Crowley of Foursquare suggested that Washington's growing
obsession with tech was a simple matter of heat-seeking, an extension of the
cool-by-osmosis that has policy wonks breaking bread with reality stars.

"Both Hollywood and print media has long been lusted over for being creators of
platforms to capture attention like movies and magazines while the new creators
are the folks making stuff that causes people to pay attention to the tiny
screens in their pockets -- Twitter, Zynga, 4Square and Tumblr," he wrote.

Part of what is under way is not just a transfer of heat, but a kind of
aspirational yearning. Both government and Hollywood are struggling to find a
connection to the average America, and technology companies' intimate, central
role in their lives is something most politicians and studio heads can only
covet. Digital realms seem to be the exception to an economy and future that
seems pinned down by ugly realities. Hope sells, hope floats, hope looks
lucrative and juicy.

Certain truisms still obtain. Jonathan Wald, producer of Piers Morgan's CNN talk
show, dubbed the end-to-end parties as a "celebrity petting zoo." Those same
celebrities view the event as a bit of a caper not to be taken seriously --
"Apparently someone robbed me of my memory bank. Was there a party last night?"
Woody Harrelson said on Sunday after making the rounds throughout the weekend.

And no matter how many jillions the techies make and how many paradigms they
shift, they and everyone else will never be as magnetic as George Clooney. Past
2 a.m. on Sunday morning, Mr. Clooney took his time gamely working through the
queue near the door of the French ambassador's residence, home of the
Bloomberg-Vanity Fair party. The powerful and monied, boy and girl, Luddite and
not, all thronged around him, waiting for their moment with the coolest guy on
campus.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                              May 1, 2012 Tuesday

Malware for Macs Lucrative, Security Researchers Say

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 481 words



HIGHLIGHT: Long told that they were safe from computer viruses and malware
attacks, Apple users last month fell victim to the largest-scale malware attack
on Macs to date. Security experts now estimate that the malware made cyber
criminals $10,000 a day.


 Last month, cybercriminals embarked on what quickly became one of the
largest-scale malware attacks on Apple computers to date. Their motive was
financial: security researchers now estimate that the infected computers made
the malware's creators $10,000 a day.

The malware, called Flashback, targeted Mac users and infected their machines
through a security hole in Java software that Oracle patched last February, but
that Apple did not patch until early April. In those six weeks, Flashback spread
to over half a million computers.

It spread through particularly nefarious means. Unlike most malware, which
typically requires users to click on a malicious link or open a compromised
attachment to get infected, Flashback downloaded itself onto its victims'
machines when they visited hijacked Web sites, often compromised WordPress
blogs.

Security researchers determined that Flashback used infected computers for click
fraud, in which clicks on a Web advertisement are manipulated in exchange for
kickbacks. Researchers at Symantec, who studied Flashback's code, determined
that a Google search for "toys"-- which would ordinarily send a user to Toys "R"
Us -- instead redirected the user to a site where the attackers, not Google,
would get 8 cents for the click.

With 600,000 computers infected at its peak, Symantec estimates that Flashback
generated $10,000 for the attackers each day. Two weeks after Apple issued a
security patch, the number of infected users dropped to 140,000 from 600,000.
But last week, researchers at Intego, another computer security firm, discovered
that a new variant of Flashback, Flashback.S, continues to spread through the
same Java vulnerability.

Intego researchers did not say what the new variant of Flashback was being used
for, but researchers at Symantec that analyzed a portion of the variant's code
said that it communicated with the same command-and-control servers as Flashback
and that it "would be safe to assume the intention with this variant was the
same."

To remove Flashback, Apple encouraged users to run their software updates. They
can also download a Flashback removal tool on Apple's support site, which lets
users know if their computer was infected.

Security experts predicted in 2008 that when Apple's share of the PC market
reached 16 percent and Windows antivirus software became 80 percent effective,
Mac users would become a more frequent target for cybercriminals.

That day is not far off. Apple currently holds 12 percent of the PC market and
antivirus software has reached 95 percent effectiveness, according to AV
Comparatives, a nonprofit that audits antivirus software.


     ·    Google's 'Bouncer' Service Aims to Toughen Android Security
     ·    A New Variant of Malware Takes Aim at Mac Users
     ·    Path Improves Security in Mobile App
     ·    Cybersecurity Researchers Team Up to Combat Online Crime
     ·    More Data Thefts Affect Individuals, Verizon Report Finds


LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 3, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

YouTube and Kin Woo Marketers, Seeking to Siphon Dollars From TV

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 902 words


THE people behind the Tribeca Film Festival are getting a channel, but unlike
the channel from the people behind the Sundance Film Festival, don't look for it
on television.

Tribeca Enterprises, the parent of the Tribeca Film Festival, is teaming up with
Maker Studios to create a channel on YouTube.com, named the Picture Show, that
is to go live later this year. The channel on YouTube, which is part of Google,
will be a home for online series and short films, rather than the feature-length
movies that are released by Tribeca Film in theaters and on the video-on-demand
channels on cable systems.

''We believe bringing content to audiences across multiple platforms is the
right strategy,'' said Jon Patricof, president and chief operating officer at
Tribeca Enterprises. As a result, ''digital platforms like YouTube are highly
important,'' he said.

The Picture Show was among several channels that were announced by executives of
YouTube and Google at a presentation in New York on Wednesday; others include
Team USA, a channel for the United States Olympic Committee, and Wigs, a channel
aimed at women. The intent is for YouTube to offer more than 100 online channels
of original programming; shows on some of the initial channels are being
sponsored by advertisers like AT&T, General Motors, Toyota and Unilever.

The YouTube presentation completed two weeks of events, hosted by digital media
companies, that were intended to help attract money from marketers that might
otherwise be spent on the most popular advertising medium of them all,
television.

''Because television is the largest piece of the pie, it's the one everybody's
going to nibble at,'' said Zain Raj, chief executive at Hyper Marketing in
Chicago, which owns agencies in fields like digital, direct and shopper
marketing.

Television ad spending in the United States last year totaled $71.8 billion,
Nielsen reported this week, up 5 percent from 2010 and perhaps the first time
the figure has topped $70 billion.

The digital media events were held under the portmanteau Digital Content
NewFronts -- as in a new version of the upfronts, the presentations that
broadcast networks and cable channels make each spring to marketers ahead of the
fall TV season. The impetus for the NewFronts was the increasing willingness of
consumers to watch video online and on devices like smartphones and tablets.

Seven years after YouTube began, ''we're about to see another large explosion in
the use of video,'' Eric E. Schmidt, executive chairman of Google, said in a
conference call with reporters before the presentation by YouTube and Google.

''This is probably a third wave,'' he added, following the first, broadcast TV
to cable, and the second, cable to the Internet.

Some new YouTube channels are already drawing more than a million views a week,
among them offerings from Howcast, Red Bull and World Wrestling Entertainment.

When asked which channels were not drawing the views that were expected, a
spokeswoman at Google said in an e-mail that there was ''no other data to
share'' about the channels' performance.

On the advertising side, Lucas Watson, vice president for global video sales at
Google, said during the conference call, results so far are ''absolutely in line
with our expectations.''

''It's still early days; we're learning a ton,'' Mr. Watson said. He
acknowledged that ''some won't be successful,'' adding, ''We'll see where that
goes.''

Among other digital media companies that made presentations for the NewFronts
were AOL, Hulu, Vevo and Yahoo. And Amazon.com announced on Wednesday that its
Amazon Studios unit wanted to expand content development efforts for Amazon
Instant Video, a digital video streaming service, to include children's and
comedy series in addition to its previously announced plans for movies.

(A spokeswoman for Amazon said the timing was a coincidence and was not meant to
be part of the NewFronts.)

Some media companies taking part in the NewFronts this year have not been shy
about asking marketers to divert ad dollars to them that would otherwise be
spent on television commercials. Others are being more cautious, at least for
now, describing online video and other digital programming as complementary to,
rather than replacements for, TV.

NBCUniversal, part of the Comcast Corporation, on Tuesday invited Madison Avenue
to what it called the NBCUniversal Digital Media NewFront, which served as a
showcase for some 60 digital properties. In a video clip that introduced the
presentation, Joel McHale of the NBC series ''Community'' and the E! series
''The Soup'' joked that those attending would hear about ''some of the finest
nonpornographic Internet content.''

His appearance underlined that NBCUniversal oversees the NBC broadcast network,
as well as cable channels like Bravo, CNBC, E! and USA. So the executives
appearing at the NewFront were also the hosts and planners of upfront
presentations, and will try to sell advertisers commercial time as hard as they
were trying to sell them ads in the digital properties.

During a discussion of a new digital initiative meant to help marketers
stimulate sales on Cyber Monday, the Monday after Thanksgiving, executives
described how holiday programs on NBC -- like coverage of the Macy's
Thanksgiving Day Parade and the Christmas tree lighting at Rockefeller Center --
helped NBCUniversal reach 95 percent of shoppers making decisions about holiday
gifts.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alex Newell, a contestant on ''The Glee Project,'' an Oxygen
reality television series, sang at the NBCUniversal Digital Media NewFront on
Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE COPPOLA/NBCUNIVERSAL)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Direct Democracy, 2.0

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH.

The Berlin bureau chief of The New York Times.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1048 words


Berlin

I FIRST took real notice of the Pirates last summer during the campaign for city
elections in Berlin. German electioneering is quaint, even faintly musty by
American standards. Political advertising mostly takes the form of full-color
head shots of the candidates hung on light posts and telephone poles with
interchangeable slogans about working for a brighter future.

''Why am I hanging here anyway?'' a Pirate Party poster brazenly asked, the
unshaven face in black and white, belonging to the candidate Christopher Lauer,
neither smiling nor making the requisite eye contact. ''You're not going to vote
anyway.''

When the Pirates captured a surprising 9 percent of the vote, I ventured out to
their election-night party at a scruffy club in the traditional counterculture
neighborhood of Kreuzberg. ''We're a chaotic band of cyber-hippies,'' said
Oliver Hofinghoff, an army veteran who had served two tours in Kosovo and was
about to start his first in the city legislature. ''And we should stay that
way.''

Though the Pirates are mostly known as a one-issue party advocating Internet
freedom, Mr. Hofinghoff explained their online decision-making system, Liquid
Feedback. Every subject could be debated, drafted, amended and voted on by
members over the Internet. The process was the platform.

The idea of electing someone as your proxy for two, four or even six long years
may have been a necessity in the days of the American Constitutional Convention,
when representatives rode to the capital by horseback. Some people who vote
dozens of times a day on their favorite videos, articles and songs say it's
outdated.

The Pirate Party was founded in Sweden by the former software entrepreneur Rick
Falkvinge on Jan. 1, 2006, to reform copyright and patent law and to strengthen
online privacy. The party's profile rose after Swedish police officers raided
the popular file-sharing site The Pirate Bay that May. By September of that year
a German branch had formed. Six years later Mr. Falkvinge claims there are more
than 50 Pirate Parties worldwide.

''Written language allowed people to communicate over time, the printing press
to reach people en masse,'' Mr. Falkvinge told me at the election party in
Berlin. ''The Internet turned passive receivers into an active community.''

Germany has had its own outposts of the Occupy movement, most notably in
Frankfurt and Berlin, but the country's political preoccupation has been the
organized challenge within the system that is the Pirate Party.

''We Germans were never the greatest revolutionaries,'' said Marc Olejak, a
40-year-old candidate out campaigning recently in Dusseldorf, capital of the
state of North Rhine-Westphalia, where elections are coming up later in the
month. ''Instead of burning barricades, we go out and found political parties.''
The Pirates are expected to win just under 10 percent in the state, Germany's
most populous, which would make Mr. Olejak, with his chin-strap beard and long
black corduroy jacket, a state legislator.

A recent survey found that nearly one in three Germans would in principle be
willing to vote for the Pirates; they even nosed ahead of the Green Party in
several opinion surveys as Germany's third most popular party. The Greens were
once the insurgent activists on the political scene. Now founding members from
the '68 generation have started collecting their pensions. A Green campaign
poster with a cursor arrow pointing at a Facebook thumbs-up icon carried a whiff
of desperation to keep up with the Pirates.

PIRATE PARTY supporters are younger and savvier about the Internet, a mix of
first-time voters and disenchanted members from all the other parties. In
addition to the lefties, there are a fair number of traditional libertarians.
While the Greens tried to burnish their online bona fides with Facebook icons,
the Pirates put up signs that said: ''We obey the Constitution. In that we're
conservative.'' In Dusseldorf they were handing out free copies of the German
Constitution, known as the Grundgesetz.

There have been growing pains, notably when the party's floor leader in the
Berlin city Parliament, Martin Delius, told Der Spiegel last month that ''the
rise of the Pirate Party is as fast as that of the N.S.D.A.P.'' -- the Nazi
Party -- ''between 1928 and 1933.''

These are not the sort of comments that instill confidence in a political
establishment already deeply mistrustful of the newcomers, with their World of
Warcraft references and ever-present bottles of Club-Mate, something like a
German herbal Red Bull popular among hackers and at techno clubs.

The Nazi comparison was particularly ill-timed because several Pirate members'
far-right sympathies had recently come to light, leading to a nationwide debate
over whether the party's breakneck growth -- official membership has more than
doubled, to over 29,000, since the Berlin vote in September -- has swept too
many radical fringe elements into the group.

When I met Mr. Olejak at the campaign event, he was about to watch the original
Swedish version of ''The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo'' on his Toshiba laptop in
the pedestrian zone in downtown Dusseldorf. The event was a symbolic stand
against laws barring public screenings of copyrighted material.

A bright orange sofa -- orange is the official color of the Pirates -- had been
wheeled in for the occasion, hitched to a bicycle like a boat to the back of a
pickup truck. The local party treasurer was wearing orange laces in his black
Chuck Taylors and watching ''It's a Wonderful Life'' on his Apple MacBook. Frank
Capra's political classic ''Mr. Smith Goes to Washington'' would have been
altogether too fitting.

Though Mr. Olejak is a professional typesetter, he said the typeface for their
signs had been selected by online committee, the decisions made by ''the
graphics hive.'' One of his companions described wading through reams of
legislation and legal commentary to make himself a copyright expert.

These are the people who read those long privacy notices the rest of us guiltily
click ''O.K.'' on and try to forget about as we post intimate photos of family
and friends on a Web site intended to earn a profit for a corporation. For them,
politics, with its thousand-page pieces of legislation, is really the fine print
of the social contract.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members of the Pirate Party attended a conference in
Neumunster, Germany, last month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGELIKA WARMUTH/DPA, VIA
AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 9, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Baltimore Police Scandal Spotlights Leader's Fight To Root Out Corruption

BYLINE: By THEO EMERY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 906 words


BALTIMORE -- Tucked behind a liquor store, opposite a flooring company, Majestic
Body Shop was an unremarkable sight amid a blur of commercial properties just
east of the city limits. But the police cars that always seemed to be parked at
the repair shop caught the eyes of passing drivers. The F.B.I. noticed as well
-- agents were videotaping Majestic and tapping its phone.

What the investigation revealed was startling: a bribery racket suspected to
involve kickbacks to dozens of Baltimore police officers.

The scheme to divert cars damaged in traffic accidents to the body shop in
return for payoffs resulted in one of the widest police corruption scandals in
Baltimore history. This week, a 10th officer will be sentenced to prison, one of
14 officers who pleaded guilty to federal extortion charges. One trial ended in
conviction, another officer pleaded guilty in state court and at least 14
suspended officers still face departmental discipline and possible state
charges.

The scandal delivered a body blow to a police force that has struggled to win
public confidence. The sheer number of officers involved stunned department
veterans and civilians alike.

In the aftermath, Commissioner Frederick H. Bealefeld III -- who invited the
F.B.I. to investigate the force -- brought in Grayling G. Williams, the
Department of Homeland Security's former counternarcotics chief, to head the
division charged with rooting out corruption. The previous director had been
ousted for socializing with an officer indicted on a charge of heroin
trafficking. ''We want to do a better job,'' Mr. Williams said, ''and we want
this to be the Police Department that the public wants.''

Mr. Bealefeld, 49, who recently announced plans to retire in August after 31
years on the force, will almost certainly be remembered for reducing the city's
crime and murder rates as well as for his aggressive anticorruption efforts,
including the Majestic case. He acknowledged that the corruption cases during
his five years as commissioner had been trying, but said ''it comes with the
territory.''

And he made no apologies for his efforts to change the department's direction
and shed its troubled image reinforced -- unfairly, Mr. Bealefeld contended --
by the fictional television drama ''The Wire.''

''I made clear from the very beginning that I would hold bad cops accountable,''
he said.

The Baltimore case was unusual for the large number of officers involved; police
corruption typically involves only a small number of officers.

''The big takedowns, the pervasive corruption'' are uncommon, said Kevin L.
Perkins, the F.B.I.'s acting executive assistant director for criminal and cyber
operations.

The scheme began when Officer Jhonn S. Corona struck a deal to bring business to
two brothers, Hernan Moreno Mejia and Edwin Mejia, the body shop's owners. All
three have pleaded guilty; Mr. Corona received a sentence of two and a half
years last month.

The plan worked like this: Officers who summon a tow truck to accident scenes
are required to use so-called medallion tow trucks authorized by the city;
instead, they would call the Mejia brothers, who would send a nonmedallion
truck.

Each time a car reached Majestic, officers received several hundred dollars.
Some damaged the cars more to increase the insurance payout. The scheme grew as
Mr. Corona recruited other officers, who in turn brought in more colleagues,
until at least 51 were involved. Court documents from one defendant suggest 59
officers made calls to the brothers.

Even before the Majestic case came to light, Mr. Bealefeld had worried that
internal oversight was failing and had turned to the F.B.I. because of rumors of
criminality on the force, including the officer who was eventually indicted on a
charge of dealing heroin.

The turning point came after Paula Protani, an employee of a medallion towing
company and the vice president of a towing association, filed a complaint in
August 2009 that the police passed to the F.B.I. The agency began recording
calls between the brothers and officers. Bank records revealed that the brothers
paid between $200,000 and $1 million to the officers.

''It was quick, easy money in their pockets,'' Ms. Protani said.

As the operation continued, the scope of the graft took shape. Rather than play
down the case, Mr. Bealefeld sought to make an example of the officers.

When the time came last year to make arrests in the case, Mr. Bealefeld and
federal agents lured the 17 officers facing federal charges to the police
academy, where Mr. Bealefeld confronted them and stripped them of their badges
before agents led them away in handcuffs. To ensure that future officers knew
about it, he summoned two academy recruits to watch.

The commissioner has been aggressive in his efforts to mend the department's
reputation, said Rod J. Rosenstein, the United States attorney for Maryland.

''He knows that there has been a problem,'' Mr. Rosenstein said. ''He's
personally committed to doing everything he can to hold accountable corrupt
police officers in order to change the culture of the organization.''

Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, whose predecessor stepped down in a plea deal
related to corruption, said the Majestic case had been a ''double-edged sword,''
revealing graft to prove that the city did not sweep it under the rug.

''I understand the risks in all of that,'' she said, ''but I know that in the
long run, it's the best thing for the city.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Commissioner Frederick H. Bealefeld III, left, has brought
Grayling G. Williams, right, a former counternarcotics chief in the Department
of Homeland Security, to lead an anticorruption division in Baltimore's Police
Department, in the aftermath of a kickback scheme involving a body shop, below.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT ROTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 KIM HAIRSTON/THE BALTIMORE SUN)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                              May 15, 2012 Tuesday

Hackers Breach Sites of Foreign Policy and Human Rights Groups

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 543 words



HIGHLIGHT: Security researchers have discovered that hackers breached Web sites
belonging to several foreign policy and human rights groups using security flaws
in Adobe and Oracle software. Among the sites still infected were sites
belonging to Amnesty International Hong Kong, the Center for Defense Information
and the Cambodian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.


In recent weeks, hackers have breached Web sites belonging to several foreign
policy and human rights groups, including Amnesty International and the
International Institute for Counter-Terrorism, a nonprofit organization based in
Israel that researches terrorism issues.

Hackers infiltrated the sites using two well-known security vulnerabilities, one
in Adobe Flash and another in Java software, according to a blog post by
security researchers at the Shadowserver Foundation, a nonprofit group that
tracks cyber threats. The Flash loophole was used predominantly against Windows
users and the Java vulnerability against Macintosh users.

Both vulnerabilities were recently patched. The the incidents, however, show how
quickly hackers work to exploit the time between the discovery of a security
hole and the creation of a patch by programmers and its installation by users.

Shadowserver's security researchers discovered that the Adobe Flash loophole had
been used to attack visitors to the Web sites of Amnesty International Hong Kong
and the Center for Defense Information, a research group in Washington. Oracle's
Java vulnerability was used against visitors to the International Institute for
Counter-Terrorism. The Web site of the Cambodian Ministry of Foreign Affairs was
attacked through both loopholes.

In each case, infected sites can drop malware onto visitors' computers, which
opens a back door between the attackers' command center and the victims'
computers. Once computers are infected, the attackers can move from infected
computers into other computers in the victims' networks, or organizations.

The security researchers noted that, as of Monday, the Web sites of Amnesty
International Hong Kong, the Center for Defense Information and the Cambodian
Ministry of Foreign Affairs were still infected and serving up malware to
visitors' computers.

"Visiting these Web sites can initiate a chain reaction in which malicious code
is loaded from multiple Web sites and results in a system compromise for
vulnerable systems without other mitigating factors," wrote Steven Adair and Ned
Moran, two Shadowserver security researchers, in a blog post.

The researchers did not attribute the attacks to a particular group but
described the infections as an "A.P.T." -- or advanced persistent threat --
security jargon for an intelligence-seeking attack made by a foreign government.

Shadowserver recommends that users run their computers' software updates as
frequently as possible to avoid becoming infected,.

"These attackers are not spreading malware through strategically compromised Web
sites to make friends," the researchers wrote. "They are aiming to expand their
access and steal data."

"Communications (primarily e-mail), research and development (R&D), intellectual
property (IP), and business intelligence (contracts, negotiations, etc.) are
frequently targeted and stolen," they continued. "Take the cyber espionage
threat seriously and not as just something you read about occasionally. The
problem is vastly understated."


     ·    Daily Report: An Inconclusive Verdict for Google and Oracle
     ·    Oracle Vs. Google, Week One
     ·    Oracle and I.B.M. Agree to Java Pact
     ·    What We're Reading: What You're Reading
     ·    Bits Scan: Tracking Adobe Stock, Google Hackers and Sexy iPhone Apps


LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Green)

                             May 17, 2012 Thursday

Billboard Wars, Chapter 2 (or Is It 3?)

BYLINE: RACHEL NUWER

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 690 words



HIGHLIGHT: The media company that accepted the conservative Heartland
Institute's controversial ad about climate change rejected one rival billboard
but accepted another.


Chicago commuters have all the fun. Two weeks ago, there was the Heartland
Institute's Unabomber billboard likening a belief in climate change to
psychopathy. This week, those stuck in traffic missed out on one
larger-than-life retort to the Heartland campaign but will get to view another.

Forecast the Facts, a campaign devoted to accuracy and integrity in weather
monitoring, had hoped to advertise in the exact same spot in an ironic format
mimicking the Heartland ad. The Heartland billboard had depicted Theodore J.
Kaczynski, who killed three people and wounded 23 with mail bombs, alongside the
red-lettered words: "I still believe in climate change. Do you?"

Forecast the Facts, which is seeking to persuade corporations to end their
donations to Heartland, would have presented the Pfizer pharmaceutical company's
logo alongside similarly imposing red letters reading: "We still support Climate
Deniers. Do you?" Just below, Pfizer's 2010 donation to the Heartland Institute,
which a document circulated this spring put at $130,000, would be shown in small
white print.

But it was not to be -- at least not in that billboard location, managed by the
Clear Channel Chicago global media and entertainment company. "We are not an
arbiter of positions in any way," said Jim Cullinan, a Clear Channel spokesman.
"But there's also legal issues about fair use of images and what we can and
can't do with them."

"There's a big difference between a public image of the Unabomber and a specific
trademark in terms of legality," he said.

A spokeswoman for Pfizer meanwhile emphasized on Thursday that the company was
not on board with all of Heartland's positions. "We do not agree with Heartland
Institute's position on climate change," the spokeswoman, Sharon Castillo, said
in an e-mail to the Times.

Rather than a reprimand of Pfizer, Chicago drivers will be treated to a less
tongue-in-cheek but pointed billboard sponsored by Al Gore's Climate Reality
Project. In more soothing shades of earthy green, it asks: "Who to believe on
climate? Heartland   or EVERY National Scientific Academy in the world?"

"We really try to put things up that are appropriate," Mr. Cullinan said.

Maggie L. Fox, chief executive of the Climate Reality Project, described the
group's billboard response as "a small reminder of who is really on the fringe."

An organizer with Forecast the Facts expressed some disappointment with the
rejection of its ad. "I'm sure that if we had wanted to run an ad that says
'trees smell nice' or something, they probably would have let us run that - but
who knows," said Brad Johnson, its campaign manager.

Pfizer is not the only corporation Forecast the Facts had hoped  to plaster
across the freeway. It also planned to call out Microsoft and
Comcast for donations to Heartland.

"Our goal was to highlight Pfizer and other corporations' support of the
Heartland Institute," Mr. Johnson said. "The question to ask is whether these
corporations are based on a foundation of science or on a foundation of profit."

With their billboards rejected by Clear Channel, Mr. Johnson and his colleagues
are considering alternative ways of getting out their message. "I'd like to say
I was surprised by Clear Channel's reaction, but I wouldn't be doing what I'm
doing if I had faith in corporations' abilities to do the right thing," Mr.
Johnson said.

Mr. Cullinan countered that Clear Channel had tried to negotiate with Forecast
the Facts on the ads but that the organization was not willing to compromise on
the design. "We have no dog in this fight," he said.

E-mails forwarded to the Times from Forecast the Facts indicated, however, that
the group had offered some alternative takes on the ads.

Until a different forum is found, Forecast the Facts' rejected billboard will
join the cyber ranks of Grist's recent Heartland ad parodies, which include
images of Pol Pot, Hannibal Lecter and Cruella DeVille.


     ·    Heartland Pulls Billboard on Global Warming
     ·    Lung Association Ads Fault House Panel Chairman
     ·    On Our Radar: Imagining Many More Gray Whales
     ·    On Our Radar: Lugar, the G.O.P. and Climate Change
     ·    On Our Radar: New York's Communal Bikes


LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Burial for a Basset Hound

BYLINE: By PHILIP GALANES

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; SOCIAL Q'S; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 733 words


My otherwise-sensible neighbors sent me an invitation to a funeral for their
12-year-old basset hound. They are going to bury the dog in the backyard and say
a few words in its honor. They have no children, so this event is not to humor
them. I had no relationship with the dog. What would make adults hold such a
foolish affair? And how do I get out of it?H. L., Westport, Conn.

As I type this, I am gazing at an 8-year-old poodle that means more to me than
97 percent of the people in my Rolodex. (And that's being generous to the
Rolodex.) But you're right: a funeral for a dog is unusual. So why not be a
mensch and go?

We develop all kinds of offbeat relationships in our increasingly cyber lives:
with pets and sweaters and shops around the corner, anything that's real, and
that we can touch (aside from our central relationship with touch-screen
smartphones). Their loss is something we mourn.

So what's the harm in a teary toast to a departed basset hound, or honoring your
neighbors' affection for him? (Especially if they have the good sense to hand
out chilly glasses of Sancerre along with memorial cards to Spot.)

If you simply can't squeeze yourself into your neighbors' shoes, feign sympathy
and claim another engagement. Be sure to be away from home at the appointed
hour. But don't come crying to us when your neighbors neglect to take in your
mail during your next vacation.

Perils of Networking

I accidentally sent LinkedIn invitations to every person in my address book. I
feel awkward that I reached out to people I barely know and cringe at the
thought that I've asked to connect with acquaintances I don't especially care
for. Should I send a mass follow-up e-mail explaining my error?

Cathy, Larchmont, N.Y.

Let she who is without sin cast the first stone. I promise you are not the first
person to make this error (or accidentally press ''reply all'' on the cattiest
e-mail ever written about a boss). Don't be too hard on yourself.

And don't send a mass retraction, either. The folks who don't know you well
enough will ignore the request. As for the others, I'd rather mistakenly believe
that someone wants to connect with me than have him rub my nose in the fact that
my invitation resulted from a typing error.

Plus, haven't most of us spammed people with LinkedIn invitations by now?

Fire Extinguisher?

My best friend (since we were 16) came to visit. I encouraged her to text an old
flame, and we met up with him and another guy. I took the role of wingwoman and
tried to make sure everyone had a good time. Maybe I tried too hard. Since then,
my friend won't speak to me. She said I was ''showboating'' and prevented her
from rekindling the romance. That was never my intention. What should I do?

Anonymous, New York City

The wingman walks a razor's edge: ingratiating enough to make pals seem
appealing, but retreating at the first whiff of Barry White -- so they can seal
their sexy deals on their own. Perhaps you took up too much oxygen. Or maybe
your friend needed a convenient whipping girl.

We'll never know, and it doesn't really matter. The important thing is to let
her know you share her disappointment. ''I'm sorry your old flame didn't go all
Mickey Rourke in '9 1/2 Weeks,' and even sorrier that you think it's my fault. I
was only trying to help.''

Then invite her back to town, and let her fly solo with the old beau. It
probably won't go any better, but at least she'll know you're in her corner.

Cost Conscious

Every time I take my wife to dinner, she ends up asking how much it cost. I tell
her that, as a gentleman, the answer is between me and our waiter. She then
becomes upset and says: ''I'm your wife and have the right to know.'' Who is
correct? Is chivalry dead?

Anri, White Plains

Chivalry is not dead, though we've all seen cases when it looked to be on life
support. Joint bank accounts, on the other hand, are thriving. And most married
couples pool their money. So those veal medallions are probably cutting into her
net worth, too. Next time, say: ''I would love to shield you from the filthy
hand of commerce.'' But if she insists, simply pick up your cloak from the muddy
sidewalk, Sir Walter Raleigh, and tell her how much those vittles set you back.

For help with your awkward situation, send a question to SocialQ@nytimes.com or
SocialQ on Facebook. You can also address your queries on Twitter to
@SocialQPhilip. Please include a daytime phone number.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Military Will Remain Strong With Cuts, Obama Tells Cadets

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 720 words


COLORADO SPRINGS -- President Obama vowed on Wednesday to keep the military
strong even as he winds down the wars of the last decade and takes the budget
knife to Pentagon spending in an age of increasing government austerity.

Addressing the graduating cadets of the Air Force Academy, Mr. Obama said
spending cuts were inevitable for the armed forces but he promised to guard
against reductions that would compromise the nation's security. Dismissing talk
of national decline, he described an ''American century'' in which the United
States would continue to flourish.

''Yes, as today's wars end, our military, and our Air Force, will be leaner,''
he told a stadium filled with the blue uniforms of the next generation of pilots
and other officers. ''But as commander in chief, I will not allow us to make the
mistakes of the past. We still face very serious threats. As we've seen in
recent weeks, with Al Qaeda in Yemen, there are still terrorists who seek to
kill our citizens.''

He added: ''We'll keep our military, and our Air Force, fast and flexible and
versatile. We will maintain our military superiority in all areas: air, land,
sea, space and cyber.''

Mr. Obama's commencement address was his first at a military academy since the
last American troops left Iraq, ending nearly nine years of conflict, and came
just days after he agreed with NATO allies on a plan to close out the combat
mission in Afghanistan.

In effect, he used the occasion to outline a vision for the next stage in the
nation's struggle against terrorism, one that shifts away from large commitments
of ground troops and relies more on diplomatic and economic power while drawing
on more help from allies.

''You are the first class in nine years that will graduate into a world where
there are no Americans fighting in Iraq,'' Mr. Obama said. ''For the first time
in your lives -- and thanks to Air Force personnel who did their part -- Osama
bin Laden is no longer a threat to our country. We've put Al Qaeda on the path
to defeat. And you are the first graduates since 9/11 who can clearly see how
we'll end the war in Afghanistan.''

He said that his policies would end those wars while still making the country
safer, and he noted that the graduates would have fewer deployments and more
time to train and rest between missions than their predecessors. But Mr. Obama
went into little detail about how financial restraints would affect the Air
Force and the military at large. He has proposed a spending plan for the
Pentagon that includes nearly $480 billion in cuts over 10 years, but that
amount could increase sharply if his administration and Congress do not reach
agreement on a plan to avoid deeper automatic cuts currently programmed into
law. Republicans have said Mr. Obama is already cutting the armed forces too
deeply.

A budget plan released by the Obama administration in February called for
reducing the number of active-duty Air Force personnel by 3,900 as well as an
additional 6,000 from the Reserves and National Guard. Under that plan, about
500 aircraft would be retired as well. Since then, the Guard's political patrons
have fought back and persuaded Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta to reverse some
of those cuts, foreshadowing continued struggles in the months and years ahead
over how to divvy up scarcer resources.

Mr. Obama also used the stage of the academy to implicitly rebut Republican
critics who accuse him of not believing in American exceptionalism, a charge
made most prominently by former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, the party's
presumptive presidential nominee.

Mr. Obama cited previous eras when the nation feared decline, including after
Pearl Harbor, the Vietnam War and the rise of Asian economies in the 1980s.
Repeatedly using the phrase ''I see an American century,'' he asserted that the
country's future was bright because of his policies.

''I see an American century because we have the resilience to make it through
these tough economic times,'' he said, promising to invest in education and
innovation while bringing down deficits. ''We need to get on with
nation-building here at home. I know we can, because we're still the largest,
most dynamic, most innovative economy in the world. And no matter what
challenges we may face, we wouldn't trade places with any other nation on
earth.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama on Wednesday at the Air Force Academy, where he
said, ''We will maintain our military superiority in all areas: air, land, sea,
space and cyber.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 25, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Under the Sun: Books for Basking

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE
TIMES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2448 words


CORRECTION APPENDED

The heroine of this year's best beach read was beheaded 476 years ago. The most
chilling nonfiction spy story unfolds in cyberspace. The coolest biographical
subject is a comic-book character. The hottest history is recent. The most
amazing act of kindness is performed by an elephant. The most Harry Potter-ish
action-adventure romance unfolds against the backdrop of the Arab Spring. And
the Olympian Walter Cronkite shares space on the TV shelf with the guy behind
Bravo's ''Real Housewives'' shows.

Summer reading used to be so easy. No vampires. No handcuffs. Just cookie-cutter
choices from genres so broad they could be spotted from space, and the
occasional standout hit -- ''Seabiscuit'' (2001), ''John Adams'' (2002), ''The
Lovely Bones'' (also 2002), ''Moneyball'' (2003) -- that drew readers of every
stripe.

''Beach'' was a buzzword, but even James Patterson, busy co-author of ''Beach
House,'' ''Beach Road,'' ''Lifeguard'' and ''Swimsuit,'' has stopped flogging
it. This year ''Granddad, There's a Head on the Beach'' is the best beach title
around, and its author, Colin Cotterill, isn't even pandering. His droll mystery
novels, set in Asia (among them ''Curse of the Pogo Stick''), just have titles
like that.

The one must-read of the season is Hilary Mantel's ''Bring Up the Bodies,'' the
craftiest work of fiction this side of Ms. Mantel's ''Wolf Hall.'' Both are
parts of a trilogy about Henry VIII's political and marital woes, as seen
through the eyes of Thomas Cromwell, Henry's fixer and a brilliantly chosen main
character.

''Bring Up the Bodies'' finds Cromwell torpedoing Anne Boleyn, the queen who
schemed her way to the throne in the much knottier ''Wolf Hall.'' Though both
books have intricate plots, ''Bring Up the Bodies'' has greater intimacy, wit,
chicanery and malice. It ends in 1536, but those qualities are hardly dated.
They're beach book essentials, and they would have reader appeal in any century.

''Bring Up the Bodies'' is steeped in English royal history. But there are more
recent types of history that are being newly explored and are growing more
important by the minute. For the reader who each year vows to complete one big,
mind-improving summer-long slog and measures the value of the experience by its
difficulty, ''Turing's Cathedral,'' George Dyson's look at a seminal point in
the history of computer programming, fits that bill.

Packaged to look like a punch card, the book tells how computer memory was
conceived and structured, a process that literally unfolded bit by bit. Mr.
Dyson, whose father, Freeman Dyson, was part of the A team of math and physics
innovators at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, can be very clear
about the scientists' personalities -- John von Neumann leaps out of this book
with unexpected star power -- but thornily abstruse about the small-bore details
of their work. Mr. Dyson is mostly able to convey the gist and assess the
importance of each leap forward and fill his book with humanizing glimpses of
genius at work.

A different kind of Internet history fuels ''We Are Anonymous,'' Parmy Olson's
reportorial, very accessible account of the global hackers whose targets
included PayPal, the Church of Scientology, Sony Entertainment and the Vatican
before one of them, Hector Monsegur, known as Sabu, became an F.B.I. informant
and brought the hackers' methods to light.

Reported by the London bureau chief of Forbes, this book delves into the
recesses of the so-called Deep Web to understand the saboteurs' mind-set and
methods. The drama in this story is akin to that in the film ''The Social
Network.'' It links teenage rebelliousness, cyberpranks and increasingly dirty
Web tricks to dangerous consequences in the flesh-and-blood world.

But this year's improbably charming book about hackers is ''Alif the Unseen,'' a
novel prompted by its author's frustration. G. Willow Wilson, admired for her
graphic novels and memoir, says that she was sick of treating her readers as
separate factions (''comic-book geeks, literary NPR types and Muslims'') and
sick of assumptions that blogging and social media could not have political
consequences.

So she conjured Alif, a young Arab-Indian hacker living in an unnamed Middle
Eastern high-security state. Alif falls for Ms. Right on the Web, meets her in
real life (''in an instant he forgot all his mental projections of Lebanese pop
stars and Egyptian movie actresses''), gets into trouble with the authorities,
taps into the secrets of a genie and stirs up a bookload of wizardry and glee.
For all its spirited fun, this book incorporates the violence that spills off
the Web and into Tahrir Square.

Other beach-worthy fiction this season includes ''The Kings of Cool,'' the Don
Winslow book for anyone overdue in discovering Don Winslow. This author's
''Savages'' is the basis for a coming movie. ''The Kings of Cool'' is its
prequel, studded with the same sharp, lean dialogue and quick-witted
calculation. Mr. Winslow's thoughts on America's two wars in Iraq, as filtered
through ''The Godfather,'' come out like this: ''41 as Brando. 43 as Pacino.''
It takes a mixed process of reading and decoding to appreciate fully Mr.
Winslow's hard-boiled, blazing talents.

A gentler novel, somewhat in the ''Lovely Bones'' mode, is Karen Thompson
Walker's ''Age of Miracles.'' In this story a young girl notices that the
rotation of the earth has begun to slow, and the new, longer days usher in an
eerily altered world. Readers who prefer more virulent strains of unreality will
appreciate the sneaky mind games of Gillian Flynn's ''Gone Girl,'' a thriller
rooted in the portrait of a tricky and troubled marriage.

Some of this summer's best stories are from and about real people, and the
bigger the better. Frank Langella's ''Dropped Names'' is exactly that: a series
of chapters about Mr. Langella's run-ins with a different famous person, framed
by a master raconteur, and one who pulls no punches. Fifty years of acting
experience have made Mr. Langella so adroit that he is credible even when
dropping Noel Coward, President Kennedy and Adele Astaire, Fred's sister, into
the same Cape Cod luncheon-and-dance encounter. Mr. Langella grew up in Bayonne,
N. J. He did not inherit pretensions. He learned to say ''luncheon'' rather than
''lunch'' during the kinds of adventures that ''Dropped Names'' describes.

Andy Cohen, self-proclaimed loudmouth in ''Most Talkative,'' travels in very
different circles. Mr. Cohen, who is as funny as Augusten Burroughs used to be,
was set on his career path by a magical meeting with Susan Lucci, the ''All My
Children'' star who was the idol of his college years. After that, it was out of
the closet (''I did have one interest that didn't scream G-A-Y: the St. Louis
Cardinals'') and into the dishiest realms of television production. He was
unstoppable: ''I could have come upon a door with a sign reading MORLEY SAFER
PEDICURE SUITE, PROCEDURE IN SESSION and I still would have barged right in,''
he writes. It requires zero interest in ''Top Chef,'' ''Real Housewives'' or
anything else on Bravo to find him highly entertaining company through this
joke-filled joy ride.

Dame Daphne Sheldrick, a Kenyan naturalist turned memoirist, does not share Mr.
Cohen's idea of what big means. To her, big is Eleanor, an orphaned elephant she
raised for 40 years. She was once with a friend when they came across an
elephant that looked familiar. ''I'll call her,'' Ms. Sheldrick said, ''and if
this is Eleanor, she will respond.'' The elephant did. ''Hello, Eleanor,'' Ms.
Sheldrick remarked. And, naturally, to an elephant, ''You've put on weight.''

But this quirky anecdote then leads to calamity: Ms. Sheldrick had been wrong.
She got too close to an elephant that was a stranger, and it attacked her. Ms.
Sheldrick was picked up by a trunk and thrown onto a clump of boulders. She
expected to die, even more as the elephant's foot approached. But then she began
to see that the same creature that had hurt her was now trying to save her.

''I knew then and there that I had an absolute duty to pass on my intimate
knowledge and understanding of Africa's wild animals,'' writes Ms. Sheldrick,
who has also had a mongoose friend called Higglety and a zebra friend called
Huppety. Her genteel memoir, ''Love, Life and Elephants,'' has an animal
population big and personable enough to fill a zoo.

The laws of the jungle are harsh in Ms. Sheldrick's stories. A very different
kind of brutality is the subject of Michael Stephenson's intense, grippingly
specific ''The Last Full Measure,'' a military historian's account of exactly
how soldiers die in battle. The book travels from the ancient Greeks to knights
in armor to Civil War battlefields, World War I trenches and wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan.

The weapons change accordingly, and so do the grisly possibilities. Mr.
Stephenson honors the fallen by making their experiences fiercely, viscerally
understandable. Though it hardly qualifies as escapist reading, its fascination
with historical detail and celebration of raw courage make it hard to resist.

Walter Cronkite didn't have a fighter's wartime experience: He had a reporter's.
''I did not see a single thing,'' he wrote to his wife after D-Day. ''I was
never so disgusted in my life. Why, we didn't even get shot at.''

This battlefield memory is part of the avalanche of Cronkite lore amassed in
Douglas Brinkley's doorstop-size biography, ''Cronkite,'' and not all of it is
worth knowing about. But the Cronkite career has vast scope, and the cumulative
effect of this book is illuminating, not only about the man himself (who is seen
holding kittens in one photograph) but also about the way he filtered history
for a nation.

We know our times by our heroes, and Larry Tye's ''Superman'' is a study of how
one superhero has made himself adaptable to the different eras in which he has
thrived. Mr. Tye, the author of an outstanding biography of the pitching star
Satchel Paige, isn't a flashy writer. But he investigates each new Superman
incarnation with care. The importance of his thorough book is best summarized by
something Joe DiMaggio once said to his teammate Lefty Gomez: ''Lefty, you know
what day today is?'' Lefty said it was Wednesday. ''No, no,'' Mr. DiMaggio said,
''today is the day the new Superman comes out.''

David Dalton's ''Who Is That Man?'' extols a different Superman: Bob Dylan, the
most overexamined pop cultural figure we have ever known. There are libraries
full of Dylanologists' noodlings. There's no crying need for any more. But Mr.
Dalton, a founding editor of Rolling Stone, dates back so far in Dylan watching
that he was all but present at the creation. And he has absorbed the many books
that preceded his. So he writes not just about Mr. Dylan but about what it's
like to have lived in close psychic and musical proximity to him for so long.
Mr. Dalton doesn't think that this is Bob Dylan's world and we just live in it,
but he thinks that Mr. Dylan is part of our collective landscape. His book roams
all over that landscape's map. The power of the Dylan story will be history some
day too.

Finally, this summer's closest approximation of a chick book: ''Women From the
Ankle Down,'' Rachelle Bergstein's book-length claim that shoes are more
interesting than you'd think. Among the famous shoes on display: the ones that
made Marilyn Monroe wiggle, the disco strutters of ''Saturday Night Fever,'' the
Reeboks that helped Jane Fonda popularize aerobics, the high heels that were the
spirit of pinups and the beatnik ballerina flats that separated Audrey Hepburn
from the crowd. Birkenstocks, army boots and glittering red slippers also
appear.

But the single best footwear belongs to Nancy Sinatra, who wasn't going to be
able to appropriate Lee Hazlewood's country song ''These Boots Are Made for
Walkin' '' until her father, Frank, said she could. Tall white boots became
famous and so did Ms. Sinatra, once she followed Mr. Hazlewood's suggestion
about how her record should sound. Mr. Hazlewood advised that she sing it like a
14-year-old girl with a penchant for truck drivers. ''I can do that,'' Ms.
Sinatra said. And she did.

Titles That Will Take You Away

WE ARE ANONYMOUS: INSIDE THE HACKER WORLD OF LULZSEC, ANONYMOUS, AND THE GLOBAL
CYBER INSURGENCYby Parmy Olson. 498 pages. Little, Brown & Company. $26.99.

MOST TALKATIVE: STORIES FROM THE FRONT LINES OF POP CULTUREby Andy Cohen. 273
pages. Henry Holt & Company. $25.

LOVE, LIFE, AND ELEPHANTS: AN AFRICAN LOVE STORYby Dame Daphne Sheldrick. 334
pages. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $27.

WOMEN FROM THE ANKLE DOWN: THE STORY OF SHOES AND HOW THEY DEFINE USby Rachelle
Bergstein. 284 pages. Harper. $24.99.

WHO IS THAT MAN?: IN SEARCH OF THE REAL BOB DYLANby David Dalton. 383 pages.
Hyperion. $26.99.

CRONKITEby Douglas Brinkley. 819 pages. Harper. $34.99.

GRANDAD, THERE'S A HEAD ON THE BEACH: A JIMM JUREE MYSTERYby Colin Cotterill.
324 pages. Minotaur Books. $24.99.

GONE GIRLby Gillian Flynn. 419 pages. Crown Publishers. $25.

SUPERMAN: THE HIGH-FLYING HISTORY OF AMERICA'S MOST ENDURING HEROby Larry Tye.
409 pages. Random House. $27.

THE LAST FULL MEASURE: HOW SOLDIERS DIE IN BATTLEby Michael Stephenson. 464
pages. Crown Publishers. $28.

DROPPED NAMES: FAMOUS MEN AND WOMEN AS I KNEW THEMby Frank Langella. 356 pages.
Harper. $25.99.

TURING'S CATHEDRAL: THE ORIGINS OF THE DIGITAL UNIVERSEby George Dyson. 401
pages. Pantheon Books. $29.95.

BRING UP THE BODIESby Hilary Mantel. 410 pages. Henry Holt & Company. $28.

ALIF THE UNSEENby G. Willow Wilson. 431 pages. Grove Press. $25.

THE AGE OF MIRACLESby Karen Thompson Walker. 288 pages. Random House. $26.

THE KINGS OF COOL: A PREQUEL TO SAVAGESby Don Winslow. 336 pages. Simon &
Schuster. $25.

I HATE EVERYONE ... STARTING WITH MEby Joan Rivers. 242 pages. Berkley Books.
$25.95.

LIZZ FREE OR DIEby Lizz Winstead. 307 pages. Riverhead Books. $25.95.

GIRL WALKS INTO A BAR . . .: COMEDY CALAMITIES, DATING DISASTERS, AND A MIDLIFE
MIRACLE by Rachel Dratch. 248 pages. Gotham Books. $26.

YOU'RE NOT DOING IT RIGHT: TALES OF MARRIAGE, SEX, DEATH, AND OTHER
HUMILIATIONSby Michael Ian Black. 243 pages. Gallery Books. $23.99.

IS EVERYONE HANGING OUT WITHOUT ME? (AND OTHER CONCERNS)by Mindy Kaling. 222
pages. Crown Archetype. $25.

Correction: May 31, 2012, Thursday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Books of
The Times review on Friday, about various books for summer reading, including
''Turing's Cathedral'' by George Dyson, misstated part of the name of the
institute in Princeton, N.J., where Mr. Dyson's father, Freeman Dyson, worked
and is now a professor emeritus. It is the Institute for Advanced Study (not
Studies).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C28) DRAWING
(DRAWING BY BRIANNE FARLEY)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                              May 29, 2012 Tuesday

Israel Gets the Blame for Flame Virus

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 631 words



HIGHLIGHT: A new powerful weapon in the cyber war has been unleashed, according
to Russian researchers. Iran seems to be the main target of the Flame virus, so
is Israel responsible?


LONDON - No prize for guessing who is getting the blame - or should that be the
credit - for creating a new spyware super bug reported to have infected
computers throughout the Middle East.

"Nice one Israel. Proud of you!" a reader posted on the Haaretz newspaper's Web
site under a report about the "most sophisticated cyber-weapon yet unleashed"
attacking computers in Iran, the West Bank, Sudan, Syria, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia
and Egypt.

The new virus, called Flame, was identified on Monday by Kaspersky Labs, a
security research firm in Moscow.

Worm.Win32.Flame aka #TheFlame is professionally designed to carry out cyber
espionage. Learn more: ow.ly/bckKA#malware

- Kaspersky Lab (@kaspersky) May 28, 2012

As Nicole Perlroth writes over at the Bits blog: "If the report's findings prove
to be true, Flame would be the third major Internet weapon to have been
discovered since 2010."

An earlier virus, Stuxnet, was used to destroy centrifuges at an Iranian nuclear
facility in 2010. The unidentified programmers behind Stuxnet were also credited
with devising the Duqu virus, used for reconnaissance.

Moshe Ya'alon, Israel's vice premier, fuelled speculation of Israeli involvement
on Tuesday when he told Army Radio: "Whoever sees the Iranian threat as a
serious threat would be likely to take different steps, including these, in
order to hurt them."

Israel is a country blessed with superior technology, he said, adding: "These
achievements of ours open up all kinds of possibilities for us."

Iran appeared to be the principal target of the new computer worm, described by
Alexander Gostev, Kaspersky's head of research, as so big and sophisticated that
it redefined the notion of cyberwar and cyberespionage.

Nicole quotes researchers who said the complexity of the super bug, and the
geography of its targets, suggested it was the work of a government.

The earlier Stuxnet worm is credited with having slowed down Iran's nuclear
program, which Israel, the United States and other states believe is geared
towards producing a nuclear bomb.

Intelligence and military experts have said the effectiveness of Stuxnet was
tested at the Dimona nuclear complex in Israel in a joint U.S.-Israeli effort to
undermine the Iranian program.

Kaspersky, which discovered the Flame virus during research on behalf of the
International Telecommunication Union, said it had so far found no similarities
with Stuxnet and Duqu. However, "the Flame malware looks to be another phase in
this war," said Eugene Kaspersky, the research lab's chief executive.

The International Telecommunication Union is the United Nations agency for
information and communications technology. It was acting on reports that
computers at Iran's oil ministry and its national oil company had been hit with
malware that was stealing and deleting information from their systems.

As with Stuxnet and Duqu, no government is likely to put its hand up. But some
experts are already convinced about where responsibility lies.

"The country that brought us Iranian nuclear assassinations, explosions at Iran
missile bases, and Stuxnet, is at it again," wrote Richard Silverstein on
Israel's liberal Tikun Olam Web site under the headline: "Israel's new
contribution to Middle East cyberwar."

"The goal is apparently to infiltrate the computers of individuals in Iran,
Israel, Palestine and elsewhere who are engaged in activities that interest
Israel's secret police, including military intelligence," Mr. Silverstein said,
suggesting Israeli intelligence might even be using the worm to spy on its own
citizens.


     ·    Tensions With Iran: Accidents Can Happen
     ·    Timing of Nuclear Claim Puts Tehran on the Spot
     ·    Finding a Different Bahrain Than the One I Expected
     ·    Channeling Iran in the High-Stakes Nuclear Talks
     ·    Hoping Tehran's 'Wily Fox' Can Help Avert War


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 30, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iran Confirms Attack by Virus That Collects Information

BYLINE: By THOMAS ERDBRINK; Jodi Rudoren contributed reporting from Tel Aviv.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 648 words


TEHRAN -- The computers of high-ranking Iranian officials appear to have been
penetrated by a data-mining virus called Flame, in what may be the most
destructive cyberattack on Iran since the notorious Stuxnet virus, an Iranian
cyberdefense organization confirmed on Tuesday.

In a message posted on its Web site, Iran's Computer Emergency Response Team
Coordination Center warned that the virus was dangerous. An expert at the
organization said in a telephone interview that it was potentially more harmful
than the 2010 Stuxnet virus, which destroyed several centrifuges used for Iran's
nuclear enrichment program. In contrast to Stuxnet, the newly identified virus
is designed not to do damage but to collect information secretly from a wide
variety of sources.

Flame, which experts say could be as much as five years old, was discovered by
Iranian computer experts. In a statement about Flame on its Web site, Kaspersky
Lab, a Russian producer of antivirus software, said that ''the complexity and
functionality of the newly discovered malicious program exceed those of all
other cyber menaces known to date.''

The virus bears special encryption hallmarks that an Iranian cyberdefense
official said have strong similarities to previous Israeli malware. ''Its
encryption has a special pattern which you only see coming from Israel,'' said
Kamran Napelian, an official with Iran's Computer Emergency Response Team.
''Unfortunately, they are very powerful in the field of I.T.''

While Israel never comments officially on such matters, its involvement was
hinted at by top officials there. ''Anyone who sees the Iranian threat as a
significant threat -- it's reasonable that he will take various steps, including
these, to harm it,'' said the vice prime minister and strategic affairs
minister, Moshe Yaalon, in a widely quoted interview with Israel's Army Radio on
Tuesday.

In a speech Tuesday night, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu did not mention
Flame specifically, but he did include computer viruses as one of five critical
types of threats Israel faces, saying: ''We are investing a great deal of money
in that, human capital and financial capital. I expect these investments to
yield a great deal in the coming years.''

Mr. Napelian said that Flame seemed designed to mine data from personal
computers and that it was distributed through USB sticks rather than the
Internet, meaning that a USB has to be inserted manually into at least one
computer in a network.

''This virus copies what you enter on your keyboard; it monitors what you see on
your computer screen,'' Mr. Napelian said. That includes collecting passwords,
recording sounds if the computer is connected to a microphone, scanning disks
for specific files and monitoring Skype.

''Those controlling the virus can direct it from a distance,'' Mr. Napelian
said. ''Flame is no ordinary product. This was designed to monitor selected
computers.''

Mr. Napelian said he was not authorized to disclose how much damage Flame had
caused, but guessed the virus had been active for the past six months and was
responsible for a ''massive'' data loss. Iran says it has developed antivirus
software to combat Flame, something that international antivirus companies have
yet to do, since they have just become aware of its existence.

''One of the most alarming facts is that the Flame cyberattack campaign is
currently in its active phase, and its operator is consistently surveilling
infected systems, collecting information and targeting new systems to accomplish
its unknown goals,'' Alexander Gostev, chief security expert at Kaspersky Lab,
said on the company's Web site.

Those close to Iran's leaders said that the virus was tantamount to an attack.

''I am no virus expert, and my computer seems to be working,'' said Sadollah
Zarei, a columnist for the state newspaper, Kayhan, ''but I know this is covert
warfare, aimed at weakening us.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                             May 30, 2012 Wednesday

The Kalnirnay 'Calmanac' Goes Digital

BYLINE: NARESH FERNANDES

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 678 words



HIGHLIGHT: A popular religious calendar-almanac, used by millions to identify
auspicious days, embraces new technology.


For four decades, traditionalists in Maharashtra on the cusp of buying a new
home, switching jobs or scheduling surgeries have looked to one authority to
establish the most auspicious moment at which to make these crucial decisions:
Kalnirnay calendar-almanacs that list religious festivals, the phases of the
moon, the timing of the sunrise and all the other information anyone seeking to
divine the intentions of the cosmos could ever need.

Since they made their appearance in 1973, Kalnirnay "calmanacs" have become a
fixture in homes in Maharashtra and are popular in several other states, too.
Sumangal Press, the firm that publishes the calendar, claims a circulation of
more than 18 million.

But now, as the firm looks at the charts to determine its own destiny, it seems
that the future is increasingly digital.

The revenues from the firm's information technology products - such as
horoscopes delivered to cell phones, its iPad app and a Web site that generates
cyber-predictions about such matters as "family welfare," "buying gold" and
"personality/anger management" - are set to grow at 300 percent this year. They
constitute approximately 5 percent of the firm's $4.5 million in total revenues,
but Jayraj Salgaokar, the firm's publisher and managing director, expects that
figure to grow much quicker during the next decade. "I'm driven by technology,"
he declared.

The situation didn't look quite so bright the year the Salgaokar family launched
their publication, aiming to allow ordinary folk to figure out when precisely to
embark on new ventures without needing to consult professional astrologers.
Shopkeepers couldn't see the point of the product, and the Salgaokars had to
plead with them to stock the calendars. But a year later, aided by glowing
reviews in the newspapers, sales took off. "It was a cultural revolution," Mr.
Salgaokar said. "People didn't have to seek the advice of a pandit anymore."

The firm's first calendar was in Marathi and charted the Hindu months in
relation to the standard Gregorian one. But over the years, it has grown in both
in the density of the data it presents and in the breadth of its
multiculturalism.  Kalnirnay calendars are now available in seven languages,
including Gujarati and Tamil. They display information important to Hindus,
Muslims, Christians, Parsis and Jews, as well as secular occasions such as
National Youth Day and Universal Census Day.

A characteristic feature of the calmanac is the articles it carries on the
reverse. Over the decades, some of Maharashtra's best-known literary figures
have contributed articles to Kalnirnay. These pages also carry household tips,
health information, train timetables and career advice. For instance, this
year's English-language edition has a recipe for pineapple upside-down cake, an
article on cervical cancer and a column on the importance of reinvigorating
one's marriage ("The worst marital skids take place when we let the interesting
grooves and grids of our personalities wear out.   Redefine your grooves and
you'll continue to have a great grip on the bylanes as well as the highways of
marital life.")

The calendar can be found in Indian grocery stores around the world. Copies are
also dispatched to Israel, where there is a significant community of Jews from
Maharashtra, known as the Bnei-Israel. For now, these overseas markets are where
the company's iPad and android phone apps are in greatest demand. But Mr.
Salgaokar says that in addition to second-generation immigrants who have grown
up seeing their parents buying the calmanacs year after year, his digital
products are gaining popularity with young Indians. "Mobile is the future," he
said.

Though 57-year-old Mr. Salgaoakar recognizes the paradox of melding ancient
practices with cutting-edge delivery platforms, he doesn't think it strange that
many people in modern India continue to repose deep faith in astrology.  "It
isn't just Indians - it's people from around the world," he said. "It fulfils a
psychological need. There must be something to it that people recognize and
value."


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             May 30, 2012 Wednesday

Malicious E-Mail Attachment on Olympics Making Rounds on the Internet

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 164 words



HIGHLIGHT: A schedule of the 2012 London Olympics has been circulating on the
Internet that, alas, is not a schedule, but a Chinese cyber attack. The advice:
Don't open it.


Olympics enthusiasts: You may want to think twice before opening that PDF e-mail
attachment of the 2012 Olympics schedule.

On Tuesday, researchers at F-Secure, a Helsinki, Finland-based security firm,
discovered a malicious PDF file has been making the rounds on the Internet. The
file, which purports to be a schedule of the 2012 London Olympics, is actually a
decoy file which creates a backdoor between the user's computer to a Web site
registered to "student travel" in Baotou, China.

The takeaways, F-Secure's researchers say, are: "First, be wary of Olympic (and
any other current event) themed e-mails that have attachments or links. Second
if you don't already have the current version of Adobe Reader, you really should
go get it now."


     ·    Brush Up on the Mandarin for 'Table Tennis' and 'Triathlon'
     ·    Disruptions: Too Much Silence on Working Conditions
     ·    Labor Audit on Foxconn Is Thorough, Experts Say
     ·    Two Sides to Labor in China
     ·    Daily Report: Hacking Attacks Are Linked to Man at Chinese Firm


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 31, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Small Cameras That Can Switch Focus or Ride a Bike

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BRUSTEIN

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Personal Tech; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 963 words


POINT-AND-SHOOT cameras are being assaulted on all fronts. Smartphones are
threatening to make pocket-size cameras unnecessary by offering passable results
on a device many people are already carrying around. Meanwhile, photographers
who want better performance are likely to be tempted by mirrorless
interchangeable lens cameras, which are shrinking to nearly pocket size while
offering features like those found on professional-level, single-lens reflex
cameras.

But there is still life in the idea of a consumer-level camera that fits in a
pocket and does not require much special knowledge to master. You can find some
interesting and unusual cameras that will do things that a smartphone definitely
will not do.

THE LYTRO The most unusual piece of photographic equipment to hit the market in
quite some time, the Lytro ($399 or $499, depending on the amount of memory and
the color) is a strange-looking machine that takes photos in which objects can
be brought into or out of focus after the photo is taken. When an image from the
Lytro is viewed on a computer screen, a user can click on the foreground and pop
it into focus, causing the background to blur. Click on the background, and the
focus shifts, blurring the image in the foreground. It is quite a trick.

The Lytro itself looks more like a kaleidoscope than a camera. It is a
four-and-a-half-inch long rectangle with a touch screen on one end and a lens on
the other. The only controls are a power button, a shutter release and a slider
for the camera's zoom. Shooting with it feels very different from using a
standard point-and-shoot.

The types of photos that work best on the Lytro are those with something of
interest very close to the camera and something else of interest in the distant
background. The results can be striking, but capturing images that take
advantage of this effect takes some practice. The company is also working on a
perspective-shift feature, which will allow a photographer to adjust the angle
of the picture after the fact.

The camera is somewhat awkward to use, largely because the touch screen is small
and does not have very good resolution (a drawback that does not affect the
photos). It is also harder than one might imagine to compose images that
maximize its abilities. And it seems strange to use the Lytro for images that do
not take advantage of its unique charms.

The accompanying software, which is necessary for importing and processing the
Lytro's photos, is available for only Mac computers.

For some people, the novelty of the Lytro as a technology will overcome its
quirks as a product, but others will probably see it as gimmicky. One thing is
certain, though: it is different.

DURABLE POINT-AND-SHOOTS The camera industry has responded to smartphones by
trying to make their point-and-shoot cameras look and feel like the devices
threatening to supplant them. Many point-and-shoot cameras are now largely
featureless black rectangles with a screen filling most of one side.
Increasingly, camera companies are also adding wireless capabilities. Polaroid
makes a camera that uses Android's operating system for smartphones and does
everything but make phone calls.

At the same time, camera companies are also selling models that are very
different from phones. These armored cameras are waterproof, can withstand cold
weather and are meant to withstand falls of over six feet.

These can be a bulky by pocket-camera standards and, in some cases, kind of
ugly. But the Olympus Tough TG-820 iHS provides performance and price ($299)
akin to a standard point-and-shoot. For those set on the sleek smartphone look,
the Sony Cyber-shot DSC-TX200V is the closest fit. It has more megapixels and
offers some features that the Olympus does not, and the cost ($499) reflects
that.

With both cameras, photographs taken in bright light look good, but image
quality suffers quickly as things get dim. Both cameras also shoot video in full
HD.

GOPRO For a specific kind of photographer, the durable camera that makes the
most sense will be the GoPro, a tiny camera intended to be mounted on a bicycle,
surfboard or helmet.

The latest version, the GoPro HD Hero2 ($299) is a box with just two buttons. It
fits into a clear, waterproof shell that also protects it from impact. The
camera's fixed wide-angle lens has an extremely high depth of field, eliminating
any options regarding zoom or focus. In fact, the camera does not even have a
viewfinder. The only decision to make is when to press the shutter.

Well, not quite. The main potential for creativity with the GoPro is where to
mount the camera. The Hero2 comes in three basic kits, for surfing, motor sports
and outdoor sports, which could be snowboarding, bicycling or other activities.
The difference between the kits are the various straps, suction cups and other
ways to affix the camera to various objects that will then presumably travel at
high speeds.

The GoPro is probably best suited for video, although it also takes still
photographs, either in short bursts or periodically over longer periods of time
to create time lapse projects. Its lens distorts objects that are close, in an
effect that will be familiar to anyone who has watched video of action sports.
It is probably best to stay away from portraits with this one. Pictures taken in
daylight look great, but turn grainy as the light gets lower.

GoPro also makes several accessories that snap onto the back of the camera,
called BacPacs. One offers an extra battery, while another attaches a screen so
users can see what they are shooting. In June the company plans to release a
Wi-Fi BacPac and mobile app, which will allow users to control the shutter via a
remote control and transmit photographs and video directly from the camera to a
phone over a wireless network.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SPECIAL PURPOSE: From left, the Olympus Tough, the adjustable
Lytro and the go-anywhere GoPro HD Hero2.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 31, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shopping Calendar Gets a School Day

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 864 words


A MAGAZINE for teenage girls will try, joined by marketers and retailers, to add
another ''special'' day to the American marketing calendar already crowded with
celebrations both real (Christmas, Halloween) and fanciful (Black Friday, Cyber
Monday).

The magazine, Teen Vogue, is ready to begin promoting Aug. 11 as a national day
for back-to-school shopping. Back-to-School Saturday will offer young shoppers
-- and the parents who often pay the bills -- sales, free samples and events in
stores and malls.

Teen Vogue has two dozen advertisers taking part, all of them reliant on the
back-to-school season for revenue. The participants will include Aeropostale,
American Eagle Outfitters, Express, Guess, H&M, Maybelline New York, Pacific
Sunwear of California, Quiksilver, Staples and Vans. Four brands sold by Procter
& Gamble, the nation's largest advertiser, will be involved: Cover Girl, Olay,
Pantene and Tampax.

Back-to-School Saturday will be promoted in the typically enthusiastic Teen
Vogue tone of voice. For instance, ads and posters will exhort, ''Get ready, get
set, get shopping!'' And social media will, of course, play a big role; Teen
Vogue has already called dibs on a hashtag, #btss.

''We're trying to create a moment of imagination and motivation,'' said Jason
Wagenheim, vice president and publisher of Teen Vogue, part of the Conde Nast
Publications division of Advance Publications. ''We saw it as a real
opportunity, because for our girls, back-to-school is as important as'' the
Christmas shopping season, he added.

Mr. Wagenheim acknowledged that the back-to-school shopping period ''is a very
random 8 to 12 weeks that starts early in the South and later in the North.''
But research suggested that shopping for school supplies, clothing and other
merchandise ''seems to peak in the second and third week of August,'' he said,
so the Aug. 11 date was selected as one that could be turned into ''a
galvanizing moment.''

Alison Corcoran, senior vice president for retail marketing at Staples, echoed
Mr. Wagenheim.

Although ''the season starts in June in some markets and goes all the way to the
third week of September in Manhattan,'' Ms. Corcoran said that designating Aug.
11 as a special occasion ''is putting a stake in the ground, saying, 'Here's a
day you can rally around.' ''

And ''for value-conscious parents,'' said Ms. Corcoran, who described herself as
''a mom of four,'' it is ''great to know there's a day with the best of the best
deals.''

As part of Back-to-School Saturday, she added, Staples will promote, among other
offers, its annual Back to School Savings Pass, which costs $10 and offers 15
percent off ''all your school supplies for the rest of the season.''

Mr. Wagenheim said he was not daunted by how chockablock the shopping calendar
already is with days intended to stand out from the everyday. ''Kids are looking
for something to do,'' he said, ''and back-to-school is important to them.''

And ''we look to our big sisters from Vogue,'' Mr. Wagenheim said, who
introduced in 2009 a national shopping event called Fashion's Night Out. The
Vogue initiative has grown larger each year, expanding internationally, and this
year is Sept. 6.

Consumers are becoming ''increasingly interested in event-based shopping,'' said
Gary H. Schoenfeld, chief executive at Pacific Sunwear, who recalled how he was
''up all night on Black Friday in three or four of our stores, and customers
were having a blast.''

''Three o'clock in the morning felt like 8 o'clock at night, as people were with
friends and having a great time shopping,'' Mr. Schoenfeld said. ''The idea of
Teen Vogue trying to introduce something like that for back-to-school is a fun
idea; why not be a part of it?''

Deborah Marquardt, vice president for media and integrated marketing at
Maybelline New York, part of the L'Oreal USA division of L'Oreal, said that for
Teen Vogue's target generation, ''shopping is like a sport.''

Back-to-School Saturday represents an ''opportunity to get out in front of this
key audience,'' she added, in a relevant way that ''gives shape and focus to
something that's already existed, elevating it, event-izing it and celebrating
it.''

''If it doesn't provide anything of value,'' Ms. Marquardt said, consumers will
not respond. ''But they're going to get samples, and they're going to get
offers, and there'll be a fashion show at the Grove,'' she added, referring to a
mall in Los Angeles, ''where 10-to-15,000 are expected.''

Teen Vogue offered advertisers a chance to participate in Back-to-School
Saturday if they agreed to do more business with the magazine, in some
combination of print and/or digital spending.

For its part, Teen Vogue is spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on the
initiative, an amount similar to what the magazine has spent on previous efforts
like Teen Vogue Fashion University.

Mr. Wagenheim said, ''Our long-term hope is that it becomes part of the retail
calendar, like Black Friday.''

The August issue of the magazine, on sale on July 3, will have a back-to-school
theme, and there will be additional content on teenvogue.com. There are plans
for an iPhone app, called Teen Vogue Insider, timed for Back-to-School Saturday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Teen Vogue is working with advertisers to offer sales, free
samples and other special deals to returning students.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 1, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Secret Lives of Dangerous Hackers

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE
TIMES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1014 words


WE ARE ANONYMOUS

Inside the Hacker World of LulzSec, Anonymous, and the Global Cyber Insurgency

By Parmy Olson

498 pages. Little, Brown & Company. $26.99.

In December 2010 the heat-seeking Internet pranksters known as Anonymous
attacked PayPal, the online bill-paying business. PayPal had been a conduit for
donations to WikiLeaks, the rogue whistle-blower site, until WikiLeaks released
a huge cache of State Department internal messages. PayPal cut off donations to
the WikiLeaks Web site. Then PayPal's own site was shut down, as Anonymous did
what it did best: exaggerate the weight of its own influence.

But, according to ''We Are Anonymous,'' by Parmy Olson, the London bureau chief
for Forbes magazine, it had taken a single hacker and his botnet to close
PayPal. ''He then signed off and went to have his breakfast,'' she writes.

Even so, Anonymous made it seem like the work of its shadowy horde. ''We lied a
bit to the press to give it that sense of abundance,'' says the figure named
Topiary, one of the best sources in ''We Are Anonymous,'' a lively, startling
book by Ms. Olson that reads as ''The Social Network'' for group hackers.

As in that Facebook film the technological innovations created by a few people
snowball wildly beyond expectation, until they have mass effect. But the human
element -- the mix of glee, malevolence, randomness, megalomania and just plain
mischief that helped spawn these changes -- is what Ms. Olson explores best.

''Here was a network of people borne out of a culture of messing with others,''
she writes, ''a paranoid world whose inhabitants never asked each other personal
questions and habitually lied about their real lives to protect themselves.''

The story of Anonymous and its offshoots is worth telling because of the fast
and unpredictable ways they have grown. Anonymous began attracting attention
after it attacked the Church of Scientology in 2008; subsequent targets have
included Sony's PlayStation network, Fox television and ultimately the C.I.A.
The Homeland Security Department expressed its own worries last year.

Ms. Olson provides a clear timeline through Anonymous's complicated, winding
history. She concentrates particularly on how it spun off the smaller, jokier
group LulzSec. ''If Anonymous had been the 6 o'clock news, LulzSec was 'The
Daily Show,' '' she writes.

The breeding ground for much of this was 4chan, the ''Deep Web'' destination
''still mostly unknown to the mainstream but beloved by millions of regular
users.'' The realm of 4chan called /b/ is where some of this book's most
destructive characters spent their early Internet years, soaking up so much
pornography, violence and in-joke humor that they became bored enough to move
on. Ms. Olson, whose evenhanded appraisals steer far clear of sensationalism,
describes 4chan as ''a teeming pit of depraved images and nasty jokes, yet at
the same time a source of extraordinary, unhindered creativity.'' It thrived on
sex and gore. But it popularized the idea of matching funny captions with cute
cat photos too.

''We Are Anonymous'' also captures the broad spectrum of reasons that Anonymous
and LulzSec attracted followers. Some, like Topiary -- who turned out to be Jake
Davis, an outwardly polite 19-year-old from a sheep-farming community on the
remote Shetland Island called Yell, who was arrested in 2011 -- were in it for
random pranks and taunting laughs. This book does not shy away from the raw
language its principals used, as when Topiary told one victim: ''Die in a fire.
You're done.'' Other participants had political motivations. The New Yorker
calling himself Sabu began as a self-styled revolutionary and was instrumental
in getting Anonymous to invade the Web sites of top government officials in
Tunisia.

A pivotal part of this book concerns the arrest of Sabu, the unveiling of his
real identity as Hector Monsegur, and the F.B.I.'s subsequent use of him as an
informant. Sabu's dealings with Julian Assange of WikiLeaks are also described.
Ms. Olson notes how Sabu ''suddenly seemed very keen to talk to the WikiLeaks
founder once his F.B.I. handlers were watching.''

Ms. Olson regards it as inevitable that neither Anonymous nor LulzSec could
reconcile the divergent goals of its participants. Bullying jokesters and
politically oriented hacktivists may share sophisticated knowledge of how to
manipulate the Web and social media, but each faction became an embarrassment to
the other. Topiary told Ms. Olson about his own long-distance contact with Mr.
Assange, whom he describes as both intrigued by the saboteurs' potential and
critical of their silly side. (After sifting through 75,000 e-mails from a
digital security firm, Topiary bashfully admits, one of the things that most
interested him was an e-mail from the chief executive's wife saying, ''I love
when you wear your fuzzy socks with your jammies.'' )

The most startling conversation in ''We Are Anonymous'' was arranged by the
author: an in-the-flesh meeting between Topiary and a person she calls William,
since he remains unidentified.

William personifies the dehumanizing effects of cybercrime, and he knows it. One
of his specialties is extorting pornographic pictures and then putting them to
damaging use. ''We split up several boyfriends and girlfriends and appalled many
people's mothers,'' he recalls, about the Facebook tricks the book describes in
detail. ''I'd be lying if I said there was any great reason,'' he adds. ''I
don't feel guilty, it makes me laugh, and it wastes a night.''

Together they confirm the worst suspicions about the power of sophisticated but
untethered Internet manipulation. ''You could inspire some 15-year-old, or
someone with a 15-year-old's mind-set, to hate whoever you want them to hate,''
William says.

Postscript: May 31, 2012, Thursday

After this article was published, PayPal contacted The Times to take issue with
the statements in the book that say the hackers shut down its Web site. Jennifer
Hakes, a senior manager in corporate communications, said that as a result of
the attacks in December 2010, ''PayPal was never down.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Parmy Olson

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                              June 1, 2012 Friday

Grammy Awards to Be Held on Feb. 10

BYLINE: JAMES C. MCKINLEY JR.

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 147 words



HIGHLIGHT: The nationally televised ceremony will again be held at the Staples
Center in Los Angeles.


The Grammy Awards will be held on Feb. 10 next year at the Staples Center in Los
Angeles,  its home for years, the National Academy of Recording Arts and
Sciences has announced.  The nominations will be revealed two months earlier, on
Dec. 5, during a live prime-time concert.  Both events will be broadcast on CBS.

  This year's broadcast was seen by almost 40 million viewers, making it the
second-most-watched Grammy Awards ceremony in the event's 54-year history. (The
highest was in 1984.) This year's highlights were a sweep of the major awards by
Adele, the British soul singer, and a tribute to Whitney Houston, the pop diva
who died the night before the broadcast.


     ·    Judge Dismisses Suit Over Cuts in Grammy Awards
     ·    Cyber Furor Over Chris Brown's Appearance at Grammys
     ·    40 Million Tune In for Grammys
     ·    Adele Is 6 for 6 at the Grammy Awards
     ·    What the Grammys Mean for the Numero Group Label


LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 1, 2012 Friday

Obama's Counterterrorism Actions Complicate Republican Strategy

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1004 words



HIGHLIGHT: A report in The New York Times is the latest evidence that Mr. Obama
has embraced the use of his predecessor's national security and anti-terrorism
machinery.


The revelation that President Obama has been personally and secretly directing a
covert cyberwar against Iran could have political implications as the president
enters the final stretch of his re-election campaign against Mitt Romney this
year.

The report in The New York Times is the latest evidence that Mr. Obama has
embraced the use of his predecessor's national security and anti-terrorism
machinery, decisions that some of his liberal supporters have viewed as a
misguided and hawkish approach to foreign policy.

But the news also complicates the political strategy for Republicans, including
Mr. Romney, who are trying to build a case against Mr. Obama as a feckless,
indecisive foreign policy leader, citing in particular the humanitarian crises
in Libya and Syria.

That case may be more difficult to make against a president who has once again
pushed the envelope for waging covert operations abroad. In in this instance,
the target was Iran, a country against which Republicans have been urging the
administration to take stronger and more decisive action. Last year, Mr. Romney
accused Mr. Obama of being "weak and timid" with Iran for not reacting more
strongly when a United States drone crashed in that country.

Ironically, the news of Mr. Obama's cyber war against Iran comes a day after the
president stood shoulder to shoulder with George W. Bush in the White House as
the official portrait of Mr. Bush, the 43rd president, was unveiled. Mr. Obama
praised Mr. Bush and joked that he "left me a really good TV sports package" in
the White House.

It turns out, Mr. Bush also left behind a secret computer virus that Mr. Obama
used to try and cripple Iran's nuclear program.

The Times report portrays Mr. Obama as personally engaged in the decision to use
the virus, which was eventually called Stuxnet, to slow Iran's progress and
destroy its nuclear enrichment equipment. The virus was developed during Mr.
Bush's time in office, but its use continued and expanded under Mr. Obama.

"From his first months in office, President Obama secretly ordered increasingly
sophisticated attacks on the computer systems that run Iran's main nuclear
enrichment facilities, significantly expanding America's first sustained use of
cyberweapons, according to participants in the program," the article, by David
Sanger, says.

It was the second Times story in a week to provide a behind-the-scenes look at
the president's direct involvement in covert decisions abroad. A story on
Tuesday by Jo Becker and Scott Shane described Mr. Obama's role in deciding what
terrorists to put on a "kill list."

The "kill list" story prompted predictable outrage from some of Mr. Obama's
staunchest supporters, who have long complained that anti-war rhetoric he
expressed during the 2008 campaign has given way to a hawkish policy in the
White House.

"He has put a prettier and more palatable face on extremely ugly policies,"
Glenn Greenwald, of Salon Magazine, wrote this week. "Many Obama fans claimed
during the 2008 election that his background as a constitutional lawyer would
ensure reversal of the most extremist Bush/Cheney policies, but he has instead
used that background for the opposite goal."

Liberals have not always been unhappy with the president. In his first days in
office, Mr. Obama banned interrogation techniques that his supporters deemed
tantamount to torture and he ordered the closure of the detention facility at
Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, within a year, although he failed to follow through in the
face of Congressional opposition. Later in his presidency, he followed through
on a promise to end the war in Iraq by the conclusion of 2011. Both moves earned
him praise from his base.

But his decision to increase the number of troops in Afghanistan by 30,000 was
viewed by some liberals as a betrayal, even though Mr. Obama had said during the
2008 campaign that the war in that country was the right one to be fighting.

And his willingness to dramatically increase the use of drones for targeted
assassinations of terrorist figures has strained his credibility among those who
view such tactics as the work of the neoconservative hawks who surrounded Mr.
Bush in the White House.

Even the killing of Osama bin Laden, which was widely supported by members of
both political parties, made some progressives queasy because of its
implications for defining the executive powers of the presidency to order an
assassination.

But the same actions by Mr. Obama that anger liberals could also help insulate
him from the "weak on defense" political attacks that Republicans have
historically leveled against Democrats.

Mr. Romney and his fellow Republicans have accused the president of not being
aggressive enough with Iran, Syria and other adversaries. They have said he
should have done more to support an uprising in Iran two years ago. And they
accuse Mr. Obama of not doing enough in Syria.

"President Obama's lack of leadership has resulted in a policy of paralysis that
has watched Assad slaughter 10,000 individuals," Mr. Romney said this week,
calling for the United States and its allies to provide weapons to the Syrian
opposition forces.

Mr. Obama's campaign has already begun to use the killing of Osama bin Laden as
a political tool, questioning in an ad about the president's leadership whether
Mr. Romney would have made the decision to authorize the raid in Pakistan during
which Bin Laden was killed.

Similarly, the president's allies could use the stories from this week - Mr.
Obama's role in assembling a terrorist "kill list" and his involvement in
authorizing cyber warfare - to challenge the idea that his foreign policy is
characterized by paralysis.

The campaign between Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney is likely to remain primarily
about the economy and how to fix it. But foreign policy and national security
issues will help shape how both men are perceived as leaders.

And events in the world  - including in Iran and Syria - could heighten voter
interest in how both men will use the country's national security apparatus.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 4, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Asleep at the Laptop

BYLINE: By PREET BHARARA.

Preet Bharara is the United States attorney for the Southern District of New
York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 878 words


THE alarm bells sound regularly: cybergeddon; the next Pearl Harbor; one of the
greatest existential threats facing the United States. With increasing
frequency, these are the grave terms officials invoke about the menace of
cybercrime -- and they're not understating the threat.

Some cybercrime is aimed directly at our national security, imperiling our
infrastructure, government secrets and public safety. But as the recent wave of
attacks by the hacker collective Anonymous demonstrates, it also targets private
industry, threatening the security of our markets, our exchanges, our bank
accounts, our trade secrets and our personal privacy.

With all the attention paid to the so-called fiscal cliff approaching at year's
end, it is equally important to ask whether collective inaction has us
simultaneously barreling toward a cybercliff of equal or greater height.

As the United States attorney in Manhattan, I have come to worry about few
things as much as the gathering cyberthreat. Law enforcement is racing to
respond, filling its ranks and fortifying its defenses against cyber
-malefactors. Businesses should worry, too. But my experience suggests that they
are not doing nearly enough to protect themselves, their customers and their
shareholders.

Recently I met two executives from major companies who did not even know whom in
law enforcement to contact in the event of a hack or intrusion. A few weeks ago,
after a speech I gave about cybercrime, a board member of a significant
Internet-based company took me aside and admitted, with some horror, that his
company's board had not spent a single minute discussing cybersecurity.

These troubling admissions reveal critically outdated thinking in the business
community. But there is recourse, and the cliff can still be avoided.

For one thing, large and small corporations alike must adopt a culture of
disclosure. A bank would never think to delay reporting to the police a
conventional robbery by a masked criminal wielding a gun and a note. But that is
what institutions are still routinely doing after being compromised by anonymous
criminals operating through the Internet.

Corporations may wait days or even weeks and months, or never disclose the
attacks at all, for fear of exposing proprietary information. But doing so makes
it much harder to identify the perpetrator and prevent future economic injury.
It also makes it harder to tell who the next victim might be, so that they might
assess their own vulnerabilities and formulate solutions.

Businesses should be assured that law enforcement will operate with the utmost
sensitivity toward victims of cyberattacks. Prosecutors and agents have
developed techniques to minimize disruptions to daily operations and to
safeguard proprietary information. Where necessary, we can seek judicial orders
to protect confidentiality. But to the extent that businesses remain allergic to
the idea of promptly reporting cybercrime to law enforcement, they need to get
over it.

Second, every company needs to do a better job of creating and fostering a
culture of security. A recent report by Verizon suggests that a stunning 97
percent of data breaches last year were avoidable. That's because even
well-intentioned companies that are already spending large sums of money on
high-tech security are overlooking the most fundamental precautions.

In a way, they're overthinking the threat. We have a false impression that all
hackers are hyper-sophisticated, digital versions of Tom Cruise rappelling down
a building, ''Mission Impossible''-style. But the more mundane reality is that
companies are most often breached by hackers walking down virtual hallways,
looking for a single unlocked door. And the proverbial unlocked door can mean
entry into the entire data network.

In response, companies must start thinking ahead of the hack and locking their
doors. It is simply no longer enough for company leaders to take a hands-off
approach, leaving these matters to a few ''techies.'' Such an attitude
practically invites a hack. Even simple measures -- like employee training and
regular threat assessments -- can help companies avoid becoming the easy target.

But the most important step is the most obvious and fundamental one:
understanding the threat in a comprehensive, serious manner. Every member of a
board or executive suite is duty bound to protect the institution against
material risk, whether they currently possess particular expertise or not. And
yet, how many companies have a concrete plan in place to deal with a hack? How
many conduct independent audits of their cybervulnerabilities? The answer, many
in my position fear, is too few.

Some say we are outgunned. But in my view, it is less a matter of being
outgunned than being simply outdated -- in our thinking and in our vision. Yes,
there is an army of computer saboteurs, spies, thieves and nihilists who wish to
do us harm. But we have an army, too, or at least the makings of one, which can
draw from the best of law enforcement, intelligence, business and academia.

I have no doubt that we could find the collective will to amass and mobilize our
army once a true catastrophe strikes -- just as we did after Pearl Harbor and
Sept. 11, 2001. The question is whether we can do so before that happens.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MSMDNYC)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Motherlode)

                              June 5, 2012 Tuesday

How Can Facebook Safely Add Under-13s?

BYLINE: KJ DELL'ANTONIA

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 549 words



HIGHLIGHT: If Facebook opens up to children under 13, how can it do the job
right?


For the past few weeks, there have been rumors that Facebook is considering
expanding its reach to include children under 13. With The Wall Street Journal
reporting yesterday that Facebook is actively testing options to create a safe,
child-friendly space on the site, those rumors can be officially considered to
have reached some sort of critical mass: unnamed sources good enough for The
Journal have effectively confirmed them.

It seems likely that within some reasonable period of time - months, or a year -
even parents who would never consider helping a child to lie about her age to
join Facebook, or being tacitly complicit in the lie, will be once again
considering the question that has become a parenting rite of passage: how young
is too young for Facebook?

On the one hand, "it depends." What does Facebook have in mind? A connected
account would be a different beast from a regular account, and could be
Facebook's opportunity to use its vast powers for good - imagine a parent
legitimately equipped with all the information one readily gives up to Facebook.
On the other hand, there remain all the old concerns: just because a parent can
oversee any cyber-bullying, posting of unkind pictures, cutting remarks or just
plain failures to "like" on a 10-year-old's page, doesn't mean the child, or the
parent, will know how to deal with them.

Then there's the fresher question, which isn't really a question at all - is
Facebook just considering this as a way to bring in new users, and get them
invested in Facebook before something else comes along? Of course it is.
Facebook is a public company now - it has an active duty to its stockholders to
do just that (and would probably have done it even pre-I.P.O.). Facebook has
expressed a concern about its obligations regarding the 5 million to 7 million
children under 13 who, according to a Consumer Reports survey, are already using
it, but putting something safe and functional in place for those children offers
a clear side benefit: more children joining at a younger age. There are business
risks. There are privacy risks. But Facebook's users are its product, and it
will always need more.

As a parent, the biggest difference I see between a Facebook that allows
children and one that doesn't would be that more children on Facebook would mean
more social pressure to join. It was never hard for a child to lie to sign up,
but as long as young users were relatively few, saying no to Facebook was easy
(actually, I've personally yet to have a child ask). I know, I know - many of
you out there have absolute control over your children, and you just say no, and
that's the end of it, and why worry about it?

But for those of us whose children do ask for Facebook, or beg for Facebook, or
who might be concerned that said children would sign up secretly for Facebook
and somehow avoid the reach of our own Facebook networks, how could Facebook
actually help? What would a Facebook that you'd be comfortable with your child
using look like? What's the perfect Facebook for a child under 13, and why?


     ·    Digital Literacy Includes Learning to Unplug
     ·    Can Your Child Find Porn on Your Phone?
     ·    For Teenage Girls, Facebook Means Always Being Camera-Ready
     ·    Father Shoots Daughter's Laptop Over Facebook Post
     ·    Does Heavy Media Use Make Girls Less Happy?


LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                              June 5, 2012 Tuesday

Senate Will Investigate National Security Leaks About Terrorism 'Kill List'

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 255 words



HIGHLIGHT: Senators John McCain and Saxby Chambliss called for the appointment
for a special counsel to investigate leaks in wake of recent articles in The New
York Times.


The Senate will investigate recent national security leaks to the news media in
the wake of articles in The New York Times about a "kill list" for terrorists
and the use of cyberweapons against Iran, a Senate official said on Tuesday.

Tara Andringa, a spokeswoman for Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, the Democratic
chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said the committee would hold hearings
"pertaining to recent public reports of classified information."

Ms. Andringa's comments came after Republican senators John McCain of Arizona
and Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, both called for the appointment of a special
counsel to investigate the leaks.

"Such disclosures can only undermine similar ongoing or future operations and,
in this sense, compromise national security," Mr. McCain said on the Senate
floor. "For this reason, regardless of how politically useful these leaks may be
to the president, they have to stop."

Mr. McCain referred to the articles in The Times, which detailed Mr. Obama as
being personally engaged in the decisions of which terrorists to target, and
said he personally directed the cyber efforts against Iran.

Mr. McCain told reporters afterward that he believes the leaks have been
designed "to enhance President Obama's image as a tough guy for the elections."
Mr. McCain is the ranking member of the Armed Services Committee.

The statement from the committee's chairman, Mr. Levin, said of the hearing that
"any discussion of classified information by the committee or committees would
necessarily be closed."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                              June 8, 2012 Friday

Grammys Reinstate Latin Jazz Award

BYLINE: JAMES C. MCKINLEY JR.

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 601 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Recording Academy trustees restore the award after complaints
from Latin jazz musicians.


A year after the trustees that oversee the Grammy Awards cut 31 categories and
drew fierce protests from Latin jazz musicians, they have reversed themselves
and reinstated an award for best Latin jazz album.

The Recording Academy said  its board of trustees had made several changes to
the categories during its annual meeting in late May, adding three new awards.

Not only will Latin jazz be recognized with a separate category, but a new award
for best urban contemporary album has been created to honor less traditional R&B
that includes elements of urban, rock and pop music.  A new award for the best
compendium of classical music was also added.  All told, there will be 81
categories at the awards ceremony on Feb. 10 in Los Angeles, up from 78 this
year.

The reinstatement of the Latin jazz category represents a retrenchment for the
Recording Academy.  Last year, the trustees rattled the music industry when they
reduced the categories from 109 to 78.  By a narrow vote, they decided to get
rid of separate awards for men and women in many fields, consolidate many
categories and eliminating individual awards for several regional or ethnic
genres, among them zydeco, Hawaiian music, American Indian music and Latin jazz.

The changes drew firefrom several quarters.  Some big-name artists like Paul
Simon, Herbie Hancock and Carlos Santana joined a petition drive to reverse the
decisions.  Latin jazz musicians in New York, led by the drummer Bobby Sanabria,
filed a lawsuit alleging the board, by acting largely in secret, had not
followed its own procedures.   That suit was dismissed by a judge in April.

"Now I can concentrate on music - This is a great day," Mr. Sanabria said.  He
thanked the trustees for listening to the complaints of Latin jazz stars over
the last year, though he noted other ethnic genres had also lost individual
awards.  "The only angst I feel is that last year so many artists were left
out," he said. "I hope this opens the door for the board of trustees to
reinstate the other categories as well."

As a small group of Latin jazz artists picketed the last Grammy Awards in
February, the president of the Recording Academy, Neil Portnow, said the board
vowed not to bow to political pressure, but promised the trustees would revisit
the question of the cutbacks in May.

Speaking to The Associated Press on Friday, Mr. Portnow said a number of
proposed changes were submitted to the trustees this year and noted "the volume
was definitely up" from previous years.  "I don't hold anything against the
Latin jazz community for the passion that they have for their music," he said.
The Latin jazz community, he added, "put a good proposal together this year, and
we see the results of that."

Roger Maldonado, who filed the lawsuit on behalf of Mr. Sanabria and others,
told The Associated Press he was elated at the reinstatement of the Latin jazz
category.

"I want to thank the academy for having the maturity to make the decision
despite a yearlong fight," he said.

Other changes include splitting up the best Latin pop, rock or urban album honor
into two awards: one for best Latin pop album and one for best Latin rock, urban
or alternative album.  This recognizes the growing influence of Latin pop music
as a genre. The trustees also opted to consolidate two awards for various genres
of Mexican country music into one category, best regional Mexican music album.


     ·    Grammy Awards to Be Held on Feb. 10
     ·    Judge Dismisses Suit Over Cuts in Grammy Awards
     ·    Cyber Furor Over Chris Brown's Appearance at Grammys
     ·    40 Million Tune In for Grammys
     ·    Adele Is 6 for 6 at the Grammy Awards


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 11, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rating Law Schools

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 234 words


To the Editor:

Prof. Brian Z. Tamanaha's June 1 Op-Ed article, ''How to Make Law School
Affordable,'' makes some interesting points. Here is another one. Fully 40
percent of the U.S. News & World Report ranking of law schools depends on a
survey of law school administrators, selected law school professors, practicing
lawyers and judges.

Overwhelmingly, this select group attended the top-rated law schools. So the
ratings have a built-in bias toward those law schools, because those are the law
schools about which the people rating them have firsthand knowledge.

Thus, smaller public schools with low tuition and debt load (the University of
Nebraska College of Law's tuition and fees this year were approximately $14,000
for in-state students and $28,000 for out-of-state students), great programs
(Nebraska has the only space, cyber and telecommunications program in the
country, a world-class program in law and psychology, and more), and great
success (over 96 percent of our 2010 graduates passed a bar exam the first time,
and 89 percent found employment in 2011) remain little known and undervalued.

The media and other experts might do well to check out what's going on with
legal education in the vast expanse in the middle of this beautiful country.
They might be surprised at what they find.

SUSAN POSER Lincoln, Neb., June 2, 2012

The writer is dean of the University of Nebraska College of Law.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Straight Sets)

                              June 11, 2012 Monday

In U.S. Open Playoffs, A Mystery on the Other Side of the Net

BYLINE: RAY KRUEGER

SECTION: SPORTS; tennis

LENGTH: 868 words



HIGHLIGHT: A New York Times editor participates in the United States Open
National Playoffs, a tournament that eventually earns the winner a spot in U.S.
Open qualifying.


Playing in the United States Open is stressful, even if it is just the United
States Open National Playoffs, which had its first round Monday at the National
Tennis Center.

The main stress is wondering whom you will face. Anyone 14 or older who is a
member of the U.S.T.A. can compete in the national playoffs, including top
college players, juniors and low-level touring pros looking to qualify for the
United States Open. The event is one of 13 around the country that feed into a
tournament after which one man and one woman earn a spot in the United States
Open qualifying tournament in August. The winner of the mixed doubles tournament
makes it into the main draw of the Open.

It is possible to run into a Brian Baker, who was playing in local tournaments
in Tennessee last year before making his return to the ATP Tour and reaching the
second round of the French Open.

So you put in hours of practice hoping to just survive the first round. But the
main thing you do is research. I became a tennis cyber stalker.

When the draw came out, I saw I was playing Vincent Sun of Charlottesville, Va.
My stress level rose. Charlottesville is the home of the University of Virginia,
the 2011 and 2012 runners-up in the N.C.A.A. men's tennis championships.

But I could not find my opponent's name on the U.S.T.A. Web site. Strange, since
the database lists every U.S.T.A. tournament match for the last 10 years. Maybe
he is a new arrival in this country, recruited for tennis? I am in trouble.

I took my attempted stalking one step further. I called a practice partner who
grew up in Virginia. He called his mother, who teaches tennis in
Charlottesville. She never heard of him.
Oh well.

When you play tournaments as I have throughout my life, you grow out of the open
tournaments and into age-group events. Players move on to the 35-and-overs, then
to the 40-and-overs and so on until you are in the 90-and-overs. I am halfway to
the 90s, playing in the 45-and-overs.

Deep down there are no illusions that a 47-year-old newspaper editor is going to
qualify for the United States Open, even if that editorfinished fifth in the
East region in the 45-and-over division rankings last year. But if my opponents
were to get sprained ankles, food poisoning or get lost in traffic, who knows
what could happen?

Still, the real motivation was to play against the best and see where I stood.
So bring on the tennis monster from Charlottesville. Maybe I can win a game or
two.

Walking around the practice courts before the tournament, I wondered, Is that
Vincent Sun? By now, I had built him up in my mind as the great god of tennis.

At the sign-in desk, I finally saw him. He was not 6-foot-4 and 180 pounds with
the look of someone who just got off a practice court with Roger Federer. He did
not have a coach or entourage. He was wearing a Brazil soccer shirt and was
about my height, 5-8, and my weight, 180, if I skipped the low-fat ice cream the
night before. In short, he looked like some of the players I see when I play at
Riverside Park.

When the warm-up started, he hit his first shot over the side fence. Hmm, I
might have a shot here, I thought.

On the second point of the match, he hit a net cord. I rushed up and barely
angled off a winner. Soon the score was 1-0, then 2-0. I was up by 4-0 when I
realized I had not lost a point. I had a chance for a golden set. Only once
before did I have a golden set, during the first round of a tournament in
Indianapolis. I was going to try for another one. The stress level picked up and
I started pushing my shots. But enough of them did not come back, and I finished
off the set without losing a point.

The second set was more of the same. Could I get a golden match? And did I even
want one?

After all, my opponent was running all over the court chasing down balls, trying
hard. I felt a twinge of guilt and thought about giving him a point or two. But
I decided it would be disrespectful to not give it my all and try to win every
point. I even remembered a tournament match I played years ago, when I was up,
6-0, 5-0, and lost.

I was up by 3-0 in the second set when Sun framed a ball that just dribbled over
the net. I rushed up and reached the ball just enough to bunt it back. He had
moved to the other side of the court so he could not get to my shot. He slipped
and fell, but bounced right back up. Thank God. The last thing I wanted was to
cause him to get hurt.

Finally, it ended. I did not lose a point. The match took 24 minutes.

I shook my opponent's hand and he gave me a big smile.

"You sure whipped my butt," he said

All I could think to say was "I'm sorry."

I had been on the other side of 6-0, 6-0 matches before, so I knew how he felt.

Turned out that Sun was a 28-year-old violin teacher who sometimes comes up from
Virginia to visit relatives in Queens.

"I came up on the bus last night," he said as we walked back to the locker room.
This was his first tournament, but National Tennis Center held a special allure.

"Playing here is like playing in Carnegie Hall," Sun said.

He added: "They said anybody could enter, so I decided to give it a shot. You
could win this thing."

I thanked him for his kind words, but I know tomorrow will probably be my turn
to be gracious.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                             June 14, 2012 Thursday

Drake and Chris Brown Reportedly Involved in Club Brawl

BYLINE: JAMES C. MCKINLEY JR.

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 589 words



HIGHLIGHT: The police say at least five people received minor injuries though it
was unclear whether Drake and Chris Brown were directly involved in the incident
at the W.i.P. club in SoHo.


5:21 p.m. | Updated
The New York City police are investigating a brawl that took place early
Thursday morning at a SoHo nightclub where the rapper Drake and the R&B singer
Chris Brown were socializing separately with friends.

Bottles were thrown and at least eight people, including Mr. Brown, suffered
cuts and minor injuries when the fight broke out at the W.i.P. club on Vandam
Street shortly before 4 a.m., the authorities said.  No arrests were made, nor
complaints filed.

Detectives were reviewing the club's surveillance tapes, interviewing witnesses
and going over the records of people who entered that night to determine who
might have been responsible for the melee, the police said.

A 25-year-old man who was hit in the head and knocked unconscious was taken to
Bellevue hospital with a gash to the head, along with two women whose arms and
hands were cut, a fire department spokesman, Frank Dwyer, said. The police said
two other women were injured and were taken to a different hospital.

It remained unknown what prompted the fight.  The two pop stars both had
bodyguards and large groups of friends with them, crowded into a club that holds
250 people.

The police said earlier in the night two men had approached Mr. Brown's table
and asked him: "Do you have a problem with Drake?"  Then, as Mr. Brown was
leaving the club with his girlfriend and a bodyguard, five men stripped off
their shirts and confronted him.  Some witnesses identified the five men as
associates of Drake, but they have not been identified, the police said.

Heated words were exchanged, but no punches were thrown. As the talk escalated,
bottles were thrown from other parts of the bar at Mr. Brown and the cluster of
men around him, the police said.

"We are attempting to get the video and the ID-processing equipment to see if we
can identify anyone responsible," said Paul J. Browne, the deputy commissioner
of public information.

A representative for Drake, who was traveling around town with two bodyguards,
said he was on his way out of the club when the altercation began. "He did not
engage in any activity which resulted in injury to person or damage to
property," his publicist, Kelly Bush, said in a statement.

Detectives have yet to interview Drake.

Mr. Brown put out a statement saying he and his girlfriend, Karrueche Tran,
"were victims of a brutal attack last night" and had sustained several injuries.
He said he was cooperating with the police.  Early Thursday, he had published a
picture of himself with a deep gash on his chin on Twitter, though he later
removed it.

Through a publicist, the owners of the club declined to comment.

Both Drake and Mr. Brown have dated the singer Rihanna, which led to rampant
speculation on hip-hop blogs and radio stations on Thursday that the two men had
become embroiled in an argument over her.  Those reports are unconfirmed, the
police said.

Mr. Brown remains on supervised probation after pleading guilty to assaulting
Rihanna in 2009 in Los Angeles on the eve of the Grammy Awards, leaving her with
a split lip, a black eye and other injuries.   The police in Miami are also
investigating a complaint against him from a 24-year-old woman who said he stole
a cellphone after she tried to photograph him.

Drake was scheduled to perform at Saratoga Springs Performing Arts Center on
Thursday night in upstate New York.


     ·    Cyber Furor Over Chris Brown's Appearance at Grammys
     ·    Chris Brown to Perform at the Grammys
     ·    Adele Racks Up Two No.1's This Week
     ·    Charting Drake and 'Chop Care'
     ·    Popcast: The Best Albums of 2011


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                              June 17, 2012 Sunday

Police Shutter Club in Aftermath of Celebrity Brawl

BYLINE: JAMES C. MCKINLEY JR.

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 318 words



HIGHLIGHT: Club W.i.P, which is on Vandam Street in SoHo, was closed on Saturday
night because of code violations, days after it was the scene of a fight between
Chris Brown and people associated with Drake.


The police have shut down a nightclub where the R&B singer Chris Brown and
people associated with the rapper Drake were involved in a brawlearly Thursday
morning, The Associated Press reported.

Club W.i.P, which is on Vandam Street in SoHo, was closed on Saturday night
because of code violations, the police said, without giving details. On Thursday
it was the scene of a barfight involving Mr. Brown and members of Drake's
entourage in which champagne bottles were lobbed like missiles. Mr. Brown, his
bodyguard and his girlfriend were among eight people injured.

The small basement level club had been packed with celebrities that night
attending a birthday party for the manager of the R&B star Ne-Yo. The guests at
the party included Meek Mill, who is touring with Drake, Mary J. Blige, and the
San Antonio Spurs star Tony Parker, who suffered a scratched retina during the
brawl.

The origins of the fight remain unclear. One witness said it started when Mr.
Brown sent a bottle of champagne to Drake, who returned it unopened. Ice chips
were thrown at Mr. Brown,  then the two camps started throwing bottles at each
other, the witness said. A publicist for Drake maintains he had already left the
club when the violence started. The police have also received a different
version of events from Mr. Brown and other witnesses, who told them Mr. Brown
was leaving the club when several men stripped off their shirts and confronted
his group, saying "What is your problem with Drake?" Tensions have been high
between Mr. Brown and Drake in the past because both have dated the pop diva
Rihanna. Mr. Brown pleaded guilty to assaulting Rihanna in 2009 while they were
still dating.


     ·    Drake and Chris Brown Reportedly Involved in Club Brawl
     ·    Cyber Furor Over Chris Brown's Appearance at Grammys
     ·    Chris Brown to Perform at the Grammys
     ·    Adele Racks Up Two No.1's This Week
     ·    Rihanna Speaks Out About Violent 'Man Down' Video


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 24, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

It's as Easy As 123!@S

BYLINE: By JACOB BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; CULTURAL STUDIES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1415 words


WITH numbers. Without. One capital letter. None. More than eight characters.
Fewer than 16.

''It's a nightmare,'' the comedian Tracey Ullman said. ''These passwords just
keep getting longer and longer. I try to think of a startling emotional thing
that jogs my memory or something that's frightening, or my grandmother's name
with 666 at the end. But I really don't know what to do.''

Neither, it would seem, does the actress Parker Posey, who said she writes them
down ''on tiny pieces of paper, like little secrets, because yes, someone could
find them.'' But then, Ms. Posey added, she forgets which Web sites the codes
are for.

The writer Paul Rudnick finds himself equally bewildered. Simply tracking down
the password for his Time Warner Cable modem was like ''a 'Bourne Identity'
moment,'' Mr. Rudnick recalled.

Just a decade ago, an Internet user rarely had to do more than enter a simple,
easy-to-remember e-mail password, recycling it for every online account. But as
our dependency on the Internet has grown, so has the complexity of its
restrictions.

The end result: a mind-boggling array of personal codes squirreled away in
computer files, scribbled on Post-it notes or simply lost in the ether.
Virtually any online user without a computer science degree now seems to be one
failed login attempt away from a nervous breakdown.

Worse, are the dreaded security questions, which began simply enough (''In what
city were you born?'') but have increasingly ''moved from the purely factual to
things that would require you to have a judgment,'' lamented Jeffrey Leeds, the
president of Leeds Equity and a fixture on the New York social scene.

''It'd be fine if it was my mother's maiden name,'' Mr. Leeds said. ''That is
different from 'What is the name of your first girlfriend?' You think: 'Well,
what do you mean by girlfriend? Is that the first woman I ever slept with, or
someone I liked who never particularly liked me back?' It's a march through your
entire personal history just to get on some damn Web site which will deliver
your groceries.''

Wireless providers have concocted a particularly dizzying array of hurdles to
get on their Web sites. At Verizon, choices include ''What is the title of your
favorite book?'' and ''What is your favorite food?'' both of which Olivia Kraus,
a lawyer in New York, dismisses as silly questions to ask anyone over age 7.
''The whole favorite thing is so juvenile,'' she said.

Mr. Rudnick also finds the questions misguided. ''They should go negative,'' he
suggested. ''What's your least favorite color, who's your least favorite
relative and who's the last person on earth you would date? People would
remember those questions, and they'd enjoy answering them far more.''

At AT&T, customers can pick among quasi-existential queries like ''What is your
dream job?'' or brainteasers like ''What is the last name of the most famous
person you've ever met?''

That last one confounded Kevin Hertzog, a set designer in New York and recent
AT&T Wireless defector.

''What constitutes meeting?'' Mr. Hertzog said. ''Barbra Streisand asked me if
we had a set of 12 plates in stock when I worked at Bergdorf Goodman, but I've
had breakfast with Calvin Klein, so which person have I really met? Does it
count if you shout out someone's name on the red carpet on the Academy Awards as
they walk by? If you go to the Christy Turlington event at Neiman Marcus in
Beverly Hills and buy a yoga pant from her?''

Further, Mr. Hertzog said he could never bring himself to make that his security
question anyway: ''I'd be too embarrassed even if no one else knew about it.''

Mickey Boardman, the editorial director of Paper Magazine, said he was often
stumped from the get-go. ''One password check asked my first phone number,'' he
said in an e-mail, ''and I can barely remember my current number.''

''They'll ask you something like, 'Who was your first teacher?' and I can never
remember if that means my first-grade teacher or kindergarten, because
kindergarten isn't really school,'' Mr. Boardman continued. ''And my first-grade
teacher, Miss Thies, got married halfway through the year and became Mrs.
Newell. So it's mayhem.''

That online accounts are unsecure does not seem to be a matter of much debate.
Over the last several months, Facebook has been subjected to numerous security
breaches, as anyone who has unwittingly posted pictures of Nike sneakers or
Christian Louboutin heels can tell you.

On June 6, the social networking site LinkedIn confirmed that it was the victim
of a security attack, and more than six million people had their passwords
stolen. That week, Mitt Romney's Hotmail account was hacked, echoing a similar
episode in 2008 involving Sarah Palin's Yahoo e-mail account.

But it is less clear to cybersecurity experts that having a password with extra
numbers or special characters actually makes customers safer.

''People's choice of passwords is not the real problem today,'' said Dr. Joseph
Bonneau, a University of Cambridge researcher who studies cyber security. ''The
real problem is typing in passwords to the wrong Web site, which is stealing
them.''

So why are Web sites suddenly requiring users to add special characters or
numbers? ''It's security theater,'' Dr. Bonneau said. ''So people feel safe. It
makes the Web sites seem like they're taking things more seriously, when in fact
most of them have no control if you have malware. In absence of a way to tackle
bigger problems, it's easy to add restrictions. They don't want to seem less
secure than competitors.''

Larry Kramer, the playwright and AIDS activist, is outraged.

''I don't think any of the proprietors of these sites have spoken about this in
any kind of intelligent way,'' Mr. Kramer said. ''And there's no standard code,
there's no 'Can we all work on this together?' Or anything like that. It's a
mess. You'd think AOL and Gmail would talk to each other and find a way to sort
this out.''

Most technology companies do not want to talk about their systems. AT&T and Time
Warner Cable declined interview requests. Verizon did put someone on the phone,
but not from the department in charge of its sometimes frustrating Web site.

As it turned out, Tracy Hulver, Verizon's chief identity strategist, was having
his own trouble keeping his online accounts straight. ''I remember my passwords
at this point, but I have trouble matching those passwords with the appropriate
user ID,'' Mr. Hulver said. ''So I may have a user account THulver on one
account, and on another account it's Thulver01, because on that I had to put an
alphanumeric. And matching those passwords to those user IDs winds up being the
thing that frustrates me the most.''

The MSNBC host Al Sharpton echoed this frustration. On any given day, he might
use five passwords, Mr. Sharpton said. ''You walk around all day trying to
remember them so that you don't look like you're senile when you can't turn on
your computer in front of your staff,'' he said. ''Every one of them is younger
than me.''

So what's a hopeless technophobe to do?

Courtney Love recommends using mnemonics, saying it was something even a
simpleton like herself could use. ''You use the lyrics to a song,'' she said,
for example, '' 'Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds' -- litswd-1 -- and that way you
can't forget it.''

Still, she ran into trouble when she started using ''Hey Jude.'' ''I kept
forgetting if it was 'Hey Jude, don't make it bad' or 'Hey Jude, don't make it
sad,' '' she said. ''So I gave up on that.''

And the comedian Sandra Bernhard noted that a trick like this would not work for
her Time Warner Cable wireless router, which comes with a preselected
unchangeable password that ranges from 13 to 28 characters. ''We have that one
written down somewhere, but where it is I'd be hard pressed to tell you,'' she
said, adding that her relationship with the cable provider is ''an S&M
experience without the pleasure.''

Ms. Ullman recently consolidated her most important passwords on a Post-it note
beside her computer. The inherent security risk of this was less troublesome to
her than her sense of ironic defeat. ''I thought the whole point of computers
was, you were never going to have to write again,'' she said.

And don't get her started on those newly trendy captcha phrases, the squiggly
lines of random text that are designed to block spammers but drive real, live
customers batty.

''Don't you hate those?'' Ms. Ullman said. ''I always get those wrong because it
looks like they were written by someone on LSD. It's awful.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: YOU'RE NOT ALONE: Parker Posey, above, and Courtney Love
struggle to remember online passwords.(ST1)
 PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRAZER HARRISON/GETTY IMAGES)(ST2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 25, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Weapon We Can't Control

BYLINE: By MISHA GLENNY.

Misha Glenny, a visiting professor at the Columbia University School of
International and Public Affairs, is the author of ''DarkMarket: Cyberthieves,
Cybercops and You.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 888 words


London

THE decision by the United States and Israel to develop and then deploy the
Stuxnet computer worm against an Iranian nuclear facility late in George W.
Bush's presidency marked a significant and dangerous turning point in the
gradual militarization of the Internet. Washington has begun to cross the
Rubicon. If it continues, contemporary warfare will change fundamentally as we
move into hazardous and uncharted territory.

It is one thing to write viruses and lock them away safely for future use should
circumstances dictate it. It is quite another to deploy them in peacetime.
Stuxnet has effectively fired the starting gun in a new arms race that is very
likely to lead to the spread of similar and still more powerful offensive
cyberweaponry across the Internet. Unlike nuclear or chemical weapons, however,
countries are developing cyberweapons outside any regulatory framework.

There is no international treaty or agreement restricting the use of
cyberweapons, which can do anything from controlling an individual laptop to
disrupting an entire country's critical telecommunications or banking
infrastructure. It is in the United States' interest to push for one before the
monster it has unleashed comes home to roost.

Stuxnet was originally deployed with the specific aim of infecting the Natanz
uranium enrichment facility in Iran. This required sneaking a memory stick into
the plant to introduce the virus to its private and secure ''offline'' network.
But despite Natanz's isolation, Stuxnet somehow escaped into the cyberwild,
eventually affecting hundreds of thousands of systems worldwide.

This is one of the frightening dangers of an uncontrolled arms race in
cyberspace; once released, virus developers generally lose control of their
inventions, which will inevitably seek out and attack the networks of innocent
parties. Moreover, all countries that possess an offensive cyber capability will
be tempted to use it now that the first shot has been fired.

Until recent revelations by The New York Times's David E. Sanger, there was no
definitive proof that America was behind Stuxnet. Now computer security experts
have found a clear link between its creators and a newly discovered virus called
Flame, which transforms infected computers into multipurpose espionage tools and
has infected machines across the Middle East.

The United States has long been a commendable leader in combating the spread of
malicious computer code, known as malware, that pranksters, criminals,
intelligence services and terrorist organizations have been using to further
their own ends. But by introducing such pernicious viruses as Stuxnet and Flame,
America has severely undermined its moral and political credibility.

Flame circulated on the Web for at least four years and evaded detection by the
big antivirus operators like McAfee, Symantec, Kaspersky Labs and F-Secure --
companies that are vital to ensuring that law-abiding consumers can go about
their business on the Web unmolested by the army of malware writers, who release
nasty computer code onto the Internet to steal our money, data, intellectual
property or identities. But senior industry figures have now expressed deep
worries about the state-sponsored release of the most potent malware ever seen.

During the cold war, countries' chief assets were missiles with nuclear
warheads. Generally their number and location was common knowledge, as was the
damage they could inflict and how long it would take them to inflict it.

Advanced cyberwar is different: a country's assets lie as much in the weaknesses
of enemy computer defenses as in the power of the weapons it possesses. So in
order to assess one's own capability, there is a strong temptation to penetrate
the enemy's systems before a conflict erupts. It is no good trying to hit them
once hostilities have broken out; they will be prepared and there's a risk that
they already will have infected your systems. Once the logic of cyberwarfare
takes hold, it is worryingly pre-emptive and can lead to the uncontrolled spread
of malware.

Until now, America has been reluctant to discuss regulation of the Internet with
Russia and China. Washington believes any moves toward a treaty might undermine
its presumed superiority in the field of cyberweaponry and robotics. And it
fears that Moscow and Beijing would exploit a global regulation of military
activity on the Web, in order to justify and further strengthen the powerful
tools they already use to restrict their citizens' freedom on the Net. The
United States must now consider entering into discussions, anathema though they
may be, with the world's major powers about the rules governing the Internet as
a military domain.

Any agreement should regulate only military uses of the Internet and should
specifically avoid any clauses that might affect private or commercial use of
the Web. Nobody can halt the worldwide rush to create cyberweapons, but a treaty
could prevent their deployment in peacetime and allow for a collective response
to countries or organizations that violate it.

Technical superiority is not written in stone, and the United States is arguably
more dependent on networked computer systems than any other country in the
world. Washington must halt the spiral toward an arms race, which, in the long
term, it is not guaranteed to win.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HENNING WAGENBRETH)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                              June 25, 2012 Monday

Apple Tweaks Its 'We're Safe' Message and Antivirus Makers Take Notice

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 577 words



HIGHLIGHT: Apple, which once bragged that that its Mac computer "Doesn't get PC
viruses," recently tweaked its marketing message to read: "Built to be safe."
Antivirus makers have been quick to call the tweak an official admission by
Apple that this computers are no longer immune from attacks common to PCs
running Windows. Or is it just the latest instance of antivirus makers
over-hyping a threat to sell more product because Apple is selling significantly
more computers than ever before?


It was a subtle tweak, but it didn't go unnoticed by antivirus software makers
for long.

In big bold letters on its Web site, Apple had bragged for years that its Mac
computer "Doesn't get PC viruses." Then, two weeks ago, the company tweaked that
wording to read simply: "Built to be safe."

The modification was immediately called out by antivirus companies who said the
language tweak was an official admission by Apple that its computers were no
longer safe from the kind of hacker attacks common to PCs running Microsoft
Windows.

"I view the changes in the messages pushed out by their marketing department as
some important baby-steps," Graham Cluley, a security expert at Sophos, wrote in
a blog post. "Let's hope more Apple Mac owners are also learning to take
important security steps -- such as installing antivirus protection."

Apple has always marketed its computers as sleeker, more stylish and more secure
than its Windows counterparts. But its security claims were partly discredited
last April after security experts discovereda new piece of malware, called
Flashback, had infected more than half a million Apple computers in the
largest-scale attack on Apple's Mac OS X operating system to date.

The malware, which infected Apple computers through a hole in Java software, had
been infecting computers through especially nefarious means. Unlike most
malware-which typically spreads when a user clicks on a malicious link or
downloads a malicious attachment-Flashback simply downloaded itself without
prompting.

Apple released two security patches for the vulnerability and encouraged Mac
users to run their software updates. That helped bring down the number of
infected machinesfrom 600,000 to 140,000 within two weeks.  But it was not long
before researchers discovered that a new variant of Flashback, called
Flashback.s, was continuing to infect Mac users through the same vulnerability.

Flashback was not the first time Macs had been targeted. In 2011, security
experts discovered that a piece of malware, called Mac Defender, masquerading as
anti-virus software was infecting Macs.

Antivirus companies were quick to say the attacks heralded a new era in which
Mac users were no longer safe. Windows computers have always been cyber
criminals' preferred target simply because there have always been more of them.
But as Apple expands its share of the PC market-it currently holds 12 percent of
the PC market in the United States, up from a fraction of that only a few years
ago-antivirus companies claim hackers are turning their attention to Mac users.
Bigger market share means a bigger pool of targets making it worth the
criminals' time to build the malware.

Some security researchers have criticized those warnings as premature and say
they are simply the latest case of antivirus companies hyping a threat to sell
more antivirus software.

"Two issues in two years is relatively minor compared with what happens in the
Windows world," said Rich Mogull, the founder of Securosis, a security research
company. "Antivirus companies, in particular, can be pretty deceptive. They have
been marketing Apple's immunity far more than Apple has and they are far more
vulnerable. I no longer put stock in it."


     ·    Rounding Up Apple Conference Chatter, From Maps to TV Apps
     ·    Malware for Macs Lucrative, Security Researchers Say
     ·    A New Variant of Malware Takes Aim at Mac Users
     ·    Apple Operating System Affected by Malware
     ·    Citi Discovers Security Flaw in iPhone Application


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                            June 27, 2012 Wednesday

Promoter Offers Drake and Chris Brown $1 Million Each to Meet in the Ring

BYLINE: JAMES C. MCKINLEY JR.

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 616 words



HIGHLIGHT: Proceeds from the celebrity bout would be donated to a charity that
helps abused women.


By all accounts, there was nothing gentlemanly about the recent bar brawl
involving Chris Brown and Drake. The combatants lobbed champagne bottles and
glasses at one another and trashed a classy Soho nightclub.

Now a celebrity boxing promoter has offered the two pop stars $1 million each to
settle their dispute like proper gentlemen, according to the Queensbury Rules,
donning gloves and going three rounds in the ring for charity.

"It's more of a show than anything, and we can raise a million for charity," the
promoter, Damon Feldman, said by phone on Wednesday.  "Instead of fighting in a
bar they could get paid to fight."

Mr. Feldman, who operates the Celebrity Boxing Federation in Pennsylvania, said
he would like the spectacle to include Rihanna, the pop diva who has dated both
men and has been a cause of tension between them.

"We would like to have Rihanna as a ring girl, but if she doesn't take our
offer, we know she will be watching," he said.

Mr. Feldman said he has the financial backing of Alki David, a digital
entrepreneur who has agreed to pay the singers for their appearances and to
donate $1 million to a charity that helps abused women.   The fight would be
staged in Los Vegas or Los Angeles on Aug. 25.   If they accept the challenge,
Drake and Mr. Brown would fight three one-minute rounds, wearing oversize 24
ounce gloves and headgear to limit the risk of injury.

Neither Drake nor Mr. Brown has responded to the offer, Mr. Feldman said.

Mr. Feldman, a former prize fighter, has tried to carve out a niche in the
entertainment world with celebrity fights, staging more than 50 of them in
recent years, mostly in the Philadelphia area.  He has promoted fights featuring
the baseball player Jose Canseco, Linsay Lohan's father Michael Lohan and Rodney
King.  One bout he staged was between Danny Bonaduce, who starred years ago in
the "Partridge Family," and the Reverend Bob Levy, a comedian from "The Howard
Stern Show."

Two years ago, Pennsylvania's State Athletic Commission accused Mr. Feldman of
staging faux fights with scripted outcomes and of putting on boxing competitions
without a promoter's license.  Mr. Feldman argued his events were pure
entertainment with no risk of serious injury, like some professional wrestling
matches, and should not be regulated by the athletic commission.

Still, he pleaded no contest last year to charges he had staged fights without a
valid promoter's license and was barred from promoting any bouts in Pennsylvania
for two years.   He denies he has ever rigged the outcome of a celebrity fight,
though he says they are not intended to be taken seriously as sporting events.

"It's entertainment," he said. "It's the WWE of boxing."

The police are still investigating the fight, which erupted just before 4 a.m.
at the W.i.P. club on Vandam Street on June 14.   Both Drake and Mr. Brown were
sitting with friends in the packed club, where a party was underway for the
manager of the singer Ne-Yo.  A witness said the violence started when Drake
rejected a bottle of champagne that Mr. Brown had sent to his table.  Bottles
and glasses were thrown by both camps, leaving eight people with injuries,
including Mr. Brown and Tony Parker, a professional basketball player.

Since the melee, the police have shut down the club, saying the owners had
failed to rectify several outstanding code violations.  On Tuesday, the State
Liquor Authority suspended the club's liquor license, citing the violence in its
decision.


     ·    Police Close SoHo Club After a Celebrity Brawl
     ·    Drake and Chris Brown Reportedly Involved in Club Brawl
     ·    Cyber Furor Over Chris Brown's Appearance at Grammys
     ·    Chris Brown to Perform at the Grammys
     ·    Adele Racks Up Two No.1's This Week


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 28, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tiny Camera To Rival The Pros

BYLINE: By DAVID POGUE.

E-mail: pogue@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STATE OF THE ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1356 words


This is a review of the best pocket camera ever made.

But first, a history lesson.

For years camera makers worried about competition from only one source: other
camera makers. But in the end, the most dangerous predator came from an
unexpected direction: cellphones.

Today, more photos are taken with phones than with point-and-shoot cameras. On
photo sites like Flickr, the iPhone is the source of more photos than any real
camera. No wonder sales of inexpensive pocket cameras are going down each year.

Cameras in phones are a delightful development for the masses. If you have your
camera with you, you're more likely to take photos and more likely to capture
amazing images.

But in a sense they are also great for camera makers, which are being forced to
double down in areas where smartphones are useless: Zoom lenses. High
resolution. Better photo quality. Flexibility and advanced features. That's why,
even if sales of pocket cameras are down, sales of high-end cameras are up.

Now you know why the time is ripe for the new Sony Cyber-shot DSC-RX100. It's a
tiny, pants-pocketable camera that will be available in late July for the
nosebleed price of $650.

Or, rather, won't be available. It will be sold out everywhere. I'll skip to the
punch line: No photos this good have ever come from a camera this small.

The first reason is easy to grasp. The Sony RX100 has a huge one-inch sensor --
the biggest ever stuffed into a pocketable zoom camera. That's not as big as the
sensors in S.L.R.'s and other lens-swappable cameras. But it's two and a half
times the area of the Olympus XZ-1 and nearly three times the area of the
previous pocket-camera photo-quality champ, the Canon PowerShot S100. (The
RX100's shiny black metal body looks exactly like them.)

A big sensor means big pixels, which gives you less grain in low light, better
color depth and great dynamic range -- the spectrum from darkest to lightest
pixels.

A big sensor is also a prerequisite for that professional blurry background
look. The RX100 easily achieves those soft backgrounds, a rarity in compact
cameras.

The other star factor in the Sony is its Carl Zeiss lens, whose maximum aperture
(lens opening) is f/1.8. That's the widest aperture you can buy on a pocket
camera. That, too, helps explain its ability to blur the background, and its
spectacular results in low light.

(As on any camera, that aperture shrinks as you zoom in. When you're fully
zoomed on this camera, you're down to f/4.9. That's still better than the
Canon's fully zoomed aperture -- f/5.9.)

But you know what? All of that is just shutterbug-speak for, ''This camera takes
amazing photos.'' If you want to know what ''huge sensor'' and ''big aperture''
mean in the real world, stop reading and savor my annotated slide show of sample
photos. There's a small sampling at nytimes.com/personaltech, and a larger one
at http://j.mp/LdUu4h.

There you'll see what makes the RX100 such a revelation: insane amounts of
detail and vivid, true colors. Hand-held twilight photos. A burst mode that can
fire 10 frames a second. And macro shots -- supercloseup -- that will curl
whatever's left of your hair. A typical S.L.R. can't get any closer than 10
inches from the subject with its included lens; the RX100 can nail focus only 2
inches away.

The RX100 is as customizable and manually controllable as an S.L.R., but it also
has some impressive automated modes. They include Illustration (turns the photo
into a colorful line drawing), High Dynamic Range Painting and the bizarre but
sometimes enlightening Auto Crop. It creates a duplicate of your portrait,
cropped in what it considers a better way. Sometimes, it's right.

And Sweep Panorama. You swing the camera around you in an arc, pressing the
shutter button the whole time. When you stop, there, on your screen, is a
finished, seamless, 220-degree panorama. It's the ultimate wide-angle lens.
Canyons, crowd shots, Walmart interiors -- you won't believe how often it's
useful.

For self-portraits, you can set a timer as usual. Or use its even smarter mode,
in which the camera waits until it sees your face in the frame. Then it fires a
shot every three seconds until you leave the scene.

As usual on today's compacts, there's no eyepiece viewfinder, a loss you may
mourn. But the three-inch screen remains clear and bright even in bright
sunshine, thanks to an extra white pixel Sony has nestled in among every set of
red, green and blue.

The 1080p video capture isn't quite the same festival of crispness as the
photos. But you can use all the photo effects while filming. And while
recording, you can zoom, change focus and even take still photos.

Sony has taken the debatable step of bringing back in-camera charging. That is,
there's no external charger for the 330-shot battery. Instead, the camera is the
charger, whenever it's connected to a USB jack, like the one on your laptop, or
a wall outlet. Pros: No charger to pack and lose. Cons: You can't charge a spare
battery while you're out shooting.

As with its role model, the Canon S100, you can program the function of the Sony
lens ring. It can control zoom, focus, exposure, aperture, whatever. But unlike
the Canon's ring, the Sony's ring doesn't click as you turn it -- sounds that
get picked up when you're capturing video.

On the hand, you don't feel clicks either. The ring spins freely, which gives it
a glassy, skidding feeling when you're adjusting a setting with natural stopping
points, like ISO (light sensitivity) or shutter speed.

That's not the only niggling downside. The biggest one, of course, is that
there's very little room for physical buttons. All of the RX100's hundreds of
functions are packed into five buttons on the back, a mode dial on top, the ring
around the lens and a four-way clickable ring on the back.

Novices will find it overwhelming. Then again, it's fairly clear that this isn't
a camera for novices. Besides, eventually it all makes sense. You learn to press
the Fn button whenever you want to adjust a photographic setting, or the Menu
button to adjust a camera-setup setting.

The camera has a 3.6X zoom lens. The Canon S100 zooms more (5X zoom). On the
other hand, the Sony takes 20-megapixel photos, versus 12 on the Canon.

Ordinarily I'm not a fan of cramming more pixels into a camera as a marketing
ploy. High-megapixel photos take longer to transfer, fill up your hard drive
faster and are overkill for most printing purposes.

But on Sony's sensor, these are really useful pixels. You can crop away a huge
part of the photo and still have lots of megapixels left for big prints; in
effect, you're amplifying the zoom.

One last downside: In certain photos, when I adjusted the overall contrast in
Photoshop later, I noticed some vignetting -- darkened areas at the corners.

This is an ideal second camera for professionals. And it's a great primary
camera for any amateur who wants to take professional-looking photos without
having to carry a camera bag.

Of course, $650 is crazy expensive. You can buy a full-blown S.L.R. for that
much.

But every time you transfer a batch of its pictures to your computer, you'll
understand why you spent that money. You'll click through them, astonished at
how often it's successful in stopping time, capturing the emotion of a scene,
enshrining a memory or an expression you never want to forget. You'll appreciate
that the RX100 has single-handedly smashed the rule that said, ''You need a big
camera for pro-quality photos.''

And if you care at all about your photography, you'll thank Sony for giving the
camera industry a good hard shove into the future.

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The RX100, a pocket-size camera, can focus from two inches
away, closer than a typical S.L.R. Below, a transparent view of the camera's
workings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID POGUE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B10) DRAWING (DRAWING
BY STUART GOLDENBERG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 30, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 73 words


The State of the Art column on Thursday, a review of the Sony Cyber-shot
DSC-RX100 camera, misstated the size of the camera's sensor relative to that of
the Olympus XZ-1 and the Canon PowerShot S100. It is two and a half times as
large as the XZ-1's sensor and nearly three times as large as the S100's -- not
four times as large as each. The column also misidentified, in some editions,
the brand of the XZ-1 as Panasonic rather than Olympus.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                              July 2, 2012 Monday

Chris Brown Disses Drake in New Track

BYLINE: JAMES C. MCKINLEY JR.

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 311 words



HIGHLIGHT: The new song follows a brawl at a Manhattan club involving the two
young stars.


Chris Brown added fuel to the dispute between himself and the rapper Drake over
the weekend, releasing an insulting rap track aimed at Drake on Saturday.

Mr. Brown's decision to ratchet up his war of words with Drake came just as the
dispute seemed to be dying down and a day before he was to appear at the BET
awards.  It generated another round of stories on hip-hop blogs and focused
attention on his performance at the awards show, his first since he was injured
during a brawl with several acquaintances of Drake on June 14 at club W.i.P. in
Manhattan.  Drake was also at the club but maintains he left minutes before the
violence started.

The new track was a remix of Chief Keef's rap "I Don't Like" and was released on
Saturday through the Web site Djorator.com.

Another rapper, the Game, joins Mr. Brown to rework the song, and Mr. Brown
delivers several insults aimed at Drake, referring to the melee that left eight
people injured. At one point he challenges Drake, saying "one on one, what you
scared, bruh?/Matter fact, take care bruh."  He then spits out an obscenity
suggesting Drake lacks courage and manliness.

There was no immediate response from Drake, who did not appear at the BET awards
ceremony in Los Angeles on Sunday night.  On the red carpet, some other hip-hop
figures deplored the simmering tensions between Mr. Brown and Drake, who are two
of the hottest young stars in urban music.

"Nobody wants to see them beef," the rapper Tyga told MTV News. "They both make
great music, they're both talented, but at the end of the day, as men, they have
to figure out what they want to do."


     ·    Promoter Offers Drake and Chris Brown $1 Million Each to Meet in the
          Ring
     ·    Police Close SoHo Club After a Celebrity Brawl
     ·    Drake and Chris Brown Reportedly Involved in Club Brawl
     ·    Cyber Furor Over Chris Brown's Appearance at Grammys
     ·    Chris Brown to Perform at the Grammys


LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Campaign Stops)

                             July 4, 2012 Wednesday

Space, the Missing Frontier

BYLINE: DOUGLAS MACKINNON

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1126 words



HIGHLIGHT: The presidential candidates should take the threat posed by China's
exploratory program seriously.


As most of us who have worked in and around politics for any length of time
know, if a certain issue is not an immediate vote-getter or "tangible" for a
politician, there is a better than even chance that the issue will be ignored or
deposited upon the furthest back-burner.

For many of our elected officials, everyday political calculation comes down to
this: "What's best for my re-election and what's best for my party?" In that
order. With fewer and fewer people in power whose first thought is: "What's the
best decision I can make that will be in the best interests of my constituents?"
It's no wonder that more young people are giving up on politics while their
elders abandon the political parties to become Independents.

While the if-it's-not-tangible-and-I-can't-game-it-immediately-to-my-benefit
test may be great for a politician, it's often very bad for the country.
"Tangible" being political slang for "that federal office building will now be
located in my district."

As for the "non-tangible," a great example would be our space program. Or to be
more accurate, our non-space program. It has never really been relevant for most
of our politicians or presidents. The truth is that only one president really
thought that space exploration was a tangible national vote-getter.

Whatever his real motivation, on Sept.12, 1962 at Rice University, John F.
Kennedy stated in no uncertain terms that in the interests of science, industry
and national security, the United States would become the "world's leading
spacefaring nation." And so we did - for nearly five decades.

Today, that preeminence is nothing more than a fading memory. While President
Obama - who as a candidate made it very clear that he valued education over
space exploration - may have pushed our human spaceflight program over the
cliff, other presidents led it to the edge.

With Florida a key battleground state in the presidential election, the White
House and the political appointees at NASA will argue furiously that the
president has not walked away from our human space program. They will point to
his plans to land astronauts on the asteroids one day. Right. That goal, exactly
like George H.W. Bush's plan in 1989 to send astronauts to Mars, is simply
fiction.

I worked in politics for a long time, but I began life as a space geek. I
started a scrapbook on the Soviet space program when I was 10 and decades later
got to write a book about the 12 men who have walked on the moon. After my time
in government, I worked as a consultant for NASA and the Space Shuttle team. In
other words, I admit that I have always been a fan of humans in space. Any
humans in space.

That said, the humans who are now winning the space race come from the People's
Republic of China. It is clear from their own propaganda that China means to
replace us as the "world's leading spacefaring nation."

It has been argued in the past that while the United States and other Western
nations see the future in terms of months or years, the Chinese see it in terms
of decades or even centuries. With that perspective in mind, the Chinese
government intends to win not the space race, but the space marathon. They
intend to take military, industrial and scientific advantage there.

After the just completed launch and recovery of China's first female astronaut -
Liu Yang, who with two male astronauts, was part of a very successful 13 day
mission to dock with a Chinese space station - many in the media covered it as a
human-interest story or even a politically correct equal-rights story. Nice, but
the completely wrong way to view the Chinese achievement.

Naïve and irresponsible beliefs aside, China's space program is essentially
military. Its every function is designed to carry out a military objective or
one that improves the welfare of the state. Nothing else matters to the Chinese
leadership.

Toward that end, the Chinese government has been investing a great deal of time
and talent in a wide range of anti-satellite weapons and technologies. Aside
from direct ascent kinetic kill vehicles (like the one it tested in 2007), the
Chinese military space program is also working on laser, jamming, microwave and
cyber-weapons.

Why?  Because the Chinese leadership - the same leadership that has made hacking
our military and commercial computers a priority - understands that no nation on
earth is more dependent for its overall survival on its satellites than the
United States. Satellites control our military communications, our financial
transactions and our day-to-day lives. What if they went dark or were destroyed
in orbit?

The Chinese leaders - and others - would certainly say that a military advantage
in space is "tangible" and a goal worth attaining. But preeminence is space is
about much more than military advantage.  Neil deGrasse Tyson, the director of
the Hayden Planetarium at the American Museum of Natural History in New York,
outlined that argument when he told Popular Science earlier this year:

If China sets up a permanent base on the moon, and tries to explore Mars on a
time scale shorter than ours, that will be another space race. I am just certain
of it. I am trying to get people to do this without having to view it as an act
of war, or an act of a response to an adversary. One way is because of
economics; the government could do this, and they could say, "The economic
return is the scientists and technologists who invent the new tomorrow." Space
exploration is the carrot that incites people to become scientifically literate.
So I view it as an economic development plan.

Maybe it's time for the president and his Republican opponent to elevate a few
issues to the "tangible" list regardless of personal or partisan self-interest.
As China launches military satellite after military satellite while declaring
its intention to colonize the moon, maybe preeminence in space should be one of
them.

During the transition period after he defeated John McCain, Obama contemplated
combining the best of the space programs at the Pentagon and NASA to compete
with the rapidly accelerating Chinese space program. For whatever reasons, he
declined to follow through on that plan when he became president.

The president should dust off those plans. Given the fact that during the height
of the war in Iraq, our government was spending nearly a billion dollars a day,
I suspect the American people would support spending a month's worth of that
budget every year to ensure that our assets in space and our future on earth are
more secure. But to support it, they first need to be convinced of its
importance. So do our leaders.



     ·    For Obama, It's About the Children
     ·    The Politics of Going to College
     ·    Take Back the Senate, Senators
     ·    Could Defeat in Court Help Obama Win?
     ·    Silencing the Guns


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 8, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Apple Is the Heavyweight in Many Portfolios

BYLINE: By NORM ALSTER

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1231 words


DESPITE the storms that have swept through financial markets over the last year,
the overall stock market in the United States actually managed to eke out some
gains. In fact, the market value of all stocks in the Standard & Poor's
500-stock index increased by $282 billion in the 12 months through June.

There's a catch, though: One stock alone accounts for the overwhelming bulk of
that increase. In fact, of that $282 billion, some 83 percent of it comes from
gains in shares of Apple Inc., now the highest-valued company in the world.

Many mutual fund managers can attribute most of their recent success to large
positions in Apple. But is a large current stake a ticket to further outsized
gains? Or is it an increasingly risky bet that could quickly sour?

Apple is the most widely held stock among the 465 growth funds followed by
FactSet Research, said Michael Amenta, an analyst at the firm. And that poses
pressing issues for many fund managers.

''We're sensitive to letting a mutual fund get too outsized a position,'' said
Ryan Jacob, manager of the Jacob Internet fund. When his fund's Apple holdings
neared 9 percent of assets, Mr. Jacob decided to ''trim a little bit.''

Until quite recently, selling Apple often led to remorse. ''Every sale has been
a bad sale,'' Mr. Jacob lamented. ''Up until a couple of months ago,'' he added,
referring to Apple's decline from an April high. Today, fund managers must weigh
Apple's distinct performance and potential against some equally distinct risks.

On the positive side, Apple is a sales juggernaut seemingly immune to the
slowing growth that often afflicts giant enterprises. In its fiscal year ended
Sept. 24, revenue grew by a remarkable 66 percent, to $108 billion. Sales in the
quarter ended March 31 soared again -- by nearly 59 percent from the year-ago
period. Apple shipped more than 35 million iPhones during the quarter,
accounting for 58 percent of revenue. And Apple has consistently vaulted
expectations.

''Over the last 30 quarters, Apple earnings have exceeded analyst estimates in
all but one of the quarters,'' marveled Scott Callahan, manager of the Icon
Information Technology fund.

FURTHERMORE, Apple never has been about the numbers only. As the leading
purveyor of techno-chic, Apple has a branding history that would please Don
Draper.

Early on, Apple pitched itself as the anti-establishment alternative to I.B.M.
Now it is pouring ad dollars into convincing a gadget-loving public that it's
cool to chat with Siri, the iPhone cyber-assistant. Among those delivering its
pitch is the actor John Malkovich.

But Siri does have doubters. A new report issued by a Piper Jaffray analyst said
that in many hundreds of inquiries delivered on a noisy street, Siri could
accurately answer just 62 percent, and that even in a quiet room, it could
accurately handle just 68 percent.

Apple has backed up its slick branding with striking design, technical
innovation and strategic ingenuity -- and the company's creativity seems to make
its customers feel creative, too. It was once said that nobody was fired for
buying I.B.M. Today it can be said that nobody ever lost self-esteem by buying
Apple.

But the company's success has produced a gaping vulnerability for investors.
Stellar sales performance has lifted its share price and market capitalization,
swelling its weighting in indexes like the S.& P. 500 and the Nasdaq 100. In
late June, it represented a remarkable 18.9 percent of that Nasdaq benchmark.

Why is this important? It matters because a host of index funds and
exchange-traded funds mimic such benchmarks. As investors plow more money into
these funds, the E.T.F.'s have had to add Apple shares -- pushing share prices
still higher, and in turn prompting even more buying.

This circularity works great in a rising market. But what if Apple stock -- or
even the broad market -- were to suffer a sharp decline?

Index funds recently held 9.6 percent of Apple's outstanding shares, according
to FactSet. Five of Apple's seven top shareholders were E.T.F.'s or index-style
funds. One of these, the PowerShares QQQ Trust, had almost 19 percent of its
portfolio in Apple shares.

This kind of situation poses two threats. A sharp decline in Apple's share price
would lead to reduced index weighting, setting off E.T.F. and index fund sales
of the company's shares. A broad market decline could also spur redemptions,
requiring funds to raise cash. With their heavy weighting, Apple shares would
have to be unloaded.

Just as Apple's rise was accelerated by its growing weighting in market indexes,
its decline would be amplified by that weighting.

''You can get a cyclical thing that feeds on itself,'' said Kevin Landis,
manager of the Firsthand Technology Opportunities fund, where Apple is the
leading stock holding.

''It's a potential risk,'' allowed Mr. Callahan, the Icon fund manager.

Even companies enjoying outstanding growth can see their stock tumble when
profit margins erode. Apple is not immune to margin pressure, reasons Edward
Zabitsky, chief executive of ACI Research in Toronto. Though many analysts see
Apple continuing its ascent, Mr. Zabitsky is far less sanguine. ''It can go to
about $460'' within the next six months, he said of Apple shares, which ended
the second quarter at $584. He has a longer-term target of $270.

What could force out all of that air? ''Commoditization,'' Mr. Zabitsky replied.
Smartphone rivals are now in position to lower prices, whittling away at Apple's
margins, he explained.

Samsung, he said, has inherent cost advantages as a vertically integrated
producer of key phone components like the processors and displays. ''Their costs
are much lower,'' Mr. Zabitsky said. ''There's room to lower price.''

But commoditization will not happen overnight. Apple and Samsung have been
sparring on multiple legal fronts, and Apple has won some early rounds. On June
29, a federal district judge granted an injunction barring Samsung from selling
its Galaxy Nexus smartphone in the United States, and Samsung has appealed.

At Firsthand, Mr. Landis uses the Nasdaq 100 as a benchmark. Though Apple in
mid-June represented roughly 9 percent of his portfolio, that still lagged the
19 percent it represented in the Nasdaq 100. ''As long as I'm still at a smaller
weighting than the Nasdaq 100, I don't feel that pressure to lighten up on
Apple,'' Mr. Landis said.

''They still have lots of room to grow,'' he added. ''They can continue to take
market share.''

CHRISTOPHER McHUGH, lead portfolio manager at the Turner All Cap Growth Investor
fund, has recently added shares, putting Apple at 8.5 percent of holdings in
mid-June.

Even at its high price, Mr. McHugh sees value in Apple shares. The company can
earn $55 a share in 2013, he says, and can increase earnings at 15 percent a
year in coming years. Given the bright earnings outlook, a P/E multiple of under
11 seems low, according to Mr. McHugh. ''You're trading at a pretty steep
discount to growth rate,'' he said.

He sees opportunities for more growth internationally as Apple bolsters
distribution through overseas telecommunications companies.

Mr. Callahan at Icon likes the long-term outlook, predicting that Apple can
continue to expand earnings per share at around 15 percent over the next 7 to 10
years.

That will be a difficult feat, but if Apple pulls it off, investors -- along
with customers -- will retain their self-esteem.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Apple store in Beijing. Apple's surge has made it a huge
component in many mutual funds, leaving managers to wonder whether to hang on
for more gains, or to prepare for possible declines. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NG HAN
GUAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 14, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Times, Obama And His Cyberself Differ on Tactics

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1101 words


VIRGINIA BEACH -- For a moment on Friday, the cyber-Barack Obama was perfectly
at odds with the flesh-and-blood version.

Speaking to 1,400 supporters at a high school here, President Obama voiced his
familiar lament that ''there is so much negativity and so much cynicism'' in
politics that he could understand if voters tuned out the election. Minutes
earlier on Twitter, he had written, ''Why Mitt Romney's end date at his buyout
firm matters,'' linking to a blog post about the tempest over his Republican
challenger's departure from Bain Capital.

Mr. Obama's Twitter account is maintained by his campaign staff, which makes
clear that only posts signed with the initials B.O. are actually written by him.
That's fairly obvious, given that on Thursday, in between pounding Mr. Romney
for perceived discrepancies in the Bain story, ''Barack Obama'' tweeted:
''Stickers! Get them here.''

But it underscores the vivid contrast between what Mr. Obama says, and what is
often said in his name. The president did not address the questions about Bain
Capital in his stump speech. In his first stop of the day, he even left out a
line he has used about how Mr. Romney's buyout firm was celebrated as a
''pioneer'' of outsourcing.

As a busy day of campaigning unfolded, however, Mr. Obama shrugged off his
reluctance to talk about Mr. Romney and Bain. The line about Bain being an
outsourcing pioneer reappeared later in a speech in Hampton. And in an interview
with a local TV station, WJLA, Mr. Obama said that Mr. Romney ought to answer
questions about his relationship with the firm after he left in 1999 to run the
Salt Lake City Olympics.

''Ultimately, Mr. Romney, I think, is going to have to answer those questions
because if he aspires to being president, one of the things you learn is, you
are ultimately responsible for the conduct of your operations,'' he said.

The Romney campaign did not give Mr. Obama any quarter either. Mr. Romney
welcomed the president to Virginia with an open letter in The Virginian-Pilot,
in which he said, ''Your insistence on slashing our military to pay the tab for
your irresponsible spending could see over 200,000 troops forced from service.''

Virginia, a once reliably Republican state that Mr. Obama became the first
Democrat to win since 1964, looms as one of the most hotly contested
battlegrounds in 2012. The president acknowledged its potentially decisive role,
telling an overflow crowd in Hampton before his speech, ''If and when we get
Virginia, we will win this election.''

''Virginia, the reason I ran and the reason you supported me wasn't just to get
back to where we were in 2007,'' the president said. ''The reason we came
together was to restore that promise for middle-class families, and all who are
striving to get into the middle class. That's what we're fighting for, and we've
got a lot more work to do.''

Time to Talk Coaching

Mr. Obama's advisers say he savors unscripted encounters with voters, and
occasionally these moments can be revelatory.

Dropping in for a beer last week at Ziggy's Pub and Restaurant in Amherst, Ohio,
the president found himself explaining to a table of curious school
administrators why the White House was waiving states' compliance with the No
Child Left Behind law. Moments earlier, he had an intense exchange with Art
Davis, a veteran of Iraq and Afghanistan, who complained about delays in
processing disability claims for veterans.

But then there are encounters like his kitchen-table conversation with a Cedar
Rapids couple, Jason and Ali McLaughlin. Though avidly promoted by the campaign,
it got off to a desultory start, with Mr. McLaughlin and the president comparing
notes about how they coach girls' sports teams (''Now, they run plays!'' Mr.
Obama marveled about his daughter Sasha's team). Neither said a word about
middle-class tax cuts -- the ostensible subject of the meeting -- until after
the reporters had been ushered out.

Help for Veterans

Mr. Obama has assiduously cultivated military veterans, giving tax credits to
employers that hire returning veterans and extracting pledges from companies
like Procter & Gamble and Tyson Foods to hire 100,000 veterans and their
spouses. He also brought home the last soldiers from Iraq and is winding down
the war in Afghanistan.

The Romney campaign, however, is determined to sour any affection these voters
have for Mr. Obama, warning that the automatic cuts in Pentagon spending that
are part of the White House's budget deal with Congress could undermine the
military-dependent economy in Virginia, with its large bases and shipbuilding
industry.

''Virginia is probably going to be more devastated than any state in the union
by this,'' said John F. Lehman Jr., a secretary of the Navy in the Reagan
administration and foreign-policy adviser to Mr. Romney, on a call organized by
the campaign. ''The president just doesn't understand defense. He just doesn't
understand how it works.''

On Friday, Mr. Obama stopped at a smoky Veterans of Foreign Wars hall here and
had lunch at Rick's Cafe with three wives of servicemen. ''I love the fact that
this administration is focusing more on military families,'' said one, Jennifer
Farlin. ''Prior to this, we felt lost.''

While the president is likely to make inroads with veterans of Afghanistan and
Iraq, the broader military vote seems destined to stay in the Republican column.
According to a Gallup poll conducted in April and May, 58 percent of veterans
said they favored Mitt Romney, while only 34 percent supported Mr. Obama.

Music to Suit the Crowd

As Mr. Obama's campaign rallies settle into a routine, so, too, does his choice
of music: a mix tape released by the campaign that runs the gamut from Arcade
Fire to REO Speedwagon. The president usually takes the stage to U2's hit ''City
of Blinding Lights,'' as he did in 2008. The opportunities for creativity, such
as they are, come at the end of his stump speech, when Mr. Obama shakes hands
and poses for pictures.

Then, the campaign seems to tailor its music to local tastes. Mr. Obama greeted
auto workers in Toledo, Ohio, and veterans in Virginia Beach to the thumping
chords of Bruce Springsteen's blue-collar anthem ''We Take Care of Our Own.'' In
Cedar Rapids, the artsy city in Iowa where voters have known Mr. Obama from the
earliest days of his first campaign in 2007, the soundtrack was U2's ''Even
Better than the Real Thing.''

In Sandusky, Ohio, the local organizers chose a tune not on the playlist: ''Only
in America,'' the politically androgynous country hit by Brooks & Dunn that has
been a standard for years at Republican and Democratic rallies.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama arriving Friday at Green Run High School in
Virginia Beach. He condemned cynicism in politics in his remarks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 17, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Music by the Very Best, Twin Shadow and Jeff the Brotherhood

BYLINE: By JON PARELES, JON CARAMANICA and BEN RATLIFF

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; NEW MUSIC; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1078 words


THE VERY BEST

''MTMTMK''

(Moshi Moshi/Cooperative Music)

The joy of the Very Best's ''Warm Heart of Africa,'' the 2009 collaboration by
the Malawian singer Esau Mwamwaya and the production team Radioclit, was the way
it turned a gimmick -- African singer meets electronic music programmers and
indie-rock -- into a sleek affirmation of global technology that still sounded
human. The Afro-Euro balance was far trickier than it sounded, and on the
follow-up studio album, ''MTMTMK,'' the partnership is more complicated and less
satisfying.

During the past three years club beats have thumped their way into pop.
Meanwhile, half of Radioclit, the producer Etienne Tron, has left the Very Best,
which is now the duo of Mr. Mwamwaya and Johan Hugo Karlberg. A free mixtape
they released last year, ''Super Mom,'' mingled ebullient new songs of their
own, like ''Miracle'' with the Senegalese singer Baaba Maal, with throwaway
variations on familiar songs by, among others, Billy Idol and Kanye West.

With ''MTMTMK'' the Very Best has chosen to pull many of its new songs out of
the previous album's sunny cyber-African utopia and into clubhand, with au
courant synthesizer tones, Auto-Tune vocal effects and input from pop hitmakers.
Bruno Mars and K'Naan, who collaborated on writing ''We O.K.'' -- K'Naan also
sings on the track -- picked up on the optimistic bounce of the previous album;
so did the Nigerian singer Seye Adelekan, who joins the Very Best on
''Kondaine.''

But ''MTMTMK'' opens new territory for the duo, often darker yet more garish,
like a club pierced by strobe lights. ''Adani,'' with lyrics in Chichewa, a
Bantu language, advising ''love your enemies more than friends,'' starts with
the major-chord vocal harmonies that filled ''Warm Heart of Africa,'' but
swerves toward minor keys and antsy synthesizer blips, as if those enemies are
widespread. ''Yoshua Alikuti'' -- despite a jokey video clip and a synthetic,
house-flavored beat -- warns that Moses has misled ''God's chosen children,''
and that God is angry.

The album holds some promising experiments. ''Bantu,'' which features the Malian
couple Amadou et Mariam, floats -- mostly without an explicit beat -- in a
psychedelic African haze with sitar-toned electric guitar. ''Nkango'' puts
watery splashes and twangy string tones behind its choral harmonies;
unfortunately, it just fades out after a minute and a half. ''Moto,'' with
ricocheting vocal harmonies, finds a way to Africanize trance triumphalism. And
''I Wanna Go Away'' tootles like a merry electronic calliope, although its
lyrics beg, ''Soldier don't come to kill my family and friends.''

But too often on this album the Very Best accepts established genres -- reggae,
electro, house -- instead of making its own. Instead of making its own style, it
just sounds fashionable. JON PARELES

TWIN SHADOW

''Confess'' (4AD)

George Lewis Jr. sings as if he can't be touched: cool, slick, distant. All over
''Confess,'' his second album as Twin Shadow, he gives off the air of
impenetrability, a man too fast to follow, too oily to grab tight.

The words tell a different story, though. Turns out that standoffishness is just
a defense mechanism: inside he's torn to shreds. ''You wanna meet in misery
park/By the moon so low and lovely/With the gloom that's above me,'' he sings on
''Run My Heart,'' over taut mid-80s guitars accenting his loneliness.

On this album Mr. Lewis's time capsule dates to a very specific moment, the one
when the Cure was at its most vibrant and poppy, and when Depeche Mode was
finding its dark center. While there are hints of steel drum on ''Golden Light''
and ''Patient'' that signal something more than mere mimicry at play here, Mr.
Lewis is still full of fealty for that time. ''You Call Me On'' sits atop a
clangor of guitars and synths and drums, all cold and speedy, and the
multitracked vocals on ''Beg for the Night'' are appropriately ethereal.

Sometimes his remove is too much, as on ''The One'' -- he can sound uninterested
in the person who's breaking his heart. But most of the time he's bleeding,
which is to say alive.

''Patient,'' which has the bubbly density of early Erasure, is the emotional
centerpiece of the album. ''You are adored but you say you're alone/ Like I'm
nothing at all/ That's how you punish me,'' Mr. Lewis sings dryly. But a bit
later he finally turns the tables: ''Maybe you don't want no one to find out
that I/was the one taking love from you.'' Then the song crescendos into some
Prince-like guitars while Mr. Lewis, presumably, stands there smugly, feeling
redeemed. JON CARAMANICA

JEFF THE BROTHERHOOD

Hypnotic Nights

(Warner Brothers)

The Nashville garage-rock band Jeff the Brotherhood, made up of Jake and Jamin
Orrall, started 11 years ago during the Orralls' preadolescence. They had made
two albums before either brother had turned 20; they wrote feckless,
short-order, hard-rocking slacker songs, casual or mock-mystical or jokey. And
they became almost proudly derivative, particularly of the big, distorted riffs
and melodic phrasing of early Weezer.

Since they started, a lot of other guitar-and-drum duos -- the White Stripes,
the Black Keys, Japandroids -- appeared or expanded or exhausted their
experiment. But the Orralls, displaying lower aesthetic ambitions and sticking
to more basic pleasures than any of those, remain superachievers committed to
making underachieved music.

''Hypnotic Nights,'' the band's seventh album, is its first on a label other
than its own, Infinity Cat, and its first with outside production help, from Dan
Auerbach of the Black Keys. It's not brain surgery -- perhaps not even
middle-school science. (The first two songs are about cooling off on a hot day.)
But it's more even and settled than anything the band has done: better arranged,
better constructed, better mixed, more precise in the details.

And it has a certain power, in the way that any music heavily practiced and felt
in the bones often does, perhaps even more so from a family band. The Orralls
have a good fast-tempo feel (''Hypnotic Mind'') and a good slow-tempo feel
(''Leave Me Out''). That's a lot. And they've got an interest in a some other
rock dispositions and subcultures: psychedelia, German art-rock, Sonic
Youth-like noise breakdowns.

But none of that is particularly special. It's the simpler stuff that's special.
Projecting dimness is not easy: it demands rigorous mental energy. Keep your
expectations low, and this record makes a kind of sense. BEN RATLIFF

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Dot Earth)

                             July 19, 2012 Thursday

British Police Say Climate E-mail Case Was Crime, While Giving Up the Chase

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 736 words



HIGHLIGHT: A British police force concludes that the release of climate e-mails
was a crime, and closes the unsolved case.


Apologies for the delay on this post, but I was out on the Hudson yesterday with
"River University" students seining for fish and probing mud samples when the
Norfolk Constabulary, the local British police force investigating the 2009
disclosure of e-mails and files from the University of East Anglia climate unit,
finally officially deemed the incident a crime -- even as it closed the case,
conceding that it was uncrackable.

The news release ends with a paragraph that, in essence, says users of the
Internet are on their own:

Norfolk Assistant Chief Constable Charlie Hall, Protective Services lead, said:
"Online crime is a global issue. While law enforcement agencies continue to
develop our response to emerging threats, it falls upon individuals and
organizations to be alert to this and and take steps to mitigate risk as far as
is practicable."

While unable to close in on suspects, the Norfolk police at least said they
could confirm that the files were illegally extracted from outside the
university:

[A]s a result of our enquiries, we can say that the data breach was the result
of a sophisticated and carefully orchestrated attack on the CRU's data files,
carried out remotely via the internet. The offenders used methods common in
unlawful internet activity to obstruct enquiries.

There is no evidence to suggest that anyone working at or associated with the
University of East Anglia was involved in the crime.

Brandon DeMelle of DeSmogBlog, frustrated with what appears to be a pretty limp
effort, began his post on the end of the investigation this way:

"Our Priority is You," reads the tagline of the Norfolk Constabulary. The rest
of the sentence ought to read, "unless you are a climate scientist."

There have been indications of a continuing federal investigation in the United
States, as described by some blogging climate science critics who received
Department of Justice letters. But I wouldn't count on arrest warrants any time
soon.

This leads back to the importance of Chief Constable Hall's admonition about
securing files and computer operations as well as can be done -- and the basic
logic of putting something in an e-mail message on a matter of public import
only if you wouldn't mind seeing it revealed in public.

It's worth reviewing the thoughts expressed here in November, 2009, by Raymond
T. Pierrehumbert of the University of Chicago and the (hacked) Real Climate
blog. At the time he already saw this as a clear act of cyberterrorism, as
described below, and expressed concern with my lack of indignation:

[T]is illegal act of cyber-terrorism against a climate scientist (and I don't
think that's too strong a word) is ominous and frightening. What next?
Deliberate monkeying with data on servers? Insertion of bugs into climate
models? Or at the next level, since the forces of darkness have moved to illegal
operations, will we all have to get bodyguards to do climate science?

Maybe reporters just like information to be out, even if it is illegally
obtained. Certainly, I thought it was right to publish the Pentagon Papers. But
when the attack is on an individual scientist rather than a government entity,
and when the perpetrator is unknown and part of some shadowy anonymous network,
it raises a lot of new concerns. [.]

At that time, I was still blogging on the news side of The Times, and actively
reporting on the story, which involved me because more than a dozen of my e-mail
messages were in the disclosed material. I agree that the incident, particularly
now that authorities have excluded non-criminal possibilities, is "ominous and
frightening." I think a vigorous international investigation should be
sustained.

I also think it was a mistake for the administrators of the American blog Real
Climate, which was clearly subjected to a computer hack at the same time back in
2009, not to file a formal complaint with the police.

Overall, I don't see a case that the impacts for science and scientists are any
different than those on people in other arenas -- from personal privacy and
finance to business to the administration of public services and records --
where such intrusions are increasingly a reality.


     ·    Peter Gleick Admits to Deception in Obtaining Heartland Climate Files
     ·    The 'Revkin' Collection in the Climate E-mail Release
     ·    Another Treaty Negotiation, Another Batch of Climate Science E-Mail
     ·    The East Anglia Climate Snatch - Not (Yet) a 'Crime'
     ·    Climategate Fever Breaks


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 22, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Patricia Alvarez, Mark Turosz

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 378 words


Patricia Ines Alvarez and Mark Edward Turosz were married Saturday evening at
Calamigos Ranch in Malibu, Calif. The Rev. John E. Southwick, a minister of the
World Orthodox Church, officiated.

Mrs. Turosz, 42, works in Los Angeles as an account executive for CBS Outdoor, a
New York division of the CBS Corporation that produces outdoor advertising. She
graduated from the University of California, Berkeley. She is a daughter of Olga
J. Alvarez and Guillermo R. Alvarez of Los Alamitos, Calif.

Mr. Turosz, also 42, is a senior product marketing manager for Square Enix, a
video game publisher in El Segundo, Calif. He wrote two feature-length
Scooby-Doo films for Warner Brothers: ''Scooby-Doo and Cyber Chase'' in 2001,
and ''Scooby-Doo and the Legend of the Vampire'' in 2003. He graduated from
Syracuse and received an M.B.A. from the University of Southern California. He
is a son of Gloria J. Turosz of Lincoln, R.I., and the late Stanley J. Turosz.

The couple met in December 2008 at an ugly holiday sweater party given by a
mutual friend at a restaurant in Santa Monica, Calif. While Ms. Alvarez wore
what she considered the ugliest sweater at the party, Mr. Turosz, who could find
only ugly sweaters for women at the Kmart where he shopped, settled on what he
described as an ugly puffy hunting vest.

''By the time he started talking to me, I had taken the ugly sweater off and was
wearing a skimpy dress,'' Ms. Alvarez said. ''I'm not sure he would have chatted
me up otherwise.''

That evening, Mr. Turosz told Ms. Alvarez that he never wanted to marry.

''I was just at a very bitter point in my life, having had long and not-so-long
relationships go sour on me,'' he said. ''She caught me at a time when I wasn't
too happy about the idea of a relationship. I didn't believe a long-term
successful relationship was possible for me.''

Over time, she made him a believer.

''She lets me be myself,'' he said. ''She doesn't put any pressure on me and
she's not high-maintenance. We have very similar energy.''

Mr. Turosz admitted that he might never have met Ms. Alvarez had she not slipped
out of the ugly sweater that even Velma, a ''Scooby-Doo'' regular, would not be
caught wearing.

''It was so ugly that it could have been a deal-breaker,'' he said. VINCENT M.
MALLOZZI

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAISY VARLEY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                              July 22, 2012 Sunday

Social Media Tributes to the Victims of the Colorado Shooting

BYLINE: JENNIFER PRESTON

LENGTH: 2189 words



HIGHLIGHT: Families and friends &#8212; and people from around the world &#8212;
turned to social media platforms to express their grief and anger over the
shooting rampage at a Colorado movie theater.


  Updated | July 23, 2012 | 8:30 p.m Families and friends - and people from
around the world - turned to social media to express their grief and anger over
the shooting rampage that left 12 people dead and 58 injured at a movie theater
in Aurora, Colo., early Friday.

As my colleague, Erica Goode, reports in an article about those who died, some
people did not learn the fate of their missing relatives or friends until late
Friday night after many of them had conducted desperate searches at area
hospitals.

Late Saturday, the Arapahoe County Coroner's Office released the names of the
people who had died: Jessica N. Ghawi, 25; John T. Larimer, 27; Alexander J.
Boik, 18; Jesse E. Childress, 29; Rebecca Ann Wingo, 33; Jonathan T. Blunk, 26;
Alex N. Sullivan, 27; Gordon W. Cowden, 51; Micayla C. Medek, 23; Alexander C.
Teves, 24; Matthew McQuinn, 27; and the youngest victim, Veronica
Moser-Sullivan, who was 6.

By then, many friends and family members had already turned to blogs, Facebook,
Twitter, Tumblr and YouTube to mourn and remember.

From the moment he learned that his sister, Jessica, had been shot early Friday,
Jordan Ghawi used his blog and Twitter to share thoughts about his sister and
regular updates about what he was learning about her fate and his family's plans
for a memorial service in Texas next Saturday and foundation in her name.

Her boyfriend, Jay Meloff, a professional hockey player who lives in Toronto,
shared his loss on Twitter, and over the weekend, retweeted some of the Twitter
posts they shared.

Every experience in life was amplified beyond my wildest dreams with you.
- Jay Meloff (@Jay_Meloff)20 Jul 12

It was on Facebook, where many friends of Ms. Wingo, a single mother of two
small children, first learned that she was among the dead after her father,
Steve Hernandez, posted this Facebook message on Saturday:

"I lost my daughter yesterday to a mad man, my grief right now is inconsolable.
I hear she died instantly, without pain, however, the pain is unbearable. Lord
why, why, why?"

On Saturday, friends of Mr. Boik, an 18-year-old who had attended Gateway High
School in Aurora, set up a Facebook page calledRemembering AJ Boik, whichhad
drawn more than 2,000 comments and condolences by late afternoon. By Monday,
nearly 5,000 people joined in.

Some friends shared cellphone videos of Mr. Boik, including a videoof him
dancing in a high school hallway, drawing laughs from his classmates.

Friends also created memory pages on Facebook for other victims, including Mr.
Sullivan,, Ms. Medek and
Mr. McQuinn.

Mr. McQuinn.

Others used hashtags on Twitter. Because Ms. Ghawi, an aspiring sportswriter,
loved Twitter, her family asked people to post messages using the hashtag
#RIPJessica as a way to keep the conversation focused on the victims instead of
the gunman.

And they did.

Mother of @JessicaRedfield says her daughter loved @Twitter and has asked that
#RIPJessica trend instead of killer. Please RT if you agree.

- Dale Arnold (@DaleEArnold)21 Jul 12

Soon, hashtags popped up on Twitter with the names of the other victims,
including #RIPAJBoik, #RIPMattMcQuinn and others.

Please pray for families. #RIPJessica #RIPAlexSullivan #RIPAJBoik #RIPAlexTeves
#RIPMicaylaMedek #RIPMattMcQuinn #PrayforAurora
- Katy Mitchel (@Katy_Mitchel)21 Jul 12

For some of the victims, the first details about their lives and loves emerged
from their own Facebook pages and Twitter accounts and later from family members
and friends giving interviews to news organizations.

Here are links to articles and videos about the victims, which we will continue
to collect and share.

Alex Sullivan Died on His 27th Birthday

Shortly before he was killed, just days before his wedding anniversary, Alex
Sullivan postedon Twitter how excited he was to see the movie, "The Dark Knight
Rises," the third in a Batman trilogy by the director Christopher Nolan.

#TheDarkKnightRises @Reel_Nerdsoh man one hour till the movie and its going to
be the best BIRTHDAY ever

- alex sullivan (@sully_2003) July 20, 2012

In The Denver Post, Mr. Sullivan's friends and his co-workers at a Red Robin
restaurant described him in an article and video as a warm, loving and
fun-loving person. Maneka Singh, a high school friend, said Mr. Sullivan was
"always smiling and the type of guy who had too many friends and loved them
all."

Micayla Medek: A Father's 'Sweetheart Angel'

On her Facebook page, Micayla Medek, 23, described herself this way:

"My name is Micayla, but everyone usually calls me Cayla. I'm a simple
independent girl who's just trying to get her life together while still having
fun."

She took classes at a community college and worked at Subway since 2008 as a
sandwich maker and closer, adding: "I do everything lol."

Her father, Greg Medek,toldThe Los Angeles Times that waiting for news on Friday
after he was unable to find his "sweetheart angel girl" was torture as he
agonized about her lying on the theater floor. "I'm just a guy trying to make
it, to trust in his Lord as best as he can," Mr. Medek said in the interview. "I
lost a precious soul."

At Least Five Men Died While Protecting Others

Matt McQuinn, 27, who grew up in Springfield, Ohio, was one of them. A family
spokesman said that he threw himself over his girlfriend, Samantha Yowler, when
the shots rang out. Ms. Yowler is in stable condition with a bullet wound to the
knee.

The couple moved to Colorado last September from Ohio to get a fresh start. They
both worked at Target. The couple can be seen smiling in a profile picture onhis
Facebook page, where he had recently "liked" Batman.

The Dayton Daily News reported how his family desperately tried to learn what
had happened to him after learning of the shooting. Both the Yowler and McQuinn
families are now in Colorado.

Jonathan T. Blunk, 26, a Navy veteran, was killed while shielding his
girlfriend, Jansen Young. She recounted his heroic efforts in an interviewon
Saturday with NBC News.

Mr. Blunk is survived by two children, ages 4 and 2, who lived with his
estranged wife, Chantal Blunk, in Reno, Nev. In an interviewon Saturday with The
Reno Gazette-Journal, Ms. Blunk said: "We still talked every day, even though we
were separated. We still said 'I love you' to each other. He'd always send
videos to say hi."

The father of Alexander Teves, 24, told ABC Newsthat his son died while trying
to save his girlfriend.

Mr. Teves, who is originally from Arizona and studying to be a physical
therapist, was in Colorado studying for advanced degrees. He went to the theater
that night with his girlfriend, Amanda, and another friend who is an active
Twitter userunder the name Caitlin. He died, Amanda, said shielding her from the
bullets by throwing himself on top of her.

In the last couple of days, Caitlin has posted regular updates on her Twitter
feed, revealing first the confusion after the shots were fired and the anguish
of not being able to find Mr. Teves.

Then finally, this news:

Alex didn't make it. - Caitlin (@dingos8myTARDIS) July 21, 2012

Alex Teves was one of the best men I ever knew. The world isn't as good a place
without him. - Caitlin (@dingos8myTARDIS) July 21, 2012

John T. Larimer, 27, was a U.S. Navy Petty officer, working as a cryptology
technician for the Navy at the Buckley Air Force Base in Aurora. He grew up in
Crystal Lakes, Ill., about 45 miles northwest of Chicago. He was among those who
died shielding someone else. Julia Vojtsek, who grew up near him,told a Chicago
radio station WBBMthat they had known each other for years but only recently had
started to date after her father had moved to Aurora. When the shooting began,
she said he held her head and "protected my whole body with his, and saved me.
My boyfriend saved my life. "  Mr. Larimer was the youngest of five
children,reports the Chicago Tribune.

Another serviceman from Buckley Air Force Base who attended the film was Staff
Sgt. Jesse Childress. In a heartbreakinginterview on NBCNews4, his friend,
Munirih Gravelly, tearfully recounted how he threw himself in front of her,
which she said saved her life.  "I feel really sorry ... that he's gone," she
told NBC4's Beverly White, "that none of us were able to at least hold his hand
and look him in the eye while he passed. I lost a friend."

Mr. Childress, 29, grew up in southern California. A makeshift memorial was
created outside of his family's home in Lake Los Angeles. He was a cyber systems
operator, on active duty orders in the 310th Force Support Squadron. He joined
the Air Force Reserves after serving in the Army.

RT @josejr67 : Candles at door of #AuroraShooting victim's CA home. Jesse
Childress sacrificed his life for friend http://t.co/Qqq9SKee

- John Cádiz Klemack (@johnNBCLA)23 Jul 12

Rebecca Wingo

Fluent in Mandarin, Rebecca Wingo had worked for many years for the Air Force in
various roles, including administrative support and as a translator. When she
died, she was working at Schryver Medical as a customer service representative.
She had also worked as a hostess at Joe's Crab Shack in Aurora. In interviews,
friends and family describedher warm personality to WABC-TV - Channel 7 in
Denver. She grew up in Quinlan, Texas, east of Dallas. She was the mother of two
little girls.

In her final post on her Facebook page, she talked about her daughters. "My
little baby started kindergarten today. She is so excited to be in the big girl
school with her sister. Oh how the time flies."

A.J. Boik: He Was Headed to Art School in the Fall

Alexander J. Boik, 18, had just graduated from Gateway High School in Aurora. So
when the call went out on Facebook for his friends to gather and remember him on
Saturday night, they decided to meet at the school's bleachers.

Hundreds of people showed up.

Known as A.J., to his friends, Mr. Boik was headed to Rocky Mountain College of
Art and Design in the fall. In a statement, his family said his dream was to
become an art teacher and eventually have his own studio. "A.J. was loved by all
that knew him," his family said.

The Denver Post reports that his friends, some holding purple balloons, recalled
him at the gathering on  Saturday night as a friend "who made people laugh, who
loved softball and who loved movies so much he never missed a premiere."

"A true Texas gentleman"

Gordon W. Cowden, 51, of Aurora, took his teenage children to the movie
premiere. The children escaped unharmed.

According to a reportin the The Austin-American Statesman, Mr. Cowden had moved
to Colorado about a dozen years ago, from Texas, where he grew up near Austin in
West Lake Hills. He was the son of a Texas state representative. The newspaper
said friends and family described him as "a true Texas gentleman that loved life
and his family"

Growing up, he attended First Baptist Church, where reporters for KXAN-TV in
Austin spoke to friends who shared their memories in this broadcast report
uploaded to YouTube.

Aspiring Sportswriter and Broadcaster

At first, some people thought Jessica Redland was among those who died. That was
the name that 25-year-old Jessica Ghawi use for her Twitter handle, and her
warm, funny, engaging personality came right through her Twitter feed.

In a post about grief during the "social media age," Callie Schweitzer wrote
wrote how she was deeply touched by Ms. Ghawi's Twitter feed.

"I spent much of Friday poring over Jessica's tweets and couldn't help thinking
how well we'd get along. She was an aspiring journalist with an amazing sense of
humor. Her comebacks. Her use of capital letters and exclamation marks to show
excitement. Her determination. She had a self-awareness and confidence that many
people spend entire lives trying to cultivate.

Put simply, she was fabulous. The kind of fabulous you want to surround yourself
with. The kind of fabulous you know is going somewhere in life."

Ms. Ghawi was the first victim whose identity was publicly known. And people
also got to know her through herblog, where she described narrowly escaping a
mass shooting at a Toronto shopping mall in early June.  From that experience,
she said she learned valuable lessons, which she wrote about and shared.

"I was shown how fragile life was on Saturday. I saw the terror on bystanders'
faces. I saw the victims of a senseless crime. I saw lives change. I was
reminded that we don't know when or where our time on Earth will end. When or
where we will breathe our last breath. For one man, it was in the middle of a
busy food court on a Saturday evening.

I say all the time that every moment we have to live our life is a blessing. So
often I have found myself taking it for granted. Every hug from a family member.
Every laugh we share with friends. Even the times of solitude are all blessings.
Every second of every day is a gift. After Saturday evening, I know I truly
understand how blessed I am for each second I am given."


     ·    Amid Online Furor, Sheriff Responds to Death of Man With Down Syndrome
     ·    Pakistanis Explain What the Election Means to Them
     ·    On Facebook, Cleveland Kidnapping Suspect Hid Secret Under 'LOL'
     ·    U.S. Embassy in Cairo Scrubs Twitter Feed of Link to 'Daily Show'
          Commentary on Egypt
     ·    How Blogger Helped the Steubenville Rape Case Unfold Online


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                             July 26, 2012 Thursday

Iranian Scientist Claims U.S. Cyberattack Was ... Loud

BYLINE: WILLIAM J. BROAD

LENGTH: 423 words



HIGHLIGHT: A scientist with Iran's atomic energy agency said the United States
used "Thunderstruck" by AC/DC in an attack on the program's computers.


The United States has a rather bizarre history of blasting rock music into the
ears of presumed enemies, so it seemed plausible when a prominent security
expert reported Monday that a new cyberattack on Iran's atomic program included
workstations erupting in booms of "Thunderstruck" by AC/DC, an Australian rock
band.

In a blog post, Mikko Hypponen, the chief research officer of F-Secure, a
computer security company based in Finland, cited "a series of e-mails" he had
received from "a scientist working at the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran."
He admitted he was unable to confirm any details of the alleged attack but said
the sender was using the correct e-mail address, aeoi.org.ir.

Mr. Hypponen quoted the scientist as saying the music hit "in the middle of the
night with the volume maxed out."

His report created a sensation as blogs and news reports around the globe
repeated the claim. ForeignPolicy.com went further, noting on its blog that the
United States had repeatedly blasted loud music at supposed foes.

For instance, it noted that American troops in 1989 had tried to force the
Panamanian president, Manuel Noriega, from his refuge in the Vatican embassy by
bombarding it with loud music. The blog told of military DJs taking requests and
creating a playlist that included AC/DC's "You Shook Me All Night Long."

More recently, Foreign Policy said, the United States Psychological Operations
Company "admitted to the use of heavy metal in Iraq as a mechanism to break
uncooperative prisoners' resistance." And the International Committee of the Red
Cross, it noted, had reported the use of similar tactics against Guantánamo
inmates.

Alas, the Iranian episode seems too good to be true.

Specialists in cyberwarfare said the e-mails could have easily been faked,
including the seeming return address from the Iranian atomic program. Simple
logic, one expert noted, suggested that an Iranian scientist writing such a
report to a foreigner might quickly join the ranks of the martyrs. Finally, the
tone of the alleged e-mails from the Iranian scientist seemed suspicious in
their self-congratulatory tone about the success of the computer attack and its
heavy-metal explosion.

"I doubt it,"  a senior administration official who closely follows the Iranian
program said of the cyber claim.


     ·    Hackers Attack Ahmadinejad's Web site
     ·    Irish Pop Singer May Play Tehran
     ·    Of Conspiracies, Holocaust Conferences and Canadian Paydays
     ·    Iran Takes Credit for Thwarting Pirate Attack on U.S.-Flagged Vessel
     ·    Rappers Do Not Delight in Morocco and Iran


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 27, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rise Is Seen in Cyberattacks Targeting U.S. Infrastructure

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 692 words


ASPEN, Colo. -- The top American military official responsible for defending the
United States against cyberattacks said Thursday that there had been a 17-fold
increase in computer attacks on American infrastructure between 2009 and 2011,
initiated by criminal gangs, hackers and other nations.

The assessment by Gen. Keith B. Alexander, who heads the National Security
Agency and also the newly created United States Cyber Command, appears to be the
government's first official acknowledgment of the pace at which America's
electricity grids, water supplies, computer and cellphone networks and other
infrastructure are coming under attack. Those attacks are considered potentially
far more serious than computer espionage or financial crimes.

General Alexander, who rarely speaks publicly, did not say how many attacks had
occurred in that period. But he said that he thought the increase was unrelated
to the release two years ago of a computer worm known as Stuxnet, which was
aimed at taking down Iran's uranium enrichment plant at Natanz.

When the worm inadvertently became public, many United States officials and
outside experts expressed concern that it could be reverse-engineered and used
against American targets. General Alexander said he saw no evidence of that.

General Alexander, as head of the N.S.A., was a crucial player in a covert
American program called Olympic Games that targeted the Iranian program. But
under questioning from Pete Williams of NBC News at a security conference here,
he declined to say whether Stuxnet was American in origin; the Obama
administration has never acknowledged using cyberweapons.

General Alexander said that what concerned him about the increase in foreign
cyberattacks on the United States was that a growing number were aimed at
''critical infrastructure,'' and that the United States remained unprepared to
ward off a major attack. On a scale of 1 to 10, he said, American preparedness
for a large-scale cyberattack is ''around a 3.'' He urged passage of
legislation, which may come to a vote in the next week, that would give the
government new powers to defend private computer networks in the United States.
The legislation has prompted a struggle as American companies try to avoid
costly regulation on their networks, and some civil liberties groups express
concern about the effect on privacy.

General Alexander said that the administration was still working out rules of
engagement for responding to cyberattacks. Because an attack can take place in
milliseconds, he said that some automatic defenses were necessary, as was the
president's involvement in any decisions about broader retaliation.

He confirmed that under existing authorities, only the president had the power
to authorize an American-directed cyberattack. The first such attacks occurred
under President George W. Bush.

The Pentagon has said previously that if the United States retaliated for an
attack on its soil, the response could come in the form of a countercyberattack,
or a traditional military response.

General Alexander spoke in a 75-minute interview at the Aspen Security Forum at
the Aspen Institute here. The New York Times is a media sponsor of the four-day
conference. Another conference speaker, Matthew Olsen, the director of the
National Counterterrorism Center, addressed the escalating ''hot war'' between
Israel and Iran and Iranian-backed groups like Hezbollah.

Iran has blamed Israel for assassinations of several of its nuclear scientists.
Israel has accused Hezbollah operatives backed by Iran of carrying out the
suicide bombing last week that killed five Israeli tourists and a local bus
driver in Bulgaria.

The United States has said Iran was behind a thwarted plot last fall to kill
Saudi Arabia's ambassador to the United States.

''Both with respect to Iran and Hezbollah, we're seeing a general uptick in the
level of activity around the world in a number of places,'' Mr. Olsen said.

Mr. Olsen did not address the Bulgaria attack, but he said the plot to kill the
Saudi envoy in Washington ''demonstrated that Iran absolutely had the intent to
carry out a terrorist attack inside the United States.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 1, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cybersecurity at Risk

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 534 words


Relentless assaults on America's computer networks by China and other foreign
governments, hackers and criminals have created an urgent need for safeguards to
protect these vital systems. The question now is whether the Senate will provide
them. Senator John McCain, a Republican of Arizona, and the Chamber of Commerce
have already exacted compromises from sponsors of a reasonably strong bill, and
are asking for more. Their demands should be resisted and the original bill
approved by the Senate.

Officials and experts have warned about cybersecurity dangers for years; now the
alarms are more insistent. On Thursday, Gen. Keith Alexander, the chief of the
United States Cyber Command and the director of the National Security Agency,
said intrusions against computers that run essential infrastructure increased
17-fold from 2009-11 and that it's only a matter of time before an attack causes
physical damage. He has also called the loss of industrial information and
intellectual property through cyberespionage ''the greatest transfer of wealth
in history.''

American officials say businesses already lose billions of dollars annually.
Hundreds of major companies, defense contractors and government agencies have
been affected. Attacks on power plants, electric grids, refineries,
transportation networks and water treatment systems present an even greater
threat. Last year, there were at least 200 attempted or successful cyberattacks
on those facilities.

Yet defenses are dangerously thin. On a scale of 1 to 10, General Alexander
rated preparedness for a large-scale cyberattack -- shutting down the stock
exchange, for instance -- as ''around a 3.'' That is why President Obama and
others have argued for mandatory minimum standards that would require companies
to share information and harden computer protections.

Bipartisan legislation drafted by Senator Joseph Lieberman, a Connecticut
independent and the chairman of the homeland security committee, and Senator
Susan Collins of Maine, the ranking Republican member, met that bar. But faced
with strong opposition from Mr. McCain and the business community, the sponsors
compromised. Under the revised bill, industry will develop the standards for
addressing threats and compliance will be voluntary.

This has not satisfied Mr. McCain or the chamber, which insists the bill would
still be too costly and cumbersome. Last year, a survey of more than 9,000
executives in more than 130 countries by the PricewaterhouseCoopers consulting
firm found that only 13 percent of those polled had taken adequate defensive
action against cyberthreats.

Not all companies share that aversion to the bill. Microsoft and Symantec, among
others, have supported the original Lieberman-Collins legislation. And civil
liberties groups say their earlier privacy concerns have been addressed. It's
time for the endless talk of cyberthreats to be met by action. The
Lieberman-Collins bill should be voted by the Senate this week and then merged
with the House version so a law can be enacted this year. If not, and a
catastrophic cyberattack occurs, Americans will be justified in asking why their
lawmakers, mired in election-year partisanship, failed to protect them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 2, 2012 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

A Law to Strengthen Our Cyberdefense

BYLINE: By ASHTON B. CARTER and JANE HOLL LUTE.

Ashton B. Carter is the deputy secretary of defense and Jane Holl Lute is the
deputy secretary of homeland security.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg.

LENGTH: 756 words


Washington

OVER the last decade, the United States has built a sophisticated security
system to protect the nation's seaports against terrorists and criminals. But
our nation's critical infrastructure is not similarly secured from cyberattack.
Although we have made progress in recent years, Congressional action is needed
to ensure that our laws keep pace with the electronically connected world we
live in. The bipartisan Cybersecurity Act of 2012, currently before the Senate,
offers a way forward.

A disruption of our electric grid or other critical infrastructure could
temporarily cripple the American economy. What's less well known is that such an
attack could threaten the nation's defense as well.

Ninety-nine percent of the electricity the military uses comes from civilian
sources. Ninety percent of military voice and Internet communications travel
over commercial networks. Much of the country's military logistics are handled
by commercial shippers who rely, in turn, on privately managed networks.

As we protect our ports and coastlines, so must we marshal resources and
techniques to mount an adequate defense of our networks. Our port security is
ensured by a combination of the Coast Guard, Customs and Border Protection,
state and local governments, and private shipping companies and port operators,
with the support of the Navy and the intelligence agencies. Together, they
patrol American waters, scan cargo, analyze and share information about threats
to our coastlines, and report suspicious behavior to the proper authorities. If
any of these layers were to be removed, our defenses would be weakened.

Effective cybersecurity requires a similar multilevel approach. We have a final
line of cyberdefense in the Defense Department's Cyber Command, which defends
the nation against advanced cyberattacks, and we have a strong cyberintelligence
system in the National Security Agency, which detects cyberthreats from
overseas. But we need additional levels of defense to protect the nation's
critical infrastructure.

Collective problems require collaborative solutions. The government and private
sector must work together to prevent cyberdisruption, cyberdestruction and theft
of intellectual property. This requires robust sharing of information between
the government and private sector, aggressive prosecution of cybercriminals, and
cooperation among federal agencies.

Simply put, the Cybersecurity Act would help by enabling the government to share
information about cyberthreats with industry. The legislation would also permit
the private sector to report cyberintrusions to the government or private
companies. That ability would increase awareness of cyberthreats, while leaving
the private sector in control of which information is shared. It would do all of
this while protecting privacy and civil liberties, through robust oversight and
accountability measures.

None of us want to see heavy government regulation, especially of the Internet,
the fount of so much innovation and economic productivity. The legislation would
provide meaningful baseline cybersecurity standards for industry, developed and
adopted through a joint industry-government process.

Although the American economy needs effective cybersecurity measures to function
and prosper, many providers of critical infrastructure have not invested in
basic strategies to defend themselves against cyberthreats. Meaningful standards
will help drive companies to invest and help fill the gaps in our nation's
cyberdefenses.

Finally, the Cybersecurity Act would ensure that the Department of Homeland
Security has the ability to protect federal networks and assist the private
sector effectively and efficiently, by strengthening the department's legal
authority.

The Department of Defense stands ready to support the Department of Homeland
Security and any other agency in protecting the nation's critical
infrastructure. Together, our two departments can bring our technical ability to
bear and improve the nation's stock of cybersecurity tools and technology.

This legislation is a critical step for defending America's infrastructure
against the clear and present cyberthreats we face. We're not going to solve
this problem overnight; it will involve a learning experience for both the
private sector and the government, but we must learn fast, and develop solutions
as quickly as possible. The legislation will help pave the way to American
security and prosperity in the information age. It deserves the full support of
Congress and the American people.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             August 3, 2012 Friday

Daily Report: Cybersecurity Bill Blocked by G.O.P. Filibuster

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 299 words



HIGHLIGHT: A cybersecurity bill that had been one of the Obama administration's
top national security priorities was blocked by a Republican filibuster in the
Senate on Thursday, severely limiting its prospects this year, reports Michael
S. Schmidt on Friday in The New York Times.


A cybersecurity bill that had been one of the Obama administration's top
national security priorities was blocked by a Republican filibuster in the
Senate on Thursday, severely limiting its prospects this year, reports Michael
S. Schmidt on Friday in The New York Times.

The Senate voted 52 to 46 to cut off debate, falling short of the 60 needed to
force a final vote on the measure, which had bipartisan support but ran into a
fight over what amendments to the legislation could be proposed.

The bill's most vocal opponents were a group of Republican senators led by John
McCain of Arizona, who took the side of businesses and steadfastly opposed the
legislation, arguing that it would be too burdensome for corporations. On Bits,
Several Silicon Valley security experts shared their take on the bill, the cyber
threat and the potential, as some have warned, for a 9/11-style cyberattack.

The bill would have established optional standards for the computer systems that
oversee the country's critical infrastructure, like power grids, dams and
transportation.

In the hopes of winning over Mr. McCain and the other Republicans, the bill had
been significantly watered down in recent weeks by its sponsors, led by Senator
Joseph I. Lieberman, who made the standards optional. Original versions of the
bill said the standards would be mandatory and gave the government the power to
enforce them.

The legislation is likely to come up again in the fall, though few are
optimistic about its prospects.


     ·    Cybersecurity Bill Dies Under Weight of Partisan Bickering
     ·    Again, Wrangling Over Surveillance in the Cybersecurity Bill
     ·    Researchers Say They Took Down World's Third-Largest Botnet
     ·    Hackers Breach Sites of Foreign Policy and Human Rights Groups
     ·    Daily Report: New York City Sets Social Media Rules for Teachers


LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             August 3, 2012 Friday

Silicon Valley Sounds Off on Failed Cybersecurity Legislation

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 814 words



HIGHLIGHT: A cybersecurity bill that would have set security standards for the
computer networks that govern the nation's critical infrastructure was blocked
by a Republican filibuster in the Senate on Thursday. We talked to three
cybersecurity experts in Silicon Valley to get their take on the bill,
opportunities missed and whether the threat of a 9/11-style cyberattack is
imminent.


 A cybersecurity bill that would have set security standards for the computer
networks that govern the nation's critical infrastructure was blocked by a
Republican filibuster in the Senate on Thursday.

John McCain, the Republican Senator from Arizona, and other Republicans opposed
the bill on the grounds that the standards would have been too onerous for
corporations. In the weeks leading up to the Senate vote, a compromise was
struck to make those standards optional. But on Thursday, following the
filibuster, the Senate voted 52 to 46 to end debate on the bill, which fell
eight votes short of the 60 it would have needed to pass.

In Silicon Valley, "regulation" is often treated like a four-letter word. But
the Valley seems to have made an exception for cybersecurity, where a sort of
Wild Wild West has taken hold. Criminals, "hacktivists" and government agents
are able to have their way with few effective security technologies and
regulations to stop them.

We contacted three Silicon Valley security experts to get their take on the
bill, the cyber threat and the potential, as some have warned, for a 9/11-style
cyberattack. They are Rob Rachwald,  director of security strategy at Imperva, a
network security firm; Roger Thornton, the chief technology officer of
AlienVault, a threat detection service; and Mark Seward, a senior security
director at Splunk, a data security firm.


Mark Seward: The bill went through a metamorphosis over time. At one point it
had real teeth for industry. Then, there was compromise to remove that. The fact
is, it's needed.

Rob Rachwald: It wasn't going to make any difference. The bill lost its teeth
when it dropped the security mandate clause. The problem is that it was all
sticks and no carrots. It included security mandates but it did not say, 'We're
going to invest more in law enforcement, or create a central exchange where you
can see where threats are coming from.' It just said, 'We're going to impose a
bunch of stuff on you.' And then, 'Actually, we're going to make that
voluntary.' It lost its teeth. It became an empty suit.


Mr. Seward: This is a huge setback. Frankly, every day we don't pass legislation
is a huge setback. It's  the difference between whether we want to be a third
world country or a first world country. I've traveled abroad and experienced
power outages firsthand. The resilience of our infrastructure's ability to
resist an attack is the mark of a first world country. Not being able to trust
that water is going to come out of the tap, or that when I light my stove
natural gas is going to come out, is a real problem in a first world country. A
cyberattack could literally mean that the things we most take for granted won't
be available.

Mr. Rachwald: After the standards became voluntary, it was a wash. The real
opportunity loss was the fact that, at least initially, they wanted to build a
centralized exchange between the public and private sectors for threat
information. They weren't clear how they were going to do it, but the fact they
wanted to do it was important. If nytimes.com gets hacked by someone with 'IP
address 123' it might look like an isolated incident. But if law enforcement
could see that there was an attack from that IP address against multiple news
sites, it would indicate that something much bigger was happening. That was the
real opportunity missed here.

Roger Thornton: The fact is, intellectual property is being stolen from the
industrial base at outrageous rates. Companies are getting broken into all the
time. But the idea that there's some kind of regulation - some sweeping mission
to Mars - that is going to solve the whole thing overnight, well, that's just
not going to happen.

This regulation wouldn't dramatically change the business of cybersecurity in my
opinion. It would only build awareness -- which is good. Maybe if it had passed
10 years ago, we might have avoided these problems. But now, it's a different
story.


Mr. Seward: It's my understanding that the Department of Homeland Security's
incident response team discovered that oil rigs are already under attack. But
the fact that I can sit here and imagine scenarios where a key component, like
water, might not be available to nuclear reactors is disconcerting. There are
plenty of scenarios where the point at which two different parts of critical
infrastructure intersect - like oil and gas pipelines, nuclear plants and water
treatment facilities - could be jeopardized. All those things are
interconnected. Our ability to have the society we have depends on the
interconnection of those systems. An attack could happen tomorrow. It could
happen next year. Or it could happen 10 years from now. There's no predicting.

Mr. Rachwald: It's always quote-unquote imminent. The point is, this legislation
would have forced people to think about the threat much more seriously than they
will otherwise.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 4, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Saudis Greet Olympic First With a Shrug

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 869 words


RIYADH, Saudi Arabia

Winning was never the point. No one expected Wojdan Shaherkani, 16, the first
female Saudi Olympian to compete, to pin her opponent. The idea was to flip
sexist attitudes in Saudi Arabia that prevent women from, among many other
things, exercising in school and competing in organized sports.

Shaherkani's judo match was over in 82 seconds Friday. In Saudi Arabia, the
repercussions of her historic feat could last even less.

Conservative clerics remain -- no surprise -- unmoved. But even some feminists
here are questioning the Olympic experiment. Some see the move as a
groundbreaking precedent; others worry it is a cynical public-relations salve
that won't change hearts, minds or gym regulations.

In London, Olympic officials praised the match as progress, and it was the first
time every nation competing in the Games included women. Yet in Saudi Arabia,
even some Saudi women who openly challenge the status quo expressed ambivalence
about Shaherkani's feat; they praised her for her courage but criticized the
expedience that got her to that Olympic mat in London without a black belt or
any competition experience.

''This is not a step forward for women's rights,'' Aziza al-Yousef, a computer
science professor who is a leader in the Saudi women's right-to-drive movement,
said in her house in Riyadh. ''We've been asking for girls to play sports in
school for years; here they give Saudi women a spot in the Olympics, but not the
right to earn a place on the team. This doesn't add anything, and it won't
change anything.''

Lina al-Maeena, the founder of a women's basketball league in Jeddah, said she
believed that even a symbolic gesture could lead to improvement and predicted
that Saudi women would be allowed to train for the next Olympic Games. ''These
moments break down stereotypes,'' she said. ''I can see the other side of the
argument, but I choose to focus on the positive. American women had to struggle
in the 1970s for equal opportunity, and that's where we are now.''

Nobody thinks the Saudi Olympic committee is in a hurry to break down barriers.

Shaherkani and Sarah Attar, a Pepperdine University student who has dual
citizenship and will run in the 800 meters, were included only after the
International Olympic Committee threatened to bar all Saudi athletes if the team
did not include women. Brunei and Qatar, which had also barred female athletes
in past Olympics, were quick to give in to the I.O.C.'s arm-twisting. Saudi
resistance gave the story more zest overseas.

Western news media outlets gave the brief judo match live -- and lively --
coverage. So did many Arab ones. The Saudi news media were much more subdued.
Timing was part of it. The Olympics coincide with Ramadan, a monthlong religious
holiday of prayer and fasting, and Shaherkani began her competition not long
after the midday call to prayer. The elimination match in the 172-pound-plus
category was shown live on at least one Al Jazeera sports channel and on the
Internet, but it went unnoticed on major Saudi television news programs, which
focused on Ramadan prayer in Mecca and the strife in Syria.

Mostly, Olympic coverage was left to Twitter, which is uncensored in Saudi
Arabia. For the days leading to the match, cyber chatter obsessed on whether
Shaherkani would be allowed to compete in a traditional hijab head dress (she
was). Then Twitter wags bet on what kind of hijab she would wear. She chose a
tight black cap that covered her ears but not her neck and did not mollify her
most exacting critics.

As soon as the match against Melissa Mojica of Puerto Rico, 28, and a black
belt, was over, Twitter comments turned more earnest. Some expressed pride,
others prejudice. ''Wijdan, you don't represent my mother, sister, wife, or
virtuous Muslim and Saudi Women,'' one man wrote. ''May god never forgive
whoever allowed you to tarnish the reputation of the people you lived amongst.''

A woman praised her dedication to faith over sport: ''History will not write her
down as the first female Saudi athlete in the Olympics, but as the first woman
to impose hijab in judo.''

But there was no last-minute viewing frenzy for the match itself. Even Yousef,
the professor, was not planning to watch it live -- she agreed to allow a
visitor to come and watch it with her. Watching the screen, she grew intent and
rooted for Shaherkani, but her mind was not changed.

Rasha al-Duwaisi, a friend and fellow activist, was watching at her side and
shared her misgivings. ''I'm proud of these two women on a personal level, but
I'm a little insulted by the whole process,'' Duwaisi said. ''What I want is my
basic rights. Instead we are given a luxury we didn't ask for.'' She saw it as a
small, selfish step for men, not mankind. ''The government didn't choose to do
it,'' she said. ''It was forced to, in order to give men what they want.''

Yousef said she respected the I.O.C. for standing its ground on behalf of Saudi
women. With a smile, she suggested that what was needed next was a Lysistrata
strategy for Saudi men's other passion -- cars. ''I wish the auto industry would
unite,'' she said, ''and decree that no cars will be exported to Saudi Arabia
until women can drive them, too.''

2012 LONDON

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wojdan Shaherkani, top, who lost to Puerto Rico's Melissa
Mojica, became the first Saudi woman to compete in the Olympics. Still, many in
Riyadh were ambivalent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 5, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Moonstruck

BYLINE: By LIESL SCHILLINGER.

Liesl Schillinger is a regular contributor to the Book Review.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1174 words


SHINE SHINE SHINE

By Lydia Netzer

312 pp. St. Martin's Press. $24.99.

The opening lines of Lydia Netzer's first novel, ''Shine Shine Shine,'' read
like a cyber-alloy of astro/physical and metaphysical poetry -- imagine
Wordsworth recast by Carl Sagan. It's tempting to arrange them as a stanza:

Deep in darkness, there was a tiny light.

Inside the light, he floated in a spaceship.

It felt cold to him, floating there.

Inside his body, he felt the cold of space.

The ''he'' in the lyric is Maxon Mann, a tall, brave and sexy (if geeky) Nobel
Prize-winning scientist, ''not quite 30'' years old, who builds robots that can
cry, dream, laugh and make other robots. The spaceship he occupies is a NASA
capsule launched to populate the Moon with his intelligent robotic civilization.
The robots, in turn, are to lay the groundwork for human colonization. As the
astronaut drifts in lunar orbit, he feels himself notionally grounded --
tethered, if you will -- to Earth, so many thousands of miles away, the planet
''boiling in clouds,'' its countries ''smudged together under that lace of
white,'' its cities ''connected by roads, connected by wires.'' In one of those
cities, Norfolk, Va., Maxon's wife, Sunny -- his first and only love -- is about
to give birth to their second child. Perhaps it will be a sister for their
4-year-old son, Robert, who goes by ''Bubber.'' Science and chance permitting,
Maxon will rejoin Sunny and Bubber and the new baby in Virginia, and their life
as a normal space-age family of four will begin. But will science and chance
permit? And what -- under the stars or amid them -- is normal?

The question of normalcy plagues Sunny Mann. On the surface her life seems
perfect and, in many ways, enviable. Lithe, blond, rich and admired by her
peers, she lives in a Georgian mansion with her famous husband, their son and a
nanny or two. At the moment, though, Sunny is in a dark mood. For one thing, her
mother, Emma Butcher, is on life support, dying of cancer, even if Sunny chooses
to deny it. For another, Maxon is worryingly far from home, and like any other
human who's been carried beyond the Earth's gravitational pull, ''a few pulsing
cells'' inside a ''crazy little splinter of metal,'' he may not make it back to
terra firma, much less return in time to drive Sunny to the delivery room.
Furthermore, Bubber is autistic, and the teachers at his preschool want Sunny to
increase his meds, which she worries will zombify him. But these crises are not
the most proximate cause of Sunny's distress. No, what sets her off is the
instant when the blond wig she's worn for five years to blend in with her
neighbors flies off, revealing her alopecia.

Sunny's mother, who regarded her daughter's hairlessness as a gift, had hated it
when she started wearing wigs. Maxon, who was (unsurprisingly) attracted to
robots, finds his wife's bald head aphrodisiac. In the Pennsylvania planetarium
where they had their teenage first kiss, beneath a glittering dome of stars, he
yearned to draw the constellations onto her smooth scalp with a Sharpie pen,
imagined her head glowing, her personal energy illuminating the universe he'd
drawn. ''I think you would just shine,'' he tells her. Sitting in his rocket, he
recalls how ''electrified'' he felt, and observes: ''All life is binary. On and
off. There is no middle setting. Alive or dead. In love or not in love. Kissing
or not kissing.''

Maxon is an unusual man and was an unusual child. If he had been born in recent
times to anxious and conscientious parents, he might have been given a diagnosis
of Asperger's syndrome. Instead, born in 1980 to careless parents in rural
Pennsylvania, he ran wild, unattended and unmedicated.

When he was 7, beautiful baldheaded Sunny and her beautiful blond-haired mother
moved to a farmhouse near his home and began to civilize him. They helped him
interpret human facial expressions and memorize the common run of expected
social interactions so he could make conversation. (He writes equations to help
him remember: ''String compliment = 'How nice of you to say so.'; String
gratitude = 'Thank you for letting me know.' '') But even as a kid, Maxon never
needed to decode his feelings for Sunny, and upon adolescence, once her kiss
activated his binary love switch, ''it never turned off again in his whole life.
It was a switch that was duct-taped to one side with a sign beside it that said
do not touch.''

Netzer's storytelling method is as poetic as her language. She slowly assembles
a multitude of pinpoint insights that converge to form a glimmering
constellation: the singularity of the miraculous machinery of the human
organism. For the purposes of this novel, Maxon did not need to be an astronaut;
Emma Butcher did not need to have cancer; Sunny did not need to be bald; Bubber
did not need to be autistic. These quirks, however, help Netzer imaginatively
express the complex individuality of the human condition.

Maxon, strong in logic, weak in social skills, made his robots Nobel-worthy by
striving to make them imitate human perfection. The principle guiding his
laboratory science was: ''If humans do it, it must be right.'' Nonetheless, even
he knows this works only up to a point. ''There are three things that robots
cannot do,'' he writes in a note to himself. ''Love, regret, forgive.'' He then
thinks: ''I do what robots can't do.''

In outer space, Maxon struggles to maintain his connection with NASA; on Earth,
in a hospital, his mother-in-law clings to life, and his wife prepares to give
birth. ''One hung on, one pushed forward,'' Netzer writes. ''As one pushed
forward the other was pushed forward as well. It was a death and a life
happening, all at the same long time.'' Maxon asks, ''Why do I do these
things?'' ''Shine Shine Shine'' provides such answer as there is: A human life
cannot be programmed; it simply happens, and continues, until it doesn't.

As modern as Netzer's meditations are, they really are ur-old. Technology does
not, cannot and will not remove the fundamental human experiences of birth, life
and death, or the resolve to improve them. In 1997, in his documentary film
''Fast, Cheap and Out of Control,'' Errol Morris contrasted four professions
concerned with shaping, making sense of and enhancing the natural world: animal
tamers, topiary artists, biologists (researching the behavior of blind, naked
mole rats) and robotics specialists. The robotics segments featured the M.I.T.
professor Rodney Brooks. Like Maxon, he was obsessed with building robots to
enhance society. Like Sunny, he was fascinated by the creation of life. Brooks
tells Morris, ''Many people have said to me, 'This is something that men do
because men can't have babies themselves, and this is a way of building your own
baby, if you like.' '' He didn't buy that argument, he said: ''I think that
there is some deeper-seated thing which crosses the sex boundaries: of
under/standing life by building something that is lifelike.'' His summation
neatly encapsulates the achievement of this stellar, thought-provoking debut.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF LYDIA NETZER BY KATIE WEEKS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 9, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rebuking Critics of Leaks, Top Counterterror Adviser Seeks a Little Room

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 629 words


WASHINGTON -- President Obama's top counterterrorism adviser bluntly rejected on
Wednesday charges from Mitt Romney and other Republicans that the White House
has leaked classified information for political purposes, calling the claims
''specious and unfounded.''In wide-ranging remarks to the Council on Foreign
Relations here, the adviser, John O. Brennan, directed some of his strongest
language at accusations of high-level leaking.

He said that while there had been some ''devastating'' leaks, critics were
conflating unauthorized disclosures that do real harm with legitimate government
efforts to inform the public.

''It's easy to get up in front of a TV camera, quite frankly, and point fingers
at the White House and say they're doing it for this or that,'' said Mr.
Brennan, who did not mention Mr. Romney by name. ''A lot of those allegations
are highly irresponsible.''

Speaking at a Veterans of Foreign Wars convention last month in Reno, Nev., Mr.
Romney, the presumed Republican presidential nominee, called leaks about the
raid that killed Osama bin Laden, American cyberattacks against Iran and other
matters ''contemptible,'' asking: ''Exactly who in the White House betrayed
those secrets?''

Mr. Brennan, who has often briefed reporters on security matters and
occasionally drawn criticism for doing so, said the president ''has made it very
clear that any leak of classified national security information is something
that should be rigorously pursued and prosecuted.''

But more fully than any other senior government official in the recent debate
over leaks, Mr. Brennan defended the value of speaking publicly, within limits,
about national security issues.

''President Obama feels very strongly that the government has a responsibility
to engage with the American people, as well as with the world community,'' he
said. ''I have said things about our counterterrorism program and in terms of
what we do and how we're trying to do it, you know, consistent with the law, our
ethics and values as a people. I'm going to continue to do that.''

Addressing one specific leak that is under criminal investigation, Mr. Brennan
expressed regret about some press revelations in the spring concerning an
attempt by the Al Qaeda branch in Yemen to smuggle a bomb aboard an airliner.
The scheme was thwarted by the would-be bomber, who turned out to be a double
agent working for Western intelligence.

''When that operation, though, came to a conclusion, you know, we do have an
obligation to tell the American people about what the threats are coming from Al
Qaeda,'' Mr. Brennan said, suggesting that he believed some information about
the foiled plot should have been disclosed.

Agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation have interviewed dozens of
government officials as part of the investigation of leaks about the Yemen plot,
about the American cyber effort against Iran's nuclear program and possibly
about the drone program. The Senate Intelligence Committee has approved
legislation to curb official briefings of reporters on security programs, and
some agencies have stopped their routine of giving briefings to reporters.

The top Democrats on the Senate and House Intelligence Committees have joined
their Republican counterparts in denouncing leaks and pressing for an
investigation. They have rarely spoken, as Mr. Brennan did, in defense of
legitimate disclosures about security matters.

Mr. Brennan also suggested that after the Senate's failure last week to pass a
bill on cybersecurity, Mr. Obama would use his executive powers to step up
defenses against computer attacks. ''It may be revived, but we can't wait, so
we're doing things,'' Mr. Brennan said, without being specific. ''The president
wants to make sure that we're doing everything possible.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/09/us/politics/counterterrorism-adviser-john-bren
nan-rebukes-critics-of-leaks.html

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            August 9, 2012 Thursday

Virus Seeking Bank Data Is Tied to Attack on Iran

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 767 words



HIGHLIGHT: A security firm said it had discovered what it believed was the
fourth state-sponsored computer virus to surface in the Middle East in the last
three years, one apparently aimed at collecting information from computers in
Lebanon. It appears to have been written by the same programmers who designed
Flame, which was found to be spying on computers in Iran.


A security firm said Thursday that it had discovered what it believed was the
fourth state-sponsored computer virus to surface in the Middle East in the last
three years, apparently aimed at computers in Lebanon.

The firm, Kaspersky Lab, said that the virus appeared to have been written by
the same programmers who created Flame, the data-mining computer virus that was
found to be spying on computers in Iran in May, and that it might be linked to
Stuxnet, the virus that disrupted uranium enrichment work in Iran in 2010.

The latest virus, nicknamed Gauss after a name found in its code, has been
detected on 2,500 computers, most in Lebanon, the firm said. Its purpose
appeared to be to acquire logins for e-mail and instant messaging accounts,
social networks and, notably, accounts at certain banks - a function more
typically found in malicious programs used by profit-seeking cybercriminals.

The researchers said the target banks included several of Lebanon's largest -
the Bank of Beirut, Blom Bank, Byblos Bank and Credit Libanais - along with
Citibank and the online payment system PayPal.

"We have never seen any malware target such a specific range of banks," Costin
Raiu, Kaspersky's director of global research and analysis, said in an
interview. "Generally, cybercriminals target as many banks as possible to
maximize financial profit, but this is a very focused cyberespionage campaign
targeting certain users of online banking systems."

Lebanon experts said that an American cyber espionage campaign directed at
Lebanon's banking system would seem to be a plausible possibility, given
Washington's concerns that the country's banks are being used as a financial
conduit for the Syrian government and for Hezbollah, the Lebanese militant group
and political party.

"The United States has had a number of Lebanese banks under the microscope for a
while," said Bilal Y. Saab, a Lebanon expert at the Monterey Institute of
International Studies, who said the banks "operate much like Swiss banks" in
terms of secrecy. "A computer virus could completely undermine that," he said.

Researchers at Kaspersky Lab, based in Moscow, said they found the Gauss virus
while analyzing the Flame virus in June. Flame is a reconnaissance tool that can
capture images of a user's computer screen, record e-mail and chat sessions,
turn on microphones remotely and monitor keystrokes and network traffic. It can
infect an offline computer through a USB stick or a Bluetooth connection.

Kaspersky's researchers said they were confident that Gauss was the work of the
same hands as Flame, because the two viruses were written in the same language
(known as C++) on the same platform and shared some code and features. Different
people probably wrote Doqu and Stuxnet, the first two state-sponsored viruses to
surface in recent years, they said, but all four were probably commissioned by
the same state-sponsored entity.

"There is absolutely no doubt that Gauss and Flame were printed by the same
factories," Mr. Raiu said. "An early version of Stuxnet used a module from
Flame, which shows they are connected. Stuxnet was created by a nation-state -
it simply could not have been designed without nation-state support - which
means Flame and Gauss were created with nation-state support as well."

Kaspersky Lab has declined to speculate on which nation-states were responsible.
The New York Times reported in June, based on interviews with officials in
several countries, that Stuxnet was jointly developed by the United States and
Israel.

Security experts not connected with the lab were less sure that a government was
behind Gauss. "It's a fairly large leap, in terms of deductive reasoning, to
assume that because they share a common architectural platform, this variant is
also state-sponsored," said Will Gragido of RSA, a security firm, who has
studied Flame but has not yet analyzed Gauss. "It's possible the code was made
available underground and repurposed or reused by cybercriminals."

Kaspersky researchers said Gauss contained a "warhead" that seeks a very
specific computer system with no Internet connection and installs itself only if
it finds one. "It's done in such a clever way that security researchers cannot
analyze it, because they don't know the decryption key that unlocks the true
purpose of that program," Mr. Raiu said.


     ·    Google Issues New Warning for State-Sponsored Attacks
     ·    Microsoft Tries to Make Windows Updates Flame Retardant
     ·    Daily Report: Discoverer of Flame Virus Backs Ban on Computer Warfare
     ·    Iran Confirms Attack by Virus That Collects Information
     ·    Virus Infects Computers Across Middle East


LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 10, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Computer Virus Is Aimed at Banks in Lebanon, Security Firm Says

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 735 words


A security firm said Thursday that it had discovered what it believed was the
fourth state-sponsored computer virus to surface in the Middle East in the last
three years, apparently aimed at computers in Lebanon.The firm, Kaspersky Lab,
said that the virus appeared to have been written by the same programmers who
created Flame, the data-mining computer virus that was found to be spying on
computers in Iran in May, and that it might be linked to Stuxnet, the virus that
disrupted uranium enrichment work in Iran in 2010.

The latest virus, nicknamed Gauss after a name found in its code, has been
detected on 2,500 computers, most in Lebanon, the firm said. Its purpose
appeared to be to acquire logins for e-mail and instant messaging accounts,
social networks and, notably, accounts at certain banks - a function more
typically found in malicious programs used by profit-seeking cybercriminals.

The researchers said the target banks included several of Lebanon's largest -
the Bank of Beirut, Blom Bank, Byblos Bank and Credit Libanais - along with
Citibank and the online payment system PayPal.

"We have never seen any malware target such a specific range of banks," Costin
Raiu, Kaspersky's director of global research and analysis, said in an
interview. "Generally, cybercriminals target as many banks as possible to
maximize financial profit, but this is a very focused cyberespionage campaign
targeting certain users of online banking systems."

Lebanon experts said that an American cyber espionage campaign directed at
Lebanon's banking system would seem to be a plausible possibility, given
Washington's concerns that the country's banks are being used as a financial
conduit for the Syrian government and for Hezbollah, the Lebanese militant group
and political party.

"The United States has had a number of Lebanese banks under the microscope for a
while," said Bilal Y. Saab, a Lebanon expert at the Monterey Institute of
International Studies, who said the banks "operate much like Swiss banks" in
terms of secrecy. "A computer virus could completely undermine that," he said.

Researchers at Kaspersky Lab, based in Moscow, said they found the Gauss virus
while analyzing the Flame virus in June. Flame is a reconnaissance tool that can
capture images of a user's computer screen, record e-mail and chat sessions,
turn on microphones remotely and monitor keystrokes and network traffic. It can
infect an offline computer through a USB stick or a Bluetooth connection.

Kaspersky's researchers said they were confident that Gauss was the work of the
same hands as Flame, because the two viruses were written in the same language
(known as C++) on the same platform and shared some code and features. Different
people probably wrote Doqu and Stuxnet, the first two state-sponsored viruses to
surface in recent years, they said, but all four were probably commissioned by
the same state-sponsored entity.

"There is absolutely no doubt that Gauss and Flame were printed by the same
factories," Mr. Raiu said. "An early version of Stuxnet used a module from
Flame, which shows they are connected. Stuxnet was created by a nation-state -
it simply could not have been designed without nation-state support - which
means Flame and Gauss were created with nation-state support as well."

Kaspersky Lab has declined to speculate on which nation-states were responsible.
The New York Times reported in June, based on interviews with officials in
several countries, that Stuxnet was jointly developed by the United States and
Israel.

Security experts not connected with the lab were less sure that a government was
behind Gauss. "It's a fairly large leap, in terms of deductive reasoning, to
assume that because they share a common architectural platform, this variant is
also state-sponsored," said Will Gragido of RSA, a security firm, who has
studied Flame but has not yet analyzed Gauss. "It's possible the code was made
available underground and repurposed or reused by cybercriminals."

Kaspersky researchers said Gauss contained a "warhead" that seeks a very
specific computer system with no Internet connection and installs itself only if
it finds one. "It's done in such a clever way that security researchers cannot
analyze it, because they don't know the decryption key that unlocks the true
purpose of that program," Mr. Raiu said.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/08/09/researchers-find-possible-state-sponsor
ed-virus-in-mideast/

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 12, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

App for the Ancients

BYLINE: By PAULS TOUTONGHI.

Pauls Toutonghi teaches literature and fiction writing at Lewis & Clark College
and is the author of the novels ''Red Weather'' and ''Evel Knievel Days.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 709 words


ALIF THE UNSEENBy G. Willow Wilson

433 pp. Grove Press. $25.

In her 2010 memoir, ''The Butterfly Mosque,'' G. Willow Wilson told the story of
her conversion to Islam, charting her transformation from child of atheist
parents to Boston University-­educated undergraduate to faithful Muslim with an
Egyptian husband and an apartment in Cairo. Wilson wrote of the contrast between
East and West, and of feeling compelled to keep her religious beliefs secret.
''In the West,'' she observed, ''anything that must be hidden is suspect;
availability and honesty are interlinked. This clashes irreconcilably with
Islam, . . . where the things that are most precious, most perfect and most holy
are always hidden: the Kaaba, the faces of prophets and angels, a woman's body,
Heaven.''

It is thus unsurprising that secret identities form the axis of Wilson's
fast-paced, imaginative first novel, ''Alif the Unseen'' -- a book that defies
easy categorization. Is it literary fiction? A fantasy novel? A dystopian
techno-thriller? An exemplar of Islamic mysticism, with ties to the work of the
Sufi poets? Wilson seems to delight in establishing, then confounding, any
expectations readers may have.

Alif, her hacker protagonist, is a 21st-­century cyber-gun-for-hire. He provides
technical services to pornographers in Saudi Arabia, Islamic revolutionaries in
Turkey and bloggers in Egypt, concealing their identities and hiding their
locations from the authorities in Riyadh and Ankara and Cairo. He doesn't
discriminate politically: ''Alif was not an ideologue; as far as he was
concerned, anyone who could pay for his protection was entitled to it.'' His
greatest allegiance, at least initially, is to the freedom of information.

But Alif lives in a place -- known only as ''the City'' -- plagued by
significant social ills. It has ''one of the most sophisticated digital policing
systems in the world, but no proper mail service''; ''princes in silver-plated
cars,'' but ''districts with no running water.'' This is not a young Ameri­can
novelist's Orientalist perspective on a foreign other, however -- Wilson has
lived on and off in Cairo for nearly a decade. Though the City explicitly isn't
Cairo, it also clearly is, with its sweet tea vendors, its streets edged with
hibiscus bushes, its insistent sprawl.

Within this megacity, Alif must hide from an authoritarian state that wants to
hunt him down and do him harm. This might seem enough to drive a novel. But
Wilson adds several layers of complication. Alif has a doomed love affair with
an aristocratic woman -- a relationship made more difficult by his social status
and his mixed Arab-Indian ethnicity. He also ends up in possession of the ''Alf
Yeom'': a text ostensibly dictated by an enslaved demon to a Persian mystic
hundreds of years ago, which the state wants because it may (or may not) contain
the secret to creating a quantum-bit-powered supercomputer.

When a betrayal reveals Alif's location, he is taken into custody, beaten and
tortured. But at last he is rescued, and as he goes on the run, we are shuttled
into the world of the jinn. Wilson's tone alternates between serious and
playful. In her funniest set piece, a shadowy creature called an effrit asks
Alif to fix its ''two-year-old Dell desktop,'' which has picked up some kind of
malware online. Alif is astonished to find Internet access in jinn-land.
''Cousin,'' the effrit says, ''we've got Wi-Fi.''

For all its playfulness, ''Alif the Unseen'' is also at times unexpectedly
moving, especially as it detours into questions of faith. In an expansive
moment, a secondary character -- an imam who like Alif has been tortured by the
state -- describes a hard-earned revelation: ''I have had much experience with
the unclean and uncivilized in the recent past. Shall I tell you what I
discovered? I am not the state of my feet. I am not the dirt on my hands or the
hygiene of my private parts. If I were these things, I would not have been at
liberty to pray. . . . But I did pray, because I am not these things. . . . I am
not even myself. I am a string of bones speaking the word God.'' For those who
view American fiction as provincial, or dominated by competent but safe work,
Wilson's novel offers a resounding, heterodox alternative.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/12/books/review/alif-the-unseen-by-g-willow-wilso
n.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 17, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pilot Lessons for a Ferry, With Water Not Included

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 715 words


Dan Talecki, a mate on the Staten Island Ferry, would like to emphasize two
points: His job description does not call for him to dock the boat. And while,
yes, technically, he and his colleague stalled their vessel within shouting
distance of the shore on consecutive trips at the helm, it was unlikely that the
city received any customer complaints.''They don't mind,'' Mr. Talecki, 30, said
of his riders -- and that is indisputably true. Mr. Talecki was among a small
group of ferry crew members who were receiving training last week on a
ferry-simulation system, safely sequestered from the real boats inside a
classroom on an upper level of the Whitehall Ferry Terminal in Lower Manhattan.

Since 2010, the city has used the system to train ferry staff members, from
mates to captains, asking them to navigate a cyber-vessel through a harbor that
appears culled from a lost scene in ''Avatar.'' An instructor can control the
weather and visibility, summon tankers or cargo ships into the ferries' path or
even disable the navigation system -- all with the goal of ensuring that on the
real water, a crew will have prepared for every possibility.

''My job,'' said Capt. James Parese, who oversaw the class last week, ''is to
make it as difficult as possible.''

Looming over the training, of course, is the ferry's crash history. In 2003, 11
people were killed and scores were injured after a ferry missed its dock at the
St. George terminal on Staten Island and hit a maintenance pier at full speed.
In 2010, dozens were injured after another crash into a pier at St. George.
(Neither crash was attributed directly to improper or inadequate training.)

Capt. James C. DeSimone, the chief operations officer for the ferry, said that
while the simulator training was not a direct response to the 2003 crash, it was
''a part of a number of enhancements'' to the ferry system in the years after
the accident.

''The last thing in the world you want is to be subject to on-the-job
training,'' Captain DeSimone said.

Mates often assist in steering, Captain DeSimone said, but a captain will assume
the controls as the boat approaches the slip.

The simulation room cost about $160,000, said Seth Solomonow, a spokesman for
the city's Transportation Department, which operates the ferry.

Last week, eight students worked in pairs, operating four ferries that could
pass one another -- and any other boats Captain Parese chose to send their way
-- in the imitation twilight on the harbor. For ferries coming from Staten
Island, the path was lighted by the Lower Manhattan skyline, whose buildings are
often reflected in the waters, if conditions permit.

At one point, Captain Parese began to smile devilishly, looking down at his
command system. The room groaned. It had started to rain.

''Oh, come on,'' one student pleaded.

''It happens,'' Captain Parese said.

His favorite weather complication was fog, the captain said, though he was not
picky.

''It feels good,'' he said of any chance to control the skies. ''You get a
little power sensation.''

Pedro Ramirez, 46, a mate from the Bronx and Mr. Talecki's partner in the
exercise, said the software was useful to get ''the feel of the current.''

''We make it look so easy,'' Mr. Talecki added, as his vessel sat wedged into a
slip at the St. George terminal at an angle, a few virtual feet from land.

''Like a glove,'' he said.

''Yeah,'' Captain Parese said, approaching their screen. ''That's not good.'' He
reset their system.

The session also featured more experienced students, like Assistant Capt.
Kristen Andoos, who took the class as a refresher after recovering from a broken
hand. Ms. Andoos said the system's ferries were a worthy approximation, even if
they seldom encountered the most frustrating real-life summertime obstacles:
sailboats and motorized water scooters whose operators are eager to approach the
ferry and wave to the passengers.

''They don't really know what they're doing,'' Captain Andoos said. ''They don't
realize big ships that weigh 3,000 tons can't stop on a dime.''

Of course, as Captain Parese reminds the class, sometimes they have to try.
Later in the session, he told the students he had to leave the room briefly, but
not before imparting perhaps the morning's most important piece of technical
wisdom: ''Don't hit nothing.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/17/nyregion/staten-island-ferry-crew-members-prac
tice-sailing-on-land.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pedro Ramirez, left, and Dan Talecki, mates on the Staten Island
Ferry, practice maneuvering a boat using a simulator. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ÁNGEL
FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                           August 22, 2012 Wednesday

Can This Company Recover From a Cyberattack?

BYLINE: DARREN DAHL

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 677 words



HIGHLIGHT: MyBizHomepage, a provider of business accounting software, was shut
down by a wave of cyber attacks that apparently came from a disgruntled former
employee.


A case study we've just published explains the challenges faced by Peter Justen,
chief executive of MyBizHomepage, a Middleburg, Va., provider of business
accounting software. The business was shut down by a wave of cyber attacks that
apparently came from a disgruntled former employee.

Mr. Justen founded the company in 2006 to give small-business owners an easy way
to view their financials and isolate important metrics. A serial entrepreneur,
Mr. Justen raised several million dollars from investors to start the company,
which its investors valued at $100 million at its peak in 2008. At about that
time, Mr. Justen and his board, seeing tremendous growth opportunity for the
business, especially in international markets, turned down an offer to buy the
company.

Mr. Justen believes the decision not to sell rankled the company's chief
technology officer, who decided to try to form a competing software company.
Upon learning of his technology officer's action, Mr. Justen says he fired him.
A series of cyber attacks against the MyBizHomepage Web site followed and
essentially shut the company down. You can read the case study to learn the
details.

We asked a business owner and several experts in the realm of digital law and
security what they thought Mr. Justen should do to save his company. Please tell
us what you think in the comments section below, and next week, we'll follow up
with another blog post that will explain what Mr. Justen decided to do.

Norm Brodsky, a serial entrepreneur and columnist for Inc. magazine in New York
City: "Mr. Justen should focus on restructuring or starting a new company using
his intellectual property. Bankruptcy won't help. His only asset is his
software, which they will just auction off and sell to the highest bidder. He
should also be honest about how he played a role in what went wrong. Why didn't
he run a background check on his C.T.O.? And why did he fire him without first
putting a plan in place to protect the software? He can't afford to make those
mistakes again. I always say you should trust everyone but also keep your eyes
open."

Mark Davis, senior director at the White House Writers Group, a consulting
company in Washington, and the co-author of "Digital Assassination," a book on
cyber-terrorism: "Mr. Justen has no choice but to go public with an apology and
an explanation. He should put up a YouTube video explaining what happened and
what action steps they are taking to rectify the situation and make sure it
won't happen again. On a personal level, he should take the time to snail mail
everyone who received a fake e-mail from him as a way to set things right."

Joy Butler, a business and entertainment lawyer in Washington who wrote "The
Cyber Citizen's Guide Through the Legal Jungle": "Mr. Justen and his company
have limited legal options going forward unless they can locate the C.T.O. The
company might then seek redress by suing for breach of any non-compete or
confidentiality provisions that may have been in the former C.T.O.'s employment
agreement. I would also caution Mr. Justen about how much information he
discloses about the events at his company. On the other hand, he does need to
let his customers know about the fact that there was a security breach or the
company could face legal ramifications itself."

John Mutch, chief executive of BeyondTrust, a global provider of security
software: "I think the first wave of security was focused on external threats.
Now people are realizing that the threat from the insider is a malicious threat
that can be catastrophic in a lot of ways. Unfortunately for Mr. Justen, he
probably needed to lock the system down before firing his C.T.O. If he decides
to go forward, he should consider building role-based security around his
company's critical assets that limits who can access what."

What do you think?


     ·    Starting Over After a Cyberattack Shuts Down the Business
     ·    If Hackers Wipe Out Your Bank Account, Will You Be Covered?
     ·    In Defense of Business Brokers
     ·    More About Password Security
     ·    Responding to Reader Comments on Password Security


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 23, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Struggling to Recover From a Cyberattack

BYLINE: By DARREN DAHL

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CASE STUDY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1293 words


IN 2006, Peter Justen, a serial entrepreneur, founded MyBizHomepage, an online
service that connected to companies' QuickBooks accounting software to help
business owners monitor their financial metrics. When the site went live in
2008, it attracted significant media attention. It was free to use and the
company planned to make money through advertising, a recipe that appealed to Mr.
Justen's investors, who valued the company at $100 million based on the vast
potential they perceived.THE CHALLENGE Rebuilding. After Mr. Justen fired his
chief technology officer, strange things started happening at MyBizHomepage,
including a series of cyberattacks that brought down the company's software.

THE BACKGROUND Mr. Justen started MyBizHomepage in Middleburg, Va., five years
after he and his co-founders had sold Pace Financial Network to TD Ameritrade,
the online brokerage firm. Looking for a new challenge, Mr. Justen, a
self-described numbers guy, began researching whether there was a need among
small-business owners for help in understanding the financial ratios that drive
their companies. He quickly determined there was. He also knew that lots of
small businesses used QuickBooks to run their financials. ''My idea,'' Mr.
Justen said, ''was to simplify things for business owners to give them an easy
way to see the problems and opportunities in the numbers of their business.''

Mr. Justen and a team of programmers spent the next two years working on the
prototype for MyBizHomepage, which would use a series of algorithms to analyze
data culled from QuickBooks and create financial performance indicators that
would be displayed as a financial dashboard for each business. One popular
feature, for example, monitored a company's accounts-receivable balance. When
the balance exceeded a set threshold, the software would send an alert. ''The
idea was that by checking in on their key numbers every day, a business owner
could see where he was headed,'' Mr. Justen said.

To help fuel the company's growth, Mr. Justen turned to several investors to
raise capital. They included Joe Silbaugh, a real estate developer, and Bryan
Elicker, a friend of Mr. Silbaugh's who sold a coffin company in 2007. In 2008,
Mr. Justen and his investors, who also served on his board, faced an interesting
decision: They had a tentative offer to sell the company for a price close to
their own valuation. But Mr. Justen and his board decided not to sell. ''We
hadn't yet tapped the potential of the product, especially among a global
audience,'' he said, noting that the company had barely 6,000 customers using
the system at the time.

Apparently the decision not to sell did not sit well with the company's chief
technology officer. Mr. Justen said he was soon told that the officer, a
longtime associate, had teamed up with two other senior officers in the company
in an effort to start a competing company. Mr. Justen said he learned of the new
venture from one of his investors who had been approached about joining the
group. Furious, Mr. Justen fired the chief technology officer and his cohort,
and instructed his lawyer to send them a cease-and-desist letter. That was when
the real trouble began. After Mr. Justen fired his chief technology officer, the
MyBizHomepage began to crash regularly. Mr. Justen and his board members also
found that someone had hacked into their personal e-mail and Facebook accounts
and had begun sending people on their contact list messages impugning the ethics
of Mr. Justen and the board members. The messages claimed that MyBizHomepage was
defrauding investors, a claim that was repeated on several Web sites. ''It hurts
your reputation when someone Googles your name and finds that,'' said Mr.
Silbaugh, who had invested more than $1 million in MyBizHomepage.

When Mr. Justen contacted authorities about the attacks and explained what he
thought was happening, he said he learned something else about his former chief
technology officer: there was little, if any, official proof that he existed.
Mr. Justen said he knew that the officer was unusual, that he had been arrested
on an outstanding warrant after being pulled over on suspicion of driving with a
fake license plate. But Mr. Justen said he did not realize that the chief
technology officer had no official identity: no driver's license, no credit
cards, no tax returns. The chief technology officer apparently had been living
off the grid, which made tracking him down almost impossible even with the help
of the authorities.

Mr. Justen said he concluded that the chief technology officer had built
multiple ''backdoor'' entrances into the MyBizHomepage software and had
compromised the company's backup data. It became clear that the site would need
to be shut down indefinitely, essentially putting the company out of business.

THE OPTIONS Given the security breaches and the destruction of the backup copies
of the code, Mr. Justen said he knew that he would have to start from scratch if
he wanted the company to continue. But he was reluctant to go back to his
original investors for more money, and he knew he would have a hard time raising
capital after the 2008 credit crisis. He considered having the company declare
bankruptcy, but he knew that meant his investors would lose everything.

He also struggled with how public to make what had happened, particularly given
that his customers had trusted him with delicate information. They might not be
eager to re-enlist, knowing the service had been hacked by an insider. While he
had been working with authorities to track down his former chief technology
officer, Mr. Justen also considered his legal options if the officer were
located.

Finally, Mr. Justen, who had a family to support, considered simply shutting the
doors to the business and walking away for good.

WHAT OTHERS SAY Norm Brodsky, a serial entrepreneur and columnist for Inc.
magazine in New York City: ''Mr. Justen should focus on restructuring or
starting a new company using his intellectual property. Bankruptcy won't help.
His only asset is his software, which they will just auction off and sell to the
highest bidder. He should also be honest about how he played a role in what went
wrong. Why didn't he run a background check on his C.T.O.? And why did he fire
him without first putting a plan in place to protect the software? He can't
afford to make those mistakes again. I always say you should trust everyone but
also keep your eyes open.''

Mark Davis, senior director at the White House Writers Group, a consulting
company in Washington, and the co-author of ''Digital Assassination,'' a book on
cyberterrorism: ''Mr. Justen has no choice but to go public with an apology and
an explanation. He should put up a YouTube video explaining what happened and
what action steps they are taking to rectify the situation.''

Joy R. Butler, a business and entertainment lawyer in Washington who wrote ''The
Cyber Citizen's Guide Through the Legal Jungle'': ''Mr. Justen and his company
have limited legal options going forward unless they can locate the C.T.O. The
company might then seek redress by suing for breach of any noncompete or
confidentiality provisions that may have been in the former C.T.O.'s employment
agreement.''

John Mutch, chief executive of BeyondTrust, a global provider of security
software: ''Unfortunately for Mr. Justen, he probably needed to lock the system
down before firing his C.T.O. If he decides to go forward, he should consider
building role-based security around his company's critical assets that limits
who can access what.''

THE RESULTS Offer your thoughts on Mr. Justen's decision on the You're the Boss
blog at nytimes.com/boss. Next week, on the blog and in this space, we will
explain how the company is doing.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/23/business/smallbusiness/struggling-to-recover-f
rom-a-cyberattack.html

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After MyBizHomepage was hacked, its founder, Peter Justen,
considered declaring bankruptcy or shutting down. (PHOTOGRAPH BY   DANIEL
ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 27, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Saudi Oil Producer's Computers Restored After Virus Attack

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 737 words


DUBAI (Reuters) -- Saudi Aramco, the world's biggest oil producer, has resumed
operating its main internal computer networks after a virus infected about
30,000 of its workstations earlier this month, the company said Sunday.

Immediately after the Aug. 15 attack, the company announced it had cut off its
electronic systems from outside access to prevent further attacks.

On Sunday, Saudi Aramco said the workstations had been cleansed of the virus and
restored to service. Oil exploration and production were not affected because
they operate on isolated systems, it said.

''We would like to emphasize and assure our stakeholders, customers and partners
that our core businesses of oil and gas exploration, production and distribution
from the wellhead to the distribution network were unaffected and are
functioning as reliably as ever,'' Saudi Aramco's chief executive, Khalid
al-Falih, said in a statement.

However, one of Saudi Aramco's Web sites taken offline after the attack --
www.aramco.com -- remained down on Sunday. E-mails sent by Reuters to people
within the company continued to bounce back.

The company said that the virus ''originated from external sources,'' and that
an investigation into the causes of the incident and those responsible was
continuing. It did not elaborate.

Information technology experts have warned that computer attacks on countries'
energy infrastructure, whether conducted by hostile governments, militant groups
or private ''hacktivists'' to make political points, could disrupt energy
supplies.

Iran, the focus of international economic sanctions focused on its oil industry
over its disputed nuclear program, has been hit by several computer attacks in
the last few years.

In April, a virus infected the Iranian oil ministry and national oil company
networks, forcing Iran to disconnect the control systems of oil facilities
including Kharg Island, which handles most of its crude exports.

Iran has attributed some of the attacks to the United States, Israel and
Britain.

Current and former American officials have said that the United States built the
complex Stuxnet computer worm to try to prevent Tehran from completing suspected
nuclear weapons work.

An English-language posting on an online bulletin board on Aug. 15, signed by a
group called the ''Cutting Sword of Justice,'' claimed the group was responsible
for the attack and wanted to destroy the 30,000 computers at Saudi Aramco.

It said the company was the main source of income for the Saudi government,
which it blamed for ''crimes and atrocities'' in several countries, including
Syria and Bahrain. Saudi Arabia sent troops into Bahrain last year to back the
gulf state's Sunni Muslim rulers against Shiite-led protesters. Riyadh is also
supporting Sunni rebels against the Syrian government of President Bashar
al-Assad.

The Cutting Sword of Justice was not widely known before this attack, and
information security experts contacted by Reuters had no information on the
group.

Rob Rachwald, director of security strategy for United States-based data
security firm Imperva, said in a blog posting last week that if the Saudi Aramco
attack had been carried out by hacktivists, it could be a milestone in computer
hacking.

''A group of hobbyists and hacktivists with several very strong-minded
developers and hackers achieved results similar to what we have allegedly seen
governments accomplish,'' Mr. Rachwald wrote.

Symantec, one of the world's largest Internet security companies, said on the
day after the Saudi Aramco attack that it had discovered a new virus directed
against at least one organization in the global energy sector, although it did
not name that organization.

''It is a destructive malware that corrupts files on a compromised computer and
overwrites the MBR (Master Boot Record) in an effort to render a computer
unusable,'' Symantec said in a blog posting about the virus, which it called
W32.Disttrack. ''Threats with such destructive payloads are unusual and are not
typical of targeted attacks.''

Mr. al-Falih, the oil company's chief executive, said in his statement on
Sunday: ''Saudi Aramco is not the only company that became a target for such
attempts, and this was not the first nor will it be the last illegal attempt to
intrude into our systems, and we will ensure that we will further reinforce our
systems with all available means to protect against a recurrence of this type of
cyberattack.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/27/technology/saudi-oil-producers-computers-resto
red-after-cyber-attack.html

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                             August 27, 2012 Monday

Student Contest Winner | Missing Superheroes

BYLINE: MICHAEL GONCHAR

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 740 words



HIGHLIGHT: This week's summer reading contest winner analyzes the reasons women
and minority superheroes are missing from best-selling comics.


We're sad to announce that, with more than 1,500 comments posted since we began
this contest in June,  we've reached the last week, and our final winner.

We've enjoyed the range of articles you've chosen this summer and the
interesting things you've had to say about them so much, however, that we've
decided to ask the same open-ended Student Opinion question - What interested
you most in The Times this week? - every Friday this fall, in the hopes that
you'll keep posting. (And because we agree with LainieMHS2012 that it's our job
to try to interest both students who are already Times readers  students who
would otherwise read only required school books and an "ocean of Facebook news
feeds.")

Among the 259 comments we received this week, students wrote about an incredible
range of topics: Twitter, leukemia, Lolo Jones, Agent Orange, cyber warfare, gun
control, Times Square, tidal power, college football, loyalty card programs and
the Sikh Temple killings.

We always have a hard time narrowing down the list to just a few favorites, but
this week we want to mention Shannon's comment on her disappointment in China's
legal system, and Nolan BoyerDHAP2013's comment about women's
underrepresentation in Hollywood as two we especially admired.

We were also inspired by what Sabrina wrote about the floods ravaging the
Philippines, and we liked KaitlynMCROSBYHS2013's questioning of the
all-importance of family dinner.

For our favorite comment this week, we picked what William, a 15-year-old from
Ithaca, N.Y., wrote about why women and minority superheroes are missing from
best-selling comics:

As an avid comic book reader, I was excited when I saw the article "Super-Dreams
of an Alternate World Order", where the movie critics A. O. Scott and Manohla
Dargis discussed the issues prevalent in comic book-based movies. However, I
found fault with a few of their criticisms of the genre, especially Dargis's
complaint that superhero movies often lack major female and minority characters.
This is a real problem with both comics and superhero movies, but it is one that
is difficult to remedy.

Racial and gender stereotypes are deeply embedded in the mythologies of classic
superheroes. Many of today's well-known heroes, like Iron Man, Superman, and
Batman were created in the sixties or earlier. At the time of these characters'
origins, there was little encouragement to promote equality for women and
minorities in literature, let alone comics. As a result, white male superheroes
hogged the spotlight. Minorities were used for comic relief or minor villains
and women largely acted as love interests and provided sex appeal.

Now, decades after their creation, people view these superheroes as cultural
icons. As a result, comic book publishers often have difficulty fundamentally
changing their characters while retaining fans. Even minor tweaks to characters'
origins can incur backlash. People buy what they know, so major superheroes have
remained static to retain familiarity. Since these characters largely maintain
their outdated style and outlook, it can be difficult to work well-written
minority characters prominently into their stories without tweaking the major
character or changing the comic's plot focus. Newer, more well-rounded comic
books with better developed minority characters are sometimes introduced, but
the biggest sellers continue to be the unchanging cultural icons.

When comic books are made into movies, the most familiar, and so best-selling,
heroes become the main characters. As a result, summer movies focus on white
male characters while Black Widow and Nick Fury are given comparatively minor
roles. It is easy to wish for more developed minority characters in comic book
movies, but major superheroes' roots in American culture make this a difficult
wish to realize.

We would like to thank all the students who participated this summer, and
express our appreciation for the teachers who assigned the contest as summer
reading. Now that the contest is over, if you'd like to tell us about the
experience for your students, please consider submitting to our Great Ideas From
Readers feature.



     ·    Student Contest Winner | If Worms Can Do It, Why Can't We?
     ·    Student Contest Winner | Aurora and the Gun Control Debate
     ·    Student Contest Winner | From One Scout to Another, Remove the Ban on
          Gays
     ·    Student Contest Winner | 'Let's Draft Our Kids'
     ·    Student Reading Contest Winner | Pictures of the Day: A Muslim Shrine


LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                             August 27, 2012 Monday

Parody, or Actual Government of India Statement?

BYLINE: HEATHER TIMMONS

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 439 words



HIGHLIGHT: A short quiz about the Internet.


The government of India's sometimes uncomfortable relationship with technology
in general, and the Internet in particular, came to a head last week, when
officials confirmed they had asked Internet service providers and social
networking sites like Twitter and Facebook to remove certain items and block
some users in a response to violence in Assam.

The move was widely criticized by analysts and citizens - after all, social
media sites have controls in place to remove both users who are impersonating
others and using hate speech. Making the situation more puzzling, some of the
items the government asked to be removed included those debunking fraudulent
material that sought to incite violence.

The Indian government has a long history of curious engagement with the Internet
and has passed tough laws limiting free speech on the Internet. Late last year,
the minister of communications, Kapil Sibal, asked social media sites to screen
user content before it was posted.

Perhaps not surprisingly, a number of satirical Web sites and parody Twitter
accounts have sprung up recently that poke fun at the government's stance on
social media, the Internet and technology. Sometimes they are hard to
distinguish from the real thing.

Can you identify which of the statements below come from actual government
statements, and which are parody?

1. "Any normal human being would be offended" by some of the content on the
Internet.

2. "Twitter is for the bird-brained."

3. "In this new era, all you need is a computer which can be connected to the
cloud, with that, all your software and documents will be there. But until now,
no one has studied yet  whether during rain or during a storm, will there be
aberrations in it?"

4. In an attempt to reach social media users, new members of Parliament, to be
called to be called , will be nominated by Twitter and Facebook users through a
public poll.

5. "Prior permission is required before hyperlinks are directed from any Web
site/portal" to the Web site of the prime minister. That permission must be
obtained in writing.

6. "The prime minister's office had requested Twitter to take appropriate action
against six persons impersonating" the office. "When they did not reply for a
long time, the Government Cyber Security Cell was requested to initiate action."

7. Following up on its prosecution of Google, Facebook and other Web sites over
"objectionable" and "offensive" content, the Delhi High Court has now decided to
ban all telecasts of the ongoing India vs. Australia test series on the same
grounds.

8. "I've just about got the hang of Google search. I'm yet to learn how to send
an e-mail."









LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                           August 29, 2012 Wednesday

Starting Over After a Cyberattack Shuts Down the Business

BYLINE: DARREN DAHL

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1184 words



HIGHLIGHT: Plus, Peter Justen explains why he hired his chief technology officer
in the first place.


Last week we wrote about the situation faced by Peter Justen, chief executive of
MyBizHomepage, after the company's former chief technology officer set in motion
a series of crippling cyberattacks against the company's Web site.

Once valued by its investors at $100 million, MyBizHomepage was founded in 2006
by Mr. Justen as a way to help small-business owners access financial metrics
that can help them run their companies. But then, apparently angered by Mr.
Justen's decision not to sell the company, the chief technology officer tried to
start a competing company. When Mr. Justen found out, he fired the officer along
with two co-conspirators. And that's when the cyberattacks began. They rendered
the site all but useless, and Mr. Justen struggled with what to do next.

In February 2009, Mr. Justen and his board concluded that they would have to
take the site offline, which would effectively close the business and saddle
board members like Joe Silbaugh, who had invested more than $1 million, with a
devastating loss. "We essentially had no choice because we no longer had a
product," Mr. Justen said. "We also decided to be up front about the decision
and explain what happened along with an apology. When bad things happen you can
hide under the rug and hope it goes away or you can go public with it and take
the teeth out of the tiger. Some people were understanding while others were
not."

The decision did not please the company's vendors, some of whom quickly filed
suit over unpaid bills. But many of the company's channel partners, who helped
distribute the product, decided to stay on. "They told me they liked our
product, and they were going to stick with us," Mr. Justen said. "In tough
times, you really get to see who your friends really are."

Ignoring advice from his lawyers, Mr. Justen, who also had invested heavily in
the company, decided not to declare corporate bankruptcy because he did not want
to give anyone the opportunity to purchase the company's intellectual property.
He also turned down multiple offers to leave the company and take salaried
employment. Rather, he asked his original investors to support him in rebuilding
the company from scratch. "We held a shareholder meeting and I told them I would
kill myself in trying to restore the company to what it should have been," said
Mr. Justen, who also liquidated his 401(k) and his children's college funds and
invested the money in the company. "Fortunately, they gave me that chance."

Mr. Justen spent the next two years rebuilding the company, which is now called
Five Plus. It features an online subscription software package that synchronizes
with a company's QuickBooks software and presents an easy-to-digest version of
critical financial figures such as accounts payable, accounts receivable, cost
of goods sold and cash on hand. The new software also embraces social media
technology, enabling users to connect with each other and to compare their
financial results with those of their industry peers.

While the new business is up and running, Mr. Justen said he and the business
remain under cyberattack. In one instance, he was forced to fend off a
denial-of-service attack against the new site that attempted to redirect his
customers to a site where fraud claims against Mr. Justen and the company's
investors (including Mr. Justen's 87-year-old mother and deceased father) had
been posted. Mr. Justen said he continues to work with the United States Secret
Service in attempting to track down the former chief technology officer.

After this case study was published last week, the unnamed former employee
contacted The New York Times and identified himself as James Bird. He denied
that he had been on the lam and offered an address in Santa Monica, Calif.,
where he said he is living. While asserting that Mr. Justen owes him $25,000,
Mr. Bird acknowledged that he had in fact hacked the MyBizHomepage site.

Mr. Justen discussed the experience -- and responded to reader comments -- in a
brief interview that has been condensed and edited.

Q.


A.

Yes, we paid him as a contractor and did have a Social Security number for him.
But what are you going to do with it? He doesn't use it for anything we could
track him with. He doesn't have credit cards or bank accounts. He paid cash for
everything, including his car.

Q.


A.

I had known him for more than 15 years. I was like a mentor to him. He came over
to our house for dinner six times a month and played with my kids. He was a very
talented software engineer and I highly trusted him.

Q.


A.

He had stock options in the company that would vest over different triggers or
events, like a sale. He was in line to make a substantial amount of money.

Q.


A.

Yes, I was quite surprised. One of them had worked for me for three years as a
trusted financial adviser. I think they just got caught up in the drama of it
all. I terminated all three individuals on the same day.

Q.


A.

Yes, I think all three of them worked together. Jim did the technical stuff and
the other guys did the rest. They went to our clients and told them they were
starting a new company and that Peter's company had failed. They would even pull
up the site, which Jim would then crash, as proof.

Q.


A.

I realize I made many mistakes and I have learned a number of things from this
experience. Inspect what you expect and trust but verify come to mind. A big
lesson I learned was to separate business from personal. I let my personal
emotions cloud my better business judgment.

Q.


A.

When you're a start-up, you have to make some tough calls about where to spend
your money. You throw nickels around like they're manhole covers. At the time,
there didn't seem to be any reason for us to spend $70,000 to verify something
that didn't seem to be a risk. Jim was a cyber security expert. Our software was
rock solid against attacks from the outside. I just never expected someone I
trusted so much and had known for so long to do what he did from the inside.
That's why with our new system, no one else has all the keys to the kingdom and
we keep multiple copies of our backup code in different locations. We've taken
as much precaution as is humanly possible to make sure this doesn't happen
again.

Q.


A.

The customer information was never a target. As part of our design, we never
collected any personal data on our customers like bank account information. That
was part of our design. All we collected was data like company revenues and
receivables. But it wasn't connected to any personally identifiable information.

Q.


A.

I'll admit that I thought some of the comments must have come from people who
have never stepped foot in the arena and tried to start a company -- people who
never shed blood, sweat and tears trying to build something. But when you hear
from customers who tell you that what you built helped save their company,
that's what makes it all worthwhile.


     ·    The Balance of Power Between Bosses and Workers
     ·    Solving Problems: Hiring, Visiting Competitors, an Old Web Site
     ·    Assessing a Web Site That Wants to Be the eHarmony of Hiring
     ·    Can This Company Recover From a Cyberattack?
     ·    Do Job Titles Really Matter?


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 30, 2012 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

A Plagiarist's Rant Against Birth Control

BYLINE: By MIGUEL SYJUCO.

Miguel Syjuco, a Filipino writer, is the author of the novel ''Ilustrado.''

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg.

LENGTH: 1038 words


WHILE anatomically illiterate politicians in America babble about ''legitimate
rape,'' a Filipino legislator opposed to birth control has been shedding
crocodile tears in Parliament and plagiarizing speeches to bolster the case
against reproductive rights.

On Aug. 13, the Senate majority leader, Tito Sotto, wept while addressing his
assembled peers. The former actor told the Senate that birth-control pills, used
by his wife in 1974, had led to the death of their newborn son a year later. The
emotional scene shut down the day's debate. It was the latest obstruction to
passing a reproductive health law that has languished for 14 years.

Proponents of the reproductive health bill say it will address poverty, women's
rights, infant and maternal mortality, and overpopulation in a poor nation
crowded with 94 million people. Though contraceptives are currently available,
the general population can't afford them. The bill seeks to offer natural and
artificial birth-control options, reproductive health care and sex education in
public schools.

Opponents, like Mr. Sotto and the powerful Catholic Bishops' Conference of the
Philippines, say contraception is akin to abortion. They claim the bill is an
elitist and foreign conspiracy to corrupt a country in which 80 percent of the
population is Catholic. They fear the erosion of family values, state intrusion
on religious freedom, tacit approval of promiscuity and side effects of oral
contraceptives.

Two days later, news that Mr. Sotto had plagiarized his speech spilled across
blogs, Twitter and Facebook. Careful readers proved that he'd copied and pasted,
without citation, large portions from as many as at least five online sources.
Among them were the writings of Sarah Pope, who blogs as ''the Healthy Home
Economist''; a New York University Web site on the notable birth-control
advocate Margaret Sanger; and an American activist named Janice Formichella,
writing for Feminists for Choice. What's more, the senator twisted their words
for his own purposes.

Mr. Sotto forcefully denied responsibility rather than confessing and offering
an apology. When Ms. Pope blogged her dismay at being plagiarized, the senator
declared on Filipino TV: ''Why would I quote from a blogger? She's just a
blogger.'' His chief of staff, Hector Villacorta, told reporters that blogs
aren't copyrighted, governments are exempt from copyright laws, and
parliamentary immunity protects the senator. Besides, the Philippines
''plagiarized the U.S. Constitution,'' he said. ''Even our image was copied from
God. We are all plagiarists.''

God, it seems, is also on Mr. Sotto's side.

Among the senator's allies is the conference of bishops, which has declared
''open war'' on the reproductive health bill, saying it will create ''an
abortion generation.'' Despite separation of church and state, these bishops
fancy themselves as Filipinos' moral conscience. Their credibility has been
mixed, however. Archbishop Socrates Villegas has warned that ''contraception is
corruption,'' but an investigation last year showed that bishops accepted
privileges and gifts, including S.U.V.'s, from the previous presidential
administration.

The church has tried to recover power by re-emphasizing its role in society.
Last year, it succeeded in banning a McDonald's commercial showing a little boy
and girl flirting cutely over French fries. It also shut down an art exhibit it
deemed ''sacrilegious'' and warned that Lady Gaga's Manila concert was akin to
''devil worship.'' The bishops have even threatened President Benigno S. Aquino
III with excommunication, and 190 university professors with heresy, for their
stance on the pending bill.

This ''open war,'' along with intellectual dishonesty of Mr. Sotto's variety,
have undermined any genuine discussion of reproductive rights. The bill is
backed by anti-poverty groups, community and women's organizations, President
Aquino himself, and 70 percent of Filipinos. But its fate remains tenuous. How
could this be?

The answer lies in the system that grants Mr. Sotto impunity. Plagiarism may
have toppled a Hungarian president, a German defense minister and a Romanian
education minister, but it's no big deal amid the entrenched corruption of the
Philippines.

Recent clear-cut plagiarism cases failed to lead to punishment for a literary
icon who lifted passages from a sportswriter, a top editorial writer who stole
from a young reporter and the chairman of a university's board of trustees who
copied from Barack Obama, Oprah Winfrey and Conan O'Brien for a commencement
speech. Even Supreme Court Justice Mariano del Castillo was breezily exonerated
by his peers after he plagiarized from three sources and reversed their meaning
in his decision against elderly Filipinas seeking reparations for sexual
enslavement under the Japanese during World War II.

In all likelihood, Mr. Sotto will similarly escape unscathed without so much as
censure from the Senate.

Politicians in the Philippines regularly manage to get away with greater sins.
Even the Manila area's notorious annual flooding is a result of the
irresponsibility of those in charge, which has led to shortsighted urban
planning, disregard for zoning laws and insufficient cooperation between the
metropolis's 17 city halls. Such chronic lack of accountability is part of the
reason the Philippines ranked 129th out of 182 in Transparency International's
2011 corruption index -- alongside Syria and Honduras.

Indeed, Mr. Sotto continues his defiance. He has cast himself as ''a victim of
cyber-bullying'' and backed a proposed law that aims to ''regulate'' blogs, as
his supporters cheer his pluck against academics and intellectuals. He happily
misrepresents research studies, avoids mentioning their outdated vintage and
likens maternal mortality statistics to Nazi propaganda. He also refuses to
explain how his wife's oral contraceptive killed their son in 1975, when that
pill wasn't even on the market until 1978 and was released in Asia only in 1985.

But in the Philippines, the facts may never matter -- especially when power and
religion are involved. A speech cobbled off the Internet, speculation about a
dead baby and a melodramatic crying fit in the Senate, sadly, ring true enough.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/30/opinion/in-the-philippines-a-rant-against-birt
h-control.html

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 30, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Starting Over After Cyberattack

BYLINE: By DARREN DAHL

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOU'RE THE BOSS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 653 words


A case study we've just published explains the challenges faced by Peter Justen,
chief executive of MyBizHomepage, a Middleburg, Va., provider of business
accounting software. The business was shut down by a wave of cyber attacks that
apparently came from a disgruntled former employee.

Mr. Justen founded the company in 2006 to give small-business owners an easy way
to view their financials and isolate important metrics. A serial entrepreneur,
Mr. Justen raised several million dollars from investors to start the company,
which its investors valued at $100 million at its peak in 2008. At about that
time, Mr. Justen and his board, seeing tremendous growth opportunity for the
business, especially in international markets, turned down an offer to buy the
company.

Mr. Justen believes the decision not to sell rankled the company's chief
technology officer, who decided to try to form a competing software company.
Upon learning of his technology officer's action, Mr. Justen says he fired him.
A series of cyber attacks against the MyBizHomepage Web site followed and
essentially shut the company down. You can read the case study to learn the
details.

We asked a business owner and several experts in the realm of digital law and
security what they thought Mr. Justen should do to save his company. Please tell
us what you think in the comments section below, and next week, we'll follow up
with another blog post that will explain what Mr. Justen decided to do.

Norm Brodsky, a serial entrepreneur and columnist for Inc. magazine in New York
City: "Mr. Justen should focus on restructuring or starting a new company using
his intellectual property. Bankruptcy won't help. His only asset is his
software, which they will just auction off and sell to the highest bidder. He
should also be honest about how he played a role in what went wrong. Why didn't
he run a background check on his C.T.O.? And why did he fire him without first
putting a plan in place to protect the software? He can't afford to make those
mistakes again. I always say you should trust everyone but also keep your eyes
open."

Mark Davis, senior director at the White House Writers Group, a consulting
company in Washington, and the co-author of "Digital Assassination," a book on
cyber-terrorism: "Mr. Justen has no choice but to go public with an apology and
an explanation. He should put up a YouTube video explaining what happened and
what action steps they are taking to rectify the situation and make sure it
won't happen again. On a personal level, he should take the time to snail mail
everyone who received a fake e-mail from him as a way to set things right."

Joy Butler, a business and entertainment lawyer in Washington who wrote "The
Cyber Citizen's Guide Through the Legal Jungle": "Mr. Justen and his company
have limited legal options going forward unless they can locate the C.T.O. The
company might then seek redress by suing for breach of any non-compete or
confidentiality provisions that may have been in the former C.T.O.'s employment
agreement. I would also caution Mr. Justen about how much information he
discloses about the events at his company. On the other hand, he does need to
let his customers know about the fact that there was a security breach or the
company could face legal ramifications itself."

John Mutch, chief executive of BeyondTrust, a global provider of security
software: "I think the first wave of security was focused on external threats.
Now people are realizing that the threat from the insider is a malicious threat
that can be catastrophic in a lot of ways. Unfortunately for Mr. Justen, he
probably needed to lock the system down before firing his C.T.O. If he decides
to go forward, he should consider building role-based security around his
company's critical assets that limits who can access what."

What do you think?

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://boss.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/08/22/can-this-company-recover-from-a-cyberat
tack/

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           September 4, 2012 Tuesday

Hackers Claim to Have 12 Million Apple Device Records

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 824 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hackers have released a file that they say contains more than one
million identification numbers for Apple iPhones, iPads and iPod Touch devices.
They claim to have obtained the file by hacking into the computer of a federal
agent, though the F.B.I. denied that this had happened.


8:00 p.m. | Updated Hackers released a file that they said contained a million
identification numbers for Apple mobile devices, claiming that they had obtained
it by hacking into the computer of an F.B.I. agent. The F.B.I. said it had no
evidence that this was true.

Wednesday, 10:34 a.m. | Updated Adding comment from Apple denying that the
company worked with the F.B.I.

The hacking group, known as AntiSec - a subset of the loose hacking collective
known as Anonymous - posted copies of the file on Sunday and claimed to have a
total of 12 million numbers for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch devices, along with
some phone numbers and other personal data on their owners. They said their goal
in releasing a slice of the data was to prove that the F.B.I. used device
information to track people.

While the leaked identification numbers appeared to be real, security experts
said the release posed little risk. They said that without more information on
the devices' owners - like e-mail addresses or date of birth - it would be hard
for someone to use the numbers to do harm.

Chris Goodney/Bloomberg NewsUnique strings of letters and numbers known as
U.D.I.D.'s are assigned to each of Apple's mobile devices.

And the actual source of the file was not clear. The F.B.I. said in a statement
that "at this time there is no evidence indicating that an F.B.I. laptop was
compromised or that the F.B.I. either sought or obtained this data."

The F.B.I. has been a frequent target of so-called hacktivists, hackers who
attack for political causes rather than for profit. In February, Anonymous
hackers intercepted a call between the bureau and Scotland Yard. But the
frequency of such attacks tapered off after several members of Anonymous and a
spinoff group, LulzSec, were arrested in March.

Apple's unique device identifiers - known as U.D.I.D.'s - are 40-character
strings of letters and numbers assigned to Apple devices. Last year, Aldo
Cortesi, a New Zealand security researcher, demonstrated how in some cases
U.D.I.D.'s could be used in combination with other data to connect devices to
their owners' online user names, e-mail addresses, locations and even Facebook
profiles.

"A U.D.I.D. is just a jumble of digits," said Jim Fenton, the chief security
officer of OneID. "It is only powerful when it is aggregated with other
information."

Security experts said the identification numbers appeared legitimate, and one
number in the file matched that of a New York Times employee's iPad. "The
structure and format of the data indicates this is a real breach," said Rob
Rachwald, director of security at Imperva, a computer security firm.

The hackers released only U.D.I.D.'s, a separate Apple-specific identifier and
the device names that owners give their devices, like "Lori's iPad." Only a few
identifiers were tied to e-mail addresses, apparently because the device's owner
chose to use an e-mail address when naming it.

On Wednesday, Apple released a statement saying that the company did not work
with the F.B.I., or others, to distribute U.D.I.D. numbers.

"The FBI has not requested this information from Apple, nor have we provided it
to the FBI or any organization," said Natalie Kerris, an Apple spokesperson.
"Additionally, with iOS 6 we introduced a new set of APIs meant to replace the
use of the UDID and will soon be banning the use of UDID."

Apple stopped letting app developers take advantage of device identifiers last
year, to make it harder for marketers to track its customers as they moved from
app to app.

The hackers claimed to have obtained the file from the computer of Christopher
K. Stangl, a supervisory agent of the F.B.I.'s Cyber Action Team. In 2009, Mr.
Stangl appeared in a Facebook promotional video titled "Wanted by the FBI: Cyber
Security Experts" that encouraged hackers to get involved with the F.B.I.

He was also one of 44 law enforcement agents invited to participate in the
F.B.I.-Scotland Yard conference call that hackers intercepted.

But security experts said the file could have come from a number of places.

"There are a million ways this could have happened," said Marcus Carey, a
researcher at Rapid7. "Apple could have been breached. AT&T could have been
breached. A video game maker could have been breached. The F.B.I. could have
obtained the file while doing forensics on another data breach."

In their statement, the hackers said they would not grant any interviews about
the breach until a reporter for Gawker, Adrian Chen, posed for his employer's
site, for a full day, in a ballet tutu with a shoe on his head.

On Tuesday evening, Mr. Chen complied. "There's me in a tutu," he wrote in a
blog post with accompanying photos. "Get used to it because it's going to be up
until around 6:30 p.m. tomorrow."


     ·    Hackers Claim Small Breach on Apple Site
     ·    Apple Confirms Sept. 12 Event
     ·    Big Data in the (Heated or Cooled) Air Around You
     ·    Rivals Jostle Before Apple Announces New iPhone
     ·    South Korea Looks to Samsung and Sees Itself


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 5, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hackers Post ID Numbers for Apple Devices, Claiming They Are From F.B.I.

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 701 words


8:00 p.m. | Updated Hackers released a file that they said contained a million
identification numbers for Apple mobile devices, claiming that they had obtained
it by hacking into the computer of an F.B.I. agent. The F.B.I. said it had no
evidence that this was true.

The hacking group, known as AntiSec - a subset of the loose hacking collective
known as Anonymous - posted copies of the file on Sunday and claimed to have a
total of 12 million numbers for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch devices, along with
some phone numbers and other personal data on their owners. They said their goal
in releasing a slice of the data was to prove that the F.B.I. used device
information to track people.

While the leaked identification numbers appeared to be real, security experts
said the release posed little risk. They said that without more information on
the devices' owners - like e-mail addresses or date of birth - it would be hard
for someone to use the numbers to do harm.

And the actual source of the file was not clear. The F.B.I. said in a statement
that "at this time there is no evidence indicating that an F.B.I. laptop was
compromised or that the F.B.I. either sought or obtained this data."

The F.B.I. has been a frequent target of so-called hacktivists, hackers who
attack for political causes rather than for profit. In February, Anonymous
hackers intercepted a call between the bureau and Scotland Yard. But the
frequency of such attacks tapered off after several members of Anonymous and a
spinoff group, LulzSec, were arrested in March.

Apple's unique device identifiers - known as U.D.I.D.'s - are 40-character
strings of letters and numbers assigned to Apple devices. Last year, Aldo
Cortesi, a New Zealand security researcher, demonstrated how in some cases
U.D.I.D.'s could be used in combination with other data to connect devices to
their owners' online user names, e-mail addresses, locations and even Facebook
profiles.

"A U.D.I.D. is just a jumble of digits," said Jim Fenton, the chief security
officer of OneID. "It is only powerful when it is aggregated with other
information."

Security experts said the identification numbers appeared legitimate, and one
number in the file matched that of a New York Times employee's iPad. "The
structure and format of the data indicates this is a real breach," said Rob
Rachwald, director of security at Imperva, a computer security firm. An Apple
spokesman did not respond to requests for comment.

The hackers released only U.D.I.D.'s, a separate Apple-specific identifier and
the device names that owners give their devices, like "Lori's iPad." Only a few
identifiers were tied to e-mail addresses, apparently because the device's owner
chose to use an e-mail address when naming it.

Apple stopped letting app developers take advantage of device identifiers last
year, to make it harder for marketers to track its customers as they moved from
app to app.

The hackers claimed to have obtained the file from the computer of Christopher
K. Stangl, a supervisory agent of the F.B.I.'s Cyber Action Team. In 2009, Mr.
Stangl appeared in a Facebook promotional video titled "Wanted by the FBI: Cyber
Security Experts" that encouraged hackers to get involved with the F.B.I.

He was also one of 44 law enforcement agents invited to participate in the
F.B.I.-Scotland Yard conference call that hackers intercepted.

But security experts said the file could have come from a number of places.

"There are a million ways this could have happened," said Marcus Carey, a
researcher at Rapid7. "Apple could have been breached. AT&T could have been
breached. A video game maker could have been breached. The F.B.I. could have
obtained the file while doing forensics on another data breach."

In their statement, the hackers said they would not grant any interviews about
the breach until a reporter for Gawker, Adrian Chen, posed for his employer's
site, for a full day, in a ballet tutu with a shoe on his head.

On Tuesday evening, Mr. Chen complied. "There's me in a tutu," he wrote in a
blog post with accompanying photos. "Get used to it because it's going to be up
until around 6:30 p.m. tomorrow."

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/04/hackers-claim-to-have-12-million-apple-
device-records/

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                          September 5, 2012 Wednesday

Al Jazeera Wrests Back Its Web Sites From Pro-Assad Hackers

BYLINE: CHRISTINE HAUSER and ROBERT MACKEY

LENGTH: 1068 words



HIGHLIGHT: The news organization reported that the cyber attack lasted several
hours, by affecting a third-party service provider that distributes the
station's online content worldwide in a security breach.


Updated | 6:15 p.m. Hackers said to be supporters of the Syrian government
temporarily seized control of the Arabic and English news sites of Al Jazeera,
the Qatari satellite network, which has been accused of bias in favor of
protesters and rebels by the government of President Bashar al-Assad and its
supporters.

On Tuesday, users who tried to go to Al Jazeera's Arabic and English Web sites
were instead directed to an image that said "Hack!!" and "Hacked by
Al-Rashedon," an Arabic phrase that generally means "the rightly guided" ones,
in bold letters across an image of the news organization's page. A Syrian flag
waved in the background.

"In response to your stance against Syria (the people and the government), and
support for only armed terrorist groups, and publication of news reports that
are lies," the Arabic statement said in part, "this is our response to you."

Other news organizations or human rights groups reporting on the conflict have
been hacked in apparent protest over their coverage of the conflict in Syria.
As The Lede reported last month, the international news agency Reuters
temporarily lost control of its blogging platform and a Twitter feed, which were
both used to publish false reports of setbacks for Syrian rebels.

Amnesty International, the human rights organization, also reported being hacked
last week.

http://t.co/3qqdjsY2's Livewire blog was hacked, posts are up that did not
originate from Amnesty. Our team in London is working on a fix!

- AmnestyInternational (@amnesty)27 Aug 12

Al Jazeera was created with a lavish grant from the emir of Qatar in 1996 and
critics have noted that reports on the network often seem to echo his
government's foreign policy. The network was credited with playing a vital role
in the Arab revolutions in Tunisia and Egypt, both in its own coverage and by
giving air time to video documenting protests and clashes recorded by activists
and posted online. In Libya, the government of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi and its
supporters went so far as to accuse Al Jazeera of fabricating video clips
documenting protests on sets in Qatar. The very day that Tripoli fell, a
correspondent for Iran's state-owned Press TV claimed in an interview on the
Russian government's RT channel that there were no rebels in the Libyan capital.
The war's decisive battle, she insisted, had been entirely simulated on Qatari
sound stages.

Since the start of the uprising in Syria in March of last year, Al Jazeera has
offered extremely sympathetic coverage, on the airwaves and online, to
protesters and armed rebels struggling against the Assad government.

Poetry has been a key weapon in the #ArabSpring, used to taunt regimes refusing
to see the writing on the wall | http://t.co/pv8S8uSV

- Al Jazeera English (@AJEnglish)3 Sep 12

Supporters of Mr. Assad are not the only ones to have suggested recently that
the network's reports on Syria, like those of the Saudi-owned broadcaster Al
Arabiya, are so one-sided in favor of the rebels that they have dented the
organization's credibility.

The political commentator Sultan Al Qassemi argued in a post for Foreign Policy
last month that the Arab world's two most important satellite channels had
become far too partisan:

Al Arabiya and Al Jazeera, the two Gulf-based channels that dominate the Arabic
news business, have moved to counter Syrian regime propaganda, but have ended up
distorting the news almost as badly as their opponents. In their bid to support
the Syrian rebels' cause, these media giants have lowered their journalistic
standards, abandoned rudimentary fact-checks, and relied on anonymous callers
and unverified videos in place of solid reporting....

It is not uncommon to tune in to either channel and find that the first 20
minutes of a newscast consists of Syrian activists -- some with shady
backgrounds -- based either outside or inside Syria reporting via Skype on
events that took place hundreds or thousands of miles away.

When Al Arabiya and Al Jazeera do comment directly on Syrian affairs, they tend
to paper over the rebels' flaws and emphasize the conflict's religious fault
lines.

Others have noted that the network's coverage of the uprising in Bahrain, whose
government enjoys Qatari support, has been far less thorough.

During an interview with The Lede in Cairo last month, and in barbed comments on
Twitter, the Syrian activist Rami Jarrah, who coordinates a network of
anti-Assad video bloggers using the pseudonym Alexander Page, said that Al
Jazeera's attempts to bolster the uprising through hyperbolic and inaccurate
reports had become a liability for the revolutionaries.

Aljazeera English and Arabic and al Arabiya Satelite channels have all been
distorted, who ever is doing this supports #Assad.

- Alexander Page (@AlexanderPageSY)20 Jul 12

On Wednesday, Al Jazeera reported that the cyber attack had lasted several
hours, by affecting a third-party service provider that distributes the
station's online content worldwide in a security breach. It said the authorities
in the United States, where the content distributor is based, were
investigating. AlJazeera.net is registered to Network Solutions, whose
spokeswoman, Susan Datz Edelman, said she did not have an immediate "definitive"
comment.

A spokesman for Al Jazeera, Osama Saeed, said in e-mailed statements: "Some
visitors to our Web sites faced disruption after external DNS servers were
compromised."

"The company that operates them quickly resolved this, though some users may
continue to experience issues for a couple of days," he continued. "We thank our
online community for their patience and support." In another e-mail later on
Wednesday, he said, "Just to give you a scale of the problem as it stands, we're
only around 10 percent lower on our usual number of Web visitors."

In a telephone interview, Mr. Saeed of Al Jazeera declined to discuss coverage
or the possible motive of the hackers. "We don't know anything about them, and
what I understand,  there is not much about them in the public domain," he said.

He said the hacking also affected the Web site of Al Jazeera Balkans, a news
station based in the Bosnian capital, Sarajevo.


     ·    Hacked Reuters Twitter Feed Used to Spread Disinformation About Syrian
          Rebels
     ·    Reading the Fake Reuters Reports on Syria
     ·    Syrian Activists Say U.S. Journalist Is No Spy
     ·    Reporter Describes Captivity in Syria
     ·    Morsi's Syria Plan Suggests Regional Approach to Foreign Affairs


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 9, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

November

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 1596 words


NOVEMBER

Nov. 2

CAFÉ DE FLORE A love story across time and place, involving a young mother in
1960s Paris and a D.J. in contemporary Montreal. Jean-Marc Vallée directed this
French-language feature; with Vanessa Paradis, Kevin Parent, Hélène Florent and
Evelyne Brochu.

THE DETAILS Jacob Aaron Estes's film is an existential horror story about a
suburban couple (Tobey Maguire and Elizabeth Banks) whose decision to tidy up
their backyard leads to grotesque complications. With Laura Linney.

FLIGHT Robert Zemeckis (''The Polar Express'') returns to live-action filmmaking
with a drama about an airline pilot (Denzel Washington) whose heroism in landing
a malfunctioning plane threatens to reveal his darkest secret. With Don Cheadle,
Kelly Reilly, John Goodman, Bruce Greenwood and Melissa Leo.

HERE I LEARNED TO LOVE Two brothers, Holocaust survivors now living in Israel,
go on a journey to investigate their past and pay tribute to the women who
protected them. Avi Angel directed.

HIGH GROUND Michael Brown's documentary follows a group of Iraq and Afghanistan
war veterans as they climb Mount Lobuche in the Himalayas -- their way of
healing the wounds of combat.

JACK AND DIANE The romantic relationship of two teenage girls (Juno Temple and
Riley Keough) unleashes seemingly supernatural forces. With Cara Seymour and
Kylie Minogue; Bradley Rust Gray directed.

QUARTET Dustin Hoffman tackles his first film as a director with a story set in
a home for retired opera singers, where tradition dictates an annual
fund-raising concert on Verdi's birthday. With Maggie Smith, Michael Gambon,
Billy Connolly and Pauline Collins.

A LIAR'S AUTOBIOGRAPHY: THE UNTRUE STORY OF MONTY PYTHON'S GRAHAM CHAPMAN An
animated adaptation of Chapman's autobiography, relating the events leading up
to his death in 1989. With the voices of Chapman, Terry Jones, John Cleese,
Michael Palin and Terry Gilliam.

THE MAN WITH THE IRON FISTS RZA, of the Wu-Tang Clan, directs and stars in a
tribute to Hong Kong action films. With Russell Crowe, Lucy Liu, Rick Yune and
Pam Grier.

A MAN'S STORY Twelve years in the life of the British fashion designer Ozwald
Boateng, captured in a documentary by Varon Bonicos.

THIS MUST BE THE PLACE Sean Penn as a retired rock star who hasn't abandoned his
goth look at the age of 50; when his estranged father dies, he sets out to honor
his memory by tracking down the former S.S. officer who humiliated him in
Auschwitz. Paolo Sorrentino (''Il Divo'') directed; with Frances McDormand, Judd
Hirsch, Harry Dean Stanton and Heinz Lieven.

VAMPS The director Amy Heckerling reunites with Alicia Silverstone 17 years
after they worked together in ''Clueless'' for a tale of vampire gal pals (Ms.
Silverstone and Krysten Ritter) who consider abandoning immortality for true
love. With Sigourney Weaver, Wallace Shawn, Kristen Johnston and Malcolm
McDowell.

WRECK-IT RALPH John C. Reilly provides the voice of the title character, a
villain in an old-school video game, who breaks into the world of a modern
first-person shooter, with disastrous consequences. Rich Moore directed this
animated film from Walt Disney Studios; with the voices of Alan Tudyk, Jane
Lynch, Rachael Harris, Ed O'Neill and Sarah Silverman.

Nov. 9

CHASING ICE A documentary about the photographer James Balog, whose time-lapse
videos of Arctic ice formations provide graphic evidence of global warming. Jeff
Orlowski directed.

CLANDESTINE CHILDHOOD A family of political exiles returns to the Argentina of
1979, hiding behind false identities -- which has particular consequences for
12-year-old Juan (Teo Gutiérrez Moreno). Benjamin Avila directed.

COMING UP ROSES A self-dramatizing woman (Bernadette Peters) and her teenage
daughter (Rachel Brosnahan) move from small town to small town in search of a
better life. Lisa Albright directed.

IN ANOTHER COUNTRY Isabelle Huppert stars in Hong Sang-soo's film about tourists
at a Korean seaside resort.

IN OUR NATURE A Brooklyn man (Zach Gilford) unexpectedly runs into his estranged
father (John Slattery) during a visit to the family summer home in upstate New
York. With Jena Malone and Gabrielle Union; Brian Savelson wrote and directed.

LINCOLN Daniel Day-Lewis stars as the president in a drama set during the last
four months of his life. With Sally Field, David Strathairn, Joseph
Gordon-Levitt, James Spader, Hal Holbrook and Tommy Lee Jones; Steven Spielberg
directed from a screenplay by Tony Kushner.

LUV A neglected Baltimore boy spends a day with the uncle he idolizes -- and
discovers he isn't quite the man he believed him to be. Sheldon Candis directed;
with Common, Michael Rainey Jr., Dennis Haysbert, Danny Glover, Charles S.
Dutton and Michael Kenneth Williams.

NATURE CALLS Patton Oswalt as an assistant scoutmaster who drags a bunch of kids
away from a television-themed slumber party for a real adventure in the woods.
With Johnny Knoxville, Rob Riggle, Maura Tierney, Patrice O'Neal and Darrell
Hammond; Todd Rohal directed.

A ROYAL AFFAIR The mentally unstable Christian VII, the king of Denmark, his new
English bride and his closest adviser are drawn into a love triangle in a period
drama directed by Nikolaj Arcel. With Mads Mikkelsen, Alicia Vikander and Mikkel
Boe Folsgaard.

SHADY LADY The stranger-than-fiction story of a World War II bomber, the Shady
Lady, that took off on a mission on Friday, Aug. 13, 1943, from a base in
Australia and encountered a series of unimaginable disasters. Tristan Loraine
directed this British documentary.

SKYFALL James Bond No. 23, as directed by Sam Mendes. With Daniel Craig, Ralph
Fiennes, Helen McCrory, Javier Bardem, Judi Dench and Albert Finney.

28 HOTEL ROOMS A pair of business travelers (Chris Messina and Marin Ireland)
meet and have a one-night stand that develops into something much more. Matt
Ross wrote and directed.

Nov. 14

THE LAW IN THESE PARTS Ra'anan Alexandrowicz's documentary is a pointed
examination of the legal system set in place by Israel for the West Bank and the
Gaza Strip.

Nov. 16

ANNA KARENINA Joe Wright (''Atonement'') directs Tom Stoppard's adaptation of
Tolstoy's novel, with Keira Knightley in the title role and Aaron Taylor-Johnson
as her lover, Count Vronsky. With Kelly Macdonald, Jude Law, Emily Watson and
Olivia Williams.

THE COMEDY Relieved of financial worries because of an impending inheritance, a
Brooklyn man (Tim Heidecker) passes his time contriving elaborate,
boundary-pushing games with his friends (including Eric Wareheim, Mr.
Heidecker's co-star in the series ''Tim and Eric Awesome Show, Great Job!'').
Rick Alverson directed.

HITLER'S CHILDREN Chanoch Ze'evi's documentary looks at how some of the
descendants of Nazi high commanders have struggled to live with the horrors in
their family histories.

MEA MAXIMA CULPA: THE SILENCE IN THE HOUSE OF GOD The documentarian Alex Gibney
(''Taxi to the Dark Side'') examines the abuse scandals plaguing the Catholic
Church.

RUST AND BONE He (Matthias Schoenaerts) is a single father living uneasily with
his sister and her husband in Antibes, France; she (Marion Cotillard) is a whale
trainer at the nearby Marineland. A tragic accident brings them close together.
Jacques Audiard (''A Prophet'') directed.

THE TWILIGHT SAGA: BREAKING DAWN -- PART 2 Kristen Stewart, Robert Pattinson and
Taylor Lautner return for the final installment in the gothic romance franchise.
Bill Condon directed.

Nov. 21

LIFE OF PI A shipwreck leaves an Indian boy (Suraj Sharma) adrift on a small
lifeboat with a zebra, a hyena, a tiger and an orangutan. Ang Lee (''Brokeback
Mountain'') directed this 3-D production, based on the novel by Yann Martel.
With Gérard Depardieu, Irrfan Khan and Tobey Maguire.

RED DAWN Dan Bradley directed this remake of John Milius's 1984 film about high
school students who form themselves into a guerrilla band when the United States
is invaded by foreign forces -- in this version, from North Korea. With Chris
Hemsworth, Adrianne Palicki and Josh Hutcherson.

RISE OF THE GUARDIANS Santa Claus, the Easter bunny, the Tooth Fairy, the
Sandman and Jack Frost reinvent themselves as superheroes when an evil spirit
named Pitch tries to take over the world. Chris Pine, Alec Baldwin, Hugh
Jackman, Isla Fisher and Jude Law head the voice cast in this animated film,
directed by Peter Ramsey.

THE SILVER LININGS PLAYBOOK Bradley Cooper stars as a young man who moves back
in with his parents (Jacki Weaver and Robert De Niro) after eight months in an
institution; Jennifer Lawrence helps him get back on his feet. David O. Russell
directed from Matthew Quick's novel; with Chris Tucker, Anupam Kher, Shea
Whigham, John Ortiz and Julia Stiles.

Nov. 23

THE CENTRAL PARK FIVE Convicted of the 1989 rape of a woman in Central Park,
five Harlem teenagers each spent between 6 and 13 years in prison before their
innocence was proved by DNA evidence. This documentary, directed by Ken Burns,
Sarah Burns and David McMahon, tells their story.

Nov. 28

BEWARE OF MR. BAKER The unbridled rock 'n' roll drummer Ginger Baker, profiled
in a documentary by Jay Bulger.

Nov. 30

THE COLLECTION Marcus Dunstan's sequel to ''The Collector'' (2009) stars Emma
Fitzpatrick as a woman held prisoner by a psychopathic killer in a booby-trapped
hotel; it's up to Josh Stewart, returning from the original film, to get her out
alive.

UNIVERSAL SOLDIER: DAY OF RECKONING Jean-Claude Van Damme returns as an
invincible robo-zombie-soldier in the fourth installment of a franchise that
began way back in 1992. He teams up with a fellow cyber-creature (Dolph
Lundgren) to restore order in an anarchic future world. John Hyams directed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/09/movies/november-release-schedule.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Right, Kellan Lutz and Kristen Stewart in ''The Twilight Saga:
Breaking Dawn -- Part 2.'' Below, Keira Knightley as the heroine of ''Anna
Karenina.'' Bottom left, a Python holds forth in ''A Liar's Autobiography: The
Untrue Story of Monty Python's Graham Chapman.'' Bottom right, Daniel Craig
burns rubber as Agent 007 in ''Skyfall.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW COOPER/SUMMIT
ENTERTAINMENT
LAURIE SPARHAM/FOCUS FEATURES
EPIX, BRAINSTORM MEDIA AND TRINITY
FRANCOIS DUHAMEL/COLUMBIA PICTURES) (AR58)
Above from left, a child (voiced by Dakota Goyo) wakes up to find Tooth (Isla
Fisher), Jack Frost (Chris Pine), North (Alec Baldwin), Sandman and Bunnymund
(Hugh Jackman) visiting, in ''Rise of the Guardians.'' Left, Jennifer Lawrence
and Bradley Cooper in ''The Silver Linings Playbook.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
DREAMWORKS ANIMATION/PARAMOUNT PICTURES
JOJO WHILDEN/WEINSTEIN COMPANY)
Left, Navy commandos in Kathryn Bigelow's ''Zero Dark Thirty''
above, Pope Benedict XVI in Alex Gibney's ''Mea Maxima Culpa: The Silence in the
House of God.'' Below from left, Michel Dumont, Linda Smith, Kevin Parent,
Evelyn Brochu, Rosalie Fortier, Joanny Corbeil-Picher (rear) and Hélène Florent
in Jean-Marc Vallée's ''Café de Flore.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JONATHAN OLLEY/COLUMBIA
PICTURES
ETTORE FERRARI/EPA/CORBIS
 ADOPT FILMS) (AR60)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Motherlode)

                            September 9, 2012 Sunday

On Facebook, Bullies 'Like' if You Hate

BYLINE: EMILY LAYDEN

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 798 words



HIGHLIGHT: My little brother went to school on a Friday morning last June, and
he heard that another boy had updated his Facebook status the previous night,
asking his friends to "like" if they hated my brother. 57 fellow students gave
that a Facebook "thumbs up."


For the digitally native generation, self-worth is accrued in likes.

My little brother went to school on a Friday morning last June, and this is what
he heard: That another boy, a sixth-grader, had written a Facebook status the
previous night asking his friends to "like" it if they hated my brother. The
"like if you hate" question, the last time this informant had checked, had
gotten 57 thumbs-up. Verification for my brother's generation - the younger half
of my own - is a statistical rat race, counted in friends, followers, re-tweets
and re-pins. On an ordinary Friday morning, my brother learned that his name had
garnered 57 "like if you hates."

This is a hard thing for me to imagine: 57 likes for a hate - a hate for a
person, a little boy, my little brother. But it's more macroscopic, too. There
is a marked difference between how my half-generation and my brother's engages
with and approaches the Internet. I remember dial-up and still have my AOL.com
e-mail address (it's basically a giant spam folder, now). I weed through my
Facebook friends weekly, de-friending those whose names I don't remember or
maybe never really knew. I have friends with separate work and personal Twitter
accounts and those who take weekends off from the Web. We deal with the Internet
with separation. It is a tool to be used and put away.

For my brother's half - the younger set, the one that did not grow up in step
with the Internet, but rather with it already established - there is no
wariness, no understanding, no concept of an Internet identity. There is no such
thing for them, for example, as "Internet famous." There is only fame, and the
allure of instant gratification. This is how cyberbullying has reached a fever
pitch, and where I feel my half of this generation has failed the younger.

We (my peers) use the numbers game. We understand how to turn hits on Web sites
into ad sales, how to drive traffic, how to analyze page views and visitors for
a better understanding of successful content - this is a legitimate business
practice. We have done an abysmal job of translating this understanding to the
younger half. Instead, we have allowed an entire half-generation to believe,
simply, that more is more: To measure their existence against how many thousands
of friends they have, how many hundreds more they have than their classmates,
how many likes they can get.

This fact alone is toxic enough, but far worse is that we have taught them the
secret to a quick hit, a fast follow: a cheap shot. Web sites like BuzzFeed and
Gawker (and its sister sites Deadspin and Jezebel) operate with a vicious
reliance on views, so that any press is good press. Rage-baiting is commonplace
and infuriatingly successful, so the most prevalent language of the Internet is
at its best cynicism and its worst outright meanness. (This is all, of course,
made worse by the hammered-home fact that it is so easy to be cruel behind the
safety of a computer screen. The cowardice is obvious.)

So my half of the generation (those of us in our 20s, the ones with job titles
like "social media manager," the developers of apps like Instagram and Path), in
not communicating the difference between work and Web, between the Internet and
reality, has allowed the younger set to seek personal validation in Internet
numbers. We have shown them that the easiest way to do so is through varying
degrees of cruelty. To eliminate cyberbullying, we must better address the
Internet-bred narcissism at its core, and we must all be held accountable. Both
the older set of digital natives and the generation above us assume that the
Internet is a bubble - a space with limits. This is the logic behind the
cyberbullying stance at my brother's school, who informed my parents in the wake
of the 57 likes that cyber bullying is a "tricky" matter that unfortunately
falls largely outside their jurisdiction.

There is no jurisdiction for the bullied, no separation between Web and reality.
On the Monday after the Facebook incident, my brother dreaded school for fear of
facing his 57 bullies, who probably never gave their likes a second thought. The
answer is not to teach our middle-schoolers that they are not who they are
online. It is, actually, quite the opposite. It is too late to establish
distance. To end cyberbullying, we must use the closeness we've allowed to breed
to our advantage. We must teach them that if one is a cowardly, bullying,
rage-baiter online - no matter how many laughs had or page views generated or ad
space sold - then one is a bully off-screen, too.


     ·    How Can Facebook Safely Add Under-13s?
     ·    Two Documentaries on Bullying Take Different Approaches
     ·    Following Your Children Online: How Much Is Too Much?
     ·    Digital Literacy Includes Learning to Unplug
     ·    Mitt Romney, Bullying and Long Shadows


LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 10, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New Kind of Warfare

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 515 words


Cybersecurity efforts in the United States have largely centered on defending
computer networks against attacks by hackers, criminals and foreign governments,
mainly China. Increasingly, however, the focus is on developing offensive
capabilities, on figuring out how and when the United States might unleash its
own malware to disrupt an adversary's networks. That is potentially dangerous
territory.

Such malware is believed to have little deterrent value against criminals who
use computers to steal money from banks or spies who pilfer industrial secrets.
But faced with rising intrusions against computers that run America's military
systems and its essential infrastructure -- its power grid, for instance, and
its telecommunications networks -- the military here (and elsewhere) sees
disruptive software as an essential new tool of war. According to a study by the
Center for Strategic and International Studies, the 15 countries with the
biggest military budgets are all investing in offensive cyber capabilities.

The latest step occurred last month when the United States sent out bids for
technologies ''to destroy, deny, degrade, disrupt, corrupt or usurp'' an
adversary's attempt to use cyberspace for advantage. The Air Force asked for
proposals to plan for and manage cyberwarfare, including the ability to launch
superfast computer attacks and withstand retaliation.

The United States, China, Russia, Britain and Israel began developing basic
cyberattack capabilities at least a decade ago and are still figuring out how to
integrate them into their military operations. Experts say cyberweapons will be
used before or during conflicts involving conventional weapons to infect an
adversary's network and disrupt a target, including shutting down military
communications. The most prominent example is the Stuxnet virus deployed in 2010
by the United States and Israel to set back Iran's nuclear program. Other
cyberattacks occurred in 2007 against Syria and 1998 against Serbia.

Crucial questions remain unanswered, including what laws of war would apply to
decisions to launch an attack. The United States still hasn't figured out what
impact cyberweapons could have on actual battlefield operations or when an
aggressive cyber response is required. Nor has Washington settled on who would
authorize an attack; experts see roles for both the president and military
commanders. There is also the unresolved issue of how to minimize collateral
damage -- like making sure malware does not cripple a civilian hospital.

Another big concern is China, which is blamed for stealing American military
secrets. Washington has not had much success persuading Beijing to rein in its
hackers. There is a serious risk of miscalculation if, for example, there is a
confrontation in the South China Sea. China could misinterpret a move, unleash a
cyberattack and trigger a real cyberwar. What's clearly needed are new
international understandings about what constitutes cyber aggression and how
governments should respond. Meanwhile, the United States must do what it can to
protect its own networks.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/10/opinion/a-new-kind-of-warfare.html

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           September 10, 2012 Monday

GoDaddy Goes Down, and a Hacker Takes Credit

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 686 words



HIGHLIGHT: A supporter of Anonymous, the loose hacking collective, claimed
responsibility for an attack that apparently brought down Web sites hosted by Go
Daddy. The company's site was down Monday afternoon, as were many of the Web
sites hosted on its servers.


 1:07 p.m., Sept. 11 | Updated  GoDaddy now says its problems were not
hacker-related.

A supporter of Anonymous, the loose confederation of rogue hackers, claimed
responsibility on Monday for an attack that brought down GoDaddy, a Web hosting
service, and the sites of its customers.

GoDaddy's site was out for several hours Monday afternoon, as were many of the
Web sites belonging to its 10.5 million customers, like the fantasy sports site
Draftday and eBaum's World, a humor site.

"We're aware of the issues affecting our site," Elizabeth Driscoll, a GoDaddy
spokeswoman, said. "We're still working to figure out what happened and
determine the number of Web sites impacted."

The person behind the Twitter account @AnonymousOwn3r took responsibility for
the attack and said all of GoDaddy's servers were knocked out with what is known
as a distributed denial of service attack, or DDoS attack, in which a site is
flooded with traffic until it collapses under the load.

@film_girl I'm taking godaddy down bacause well i'd like to test how the cyber
security is safe and for more reasons that i can not talk now

- Anonymous Own3r (@AnonymousOwn3r)10 Sep 12

"When I do some DDoS attack, I like to let it down by many days," the person
claiming responsibility said on Twitter. "It can last one hour or one month."

This person said that he had conducted the attack alone and that it was not part
of a broader Anonymous campaign. GoDaddy briefly became a target of Anonymous
last December for its initial support of the Stop Online Piracy Act, or SOPA, a
Congressional bill that would have made it possible for copyright owners to seek
court orders to take sites offline for practicing or aiding piracy. GoDaddy
withdrew its support of the bill after customers began transferring their Web
sites to its competitors and hackers threatened to attack it.

But one of the Twitter accounts most frequently associated with Anonymous,
@AnonyOps, distanced the group from Monday's attack and said it was the work of
one individual. "He's either a newbie to activism and cutting his teeth by doing
this, which is misguided, or he's trying to give Anons a bad reputation," a
Twitter message to a reporter from @AnonyOps said.

Godaddy technician trips over ethernet cord, pulling it from edge router. Blames
Anonymous.

- Anonymous (@AnonyOps)10 Sep 12

Rich Miller, the editor in chief of Data Center Knowledge, an online publication
that tracks the data center industry, said a shutdown at GoDaddy had widespread
repercussions for the Internet.

"This is potentially the largest kind of problem you could have on the
Internet," Mr. Miller said. "GoDaddy is the largest company in the domain
industry thanks to its colorful Super Bowl commercials."

Mr. Miller estimated that GoDaddy managed 52 million domain names and hosted
about 5 million Web sites on its servers. Its sheer size has made the company a
ripe target for hackers, he said.

GoDaddy was previously the target of two notable DDoS attacks, one in 2007 and
another in 2009.

GoDaddy customers vented their frustration on Twitter and elsewhere. Bob de
Luna, a director of public information at the United Hospital Fund, a nonprofit
health organization, said four domain names it had registered with GoDaddy had
been down for several hours. He said that when he contacted GoDaddy's customer
service line, a representative told him 750 people were waiting in line behind
him. The representative told him that during service failures, a typical wait
list was 20 people.

GoDaddy's Web site was still down Monday evening, and the company said it would
provide updates through its Twitter and Facebook accounts.

An earlier version of this post referred imprecisely to the origin of a
statement from an account associated with Anonymous, @AnonyOps. It was sent to a
reporter as a Twitter direct message, not posted publicly on Twitter.

The headline on an earlier version of this post stated unequivocally that a
hacker had taken down GoDaddy. As the post says, the hacker claimed he was
responsible for the site being down. GoDaddy said Tuesday that its problems were
internal, not caused by a hacker.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 11, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Hacker Brings Down GoDaddy

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 601 words


7:48 p.m. | Updated

A supporter of Anonymous, the loose confederation of rogue hackers, claimed
responsibility on Monday for an attack that brought down GoDaddy, a Web hosting
service, and its customers.

GoDaddy's site was out for several hours Monday afternoon, as were many of the
Web sites belonging to its 10.5 million customers, like the fantasy sports site
Draftday and eBaum's World, a humor site.

"We're aware of the issues affecting our site," Elizabeth Driscoll, a GoDaddy
spokeswoman, said. "We're still working to figure out what happened and
determine the number of Web sites impacted."

The person behind the Twitter account @AnonymousOwn3r took responsibility for
the attack and said all of GoDaddy's servers were knocked out with what is known
as a distributed denial of service attack, or DDoS attack, in which a site is
flooded with traffic until it collapses under the load.

@film_girl I'm taking godaddy down bacause well i'd like to test how the cyber
security is safe and for more reasons that i can not talk now

- Anonymous Own3r (@AnonymousOwn3r) 10 Sep 12

"When I do some DDoS attack, I like to let it down by many days," the person
claiming responsibility said on Twitter. "It can last one hour or one month."

This person said that he had conducted the attack alone and that it was not part
of a broader Anonymous campaign. GoDaddy briefly became an target of Anonymous
last December for its initial support of the Stop Online Piracy Act, or SOPA, a
Congressional bill that would have made it possible for copyright owners to seek
court orders to take sites offline for practicing or aiding piracy. GoDaddy
withdrew its support of the bill after customers began transferring their Web
sites to its competitors and hackers threatened to attack it.

But one of the Twitter accounts most frequently associated with Anonymous,
@AnonyOps, distanced the group from Monday's attack and said it was the work of
one individual. "He's either a newbie to activism and cutting his teeth by doing
this, which is misguided, or he's trying to give Anons a bad reputation," the
Twitter post said.

Godaddy technician trips over ethernet cord, pulling it from edge router. Blames
Anonymous.

- Anonymous (@AnonyOps) 10 Sep 12

Rich Miller, the editor in chief of Data Center Knowledge, an online publication
that tracks the data center industry, said a shutdown at GoDaddy had widespread
repercussions for the Internet.

"This is potentially the largest kind of problem you could have on the
Internet," Mr. Miller said. "GoDaddy is the largest company in the domain
industry thanks to its colorful Super Bowl commercials."

Mr. Miller estimated that GoDaddy managed 52 million domain names and hosted
about 5 million Web sites on its servers. Its sheer size has made the company a
ripe target for hackers, he said.

GoDaddy was previously the target of two notable DDoS attacks, one in 2007 and
another in 2009.

GoDaddy customers vented their frustration on Twitter and elsewhere. Bob de
Luna, a director of public information at the United Hospital Fund, a nonprofit
health organization, said four domain names it had registered with GoDaddy had
been down for several hours. He said that when he contacted GoDaddy's customer
service line, a representative told him 750 people were waiting in line behind
him. The representative told him that during service failures, a typical wait
list was 20 people.

GoDaddy's Web site was still down Monday evening, and the company said it would
provide updates through its Twitter and Facebook accounts.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/10/member-of-anonymous-takes-credit-for-go
daddy-attack/

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (The 6th Floor)

                           September 11, 2012 Tuesday

Past Forward: Why Do We Still Buy $5 Umbrellas at the Last Minute?

BYLINE: MAYA LAU

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 584 words



HIGHLIGHT: How uncertainty is built into the science of weather forecasting.


Oumar Diallo, a merchant with a tiny sliver of a shop, sells umbrellas at the
entrance to the subway near the corner of 40th Street and Seventh Avenue.
Whenever it's raining, Diallo is the busiest person at the top of the subway
stairs, taking cash, making change and opening umbrellas over his customers'
heads. I asked Diallo, who is from Guinea and has been selling umbrellas for
five years, what it's like for his income to be so dependent on the weather.
"When it's not raining, I get bored," he said. Like many people, Diallo checks
the weather forecast when he wakes up in the morning and before he goes to bed.
Still, his business relies on the fact that the weather - and meteorology - is
unpredictable. "I make money when people are unprepared."

In this past Sunday's issue, Nate Silver wrote about the tremendous progress
meteorologists have made in weather forecasting - and why, even so, the science
behind it remains so indeterminate. Apparently, forecasts have been improving
for a long time: digging through our archives, we found an article written 27
years ago by the science writer James Gleick,  "They're Getting Better About
Predicting the Weather (Even Though You Don't Believe It)".

Gleick, who wrote the "Fast Forward" column on technology for the magazine in
the '90s, explained that computer models for forecasting weather didn't always
translate to useful information to individual consumers - a problem that still
exists today. "As information is handed down the line from supercomputer to
user, it has plenty of opportunities to be abridged or garbled." Gleick wrote
that weather forecasters relied "heavily on a kind of informed guesswork" and
that television stations struggled to communicate this information in their
broadcasts to viewers. "What may have begun . . . as a vivid picture of a
pivoting cold front on a summer afternoon may have ended up as the week's fourth
consecutive forecast of 'scattered showers.'"

I asked Gleick, whose most recent book is "The Information: A History, a Theory,
a Flood," what has surprised him about weather forecasting in the time since his
article was published nearly three decades ago. He wrote in response:

At the time, the prediction I made here - that "computer simulations will never
produce accurate day-by-day forecasts beyond a limit of two weeks or so" - was
surprising, and maybe even controversial. But it has held up. The article
reflects how obsessed everyone was with the state of the art in supercomputing:
who has the Cray 1, who has the Control Data Cyber 205 and who is lucky enough
to have the ultra mega cool Cray X-MP. All those supercomputers are outstripped
in computational power (in several measures) by the little phones that hundreds
of millions of people carry around in our pockets today. Yet these fantastic
leaps in computation have achieved little real improvement in the forecasting of
specific weather conditions. That was pretty counterintuitive in 1985, but I
think we understand better now.

And it's true - despite fantasies of technology solving all problems, we still
find ourselves caught unprepared by something as mundane as the weather. As Nate
Silver explains, the weather forecasting community has come to embrace the fact
that uncertainty is an ever-present aspect of the field. The safest prediction
may be that 27 years from now we will still be buying last-minute umbrellas from
people like Oumar Diallo.


     ·    This Sunday: Butter With Your Toast, Mr. President?
     ·    My Three Favorite Cities in Fiction


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Bill Keller)

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday

Mitt and Bibi: Diplomacy as Demolition Derby

BYLINE: BILL KELLER

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1071 words



HIGHLIGHT: A review of the latest foreign policy missteps of Bibi Netanyahu and
Mitt Romney in the Middle East.


It turns out Bibi Netanyahu and Mitt Romney have more in common than a
background in management consulting and an unswerving devotion to the security
of Israel. When it comes to international diplomacy, we are reminded this week,
both have the subtle grace of cattle on loco weed.

Netanyahu's is the graver offense, because he knew exactly what he was doing. At
a news conference in Jerusalem, he dripped scorn on the United States for its
reluctance to launch a dubious preventive war against Iran - a war that even
many authoritative and patriotic Israelis don't want. Netanyahu wants America to
declare a "red line," a point at which Iran must cease its nuclear enrichment
program or be showered with high explosives. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
refused over the weekend to issue such a specific ultimatum. To which Netanyahu
sneered: "Those in the international community who refuse to put red lines
before Iran don't have a moral right to place a red light before Israel."

Let's unpack this a little.

First, Clinton was right. Ultimatums should be a near-last resort in
international relations. They put the adversary in a corner. They limit your
flexibility. For example: The U.S. has never said what it would do if China
decided to forcibly exercise its claim to Taiwan, although we are committed to
Taiwan's autonomy. Announcing our response in advance might embolden
nationalists in Taiwan to push up to the limits, provoking the mainland into
doing something rash. This approach is what diplomats call "constructive
ambiguity," a phrase attributed to Henry Kissinger. Skillful diplomacy is about
postponing hard choices while you look for something better, in this case a
negotiated deal to limit Iran's enrichment to domestic uses. That may be why
Mitt Romney, like President Obama, has avoided identifying any "red lines" in
Iran; or maybe that's just consistent with his lack of specificity on so many
other issues.

Second, while the U.S. has urged Israel to show restraint so that sanctions and
other measures (including the possibility of further cyber-sabotage) can do
their part, no one has put a "red light" in Israel's way. Netanyahu is perfectly
free to send his bombers to Iran. The only problem is that Israel probably
cannot do a thorough job without U.S. participation.

Whether you agree or not with the idea of using force to prevent Iran from
acquiring nuclear weapons (followers of this space know I do not) there is no
reason to strike now. There are inspectors and monitoring devices at Iran's
enrichment facilities to alert us if Iran decides to suddenly start enriching
weapons-grade fuel. The only urgency is Netanyahu's calculation that he can use
the American presidential election to pressure Obama. That leverage disappears
after November 6.

Netanyahu has done his country no favor. Americans are strongly opposed to a
preventive war against Iran, and are likely to resent a brazen attempt to push
them into fighting one at Israel's behest. A new survey by the Chicago Council
on Global Affairs, released Monday, finds that 70 percent of Americans oppose a
unilateral military strike. Moreover, if Israel bombs Iran and ignites a war, 59
percent say the U.S. should not come to Israel's aid.

Netanyahu's crude intervention in our politics may - and should - embarrass his
preferred candidate, Mitt Romney. Romney's options now are to join his friend
Netanyahu in attacking U.S. foreign policy (so much for politics stopping at the
water's edge), to distance himself from the foreign leader he has most
enthusiastically embraced, or to shut up.

And, if Obama is reelected, the president is unlikely to forget this exercise in
manipulation by an Israeli leader he already has ample reason to mistrust.

Meanwhile, Romney's latest venture into foreign policy was an attempt to exploit
a tragedy in Libya for cheap political gain.

Yesterday a Libyan mob, enraged by a video that mocked the prophet Mohammed,
attacked and burned the American consulate in Benghazi. Four diplomats,
including the U.S. ambassador to Libya, J. Christopher Stevens, were killed. The
video, made by a murky character who has told conflicting stories about his
identity, portrays Mohammed as a fraud, a philanderer, a child molester and a
fool.

Obama issued a statement calling the attack "outrageous." "While the United
States rejects efforts to denigrate the religious beliefs of others," he said,
"we must all unequivocally oppose the kind of senseless violence that took the
lives of these public servants."

The White House response contained two strong messages: expressing indignation
at the killing of our officials, and disavowing the insulting video. The second
message was arguably more urgent than the first, because if the notion spreads
that the U.S. somehow endorsed a blatant insult to Islam's founding prophet, the
rage could metastasize, costing lives.

The Romney response was either a complete misreading of a dangerous situation,
or a classic act of cynicism. "It's disgraceful," said the campaign's statement,
"that the Obama administration's first response was not to condemn attacks on
our diplomatic missions, but to sympathize with those who waged the attacks."

The jibe apparently referred not to Obama's statement but to one issued
independently by the U.S. embassy in Cairo, deploring the video. The Cairo
outpost rejected "efforts by misguided individuals to hurt the religious
feelings of Muslims."  The Cairo embassy was understandably trying to defuse a
potentially dangerous situation outside its walls. (Sure enough, the embassy was
soon surrounded by an angry throng.)

When the situation became clearer, Romney could have tempered his remarks, and
offered the president a hand of American solidarity. That would have been the
right, the classy, the traditional and, incidentally, the politically popular
thing to do. (It's what virtually ever other senior Republican official did.)
Instead, at a press conference, Romney doubled down, recycling his baseless
charge that Obama was "apologizing for American principles."

Romney has excuses for this kind of blunder: he is a foreign policy naïf, and he
is desperate. But, like Netanyahu, he is not helping himself. The polls show
that American voters trust Obama more than Romney on foreign policy. Romney's
ham-handed handling of this episode confirms their judgment.


     ·    Nuclear Mullahs, Continued
     ·    Filling the Empty Suit
     ·    How About Not Bombing Iran?


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                          September 19, 2012 Wednesday

An Alert System for Security Breaches

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 361 words



HIGHLIGHT: With security breaches on the rise, companies are beginning to offer
new alert systems that tell consumers when their usernames, passwords, credit
cards, Social Security numbers and the like pop up on on the Internet.


It was, no doubt, the year of the security breach.

Hackers breached LinkedIn, LastFM.com, eHarmony, Yahoo and other sites, then
posted customers' usernames, passwords, e-mail addresses and device IDs to the
Internet for all to see. In most cases,  the consumers had to dig through
hackers' data dumps to find out what, if any, of their information had been
compromised, then scurry to change their log-in credentials across many sites.

Now, with breaches on the rise, some companies have started offering customers
new services to save them the trouble. LastPass, a service for managing
passwords, said on Tuesday that it had partnered with PwnedList, a database of
leaked usernames and passwords, to alert customers if a Web site was breached
and if their information was included in the data dump.

The company will perform daily scans of PwnedList's database of 24 million (and
growing) publicly leaked usernames and passwords and alert customers by e-mail
if a domain was breached, if their log-in information was compromised and if
they used the same password for the breached Web site elsewhere. In a blog post,
LastPass said it planned to offer its alert system, called LastPass Sentry,
free.

A similar service for potentially more sensitive information -- like credit card
and Social Security numbers -- is available through AllClearID, an identity
protection service. This year, AllClearID debuted a free mobile app for the
iPhone and iPad that alerts consumers if their credit cards or Social Security
numbers have been stolen or if thieves are using their child's identity.

AllClearID pulls that information from the National Cyber-Forensics and Training
Alliance, an organization that partners with law enforcement agencies and
companies like PayPal and Microsoft as a repository for stolen consumer
information. Any time these agencies or companies encounter stolen credentials,
they send them to the alliance. Until this year, the alliance reported any
stolen credentials to the companies that had issued them.

The AllClear ID mobile app and LassPass service mark the first time consumers
will be alerted directly.


     ·    Password Service Warns of Possible Hacking Attack


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                          September 20, 2012 Thursday

Salon Sells The Well to Longtime Members

BYLINE: NICK WINGFIELD

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 233 words



HIGHLIGHT: One of the earliest online communities, The Well, has a new owner:
its members.


 One of the earliest online communities, The Well, has a new owner: its members.

On Thursday evening, Salon Media Group, the previous owner of The Well, said it
had sold the community to the Well Group, a private investment group consisting
of longtime members of the community, which was founded in 1985, long before the
rise of the Web.

Although The Well was never a huge community by the standards of today's
consumer Web sites, it had an influential audience of cyber-thinkers and
entrepreneurs, one that became smaller and smaller over the years. In June,
Salon said it was putting the community up for sale.

The sale of to the Well Group includes the potentially valuable domain name
well.com.

"The Well welcomes the opportunity to support its existing base and extends an
invitation to like-minded individuals looking for a social network that puts the
free exchange of ideas at the forefront," said Earl Crabb, chief executive of
The Well Group, in a statement.

In a brief phone interview, Cindy Jeffers, chief executive of Salon, declined to
say how much the investment group paid Salon for The Well.

"As a true pioneer of the digital age, and a forerunner of today's ubiquitous
social networks, the Well has played a central role in the origin of countless
creative endeavors and cultural movements," Ms. Jeffers said in a statement. "We
wish the Well countless more under their new management."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                           September 21, 2012 Friday

Influencing Dodd-Frank

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1841 words



HIGHLIGHT: Two years after passing Dodd-Frank, lawmakers are still tinkering
behind the scenes. | Xstrata has until Monday to decide whether to accept
Glencore's sweetened merger offer. | New York's attorney general, who runs a new
task force on mortgage abuses, said the group would act soon. | A report by the
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago raises concerns about high-frequency trading.


Influencing Dodd-Frank  |  Two years after passing a spate of financial rules,
lawmakers are still tinkering behind the scenes with Dodd-Frank. In a show of
partisan haggling, more than 100 lawmakers have lobbied the Federal Reserve and
other authorities over the Volcker Rule, writes Ben Protess of DealBook. A top
aide to Senator Scott Brown, Republican of Massachusetts, has been reaching out
to the Treasury Department and the Fed in an effort to limit the impact on local
financial firms. While the Fed encouraged the aide to air his views publicly,
internal government documents indicate some of the discussions took place in
private. In a draft of the Volcker Rule, regulators adopted Mr. Brown's
approach.

On Thursday evening, Mr. Brown faced off in a debate with his challenger for the
Senate, the Harvard professor and consumer advocate Elizabeth Warren. Ms.
Warren, a Democrat, has been a fierce supporter of regulations like the Volcker
Rule. But the debate on Thursday focused on other issues, like Ms. Warren's
ethnic heritage.

It's not just lawmakers trying to temper Wall Street regulation. The United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia is "now controlled by
judicial activists who seem quite willing to negate, on technical grounds, any
regulations they do not like," writes Floyd Norris of The New York Times. Mr.
Norris says the court "may yet be the institution that dooms many or even most
of the Dodd-Frank financial reforms."

Three states, Oklahoma, South Carolina and Michigan, announced on Thursday that
they had joined a lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of the regulatory
overhaul, bringing more visibility to a legal effort that began in June.

Crunch Time for Glencore and Xstrata  |  The mining giant has until Monday to
decide whether to accept Glencore's sweetened merger offer. According to The
Financial Times, the two companies were in last-minute meetings on Thursday to
review the details of the deal.

Once Xstrata weighs in, Qatar Holding is likely to give its view. The sovereign
wealth fund has been a vocal opponent of the deal, pushing for a higher price.

Mortgage Fraud Busters Get Ready  |  New York's attorney general, Eric T.
Schneiderman, who runs a new task force on mortgage abuses, told Reuters: "We'll
see actions being taken sooner rather than later."

The group, which includes representatives of the Justice Department, the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Department of Housing and Urban
Development and the Internal Revenue Service, is looking at mortgage deals that
contributed to the financial crisis.

On the Agenda  |  A Democratic member of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, Bart Chilton, is on CNBC at 11:20 a.m. Dennis Lockhart, president of
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, is speaking at 12:40 p.m. to the Atlanta
Institute of Internal Auditors. Rajiv Goel, the witness whose testimony helped
convict Raj Rajaratnam of insider trading, is scheduled to be sentenced at 3:30
p.m. The latest iPhone hits stores on Friday, with Apple stock trading just
below $700 a share.

Friday is also a quadruple witching day, the quarterly expiration of options and
futures contracts, which can cause an unusually high trading volume. Judging by
history, the expiration could be positive for stocks, CNBC notes.

The Barclays Center, the new home of the Nets in Brooklyn, has its
ribbon-cutting on Friday. The British bank, for which the center is named,
already seems to have fallen victim to the stadium-naming curse.

Speed Before Safety?  |  Computers are ruling the market - and as we've been
told, that may not be a good thing. A new report by the Federal Reserve Bank of
Chicago, commissioned after market misses like the Facebook I.P.O. and the
Knight Capital trading debacle, found that "out-of-control algorithms were more
common than anticipated prior to the study and that there were no clear patterns
as to their cause."

Such market disruptions have come into focus this week. At a Senate hearing on
Thursday, David Lauer, a former high-speed trader who now works for the advocacy
group Better Markets, said the process these firms used to see prices a split
second faster than other participants "reeks of non-public information," The
Wall Street Journal reports. Two experts at the hearing, Andy Brooks of T. Rowe
Price and Larry Tabb of the research firm TabbGroup, disagreed over specific
policy prescriptions but both said that something should be done to change the
market, reports Nathaniel Popper in DealBook.

The Securities and Exchange Commission is hosting a roundtable on Oct. 2 to
address these issues.

 |  Contact: @williamalden | E-mail

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Universal-EMI Merger Approved in Europe  |  The European Commission signed off
on the $1.9 billion merger but said Universal would have to sell many of EMI's
prized assets.
WALL STREET JOURNAL | NEW YORK TIMES

How Will the Universal Deal Affect Music?  |  The Huffington Post takes a look
at some of the implications of the Universal-EMI tie-up, which could "make the
company the gatekeeper for all sonic innovation, from Silicon Valley to Sweden."

HUFFINGTON POST

Valuing What Anschutz Entertainment Might Be Worth  |  News that the Anschutz
Entertainment Group is being put up for sale sent the sports and entertainment
worlds buzzing. But what would any prospective buyer get?
DealBook »

Leaders of Germany and France to Discuss Aerospace Merger  |  But Angela Merkel
and Francois Hollande "will not make any decisions" on the proposed merger
between EADS and BAE, Reuters reports.
REUTERS

French Carmaker May Sell Logistics Arm  |  PSA Peugeot Citroën said that it was
negotiating to sell its Gefco logistics business to J.S.C. Russian Railways as
the company struggles to stay afloat in a faltering market.
DealBook »

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Ex-Barclays Compliance Official Finds a New Job  |  Stephen Morse, a Barclays
compliance official who was warned in 2008 about potential rigging of Libor, is
now the head of compliance for TD Bank, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

Jefferies Shares Fall on Tough 3rd-Quarter Results  |  Shares in the Jefferies
Group plunged more than 6 percent on Thursday, as the firm reported earnings
bolstered mostly by its new stake in the Knight Capital Group.
DealBook »

Bankers Pin Hopes on Next Year  |  The market for deals has been lackluster so
far this year, with global mergers and acquisitions volumes down 17 percent,
Reuters reports.
REUTERS

Nomura Said to Cut Proprietary Traders  |  According to Bloomberg News, Nomura
has "cut a team of London proprietary traders focused on stocks as Japan's
largest brokerage scales back in Europe, said two people with knowledge of the
matter."
BLOOMBERG NEWS

Morgan Stanley Said to Be Paying Bonuses to Support Staff  |  Thousands of
employees at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney who worked extra hours to solve
technology problems can expect cash bonuses ranging from $1,500 to $5,000, The
Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the
situation.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

The Magic of Risk-Weighting  |  Jonathan Weil writes in a column in Bloomberg
News that the way banks measure their balance sheets can allow assets "to
vanish, making too-big-to-fail financial institutions seem leaner and safer than
they are."
BLOOMBERG NEWS

The Little Bank That Could  |  A bank in Queens called Amerasia had a 2 percent
return on its $290 million in assets in the first half of the year, "a number
that would be excellent even if times were good," The Economist writes.
ECONOMIST

PRIVATE EQUITY »

S.E.C. Said to Examine Private Equity Payouts  |  According to Bloomberg News,
the Securities and Exchange Commission is "seeking to determine whether some
private-equity firms are taking more profits from investments than they should
under agreements with fund clients, according to two people with knowledge of
the matter."
BLOOMBERG NEWS

Leveraged Buyouts Make a Comeback  |  With financing cheap, leveraged buyouts in
the United States nearly doubled in the third quarter compared with a year
earlier, reaching the highest levels since before the financial crisis, Reuters
reports.
REUTERS

Goldman May Scale Back Fund-Raising Ambitions  |  The next buyout fund raised by
Goldman Sachs's merchant banking division is likely to have a target of $7
billion to $10 billion, smaller than previous efforts, according to Richard
Friedman, the unit's head, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

HEDGE FUNDS »

Former Regulator Joins Hedge Fund Lobby  |  Kathleen Casey, who stepped down
last year as a Securities and Exchange Commission official, has been named
chairman of the Alternative Investment Management Association, a London-based
group representing hedge funds, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

Hedge Fund Clients Request More Money in September  |  Redemption requests in
September reached their highest level this year, according to SS&C GlobeOp,
Reuters reports.
REUTERS

Will There Be More Deals Between Funds of Funds?  |
REUTERS

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Trulia Jumps 40% in Debut  |  Trulia, the real estate information site, rose 30
percent in its debut to open at roughly $22, defying the recent lackluster
performance of newly public stocks.
DealBook »

Talanx Changes Its Mind  |  It's been a busy few weeks for the German insurer,
which announced plans to go public earlier this month, and then shelved them,
only to announce on Thursday it had revived those plans.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Online Community Sold to Its Members  |  The Salon Media Group said it sold the
Well, a longtime online gathering place for cyber-thinkers and entrepreneurs, to
a private investment group consisting of members of the community, the Bits blog
reports.
NEW YORK TIMES BITS

Wind Power Industry Shrinks  |  On the top of weak demand and stiff competition,
the industry now faces the Dec. 31 expiration of a federal tax credit, The New
York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

Pawlenty to Become Wall Street Lobbyist  |  Tim Pawlenty, the former Republican
governor of Minnesota, was named chief executive of the Financial Services
Roundtable on Thursday, replacing Steve Bartlett.
DealBook »

Cheap Loans Could Spell Long-Term Headaches  |  Low interest rates have led many
corporations to load up on debt, but this could lead to a flood of bankruptcies
once maturities hit, writes Stephen J. Lubben in the In Debt column.
DealBook »

A Strategy of Tattletales at the I.R.S.  |  Enforcement of tax laws requires
finding a fair and effective way to overcome the information asymmetry between
taxpayers and the I.R.S. But whistle-blowers are only one approach, writes
Victor Fleischer in the Standard Deduction column.
DealBook »

Former Broker Accused of Insider Trading on Burger King Deal  |
REUTERS

Spanish Debt Auction Meets With Strong Demand  |
NEW YORK TIMES

California's Debt Found to Be Higher Than Thought  |
NEW YORK TIMES

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 22, 2012 Saturday
                        The International Herald Tribune

Versace's Cyber Move

BYLINE: By SUZY MENKES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 764 words


MILAN -- With ''Donatella's Hit Picks'' and an offer to personalize looks, the
house of Versace introduced this week its online flagship store, versace.com.

The site is designed to energize the brand in the digital arena and to create a
buzz among the wired generation, while keeping the iconic images -- like a
mosaic floor pattern -- that represent Versace and its universe. And the
e-commerce section, beginning with core European countries, is to roll out, from
Austria to the United States, on Oct. 17.

The relationship of Italian designers with the digital world is about more than
selling in cyberspace. The Milan shows Friday for the summer 2013 season proved
how much the fabric of fashion, literally and figuratively, is connected to
handwork and craft.

Thus, the Etro show was backed by a giant set of painterly flowers, lavish in
their mighty brush strokes. And Veronica Etro claimed proudly in her program
notes that all the fantastical prints were done not on a computer but by
traditional techniques of ''the nearly extinct art of hand-painted prints.''

Italian style is facing the aftershock of a digital revolution that threatens to
overwhelm many of its skills, if not make them obsolete.

The Donatella Versace approach is to focus on the namesake line and to let
Christopher Kane, as her companion in design on the Versus collection, play with
the plasticized fabrics and digital chain prints natural to his generation.
Sitting beside Mr. Kane, in a preview of shows that were to follow each other
Friday evening (with a concert by the singer Beth Ditto), Ms. Versace spelled
out her own goal.

''I wanted tailoring -- Versace is well known for its dresses but our heritage
of tailoring has been a little bit lost,'' she said, although in this
collection, inserts of lingerie lace into firm black fabrics gave the usual
Versace glimpses of flesh.

Another message came as tiny metallic fringes, children of those metal mesh
effects that seemed so forward-thinking when Gianni Versace invented them back
in the 1980s.

Unlikely though it seems that the glamorous Ms. Versace would ever join the
hippie world, she picked tie-dye prints to create an indeterminate, watery
pattern on the dresses, sometimes clinching them with the famous Versace emblem
of a Medusa head. It remains to be seen how much the designer will come under
the influence of the high-tech effects that Mr. Kane offered so effortlessly in
his powerful London collection.

The Etro show was so focused on fabric that there were times when it seemed that
the designer had taken a stretch of material, draped it at a slant across the
body -- and left it at that.

While solid colors -- and there was a pure green silk and plain orange --
emphasized the streamlined, geometric shapes, the flowers sometimes seemed
poorly planted within the graphic outline.

Theoretically it sounded smart: a contrast between the richly painted florals
and the pared-down silhouettes. But the shapes, like deep sleeves on a boxy top,
came through as a nod to the 1980s. Perhaps -- although it might seem mean to
suggest it -- patterns digitally worked to fit with the body and the cut of the
clothes might have been easier to pull off.

Just Cavalli was an opportunity for Beyoncé's sister Solange Knowles and the
rapper Azealia Banks to contemplate from the front row the print skills of a
designer who can create an idyllic Mediterranean garden on a small piece of
cloth.

Linking animal patterns to flower prints (a trend of the season), Roberto
Cavalli succeeded in developing all sorts of inspirations, from blue patterns on
white that looked like fine porcelain to tie-dye prints (another current look).

Lace inserts on brief dresses seemed familiar. But whether it was an expert or
the designer himself, an eager photographer, who captured the essence of a
southern summer as sea creatures and bougainvillea, the prints were fresh and
enticing.

At Moschino , the black and white parade that opened the show was so precise and
geometric that it could have been a rerun (white hard hat and all) from the
1960s of André Courrèges.

These graphic lines seemed like a lesson in geometry -- but one that was first
taught a long time ago. Then the designer Rossella Jardini added color, first as
basic shades like blue, red and yellow, then as florals that changed from
flat-plane outlines of daisy shapes to a conglomeration of florals.

The Italian way with print has a history and a heritage. But although
comparisons might seem unfair, after London Fashion Week's displays of
ultra-imaginative digital printing, Italy's efforts seem rather tame.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/22/fashion/22iht-fversace22.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Salon's The Well Changes Hands

BYLINE: By NICK WINGFIELD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 246 words


One of the earliest online communities, The Well, has a new owner: its members.

On Thursday evening, Salon Media Group, the previous owner of The Well, said it
had sold the community to the Well Group, a private investment group consisting
of longtime members of the community, which was founded in 1985, long before the
rise of the Web.

Although The Well was never a huge community by the standards of today's
consumer Web sites, it had an influential audience of cyber-thinkers and
entrepreneurs, one that became smaller and smaller over the years. In June,
Salon said it was putting the community up for sale.

The sale of to the Well Group includes the potentially valuable domain name
well.com.

"The Well welcomes the opportunity to support its existing base and extends an
invitation to like-minded individuals looking for a social network that puts the
free exchange of ideas at the forefront," said Earl Crabb, chief executive of
The Well Group, in a statement.

In a brief phone interview, Cindy Jeffers, chief executive of Salon, declined to
say how much the investment group paid Salon for The Well.

"As a true pioneer of the digital age, and a forerunner of today's ubiquitous
social networks, the Well has played a central role in the origin of countless
creative endeavors and cultural movements," Ms. Jeffers said in a statement. "We
wish the Well countless more under their new management."

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/20/salon-sells-the-well-to-longtime-member
s/

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 26, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Internet: Puppet Theater For a New Age

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER.

E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 749 words


Sometimes, there's nothing like a friend to stick up for you. Even an imaginary
friend.

In recent weeks, ''Sophia Walker'' has been surfing across the Internet,
vigorously defending the leader of the State Assembly, Sheldon Silver, and his
handling of sexual harassment charges against Vito J. Lopez, the assemblyman and
fallen leader of the Democratic Party in Brooklyn.

''This entire affair is nothing more than election-year scandal-mongering,''
Sophia Walker wrote.

Actually, Sophia Walker was an employee of Mr. Silver's office, Bill Eggler.

On the Internet, as a cartoon famously said, nobody knows you're a dog. Even if
you're barking incessantly about Shelly Silver.

This was a case of sock puppetry: appearing online under a fictive name to argue
or finagle or bully. It is widely practiced, though not always detectable. This
week brought word of the strange case of ''Paul Abrams'' -- a person for whom
the proof of existence seems to be confined to a return address on an e-mail.
Handily enough, the e-mail promised investments of $4.5 million in a Broadway
production of ''Rebecca.'' Without even a death notice or obituary, he was
pronounced dead of malaria via an e-mail, supposedly sent by a representative of
the estate.

Two years ago, a much-admired British historian, Orlando Figes, reviewed himself
under the rather threadbare sock-puppet handle of ''Historian.'' He did not
spare himself the tenderness that many authors quietly fantasize about,
describing his history of the Soviet Union as ''beautiful and necessary.'' Mr.
Figes might have pulled this off had he not unleashed the Historian puppet on
some rivals in a far less generous mood. These unworthies were slammed for their
books, which he declared ''rubbish'' and ''awful.'' When the curtain was pulled
back, Mr. Figes initially blamed his wife, then owned up days later, overtaken
by a fit of gallantry.

Tempting though it may be to see sock puppetry as a twisted outcropping of a
digital age, it has a deep history. Benjamin Franklin wrote as Silence Dogood
and Alice Addertongue, among many -- including Richard Saunders, of ''Poor
Richard's Almanack.'' Kierkegaard published treatises under multiple pseudonyms,
then managed the trick of editing himself under still other pseudonyms, earning
him bonus sock-puppet points, even if that seems to miss the entire point of
having an editor.

No list of early sock puppeteers would be complete without Fernando Pessoa, a
Portuguese poet and man of letters in the early 20th century, who created 72
imaginary names to cover his various writing moods and modes; he staged debates
among them and had one announcing the death of another, to much grief. Pessoa
called these ''heteronyms,'' a term that lacks the faintly musty notes of sock
puppet.

The example of Pessoa was invoked by a leading sock puppeteer of recent times in
New York, a man from Greenwich Village named Raphael Golb, whose doctoral
dissertation at Harvard was titled ''The Problems of Privacy and Trust in Modern
Literature.''

Mr. Golb created 72 identities for raucous online debates about the origins of
the Dead Sea Scrolls with others who, it turns out, were fighting it out under
cover of socks as well. Working from computers in the Bobst Library at New York
University, where he went to law school, Mr. Golb also sent e-mails that made
embarrassing admissions or assertions on behalf of his opponents. He wrote from
Gmail and Yahoo accounts that he created in their names.

Just last month, prosecutors in Manhattan submitted a brief to the Appellate
Division of State Supreme Court arguing that Mr. Golb was correctly found guilty
of sock puppetry that spiraled into felonies. Since that crime is not on the
statutes, he was convicted of identity theft, criminal impersonation and
forgery.

There was no question of anyone making money in this cyber-brawl.

''Only 100 people on earth understood what this was about,'' noted Ron Kuby, a
lawyer for Mr. Golb. Of those, he estimated four were actually engaged in the
debate, under scores of names.

He is appealing the conviction, arguing that the prosecution turns libel -- a
civil matter -- into a criminal act.

''Sock puppets have no constitutional rights,'' Mr. Kuby said. ''Sock puppeteers
have First Amendment rights.''

In Albany, after Mr. Eggler was exposed by The New York Post, Mr. Silver's
office reprimanded him. That may sound like a wrist slap. But the boss also
stopped giving him Internet access. For a sock puppet, that's cutting off food
and water.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/26/nyregion/sock-puppetry-time-honored-tradition-
thrives-online.html

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                          September 26, 2012 Wednesday

American Banks Undamaged by Cyberattacks

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 804 words



HIGHLIGHT: Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, U.S. Bancorp and PNC have
been hit by cyberattacks that have caused Internet blackouts and delays to
online banking sites by a group claiming Middle Eastern ties. The attacks, while
a nuisance, were not technically sophisticated and did not affect companies'
computer network or funds, or customers' bank accounts.


Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, U.S. Bancorp and PNC have been hit
by a wave of cyberattacks that have caused Internet blackouts and delays on
online banking sites.

The banks have been targeted with distributed denial of service or DDoS attacks,
in which hackers barrage a Web site with traffic, causing it to slow or collapse
under the load. Such attacks, while a nuisance, are not technically
sophisticated and typically do not affect a company's computer network - or, in
this case, funds or customers' bank accounts.

A hacker group, which calls itself the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters, took
credit for the attacks in an online post to Pastebin, a Web site hackers
frequently use to publicize attacks. The hackers say they will continue to
target American corporations daily, as part of an operation they call Operation
Ababil, until an amateurish 14-minute anti-Islam video, which mocks the Prophet
Muhammad, is pulled from the Web. (Izz ad-Din al-Qassam was a Muslim holy man
who fought against European forces and Jewish settlers in the Middle East during
the 1920s and 1930s.)

Last week, Bank of America, JPMorgan and Citigroup customers all experienced
delays and intermittent failures on the banks' sites. On Tuesday, Wells Fargo's
online banking site also periodically fell offline.

Sara Hawkins, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, confirmed Wednesday that customers
might still be experiencing "intermittent access" to the bank's Web site and
said the bank was working to resolve the problem.

In their post, the hackers called on volunteers to attack the site of U.S.
Bancorp on Wednesday and PNC's on Thursday. By Wednesday afternoon, Tom Joyce, a
spokesman for U.S. Bancorp, said that the company's online banking site had
experienced some delays, but no failures, as a result of unexpected traffic and
that the bank was working with law enforcement.

"The issues, indeed, are related to what we would call an unusual amount of
coordinated, high-volume traffic that has slowed down the system very similar to
what other banks have experienced," Mr. Joyce said. "These attacks were designed
to slow the customer experience but their funds and data are secure."

Fred Solomon, a PNC spokesman, said that PNC's customers had also reported
difficulty logging into its Web site Wednesday.

Adrienne Senatore, a spokeswoman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation's field
office in New York, declined to comment. Kathleen Wright, a spokeswoman for the
F.B.I. in Washington, said that as a matter of policy, the F.B.I. could not
confirm whether it was investigating the attacks.

None of the press officers would comment on the origin of the attacks. But last
week, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, chairman of the homeland security committee,
said in an interview with C-Span's "Newsmakers" program that the attacks on the
banks had originated in Iran and were conducted in retaliation for Western
economic sanctions.

Hackers rebutted those claims in their online post, which has since been
withdrawn from the Web. They said the attacks were not state-sponsored by Iran,
and said they "strongly reject the American officials' insidious attempts to
deceive public opinion."

It said:

We invite all cyberspace workers to join us in this Proper Act. If America's
arrogant government do not submit, the attack will be large and larger and will
include other evil countries like Israel, French and U.Kingdom indeed.

Cybersecurity experts said they had witnessed an increase in activity from Iran
and an increase in the number of so-called hacktivists, hackers who attack for
political purposes rather than for profit.

"We absolutely have seen more activity from the Middle East, and in particular
Iran has been increasingly active as they build up their cybercapabilities,"
said George Kurtz, the president of CrowdStrike, a computer security company,
and former chief technology officer at McAfee. "There is also a strong activist
movement underfoot which should be concerning to many large companies.  The
threat is real and what we are seeing now is only the tip of the iceberg."

James Lewis, a cybersecurity expert at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, said that in this case, the attack methods used were
"pretty basic," which raised doubts about whether the attacks were
state-sponsored.

He added that if the attacks were not the work of Iran's government, the state
would still be aware of them. "They extensively monitor their domestic networks,
so if this is some activist group there may be at least some government
knowledge."


     ·    Group Posts What It Says Are Iranian Government E-Mails
     ·    Among Digital Crumbs from Saudi Aramco Cyberattack, Image of Burning
          U.S. Flag
     ·    Hackers Lay Claim to Saudi Aramco Cyberattack
     ·    Unable to Crack Computer Virus, Security Firm Seeks Help
     ·    Apple Stops Password Resets Over the Phone


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 27, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cyberwarfare Emerges From Shadows for Public Discussion by U.S. Officials

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1161 words


WASHINGTON -- For years, even as the United States carried out sophisticated
cyberattacks on Iran's nuclear program and the Pentagon created a Cyber Command,
officials have been hesitant to discuss American offensive cyberwarfare programs
openly. Since June, in fact, F.B.I. agents have been investigating leaks to The
New York Times about the computer attacks on Tehran.

But the reticence is giving way. The chorus of official voices speaking publicly
about American cyberattack strategy and capabilities is steadily growing, and
some experts say greater openness will allow the United States to stake out
legal and ethical rules in the uncharted territory of computer combat. Others
fear that talking too boldly about American plans could fuel a global computer
arms race.

Next month the Pentagon's research arm will host contractors who want to propose
''revolutionary technologies for understanding, planning and managing
cyberwarfare.'' It is an ambitious program that the Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency, or Darpa, calls Plan X, and the public description talks about
''understanding the cyber battlespace,'' quantifying ''battle damage'' and
working in Darpa's ''cyberwar laboratory.''

James A. Lewis, who studies cybersecurity at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington, says he sees the Plan X public announcement
as ''a turning point'' in a long debate over secrecy about cyberwarfare. He said
it was timely, given that public documents suggest that at least 12 of the
world's 15 largest militaries are building cyberwarfare programs.

''I see Plan X as operationalizing and routinizing cyberattack capabilities,''
Mr. Lewis said. ''If we talk openly about offensive nuclear capabilities and
every other kind, why not cyber?''

Yet like drone aircraft, which similarly can be used for both spying and combat,
American cyberattack tools now are passing through a zone of semisecrecy, no
longer denied but not fully discussed. President Obama has spoken publicly twice
about drones; he has yet to speak publicly on American cyberattacks.

Last week, at a public Cyber Command legal conference, the State Department's
top lawyer, Harold H. Koh -- who gave the Obama administration's first public
speech on targeted killing of terrorists in 2010 -- stated the administration's
position that the law of war, including such principles as minimizing harm to
civilians, applies to cyberattacks.

In August, the Air Force raised eyebrows with a bluntly worded solicitation for
papers advising it on ''cyberspace warfare attack capabilities,'' including
weapons ''to destroy, deny, degrade, disrupt, deceive, corrupt or usurp'' an
enemy's computer networks and other high-tech targets.

And a few weeks earlier, a top Marine commander recounted at a public conference
how he had used ''cyber operations against my adversary'' in Afghanistan in
2010. ''I was able to get inside his nets, infect his command-and-control, and
in fact defend myself against his almost constant incursions to get inside my
wire,'' said Lt. Gen. Richard P. Mills, now deputy commandant of the Marine
Corps.

Cyberwarfare was discussed quite openly in the 1990s, though technological
capabilities and targets were far more limited than they are today, said Jason
Healey, who heads the Cyber Statecraft Initiative at the Atlantic Council in
Washington.

''Our current silence dates back 8 or 10 years, and N.S.A. is a big reason,''
said Mr. Healey, who is working on a history of cyberwarfare.

The National Security Agency, which plays a central role in Cyber Command,
traditionally breaks foreign codes and eavesdrops on foreign communications; it
is among the most secretive agencies in government. Years ago it pioneered the
field of cyberespionage: breaking into foreign computer systems in order to
collect intelligence. The same skills and reflexive secrecy of spies carried
over to cyberwarfare, Mr. Healey said. American officials have long preferred to
talk cyberdefense, leaving the attack side in the shadows.

The increased candor recently about cyberoffense results not from a policy
change, officials say, but from an inevitable acceptance of attacks on computer
networks as a standard part of military and intelligence capabilities. The fact
that dozens of Beltway contractors see cyberwarfare as one of the few parts of
the defense budget that are likely to grow is also a factor.

When Darpa announced a ''proposers' day workshop'' for its Plan X program, the
''overwhelming response from industry and academia'' led the defense research
agency to expand the event to an extra day, the agency said in a statement. (A
Darpa spokesman declined to comment further on Plan X.)

Just as drone-fired missiles have never been a secret to those on the ground, so
cyberattacks have consequences that cannot be hidden, even if their origin may
be initially uncertain. The computer worm called Stuxnet, devised by the United
States and Israel to destroy Iran's nuclear centrifuges, was quickly detected by
computer security experts when it infected networks around the world in 2010 --
but remains highly classified.

Hence the Cyber Command legal conference, which avoided specific cases while
dwelling on principles. Mr. Koh, of the State Department, told the conference
that the United States carries out ''at least two stages of legal review'' on
cyberwarfare operations -- considering whether the law of war prohibits the use
of ''new weapons'' altogether and, if not, how the law governs their use in
''each particular operation.''

Matthew Waxman, a law professor at Columbia and former Defense Department
official, said speaking openly about cyberwarfare policy was important because
it allowed the United States to make clear its intentions on a novel and
fast-emerging form of conflict.

Because both the Bush and Obama administrations were slow to speak publicly
about their use of armed drones, Mr. Waxman said, ''they ceded a lot of ground
to critics to shape the narrative and portray U.S. practices as lawless.'' As a
result, he said, ''the U.S. is trying to play catch-up, giving speech after
speech, saying 'We abide by the law.' ''

Now, Mr. Waxman said, because the United States ''occupies a position of
advantage on offensive cyber capabilities, it should seize the opportunity to
lay out a set of rules for itself and others.''

That is a worthy goal, said Daryl G. Kimball, executive director of the Arms
Control Association. But he said that came with a hazard: more talk about the
United States' cyberwarfare capabilities might prompt other countries to step up
their own programs at a time when the world is ''on the cusp of a cyber arms
race,'' he said.

Mr. Kimball said Darpa's sweeping public statement about the goals of its Plan X
for cyberwarfare might be a case in point.

''It makes it sound like the U.S. is preparing to be able to wage a full-out
cyberwar,'' Mr. Kimball said. ''Those kinds of statements could come back to
haunt the U.S. down the road.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/27/us/us-officials-opening-up-on-cyberwarfare.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                          September 27, 2012 Thursday

Hackers May Have Had Help With Attacks on U.S. Banks, Researchers Say

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 531 words



HIGHLIGHT: The hackers claiming responsibility for cyberattacks on American
banks over the past week must have had substantial help to disrupt and take down
major banking sites, security researchers say.


 The hackers claiming responsibility for cyberattacks on American banks over the
past week must have had substantial help to disrupt and take down major banking
sites, security researchers say.

Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, U.S. Bancorp, Wells Fargo and PNC
all experienced disruptions and delays on their banking sites over the past week
because of denial of service or DDoS attacks, in which hackers clog a Web site
with data requests until it slows or collapses under the load.

A hacker group, which calls itself the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters, took
credit for the attacks in online posts. They enlisted volunteers for the attacks
with messages on various sites. On one blog, they called on volunteers to visit
two Web addresses that would cause their computers to instantly start flooding
targets - including the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq and Bank of America -
with hundreds of data requests each second. This week, hackers asked volunteers
to attack banks according to a defined timetable: Wells Fargo on Tuesday, U.S.
Bancorp on Wednesday and PNC on Thursday.

Representatives for Wells Fargo, U.S. Bank and PNC all confirmed Wednesday that
their Web sites had experienced disruptions because of unexpected volumes of
traffic. Both the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq saw a slowdown, but no
serious disruption, on their Web sites.

Security researchers say the attack methods being peddled by hackers - the
custom-built Web sites - were too basic to have generated the disruptions.

"The number of users you need to break those targets is very high," said Jaime
Blasco, a security researcher at AlienVault who has been investigating the
attacks. "They must have had help from other sources."

Those additional sources, Mr. Blasco said, would have to be a well-resourced
group, like a nation state, or botnets - networks of infected zombie computers
that do the bidding of cybercriminals. Botnets can be rented via black market
schemes that are common in the Internet underground, or loaned out by
cybercriminals or governments.

Last week, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, chairman of the Senate Homeland Security
Committee, said in an interview  that he believed the attacks on the banks were
being sponsored by Iran's government.

Mr. Blasco said security researchers had noticed an increase in the use of
botnets out of Iran recently. But he said he had not been able to track the
origin of the attack to Iran. Attacks can be routed through various I.P.
addresses to mask their true origin, making attribution "nearly impossible," Mr.
Blasco said.

In the hackers' post, they said their attacks were not sponsored by Iran, and
said they "strongly reject the American officials' insidious attempts to deceive
public opinion."

They said they conducted the attacks in retaliation for a video, made by amateur
filmmakers in the United States, that mocks the Prophet Muhammad.

"Insult to the prophet is not acceptable, especially when it is the last prophet
Muhammad," the hackers said in their post.

They pledged to continue to attack American banking sites and targets in other
countries, including France, Israel and the United Kingdom, until the video was
pulled offline.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Bucks)

                          September 27, 2012 Thursday

Thursday Reading: Ski Resort to Use Treated Sewage to Make Snow

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 156 words



HIGHLIGHT: Arizona ski resort to use treated sewage to make snow, apps to help
you remember your 'to do' list, hotels offer wellness rooms for a fee and other
consumer-focused news from The New York Times.


 A variety of consumer-focused articles appears daily in The New York Times and
on our blogs. Each weekday morning, we gather them together here so you can
quickly scan the news that could hit you in your wallet.


     ·    An Arizona ski resort plans to use treated sewage to make snow.
          (National)
     ·    Traffic deaths rise in New York. (N.Y./Region)
     ·    San Franciscans debate pint-size apartments. (National)
     ·    Apple's map app for iPhone 5 is often off. (Business)
     ·    Apps to help you remember your 'to do' list. (Business).
     ·    N.F.L. reaches labor deal with referees. (Sports)
     ·    Last call for struggling college bars. (Thursday Styles)
     ·    Rented computers captured customers having sex. (Bits)
     ·    American banks were undamaged by cyber attacks. (Bits)
     ·    Your chance to appear on Sesame Street. (Gadgetwise)
     ·    When parents can't enroll in Medicaid, childrenstay uninsured.
          (Motherlode)
     ·    Why your hair is turning gray. (Booming)
     ·    Hotels offer 'wellness rooms' for an extra fee. (In Transit)


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 1, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Attacks On 6 Banks Frustrate Customers

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 942 words


Six major American banks were hit in a wave of computer attacks last week, by a
group claiming Middle Eastern ties, that caused Internet blackouts and delays in
online banking.

Frustrated customers of Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, U.S. Bank,
Wells Fargo and PNC, who could not get access to their accounts or pay bills
online, were upset because the banks had not explained clearly what was going
on.

''It was probably the least impressive corporate presentation of bad news I've
ever seen,'' said Paul Downs, a small-business owner in Bridgeport, Pa. ''This
is extremely disconcerting.''

The banks suffered denial of service attacks, in which hackers barrage a Web
site with traffic until it is overwhelmed and shuts down. Such attacks, while a
nuisance, are not technically sophisticated and do not affect a company's
computer network -- or, in this case, funds or customer bank accounts. But they
are enough to upset customers.

A hacker group calling itself Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters -- a reference
to Izz ad-Din al-Qassam, a Muslim holy man who fought against European forces
and Jewish settlers in the Middle East in the 1920s and 1930s -- took credit for
the attacks in online posts.

The group said it had attacked the banks in retaliation for an anti-Islam video
that mocks the Prophet Muhammad. It also pledged to continue to attack American
credit and financial institutions daily, and possibly institutions in France,
Israel and Britain, until the video is taken offline. The New York Stock
Exchange and Nasdaq were also targeted.

On Friday, PNC became the latest bank to experience delays and fall offline.
Customers said they had been unable to get access to PNC's online banking site,
and those that visited the bank's physical locations were told it was because
PNC, and many others, had been hacked.

Fred Solomon, a PNC spokesman, said Friday afternoon that the bank's Web site
was back online, but that it was still working to restore online bill payment.
Asked why the bank was not better able to withstand such an attack, he said that
while PNC had systems in place to prevent delays and disruption from hacker
attacks, in this case ''the volume of traffic was unprecedented.''

Representatives for other banks also confirmed that they had experienced slow
Internet performance and intermittent downtime because of an unusually high
volume of traffic.

Security researchers said the attack methods were too basic to have taken so
many American bank sites offline. The hackers appeared to be enlisting
volunteers for the attacks with messages on various sites. On one blog, they
called on people to visit two Web addresses that would cause their computers to
flood banks with hundreds of data requests a second. They asked volunteers to
attack banks according to a timetable: Wells Fargo on Tuesday, U.S. Bancorp on
Wednesday and PNC on Thursday.

But experts said it seemed implausible that this method would create an attack
of this scale. ''The number of users you need to break those targets is very
high,'' said Jaime Blasco, a security researcher at AlienVault who has been
investigating the attacks. ''They must have had help from other sources.''

Those sources, Mr. Blasco said, would have to be a group with money, like a
nation, or botnets -- networks of infected computers that do the bidding of
criminals. Botnets can be rented through black market schemes that are common in
the Internet underground, or lent out by criminals or governments.

Last week, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, chairman of the Senate
Homeland Security Committee, said in an interview on C-Span that he believed
Iran's government had sponsored the attacks in retaliation for Western economic
sanctions. The hacker group rejected that claim. In an online post, it said the
attacks had not been sponsored by a country and that its members ''strongly
reject the American officials' insidious attempts to deceive public opinion.''

The hackers maintained that they were retaliating for the online video. ''Insult
to the prophet is not acceptable, especially when it is the last Prophet
Muhammad,'' they wrote.

It is very difficult to trace such attacks back to a particular country,
security experts say, because they can be routed through different Internet
addresses to mask their true origin.

But experts said they had seen an increase in such activity from Iran and in the
number of so-called hacktivists, hackers who attack for political purposes
rather than for profit, based in Iran.

''We absolutely have seen more activity from the Middle East, and in particular
Iran has been increasingly active as they build up their cyber capabilities,''
said George Kurtz, the president of CrowdStrike, a computer security company,
and former chief technology officer at McAfee. ''There is also a strong activist
movement underfoot, which should be concerning to many large companies. The
threat is real, and what we are seeing now is only the tip of the iceberg.''

James A. Lewis, a computer security expert at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, said that in this case, the attack methods used were
''pretty basic'' to have been state-sponsored. But he added that even if the
attacks were not the work of Iran's government, the state would be aware of them
because Iran monitors its networks extensively.

For Mr. Downs, the small-business owner in Pennsylvania, such half explanations
were of little consolation.

''A major bank has a problem and gives no indication of what's happening, when
it started or when it will stop,'' he said. ''That's pretty freaky if it's your
own business's money and you need to do things with it.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/01/business/cyberattacks-on-6-american-banks-frus
trate-customers.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wells Fargo, Chase and Citibank were among those suffering
denial of service attacks last week. A spokesman for one bank, PNC, said ''the
volume of traffic was unprecedented.'' Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, head of the
homeland security committee, accused Iran of playing a role. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
REED SAXON/ASSOCIATED PRESS
JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES
 BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS) (B3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                             October 1, 2012 Monday

This Week in Small Business: About That Replacement Ref

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1685 words



HIGHLIGHT: The top 50 start-ups, cold-calling strategies, cash flow concerns -
and what would you do to revive Myspace?


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.

Economy: What Fiscal Cliff?

A new survey finds chief financial officers less optimistic about economic
growth. Brad Plumer explains why fears of a fiscal cliff are not hurting the
economy, and Jared Bernstein reveals important new research on a fiscal cliff
issue. Defense contractors brace for federal budget cuts. Economic advisers to
President Obama and Mitt Romney squabble. Zachary A. Goldfarb says that under
Ben Bernanke the Federal Reserve has become more open and forceful. The chief of
the San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank anticipates that the economy will "gain
momentum over the next few years." A new book tries to help entrepreneurs
reignite the economy. A bacon shortage threatens the world.

The Data: A Seven-Month High

Manufacturing growth improves in Texas and the central Atlantic region. Home
prices notch their biggest gains in seven years. Consumer confidence rises to a
seven-month high, and consumers step up their spending. But new home sales fall
slightly and orders for durable goods plunge. And revised gross domestic product
increased at an annual rate of 1.3 percent in the second quarter of 2012.

Finance: Could It Get Any Worse for B. of A.?

A new Visa study says cash flow concerns top the list of small-business worries.
One of the biggest lenders to small businesses will soon be on the auction
block. Even when consumers are comfortable using new payment technologies,
studies show they sometimes prefer paying cash. Here's why used car prices are
rising. The replacement ref who made that controversial calllast Monday is a
vice president for small business at Bank of America. Did Iran attack our banks
(and lose its sense of humor)?

Start-Ups: A Start-Up That Helps Start-Ups

Tim Ferriss explains Y Combinator's contribution to the start-up scene. This is
a start-up that helps start-ups. A solar panel start-up will tap a $197 million
loan guarantee. Amazon may be getting into the wine business - and it's also
lending money to small businesses. A San Francisco start-up offers scooter
rentals. The Wall Street Journal names the top 50 start-ups.

Selling: Replace Your Reps

Jill Konrath suggests cold-calling strategies. Matthew Bellows explains how
small companies can stand out when selling to big companies: "Showing your
prospects the characteristics that set your company apart is key to moving the
conversation beyond a checklist comparison." To sell well, John Jantsch says,
you must tell stories. Laura Spencer has some advice for dealing with
tire-kickers and other bad clients. Lars Lofgren explains why you should replace
your sales representatives with ambassadors.

Marketing: Are You a Jerk?

These are the top cities in America for social-media-savvy small businesses.
Jessica Levko says there are 10 signs that you're a social media jerk,
including: "You're attached to your smartphone." A show with Martin Sheen
explains how small businesses can use social media to find new customers. These
are the most important local business directories for search engine
optimization. A new Facebook service facilitates the creation of "couponlike"
promotions. Erica Ayotte explains how to use Instagram to promote your business.
These are five types of images that will enhance your online marketing. A few
entrepreneurs share their promotional swag secrets. Annette Du Bois thinks your
marketing may be a turnoff. Here's a case study on how a clothing company lifted
its sales 205 percent with daily deal e-mails. This is what a Las Vegas casino
can teach you about marketing. These are the five most effective
business-to-business word-of-mouth marketing techniques.

Around the Country: Hipster Neighborhoods

Friday is Manufacturing Day, and the United States unveils a "Make It in
America" contest. HLN introduces a new weekday series about "Making It In
America." Nissan invites "Edisons in training" to win a $50,000 grant (as well
as a brand new 2013 Altima). FedEx introduces a small-business grant
competition. Brooklyn booms as record rents drive construction. These are
America's hippest hipster neighborhoods. New York's first chief digital officer
discusses how she achieved 80 percent of the goals laid out in her "digital road
map." A supply chain management firm wins an award for small business from the
Air Traffic Control Association. A cash mob hits a small business in San
Antonio. A small-business owner in Dallas gives 240 customers a month the
opportunity to "act like psychopaths."

Your People: Happier and Healthier

Norm Brodsky says it's cost of goods sold that determines whether you can afford
another employee: "Once you know your gross margin, it's easy to figure out the
new sales you'll need in order to break even on the addition of another employee
to the payroll. You simply add up all the new costs associated with that new
person - salary, benefits, extra phone usage, travel and entertainment, whatever
- and divide by your gross margin." A lawyer suggests that if you're going to
fire employees, you should let them know. Barclays' chief executive plans to pay
his employees based in part on whether they aregood citizens. Executives at
Research in Motion thank their developers with this awful video. New research
concludes that the argument that a chief executive will leave if he or she isn't
well compensated is bogus. Freelancers are happier and healthier than full-time
employees. Here are 13 office trends that will disappear in the next five years.
These communication tips will make your business buzz with productivity. A
Wisconsin news station uses a replacement weather guy.

Red Tape: On Taxes and Cheating

A workplace pregnancy bill is introduced in the Senate. Clint Stretch discusses
taxes and cheating: "The I.R.S. estimates that in 2006 alone, the Treasury
missed out on $385 billion in revenue due under the current tax law from a
combination of underreporting of income, overstatement of deductions or other
benefits, or nonpayment of taxes owed. To put that in perspective, increased
revenue of $385 billion annually likely would be enough to make the Bush tax
cuts permanent and to permanently patch the alternative minimum tax." The Small
Business Administration wants to help entrepreneurs over the age of 50. Thomas
P. Hanrahan suggests 10 safeguards against consumer lawsuits, including: "The
more variety there is in how you promote, the harder it is for a class-action
plaintiff to prove that every consumer was taken in by the same misleading
message." Deborah Sweeney offers her small-business checklist for September.

Management: The Return of Myspace

This article discusses the benefits of being done versus being perfect. Mr. Sexy
tries to bring back Myspace. The Queen of the Fuzzy Slippers warns us that
problem solving is a productivity issue. Nadia Goodman shares three easy
exercises to increase your creativity. Here are five incredibly useful tips from
TED Talks. Cassie Mogilner says you will feel less rushed if you give time away.
Here's how to find the peak time to do everything. Going for a coffee is among
the top 20 time-wasting activities. "The Daily Show" weighs in on the
replacement refs.

Technology: Verizon's iPhone Secret

Googleintroduces a new service for entrepreneurs and reports that its Play Store
hit 25 billion app downloads (thankfully, it's not run by the National Football
League). Here's how smartphones are changing health care. A puppet shares 10
useful mobile apps for businesses. A woman gives a dubious explanation for why
she is waiting in a line to buy an iPhone. Jim Ditmore suggests six things he'd
like to see in a future smartphone. Verizon's iPhone 5 has a secret feature.
Here are the 12 best practices for mobile device management for your company.
Consumers will soon be able to get their hands on a much-talked-about light
field camera. October is National Cyber Security Awareness Month. In the near
future, developers say car apps will be big and Facebook may be the social
network of the past. An 11-year-old girl wins $20,000 from AT&T for a road
safety app. Toyota reveals a new robot to help around the house.

Tweets of the Week

@smallbiztrends: I am getting my car serviced and guy says "you've only driven
5K miles in 10 months." I reply "I run a Web business!"

@gitomer: They don't want your brochure. They want answers to their situations
and concerns.

The Week's Bests

Jeet Banerjee says that when finding a business idea there's nothing wrong with
imitating: "Some of the greatest business ideas have been imitations of others
in different ways. If a certain solution has a large market share and not enough
competition, you can definitely create a successful business. ... If you find a
business with a solid business model, feel free to implement their model into
other industries. Many ideas are so strong that they have the ability to work in
different niches with just a bit of fine tuning."

Brett Martin explains how to avoid being cheated by a contractor: "Know who's on
the job site. You might sign a contract and make payments with a person who
isn't doing all of the work. Ask upfront if your crew will subcontract parts of
the job to somebody else. If so, do the same research into that person's
business as you did for the general contractor. It's awkward to have a perfect
stranger show up on your doorstep ready to swing a hammer, but beyond that, the
balance between contractors and subs can lead to some of the biggest headaches
on a big project - delays, incorrect installations, damage to finished work and
all sides blaming the others for errors while no one takes accountability."

This Week's Question: What would you do to revive Myspace?

Gene Marks owns the  Marks Group , a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that
helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on
Twitter.


     ·    This Week in Small Business: $931 Billion in Cash
     ·    This Week in Small Business: An Elevator on the Moon
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Trash Talk
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Reinventing the Toilet
     ·    This Week in Small Business: The Van Indicator


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

If He Starts Nodding Off, Try Another Million Volts

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 741 words


David Blaine, the magician and endurance artist, is ready for more pain. With
the help of the Liberty Science Center, a chain-mail suit and an enormous array
of Tesla electrical coils, he plans to stand atop a 20-foot-high pillar for 72
straight hours, without sleep or food, while being subjected to a million volts
of electricity.

Mr. Blaine previously survived 63 hours inside a block of ice, a week inside a
coffin and six weeks without food in a glass box suspended over the Thames
River. His next performance, which will be open to the public free of charge in
Manhattan starting Friday evening, features a novel bit of torture: for the
first time, his audience will be doling out punishment.

When Mr. Blaine performs ''Electrified'' on a pier in Hudson River Park, the
audience there as well as viewers in London, Beijing, Tokyo and Sydney,
Australia, will take turns controlling which of the seven coils are turned on,
and at what intensity. They will also be able to play music by producing
different notes from the coils. The whole performance, on Pier 54 near West 13th
Street, will be shown live at www.youtube.com/electrified.

Is this a new form of cyber-sadism? Executives at Intel, which is sponsoring the
event and providing the Ultrabook laptops for controlling the coils, prefer to
call it an ''experiential exposition.'' The Liberty Science Center in Jersey
City, which will feature the coils in an exhibit, sees it as a way to teach
principles of electromagnetism discovered in the late 19th century by Nikola
Tesla, the visionary Serbian-American scientist who invented a coil for quickly
generating high-voltage bursts of electricity.

Mr. Blaine will be protected by some gear he demonstrated last week at a
warehouse in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. Looking like a medieval knight, Mr. Blaine
wore a steel chain-mail body suit, including chain-mail socks, and donned a wire
helmet to complete the encasement of himself in a Faraday suit (named for
another 19th-century pioneer in electricity, Michael Faraday). After Mr. Blaine
climbed on top of the pillar, technicians turned on the seven Tesla coils
mounted in a four-story-high apparatus.

When electricity reached the glass sphere at the tip of each Tesla coil, it
arced through the air to Mr. Blaine's hands and feet, creating brilliant
lightning bolts that sent electricity through the Faraday suit -- around his
body instead of through it.

''It's like having your whole body surrounded by static electricity, the kind
that makes your hair stand up on end,'' Mr. Blaine said afterward. ''It doesn't
hurt, but it's strange. I have no idea what 72 hours of exposure to these
electromagnetic forces will do to the electrons in my cells and the neurons in
my brain.'' One prediction he will make: the 27-pound Faraday suit will feel a
lot heavier after a couple of sleepless days standing on a pillar.

A medical and scientific team will monitor Mr. Blaine's mental state and
ventilate the potentially harmful ozone and nitrogen dioxide created when
electricity ionizes air. No one has ever faced such an array of Tesla coils for
so long, said Paul Hoffman, the president of the Liberty Science Center, where
Mr. Blaine has the title of magician in residence.

''Each of the seven Tesla coils can generate a million volts, so we're roughly
estimating that the total amount that actually reaches him is at least a million
volts,'' Mr. Hoffman said. ''Nobody's ever been in the middle of a lightning
storm for 72 hours, so it's hard to predict what's going to happen.''

Why do it? Mr. Blaine said that aside from his longstanding desire to test his
physical limits, he wanted to pay tribute to Tesla. ''I've always been obsessed
with him,'' he said. ''He was a scientific genius who created real magic by
defying what his peers thought was possible.''

Mr. Hoffman said he thought Tesla would have approved of this weekend's
performance, if only because the inventor was something of a showman himself.
Tesla once issued a publicity photo showing himself sitting calmly beneath giant
lightning bolts from his coil -- but it was a trick photo combining two separate
exposures.

''There'll definitely be incredible beauty in this performance,'' Mr. Hoffman
said. ''Lots of people will show up and just be amazed by the spectacle of it,
but others will want to dig deeper into the science. How is he controlling
lightning? Personally, I'd like to know how he stays awake for 72 hours. I need
that skill.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/02/science/million-volts-for-david-blaine-in-elec
trified-endurance-test.html

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ZAPPED: The magician David Blaine, in a protective suit,
preparing in Brooklyn for his 72-hour ''Electrified'' stunt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           October 3, 2012 Wednesday

300,000 Android 'Phones' Roam a Virtual Town

BYLINE: JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 877 words



HIGHLIGHT: An air-conditioned data center at Sandia National Laboratories in
Livermore, Calif., has 500 inexpensive desktop computers lined up on racks that
are running a special software simulation intended to mimic the behavior of an
entire city's worth of Android smartphones.


  An air-conditioned data center at Sandia National Laboratories in Livermore,
Calif., has the ambience of a Best Buy showroom, with 500 inexpensive desktop
computers lined up on racks. But the PCs here are doing something special.

A small team of cybersecurity researchers have lashed the computers together to
form a homebrew computing cluster. They are stacked five levels high, braced in
impromptu fashion with metal girders in the event of earthquakes, and woven
together with colorful Ethernet cables. They serve as a cyber-Potemkin village
-- a distributed software simulation that  is intended to mimic the behavior of
an entire city's worth of Android smartphones.

So far, the researchers have emulated the behavior of a network of 300,000
Android phones, down to details like sending text messages and transmitting
wireless data, and even the behavior of the phone's radios or sensors.

In the future, they hope that their software, which will be freely available
through an open-source license, will be used by  groups designing social network
applications like Foursquare, military battle planners, disaster relief workers
and American hackers who are building mesh wireless networks intended to make
the Internet available inside nations controlled by dictators, among others.

"We wanted to create something that would approximate the many, many phones in a
real network," said John Floren, a Sandia computer scientist who is part of the
group of researchers that built the system, which is called MegaDroid.

The idea is that while such simulators have in the past been developed by the
engineers of large data networks, they have not been generally accessible to
small groups of designers who might be working on a some new type of distributed
application.

To date, wireless smartphone networks have not suffered malicious software
infections at the same rate as the standard wired network, which is now plagued
by a vast array of malware. Many computer security specialists believe that this
will soon change as personal computing goes mobile, much as Willie Sutton robbed
banks because, as he put it, that's where the money was.

A wireless network simulation like MegaDroid would make it possible for security
researchers to gain new insights into "attack vectors," according to the Sandia
engineers.  Their computing cluster is in an unclassified area of Sandia, which
historically has been one of the two engineering and design centers that has
built and maintained the nation's nuclear weapons.

On a large monitor outside the data center, it appears as if the researchers
have turned loose a frenetic army of virtual Charlie Sheens on the city of
Livermore, Calif. (The use of the Charlie Sheen icons is apparently an inside
joke among the researchers.) The scene is actually a visualization tool used by
the MegaDroid simulator, which includes fake  GPS data and gives the appearance
of a beehive of cellular activity as the Android phone owners drive and walk
around a map of the city.

The researchers stressed that simulating a wireless network is a much more
complex undertaking than simulating a standard desktop-based network.

"In a desktop PC network, the biggest problem you have is someone kicking a cord
out," said David Fritz, one of the MegaDroid designers.

In contrast, modern wireless networks are composed of shifting herds of tens of
thousands of smartphone users. The simulation is made even more complex by the
fact that each phone contains multiple radios and sensors.

The danger of not having a deep understanding of the behavior of a computer
network was made clear several decades ago at the very beginning of the Internet
era. In 1988 a Cornell graduate student brought much of the Internet to a
standstill -- it was composed of about 50,000 computers at the time -- when he
unleashed a program known as a worm that was intended to live in the network as
a bit of digital graffiti -- in effect, the cyber-equivalent of writing "Kilroy
was here." However, because of an error in coding that caused the software to
rapidly replicate, a vast number of copies spread through the network,
overwhelming it.

The researchers said they were concerned about such issues of network
resilience, but they also saw the possibility that MegaDroid might be used to
build new kinds of distributed applications. For example, disaster workers in an
earthquake zone could  harness the accelerometers in their phones together to
provide a digital seismograph, tracking aftershocks. Or small and inexpensive
chemical and biological sensors could be added to smartphones carried by
government workers, creating an early warning system in the event of terrorist
attacks.

The researchers said that they were sensitive to privacy issues and that they
believed the simulator could be used to build systems that provided useful data
in national security situations while protecting privacy.

Right now the system models only the open-source Android operating system
designed by Google, but the Sandia researchers said they hoped to add other
operating sytems like Apple's IOS. This would give a more realistic model of the
wireless data world.

An earlier version of this post misidentified the Sandia researcher in the
photo. He is David Fritz, not John Floren.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             October 5, 2012 Friday

In Cyberattacks on Banks, Evidence of a New Weapon

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 566 words



HIGHLIGHT: Last week, a group claiming Middle Eastern ties claimed to have taken
down the Web sites of several American banks using amateur attack tools.
Security researchers discovered that the hackers never used the tools they
claimed. Instead, they did something much more troublesome: They infected data
servers all over the world with a particularly form of malware that eludes
antivirus systems and be used in a potentially more harmful attack another day.



How were amateur hackers able to take down some of America's largest banks?  And
who were they?

Those were some of the bigger mysteries of last week's cyberattacks on Wells
Fargo, U.S. Bank, PNC, the New York Stock Exchange and others, that caused
intermittent Internet outages and delays in online banking.

A group claiming Middle Eastern ties, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters,
took credit for the attacks online. They claimed to have taken the banks' Web
site down using basic online applications. But security researchers said those
methods were far too amateur to have been effective.

Indeed, representatives for PNC, U.S. Bank and Wells Fargo all said that while
they had systems in place to fend off such "denial of service", or DDoS,
attacks-in which hackers bombard a site with traffic until it falls offline-in
this case, the volume of traffic was simply "unprecedented."

"They must have had help from other sources," said Jaime Blasco, a security
researcher at AlienVault, who investigated the attacks.

Those sources, it turns out, were data centers around the world that had been
infected with a sophisticated form of malware that can evade detection by
antivirus solutions. The attackers used those infected servers to simultaneously
fire at American financial services companies until they fell offline.

"That method has never been used to this degree before," said Carl Herberger, a
vice president at Radware, who has been investigating the attacks on behalf of
many of the victims. "By infecting data servers, the attackers were given the
horsepower and commercial grade capabilities to affect a massive attack."

Typically DDoS attacks are deployed through an application-like the one hackers
claimed to use in their online postings--or botnets, networks of infected zombie
computers and devices that do hackers' work for them.

In this case, hackers infected data centers first. The malware they used was
designed to encrypt itself in order to hide from antivirus solutions-- defending
against such malware is a little like fighting an invisible man.  The attacks
infected data servers all over the world and then instructed the servers to
simultaneously fire at each bank until they took each Web site offline.

Mr. Herberger said Radware traced one of the infected servers back to Saudi
Arabia. That does not mean, however, that the attacks originated in Saudi Arabia
because the infection could have originated anywhere.

Mr. Herberger said it was still unclear who was behind the attack.
Interestingly, he said Radware's researchers did not find any evidence that the
attackers used any of the attack tools hackers posted online. "From our vantage
point, those tools were not used," he said.

Among remaining unknowns were how these servers were infected in the first
place, how widespread the infection rate is, and--perhaps most troubling of
all--whether the servers could be leveraged to inflict more damage on another
target tomorrow.

"We don't have great answers," Mr. Herberger said. "Until we inoculate this
tool, we can't stop the bullets from being fired, we can only try to limit the
bullet's impact."

He added, "It's the classic chess game that is security."


     ·    Google Warns of New State-Sponsored Cyberattack Targets
     ·    Facebook's 5% Solution in Data Centers
     ·    When Internet Factories Come to Town
     ·    Power, Pollution and the Internet
     ·    Got Gauss? Tool Helps Spot Lebanon-Focused Virus on PCs


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 8, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Simulating a City Of Android Phones

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 869 words


An air-conditioned data center at Sandia National Laboratories in Livermore,
Calif., has the ambience of a Best Buy showroom, with 500 inexpensive desktop
computers lined up on racks. But the PCs here are doing something special.

A small team of cybersecurity researchers have lashed the computers together to
form a homebrew computing cluster. They are stacked five levels high, braced in
impromptu fashion with metal girders in the event of earthquakes, and woven
together with colorful Ethernet cables. They serve as a cyber-Potemkin village
-- a distributed software simulation that is intended to mimic the behavior of
an entire city's worth of Android smartphones.

So far, the researchers have emulated the behavior of a network of 300,000
Android phones, down to details like sending text messages and transmitting
wireless data, and even the behavior of the phone's radios or sensors.

In the future, they hope that their software, which will be freely available
through an open-source license, will be used by groups designing social network
applications like Foursquare, military battle planners, disaster relief workers
and American hackers who are building mesh wireless networks intended to make
the Internet available inside nations controlled by dictators, among others.

"We wanted to create something that would approximate the many, many phones in a
real network," said John Floren, a Sandia computer scientist who is part of the
group of researchers that built the system, which is called MegaDroid.

The idea is that while such simulators have in the past been developed by the
engineers of large data networks, they have not been generally accessible to
small groups of designers who might be working on a some new type of distributed
application.

To date, wireless smartphone networks have not suffered malicious software
infections at the same rate as the standard wired network, which is now plagued
by a vast array of malware. Many computer security specialists believe that this
will soon change as personal computing goes mobile, much as Willie Sutton robbed
banks because, as he put it, that's where the money was.

A wireless network simulation like MegaDroid would make it possible for security
researchers to gain new insights into "attack vectors," according to the Sandia
engineers. Their computing cluster is in an unclassified area of Sandia, which
historically has been one of the two engineering and design centers that has
built and maintained the nation's nuclear weapons.

On a large monitor outside the data center, it appears as if the researchers
have turned loose a frenetic army of virtual Charlie Sheens on the city of
Livermore, Calif. (The use of the Charlie Sheen icons is apparently an inside
joke among the researchers.) The scene is actually a visualization tool used by
the MegaDroid simulator, which includes fake GPS data and gives the appearance
of a beehive of cellular activity as the Android phone owners drive and walk
around a map of the city.

The researchers stressed that simulating a wireless network is a much more
complex undertaking than simulating a standard desktop-based network.

"In a desktop PC network, the biggest problem you have is someone kicking a cord
out," said David Fritz, one of the MegaDroid designers.

In contrast, modern wireless networks are composed of shifting herds of tens of
thousands of smartphone users. The simulation is made even more complex by the
fact that each phone contains multiple radios and sensors.

The danger of not having a deep understanding of the behavior of a computer
network was made clear several decades ago at the very beginning of the Internet
era. In 1988 a Cornell graduate student brought much of the Internet to a
standstill -- it was composed of about 50,000 computers at the time -- when he
unleashed a program known as a worm that was intended to live in the network as
a bit of digital graffiti -- in effect, the cyber-equivalent of writing "Kilroy
was here." However, because of an error in coding that caused the software to
rapidly replicate, a vast number of copies spread through the network,
overwhelming it.

The researchers said they were concerned about such issues of network
resilience, but they also saw the possibility that MegaDroid might be used to
build new kinds of distributed applications. For example, disaster workers in an
earthquake zone could harness the accelerometers in their phones together to
provide a digital seismograph, tracking aftershocks. Or small and inexpensive
chemical and biological sensors could be added to smartphones carried by
government workers, creating an early warning system in the event of terrorist
attacks.

The researchers said that they were sensitive to privacy issues and that they
believed the simulator could be used to build systems that provided useful data
in national security situations while protecting privacy.

Right now the system models only the open-source Android operating system
designed by Google, but the Sandia researchers said they hoped to add other
operating sytems like Apple's IOS. This would give a more realistic model of the
wireless data world.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/03/300000-android-phones-roam-a-virtual-to
wn/

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Fritz, one of the MegaDroid designers, at the data center
at Sandia National Laboratories. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DINO VOURNAS/SANDIA NATIONAL
LABORATORIES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                             October 8, 2012 Monday

China Slams 'Cold War Mentality' in U.S. Report

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 844 words



HIGHLIGHT: China struck back Tuesday at a bipartisan congressional report that
says two leading Chinese telecom companies pose a potential national security
threat to the United States. The House report also said growing economic
espionage against the United States was being conducted or supported by the
government in Beijing.


HONG KONG - China struck back Tuesday at a U.S. congressional report that says
two leading Chinese telecommunication companies represent  potential security
threats to the United States.

The bipartisan report from the House Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence - the full report is here -  said Huawei Technologies and ZTE
should be barred from doing business with the U.S. government. American
companies were also cautioned about trading with Huawei and ZTE.

The companies make equipment vital to wireless networks, including those that
operate in the United States.

As my colleagues Michael Schmidt, Keith Bradsher and Christine Hauser report  in
The New York Times: "Allowing the Chinese companies to do business in the United
States, the report said, would give the Chinese government the ability to easily
intercept communications and could allow it to start online attacks on critical
infrastructure, like dams and power grids."

A commentary on Tuesday by Xinhua, the Chinese state news agency, said the House
report was "totally groundless and comes out of protectionism."  Any perceived
security threat, Xinhua said, was "based on wild guesses."

Chinese energy and telecom firms "have long been viewed through colored
spectacles by some U.S. lawmakers on misplaced security concerns," the Xinhua
report said. "The report laid bare a Cold War mentality as well as protectionism
among politicians at Capitol Hill to contain Chinese investments, which could
offer new business and job opportunities for the sluggish U.S. economy.

"Protectionism or anti-market intervention is not a wise choice for Washington."

An opinion piece on Tuesday in Global Times, a newspaper affiliated with the
Community Party, said: "The U.S. has repeatedly obstructed Chinese companies
from entering into U.S. domestic competition under the pretext of 'national
security.' The U.S. is gradually becoming reduced to an unreasonable country."

An article in the state-run newspaper China Daily also slammed the House report
and quoted Huo Jianguo, director of the Chinese Academy of International Trade
and Economic Cooperation Institution, who saw domestic U.S. politics playing a
role in the report's tone and timing.

"The report is not just about economic issues, but goes further with guesswork
about alleged conspiracy," Mr. Huo said. "It has obvious political intentions
because displaying a tough attitude to Chinese companies may help win more votes
with a presidential election campaign going on."

The House report cites a lack of candor, cooperation and transparency by both
companies in its investigation, especially Huawei, which is by far the larger of
the two. An excerpt from the report:

Neither company was willing to provide sufficient evidence to ameliorate the
Committee's concerns.  Neither company was forthcoming with detailed information
about its formal relationships or regulatory interaction with Chinese
authorities.  Neither company provided specific details about the precise role
of each company's Chinese Communist Party Committee.  Furthermore, neither
company provided detailed information about its operations in the United States.

Both companies contacted Chinese state news outlets to reject the report's
findings.

China Daily said it had received an e-mail message from Bill Plummer, a Huawei
vice president, that said: "Baseless suggestions purporting that Huawei is
somehow uniquely vulnerable to cyber mischief ignore technical and commercial
realities, recklessly threaten American jobs and innovation, do nothing to
protect national security, and should be exposed as dangerous political
distractions from legitimate public-private initiatives to address what are
global and industry-wide cyber challenges."

A ZTE statement quoted by Xinhua said the company "has set an unprecedented
standard for cooperation by any Chinese company with a congressional
investigation."

The House report went beyond the critiques of the two companies, assailing the
Chinese government itself. Citing U.S. security analyses, the document said
"Chinese intelligence collection efforts against the U.S. government are growing
in 'scale, intensity and sophistication.' "

An excerpt from the report:

Chinese actors are also the world's most active and persistent perpetrators of
economic espionage. U.S. private sector firms and cybersecurity specialists
report an ongoing onslaught of sophisticated computer network intrusions that
originate in China, and are almost certainly the work of, or have the backing
of, the Chinese government.  Further, Chinese intelligence services, as well as
private companies and other entities, often recruit those with direct access to
corporate networks to steal trade secrets and other sensitive proprietary data.

These cyber and human-enabled espionage efforts often exhibit sophisticated
technological capabilities, and these capabilities have the potential to
translate into efforts to insert malicious hardware or software implants into
Chinese-manufactured telecommunications components and systems marketed to the
United States.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           October 11, 2012 Thursday

The Dangers of Allowing an Adversary Access to a Network

BYLINE: JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 909 words



HIGHLIGHT: It was striking that the word "Trojan" was not mentioned in a 52-page
Congressional report focusing on the activities of two giant Chinese
telecommunications firms, Huawei and ZTE, which have long been suspected of
having links to the Chinese government.


Schoolchildren learn the tale of the Trojan Horse, the giant gift in which
Odysseus and a platoon of 30 Greek soldiers hid to gain access to the heavily
defended city.

Thousands of years later, it remains a thoroughly modern concept that is
increasingly found at the heart of cyberwarfare strategies. Modern Trojan horses
are computer code or vulnerabilities hidden in software or hardware that would
allow a spy or an attacker to gain access to an adversary's computers and
networks. Find a way to be invited into the computers of your enemy's weapons
and military systems and you can render them useless in the face of an attack.

For more than a decade, Pentagon officials have been anxious about the growing
reliance by the United States electronics industry on Chinese manufacturers. As
the Internet has become the nation's critical infrastructure weaving together
commerce and power systems and even military command and control, it has become
increasingly unthinkable to have a foreign presence in the network. Their fear
is that those building and maintaining the network could build in a Trojan
horse.

Thus it was striking that the word "Trojan" was not mentioned in a 52-page
report issued Monday by the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
focusing on the activities of two giant Chinese telecommunications firms, Huawei
and ZTE, which have long been suspected of having links to the Chinese
government. Beijing has been suspected of trying to steal American corporate and
government secrets through computer espionage.

Stuxnet, a surreptitious program that was reportedly designed by United States
and Israeli intelligence agencies to afflict the Iranian nuclear enrichment
program, had many of the properties of a highly sophisticated Trojan horse. The
program was at the heart of a concerted effort to delay or destroy the Iranian
Natanz nuclear fuel facility. The attack damaged centrifuges and might have
provided a surveillance window into Iranian activities by giving Western
intelligence agencies unfettered access to the desktop computers of Iranian
project managers.

The program acted as a Trojan horse, perhaps delivered first on a USB memory
stick, that then spread through computer networks inside the secret facility
before reaching the outside world. A striking map of the paths followed by
Stuxnet infection created by researchers at Symantec, the Silicon Valley
computer security firm, indicates that Stuxnet actually broke out of Natanz,
rather than breaking in, just as the Greek soldiers climbed out of the horse at
night.

Possibly because the United States is making Trojan horses, that term - if it
exists in the House report on Huawei and ZTE - is said to be found only in a
classified annex to the report that has not been made available.

The published report consists of a series of allegations about the activities of
the companies, including bribery and surveillance, but little hard evidence.
Reports of "suspicious" incidents, including an ostensible case of "beaconing"
from Cricket, a Texas wireless operator that uses Huawei equipment, have been
heatedly denied by Huawei.

If this issue is important enough, saidRichard A. Clarke, who served as the
nation's counterterrorism overseer in both the Clinton andGeorge W. Bush
administrations, there should be ways of declassifying the information. "They're
making important accusations," he said. "Important accusations require important
proof."

According to several former government officials, the real issue is not what has
happened in the past but rather what might happen if Huawei gear were widely
used in American telecommunications networks. Such use would mean that the
company would have to serve and fix the network, requiring extensive access for
its technical personnel to telecommunications networks in the United States.

The danger in letting your potential adversary maintain your network has already
been demonstrated, according to Mr. Clarke, who wrote in "Cyber War: The Next
Threat to National Security and What to Do About It." In 2007, a remarkably
sophisticated computer attack by Israel rendered Syrian antiaircraft radar
useless. Israeli aircraft were able to destroy a Syrian nuclear reactor without
any response from the country's military. He says it was vulnerable because the
Syrians had relied on outsiders to maintain the network.

Mr. Clarke disputes a recent New Yorker article that asserted that the bombing
attack was supported by conventional electronic warfare, which involves jamming
or deceiving an enemies' radar with high-powered radio waves. "Regular
electronic warfare fills the frequencies with static and overpowers the
frequencies," he said. "That wakes people up. That didn't happen. The Syrians
didn't notice the jamming of their radars."

In 2009, The New York Times reported that an American semiconductor industry
executive who claimed to have direct knowledge of the operation said that
technology for disabling the radars had been supplied by Americans to the
Israeli electronic intelligence agency, Unit 8200.

If his account is true, it may be the real reason that the government has worked
so hard to make sure that American computer networks are not made in China.


     ·    A Firefox Smartphone for the Developing World
     ·    In Cyberattacks on Banks, Evidence of a New Weapon
     ·    Google Warns of New State-Sponsored Cyberattack Targets
     ·    Cloud Computing for the Poorest Countries
     ·    The Frightening Things You Hear at a Black Hat Conference


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           October 11, 2012 Thursday

Vice-Presidential Debate Fact-Checks and Updates

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 12031 words



HIGHLIGHT: Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Representative Paul D. Ryan
square off on Thursday night in Danville, Ky. in the only vice presidential
debate. Live coverage begins at 8 p.m. eastern.


Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Representative Paul D. Ryan square off on
Thursday night in Danville, Ky., in the only vice-presidential debate. Live
coverage begins at 8 p.m. eastern. The Times will be providing updates and
analysis on our live dashboard. You can also follow along on Twitter @thecaucus,
or follow our list of Times journalists covering the debate.

10:42 A.M. | Fact Check: An 'Aggressive' Timeline for Afghanistan

Mr. Biden said that the troop withdrawal schedule President Obama had
established for Afghanistan was fully supported by Joint Chiefs of Staff. But
there was some concern among top generals.

General David Petraeus, who was the commander in Afghanistan, at the time, told
Congress that he would have preferred a slower withdrawal timetable so that
American forces sent for the troop surge Mr. Obama ordered could have remained
at peak strength for more of the fighting season.

On June 22, 2011, General Petraeus said that the withdrawal schedule Mr. Obama
picked "was a more aggressive formulation, if you will, in terms of the time
line" than what he and Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs had
recommended.

Admiral Mullen told Congress that "the President's decisions are more aggressive
and incur more risk than I was originally prepared to accept. More force for
more time is, without doubt, the safer course. But that does not necessarily
make it the best course. Only the President, in the end, can really determine
the acceptable level of risk we must take."

- Michael Gordon

10:23 A.M. | Fact Check: 20 Million People to Lose Coverage?

Mr. Ryan said that according to the Congressional Budget Office, up to 20
million people are projected to "lose their health care" when President Obama's
health care law goes into effect. Mr. Ryan was going out on a limb.

He was referring to a report the nonpartisan budget office put out in March on
how the law would affect the number of people getting health insurance through
their employer. But the report's baseline estimate was that between three and
five million fewer people, net, would get coverage through their job each year
from 2019 through 2022 than would have been the case under prior law. And the
report said that some of those people would choose to stop getting insurance
through their employer, to take advantage of new federal subsidies that will
help people with incomes up to four times the  poverty level buy private
insurance through new state- or federally-run marketplaces called exchanges.

The baseline projections in the report assume that many others, even if their
employer stopped offering coverage due to the law, would also qualify for the
new subsidies or for Medicaid, which will expand to cover more low-income
people.

The report did predict that as many as 20 million fewer people could get
employer-sponsored insurance under the law. But it was the most drastic of four
possible scenarios it predicted, based on a range of assumptions. The
assumptions used to arrive at the estimate of 20 million "have only rarely been
reported in the research literature," according to the report.

In another scenario, the report predicted a net gain of three million people
with employer-sponsored insurance as a result of the law.  The other scenarios
predicted declines of 10 million and 12 million people with employer-sponsored
coverage.

Overall, the report said, the number of uninsured people is projected to drop by
29 million by 2019 due to the law.

- Abby Goodnough

10:20 A.M. | Fact Check: Religious Institutions' and Contraception

Mr. Romney has portrayed as an attack on religious freedom a provision of Mr.
Obama's health care law requiring most insurance plans offered by employers to
include free birth control coverage. One Romney ad accuses Mr. Obama of using
the law "to declare war on religion, forcing religious institutions to go
against their faith."

From the start, churches and other houses of worship were exempt from the
contraceptive requirement. Still, it provoked furious criticism from Roman
Catholic institutions and some other religious groups. The administration
ultimately offered what Mr. Obama described as "an accommodation" for
church-affiliated schools, universities, hospitals and charities. They would not
have to provide or pay for contraceptive coverage, but their female employees
from their insurance companies at no cost.

Mr. Romney supported a subsequent Republican effort, known as the Blunt
amendment, to let employers and health insurance companies deny coverage for
contraceptives and other items they object to on religious or moral grounds. But
the Senate in March narrowly voted to kill the effort.

Mr. Romney has said he would abolish the contraceptive coverage requirement.

- Abby Goodnough

10:17 A.M. | Fact Check: Biden Blurs Voting Record on Spending

When Mr. Biden itemized a number of actions the Bush administration took with
Mr. Ryan's support that added to the debt, he blurred his own record at the time
in the Senate, giving the misleading impression that he had voted against the
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, which he supported.

"And, by the way, they talk about this Great Recession as if it fell out of the
sky, like, 'Oh, my goodness, where did it come from?' " Mr. Biden said at the
debate. "It came from this man voting to put two wars on a credit card, to at
the same time put a prescription drug benefit on the credit card, a
trillion-dollar tax cut for the very wealthy. I was there. I voted against them.
I said, no, we can't afford that. And now, all of a sudden, these guys are so
seized with the concern about the debt that they created."

Mr. Biden did vote against the Bush tax cuts in both 2001 and 2003. And while he
voted for an initial version of the Medicare drug benefit, he voted against the
final bill.

But Mr. Biden did vote to authorize President Bush to use force against Iraq,
and he voted during the week of the Sept. 11 attacks to give the president "all
necessary and appropriate force" to respond to the terror attacks.

- Michael Cooper and Kitty Bennett

0:18 A.M. | That's a Wrap

The vice-presidential debate has ended and the candidates are going home. The
Caucus live blog has ended, too. You can rewatch the entire debate, read the
transcript and scroll through our fact check feature, and be sure come back to
The Caucus and the rest of NYTimes.com for continuing coverage.

And don't forget to download the Election 2012 iPhone app, which smartly
combines our coverage with the best from political news sites, Twitter and blogs
from around the Web.

- The New York Times

0:07 A.M. | Fact Check: Positions on Abortion

Mr. Ryan said Thursday that the Democratic Party supported abortion "without
restriction and with taxpayer funding'' under the health care law signed by
President Obama in 2010.

Under the law, health insurance plans are generally allowed to cover abortion.
If they cover the procedure, they cannot use federal money to pay for it. People
who enroll in such plans will generally have to make separate payments - - one
for abortion coverage and one for everything else - - and insurers must keep the
money in separate accounts.

Starting in 2014, the federal government will spend tens of billions of dollars
subsidizing comprehensive health insurance for low- and moderate-income people.
Opponents of abortion say that while the government will not directly pay for
abortion, it will subsidize some insurance plans that provide coverage for
abortion services.

In nearly 14 years as a Republican congressman from Wisconsin, Mr. Ryan has been
an ardent, unwavering foe of abortion rights and has tried to cut off federal
money for family planning.

In the debate Thursday, Mr. Ryan said, "The policy of a Romney administration is
to oppose abortion with exceptions for rape, incest and life of the mother.''
He suggested that decisions on the legality of abortion should be made by
Congress, not courts.

"We don't think that unelected judges should make this decision,'' Mr. Ryan
said. Rather, he said, "people, through their elected representatives and
reaching a consensus in society through the democratic process, should make this
determination.''

In an interview with the conservative Weekly Standard in 2010, Mr. Ryan said,
"I'm as pro-life as a person gets.''

He has voted for legislation that would cut off federal money for Planned
Parenthood and the Title X family planning program and establish criminal
penalties for certain doctors who perform the procedure known as partial birth
abortion.

He is a co-sponsor of a bill that would define fetuses as persons entitled to
full protection under the law.

The bill declares, "The life of each human being begins with fertilization,
cloning or its functional equivalent, irrespective of sex, health, function or
disability, defect, stage of biological development or condition of dependency,
at which time every human being shall have all the legal and constitutional
attributes and privileges of personhood.''

The concept of personhood is a fundamental tenet of the anti-abortion movement.

Like most Republicans, Mr. Ryan has strenuously opposed the new health care law.
He has criticized Mr. Obama's efforts to guarantee free insurance coverage of
contraceptives for women, including those employed by Roman Catholic hospitals,
universities and social service agencies.

In the debate, Mr. Ryan said the administration was "assaulting the religious
liberties of this country'' through such policies.

"They're infringing upon our first freedom, the freedom of religion, by
infringing on Catholic charities, Catholic churches, Catholic hospitals,'' Mr.
Ryan said. "Our church should not have to sue our federal government to maintain
their religious liberties.''

The 2010 health care law requires most insurers to cover preventive services
without co-payments or deductibles. Under the administration policy, most health
plans must cover birth control for women - - all contraceptive drugs and devices
approved by the Food and Drug Administration - - as well as sterilization
procedures.

Church-affiliated universities, hospitals and charities would not have to
provide or pay for such coverage. Instead, the White House says, coverage for
birth control could be offered to women directly by their employers' insurance
companies, "with no role for religious employers who oppose contraception.''

The administration has not said exactly how such arrangements would work for
church-affiliated employers that serve as their own insurers.

Mr. Biden defended the administration's approach.

"With regard to the assault on the Catholic Church,'' Mr. Biden said, "let me
make it absolutely clear. No religious institution, Catholic or otherwise,
including Catholic Social Services, Georgetown Hospital, Mercy - any hospital -
none has to either refer contraception. None has to pay for contraception. None
has to be a vehicle to get contraception in any insurance policy they provide.''

- Robert Pear

11:59 P.M. | The Caucus Click: Spin Alley

- Max Whittaker

11:08 P.M. | Fact Check: Romney's Bipartisan Record

Seeking a contrast to Mr. Obama's difficulties in dealing with Republican
legislators, Mr. Ryan said that as Massachusetts governor, Mr. Romney "found
common ground" with a legislature that was 87 percent Democratic, meeting each
week with Democratic leaders. The result, he said, was a state budget that was
balanced each year without tax increases.

Mr. Romney did sometimes worked with the Democratic legislature as governor,
particularly in the last 18 months of his term, when he won approval of a
version of his plan for universal health insurance. And the two sides did agree
in his first year in office to cut $1.6 billion from the Massachusetts budget in
the face of a revenue crisis triggered by the collapse of the dot-com boom.

The state did balance its budget during Mr. Romney's term, as Mr. Ryan said. But
as most people understand it, that achievement did not come without tax
increases. By closing what Mr. Romney called business "tax loopholes" - in
effect, increasing tax liabilities - the state raised an addition $375 million
annually, according to the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation. Mr. Romney's
administration also raised another $375 million a year by increasing a bevy of
fees on state services.

But beyond that, independent observers say, Mr. Romney's bipartisan achievements
were sparse, and his relations with the legislature frequently distant and
acrimonious.

Bipartisanship "worked out extremely well on his signature issue, health care,"
said Peter Ubertaccio, a scholar of Massachusetts politics who heads the
political science department at Stonehill College in Easton, Mass. "But if you
look at his willingness to go to the other, side, to listen to them, embrace
them challenge them to come up with a bill, he approached much of his
policymaking as a chief executive with little in the way of results."

He and others say Mr. Romney had little patience with the horse-trading and
backslapping of Massachusetts politics, and disdained the personal cultivating
of rank-and-file legislators that bred good will. He opened his four-year term
in 2003 by vetoing the Democratic leadership's plan to create new committees and
raise salaries of some chairmen. The legislature rejected outright the keystone
of his legislative agenda, a sweeping overhaul of state government and the
public university system.

That was but the start of a slide in relations, said Jeffrey Berry, a Tufts
University expert on state politics. In 2004, Mr. Romney mounted a $3 million
election campaign to unseat Democratic legislators, employing a direct-mail
barrage which, among other things, implied that some Democrats had cast a vote
that would hinder the tracking of convicted pedophiles. When Democrats
protested, Republicans replied that they had employed similarly aggressive
tactics.

By the end of that year, The Boston Globe reported, House Speaker Salvatore
DiMasi was drawing laughs by noting that Mr. Romney had hugged him after his
swearing-in - and that Mr DiMasi wound up with frostbite. (Some former Romney
aides called Mr. DiMasi the legislature's main obstructionist, saying he played
a crucial role in blocking the governor's legislative efforts in 2005 and 2006.)

By the end of his four years, most of Mr. Romney's major initiatives, including
pension reform, reinstating the death penalty, education reform and reorganizing
the state transportation department, had failed to pass.

In the first presidential debate, Mr. Romney cited weekly meetings with House
and Senate Democratic leaders as evidence of his success in building bridges to
Democratic lawmakers. Those meetings were fairly common during his first years
in office. But they grew more sporadic as his term lengthened. By 2006 - when
Mr. Romney was out of the state for all or part of 219 days, campaigning for the
Republican presidential nomination - they became rare events.

- Michael Wines

11:15 P.M. | Fact Check: When Would Romney Leave Afghanistan?

Vice President Biden sought to suggest that a Romney administration might keep
troops in Afghanistan indefinitely. "With regard to Afghanistan, he [Mr. Obama]
said he would end the war in 2014," Mr. Biden said. "Governor Romney said we
should not set a date, No. 1, and No. 2, with regard to 2014, it depends."  Is
Mr. Biden right?

Mr. Ryan said that Mr. Romney embraced the 2014 timeline for troop withdrawals.
Mr. Ryan also said, "We don't want to lose the gains we've gotten" - but he did
not precisely explain how a Romney administration would do this better than the
Obama administration.

Mr. Romney's exact position on troop withdrawals has, at times, been unclear,
and that has opened him up to attacks that he might keep regular infantry troops
there longer, compared with the Obama administration's pledge to remove all
regular combat troops by 2014.

While Mr. Romney has for some time broadly embraced the same 2014 timeline, he
has often qualified the timeline by saying that he would first seek advice from
commanders on the ground, which his critics say has been a way to leave himself
wiggle room to  leave combat troops in Afghanistan after 2014.

This week, a Romney official did not specifically answer a question about
whether Mr. Romney has ruled out keeping regular combat brigades in Afghanistan
after 2014, as opposed to keeping a small contingent  of military trainers and
special operations forces after that date, as  the White House has spoken of
doing.

Mr. Romney and other Republicans have accused Mr. Obama of undermining the war
effort in Afghanistan by setting timelines for troop withdrawals, thus giving
the Taliban incentive to wait things out, and Mr. Ryan repeated this attack at
the debate, saying, "We don't want to embolden our enemies to hold and wait out
for us."

But troop withdrawal timelines are an issue that underscores a problem Mr.
Romney has often faced this campaign: Trying to draw a distinction with Mr.
Obama on foreign policy while having a hard time articulating specific policy
disagreements.  Mr. Romney said in his Oct. 8 foreign policy speech that he
"will pursue a real and successful transition to Afghan security forces by the
end of 2014," adding that he would "weigh the best advice" of commanders.

But critics say Mr. Romney's own embrace of the 2014 timeline has undermined his
major criticism - that Mr. Obama's timelines are wrong because they embolden the
Taliban. One of Mr. Romney's advisers, Dan Senor, speaking on Fox News, referred
to bringing troops home in 2014 by saying, "In that respect, our position is the
same as the president's."

The Fox News host, Bret Baier, responded incredulously, "But aren't you saying
that that's exactly the same - it's a calendar date on the page that gives the
Taliban a date that they are going to step in?"

Analysts say Mr. Romney has  little choice but to back the Obama-NATO timeline:
Despite the more hawkish language, Mr. Romney could not risk facing charges that
he wants to extend an unpopular - and in the view of many experts - unwinnable
war.

- Richard A. Oppel Jr.

10:58 P.M. | Fact Check: Did Obama Apologize for American Values?

Mr. Ryan suggested that Mr. Obama has apologized for American values, similar to
repeated assertions made by Republicans that the president went on an "apology
tour" after his inauguration, or that he has sought to apologize for American
principles. "What we should not be apologizing for is standing up for our
values,"  Mr. Ryan said at the debate. Are those charges correct?

The claim of Mr. Obama apologizing for American values has been repeatedly found
to be inaccurate: While Mr. Obama has acknowledged American failings at times -
and, like his predecessor, George W. Bush, has on at least one occasion
apologized for a specific act of American wrongdoing abroad - he has never
explicitly apologized for American values or diplomacy.

Nevertheless, this notion has been a reliable attack line at Romney campaign
events. Republicans have sought to use a number of excerpts from Mr. Obama's
speeches or interviews  to make their case. One of the most commonly used is a
2009 speech in France in which Mr. Obama said that "there have been times where
America has shown arrogance and been dismissive, even derisive."  Critics
typically ignore what Mr. Obama said next: "But in Europe, there is an
anti-Americanism that is at once casual but can also be insidious. Instead of
recognizing the good that America so often does in the world, there have been
times where Europeans choose to blame America for much of what's bad."

In February, Mr. Obama did apologize to the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai,
after American military personnel were involved in burning copies of the Koran,
an episode that spawned violence throughout Afghanistan. But his expression of
regret came after Marine Gen. John R. Allen, the American commander in
Afghanistan, had already apologized. It also brought to mind the apology
then-President Bush made in 2004 to King Abdullah of Jordan for abuses at Abu
Ghraib prison.

In an interview in February with Fox News, Mr. Romney seemed to object to the
Koran-burning apology, saying, "For us to be apologizing at a time like this is
something which is very difficult for the American people to countenance."

But Mr. Ryan expressed a somewhat different view. Asked during the debate
whether the United States should have apologized "for Americans burning Korans
in Afghanistan, should the U.S. apologize for U.S. Marines urinating on Taliban
corpses?" Mr. Ryan responded: "Oh gosh yes. Urinating on Taliban corpses?"

- Richard A. Oppel Jr.

10:45 P.M. | Candidates Save Their Best Arguments for the End

The two candidates gave their best closing statements before the real ones.

Asked by Ms. Raddatz what they would say to a military hero about the tone of
the political campaign, Mr. Biden and Mr. Ryan both offered heart-felt answers
that got to the root of their campaigns.

Mr. Biden said he would ask the hero about which presidential candidate would be
more likely to help the middle class recover from a devastating economic
collapse.

"Whether or not Governor Romney or President Obama has the conviction to help
lift up the middle class, help restore them to where they were when this great
recession hit," Mr. Biden said.

He said he would tell the hero to "take a look at whether the president of the
United States has acted wisely in the use of force," and he compared that to
what he called "slipshod comments" about foreign policy from Mr. Romney.

Mr. Ryan offered a crisp summation of his critique of Mr. Obama's tenure in
office, perhaps stealing from his closing statement.

He said Mr. Obama had left Americans with a "string of broken promises" on
health care, taxes and the deficit. On the debt crisis, he accused the president
of failing to provide a real budget plan.

"The president likes to say he's got a plan. He gave a speech," Mr. Ryan said.
"You see, that's what we get in this administration. Speeches. What we need is
leadership."

- Michael D. Shear

10:40 P.M. | Issue of Abortion Raised In Answers on Faith

If there was one subject that hard-core Democrats wanted raised, it was abortion
and contraception. Mr. Biden did not disappoint.

Prompted by a question about the Roman Catholic faith of both men, Mr. Biden
warned that a Republican administration would appoint a Supreme Court justice
who would overturn Roe v. Wade, the case that made abortion legal.

"Just ask yourself, with Robert Bork being the chief adviser on the court for
Mr. Romney," Mr. Biden said, "who is he likely to appoint? You think he's likely
to appoint someone like Scalia?"

Mr. Ryan said that he personally believed that "life begins at conception," but
said that the policy of a Romney administration would be to oppose abortion
except in the case of rape, incest or the life of the mother.

Mr. Ryan accused Mr. Obama's administration of trying to force religious
institutions to pay for contraception, a charge that Mr. Biden rejected as
wrong.

And Mr. Ryan said that the Republican ticket did not "think that unelected
judges should make this decision."

- Michael D. Shear

10:40 P.M. | Fact Check: Would Ryan Budget Slash Early Education?

Mr. Biden charged that Mr. Ryan's budget, which was passed by Republicans in the
House, would have cut early childhood education for 200,000 children. Is that
accurate?

Mr. Ryan's plan did call for major spending cuts and would undoubtedly cut
education spending - but it did not specify exactly which programs would be cut
or by how much. Democrats have based their estimates of its impact on the
assumption that the cuts would be spread evenly across the board, an approach
Republicans say they would not take.

So what might the effects be? Arne Duncan, the secretary of education, testified
earlier this year that Mr. Ryan's budget could have "disastrous consequences for
America's children."

Mr. Duncan estimated that that the Ryan budget could reduce spending on
education for low-income, minority, rural and tribal children by $2.7 billion in
2014. He said that could affect 9,000 schools serving more than 3.8 million
students, and jeopardize the jobs of as up to 38,000 teachers and aides. He said
that aid to help students with disabilities could face $2.2 billion in cuts,
which he said would translate to the loss of nearly 30,000 special education
teachers, aides and other staff. And he said that some 200,000 children could
lose access to Head Start.

Republicans have said that while the budget calls for steep spending cuts, it
does not specify them. Mr. Ryan himself has often questioned whether federal
spending translates to better results. "Stagnant student achievement levels and
exploding deficits have demonstrated that massive amounts of federal funding and
top-down interventions are not the way to provide America's students with a
high-quality education," he said in a statement on his Web site.

- Michael Cooper

10:33 P.M. | Fact Check: Troops on the Ground in Syria?

Mr. Ryan ruled out putting troops on  the ground in Syria unless it "is in the
national interest of the American people." How much did that diverge from what
the administration says?

Mr. Ryan essentially put himself in a place pretty close to where President
Obama and Mr. Biden have been: that America's options are limited if putting
ground troops into the country is off the table.

The essence of the Ryan argument was that the Obama administration had acted too
slowly and given Russia a veto at the United Nations. But that veto - which the
Russians possess as a member of the Security Council - wasn't about taking
military action against Bashar al-Assad, the Syrian president who is clinging to
power. It was about sanctions.

So in the end, the two men, while emphasizing their differences, seemed to come
out in the same place: the only event that would prompt America to go into Syria
would be the need to secure its chemical weapons stockpiles. Anything short of
that was not worth the risks.

- David E. Sanger

10:27 P.M. | Fact Check: American Troops Out of Afghanistan in 2014?

Mr. Biden could not be more emphatic: By the end of 2014 all Americans will be
out of Afghanistan. He said it, then said it again, insisting it is "the
responsibility of the Afghans" to secure their own country. Was he accurate?

Well, sort of.

What Mr. Biden was skipping over was the administration's plan for an "enduring
presence" of 10,000 to 15,000 troops - mostly behind the high walls of military
bases - to act as a tripwire to keep the Taliban from taking Kabul, and to keep
an eye on Pakistan.

The enduring presence has not been agreed to yet by the Afghan government, but
the administration believes that President Karzai will have little choice,
because his own forces will need backup. But the reality is that the American
presence is as much focused on Pakistan, and its nuclear stockpile, as it is on
Afghanistan. From the base in Afghanistan, the United States would keep bomb
search teams, drone operators and special forces.

- David E. Sanger

10:27 P.M. | Debate Pace a Function of Format?

If the presidential debate in Denver last week lacked much in the way of
fireworks between the candidates, the vice-presidential debate in Kentucky more
than made up for it.

One contributing factor could have been the change in format. The first debate,
which was divided into six 15-minute blocks, allowed for longer, more stump
speech-like answers, fewer opportunities for the moderator to interject and less
interaction between the candidates. Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney stood far apart on
the stage, each behind his own lectern.

The vice-presidential debate, however, was divided up into nine 10-minute
segments. The pace was noticeably quicker, and the confrontations between the
candidates sharper. Mr. Biden and Mr. Ryan sat just an arm's length from each
other at a table.

Ms. Raddatz, who moderated the debate, seemed to use her close proximity to the
candidates to her advantage. She kept them - mostly - from running over their
allotted two-minute responses. And she was able to interrupt without having them
ignore her.

The presidential debate next week will provide a format that should move even
faster. It will be a town hall-style meeting in which audience members ask
questions. The candidates will each have two minutes to respond. Then the
moderator, CNN's Candy Crowley, will have one additional minute to facilitate a
discussion.

For the final debate on Oct. 22, the format will be the same as the first one.

- Jeremy W. Peters

10:21 P.M. | Foreign Policy, Front and Center

There may not have been as substantive a debate about foreign policy in the
entire 2012 campaign as is taking place here.

Mr. Biden and Mr. Ryan are both engaging in a substantive, heated discussion
about Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq.

Mr. Ryan accused the Obama administration of "outsourcing" its foreign policy to
the United Nations and of letting Russia veto American actions.

Mr. Biden accused Mr. Ryan and Mr. Romney of "loose talk" in Syria and
challenged Mr. Ryan to explain whether he and his running mate support a ground
war in Syria.

"What more would they do other than put American boots on the ground?" he asked.
"The last thing America needs is to get involved in another ground war in the
Middle East."

When Mr. Ryan declined to directly answer the question, Mr. Biden said: "What
would my friend do differently? You notice how he never answers the question."

- Michael D. Shear

10:21 P.M. | Fact Check: Would Romney Military Plan Add $2 Trillion?

During a rapid-fire exchange of talking points on defense spending, Mr. Biden
argued that the Romney-Ryan military spending plans would add $2 trillion to the
budget and that the military itself does not want many of the items in question
at a time the nation simply cannot afford all of them.

Mr. Ryan rebutted the $2 trillion price tag and said that, first of all, a
Romney administration would not cut the defense budget by $1 trillion.

He seems to have gotten that number by adding together the $450 billion-plus
defense spending cuts proposed by the Obama administration over the next decade
and the approximately $500 billion in cuts that would be required if Congress
fails to reach a budget accord.

But that second cut, under a program called sequestration, has not happened yet
- and both Democrats and Republicans are trying to avoid it.

Looking at Mr. Romney's proposals - more warships, more air wings, a more
expanded military presence around the world - shows that they could cost $2
trillion, or maybe not.

Here's why any exact price tag is hard to calculate. Mr. Romney has pledged, for
example, that as president he would build 15 new warships per year. But even the
candidate's top national security advisers say they have not worked out the
exact mix of warships they would build among a shopping list of littoral combat
ships, destroyers, submarines and so on.

It is impossible to state with certainty the cost of 15 anything - bicycles,
books, bottles of fruit juice - unless you knew exactly what 15 you are buying.

And the discussion among Romney advisers about the possibility of ordering up a
new class of frigate not even on the drawing board yet injects a potential
purchase that simply has no price tag today. The vagueness is both a help and a
hindrance to the Romney campaign

Mr. Ryan also repeated a statement that the American Navy is the smallest in
almost a century.

True, today's Navy is much smaller than in past generations. But Navy commanders
also point out that each individual warship at sea today is far more capable
than any individual predecessor in that class of vessel.

- Thom Shanker

10:22 P.M. | Fact Check:  Waste and the Stimulus

Did the $787 billion stimulus package, overseen by Mr. Biden, suffer from waste
and fraud, as Mr. Ryan contended?

Mr. Ryan charged that the stimulus, which Mr. Biden oversaw and was sometimes
described as the "sheriff" of, was plagued by waste. But while there was plenty
of second-guessing about some of the uses that the $787 billion stimulus was put
to, very little of the money was lost to outright criminal fraud, according to
government officials.

Michael Wood, the executive director of the Recovery Board, which oversaw the
spending, said in a statement last month that out of the $276 billion that the
stimulus allocated for contracts, grants and loans to tens of thousands of
recipients, officials had documented only $11.1 million lost to fraud. He said
that the 29 inspectors general with oversight responsibility had more than 1,900
investigations under way, and that 598 had resulted in convictions and
judgments.

"For a program with so much money in the pipeline," he wrote, "the fraud numbers
are surprisingly low."

When the first chairman of the Recovery Board, Earl Devaney, retired at the end
of 2011, Representative Darrell Issa, the California Republican who is the
chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, issued a
statement praising his tenure.

"As chairman of the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board, he has
introduced innovative techniques to combat waste, fraud and mismanagement,'' Mr.
Issa said in the statement. "I strongly believe the Devaney Model is the future
of protecting taxpayer dollars and must be applied to all federal spending."

- Michael Cooper

10:15 P.M. | Fact Check: A Failure to Safeguard the Libyan Mission?

The debate started with the moderator, Martha Raddatz, focusing on the terrorist
attacks last month in Benghazi, Libya, that killed Ambassador J. Christopher
Stevens and three other Americans on Sept. 11.  "Wasn't this a massive
intelligence failure, Vice President Biden?" Ms. Raddatz asked.

Mr. Biden did not answer the question.  Instead, he mourned the loss of the
Americans and vowed that the government would "get to the bottom of it."

Republicans have singled out Susan E. Rice, the American ambassador to the
United Nations, for criticism, and Mr. Ryan continued that critique. On Sept.
16, Ms. Rice said that the attack on the compound in Benghazi began with the
angry protest about an anti-Islamic film that was "hijacked" by extremists. It
was not until three days later that Matthew G. Olsen, the director of the
National Counterterrorism Center, became the first administration official to
call the assault a terrorist attack.

Ms. Rice said she was using information provided to her by American intelligence
agencies, a defense Mr. Biden repeated here.

"The intelligence community told us that," Mr. Biden said.  "As they learned
more facts about exactly what happened, they changed their assessment."

That is, indeed, what the office of the Director of National Intelligence said
on Sept. 28 - that the assessment had changed with new information.

But in the hours after the Benghazi attack, American officials have said, spy
agencies intercepted electronic communications from fighters from Ansar
al-Shariah, a local extremist group, who began bragging to an operative with Al
Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, the terror group's North African franchise.
Another intercept captured cellphone conversations by militants on the grounds
of the smoldering American mission that suggested links to, or sympathies for,
the regional Qaeda group.

Republicans have pointed to this information as evidence that American officials
suspected the involvement of the Qaeda franchise much earlier than the
administration publicly acknowledged.

Mr. Romney has criticized the Obama administration for initially playing down Al
Qaeda's possible connection to the attacks last month in Benghazi, but some of
his own statements on the assault have been misleading.

In a major foreign policy address on Monday, Mr. Romney said the attack was
"likely the work of forces affiliated with those that attacked our homeland on
Sept. 11, 2001."

This suggests that Al Qaeda's leadership in Pakistan, which planned and carried
out the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, was somehow responsible for the attack in
Libya.  That's misleading.  American intelligence analysts now believe that some
of the militants involved in the attack were linked to groups affiliated with,
or sympathetic to Al Qaeda's franchise in North Africa, not the main Al Qaeda
hierarchy.

In his speech on Monday, Mr. Romney was also imprecise in assessing the strength
of Al Qaeda's global affiliates.  He said the terrorist group "remains a strong
force in Yemen and Somalia, in Libya and other parts of North Africa, in Iraq,
and now in Syria."

While it is true that Qaeda franchises in those regions have been resurgent, the
Qaeda-linked group in Somalia, Shabab, has suffered major territorial losses in
the past year and the organization has influence through affiliated groups or
individuals in Syria and Libya, not a dedicated presence of its own on the
ground there.

- Eric Schmitt

10:16 P.M. | Fact Check: Tax Increases on Small Businesses

Would President Obama's plan to repeal income tax cuts for the highest-earning
Americans kill jobs? Possibly, economists say, but the Clinton-era tax rates Mr.
Obama wants to return to were responsible for creating millions of jobs.

Mr. Ryan, like his running mate, Mr. Romney, warned that Mr. Obama's plan to let
the Bush-era income tax cuts for the highest-earning Americans expire could hurt
small businesses. Mr. Biden countered that 97 percent of small businesses do not
earn enough to be hit by the higher rates, a number borne out by the Joint
Committee on Taxation of Congress.

Mr. Obama wants to roll back the Bush tax cuts on income above $200,000 for
individuals and income above $250,000 for households, raising the top marginal
rate to 39.6 percent from 35 percent now. Some small businesses, which file
taxes as "S corporations," would be hit by the higher rates, but the Joint
Committee on Taxation estimates that only 3 percent would earn enough to be hit
by the new, higher top marginal rates. And not all of those businesses are
exactly small: thousands of them would have receipts of more than $50 million a
year, the committee found. The Romney campaign noted that those few businesses
play an important role and said that they should not be burdened with higher
taxes.

Of the businesses that would be subjected to the higher rates, many are sole
proprietors - a classification so amorphous it can include everyone from
corporate executives who earn income on rental property to entertainers, hedge
fund managers and investment bankers.

Pluralities of likely voters and independent voters said in recent polls that
they supported letting the Bush-era tax cuts on higher earners expire.

Would repealing those tax cuts kill jobs? Economists generally agree that
raising taxes, and taking money that would otherwise cycle through the economy,
can cost jobs; that is one of the reasons that Mr. Obama's stimulus plan
included tax cuts. But it is worth noting that the rates Mr. Obama wants to
return to were last seen during the Clinton administration - a time when the
nation created more 22.7 million jobs, as the Romney campaign has noted.

- Michael Cooper

10:13 P.M. | Moderator Helps Set the Tone

Ms. Raddatz is being much more aggressive than Mr. Lehrer was last week, and it
has helped set the tone of the debate.

Among the criticisms that were leveled at the participants of the first
presidential debate was the idea that Mr. Lehrer, the moderator, didn't press
the candidates enough to explain themselves.

Ms. Raddatz has said she intended to let the candidates have exchanges with each
other. But she also said she would press them, too.

She has.

On issues of taxes, Afghanistan and Iranian nuclear weapons, among others, she
repeatedly asked follow-up questions of the two men, seeking explanations and
clarifications.

About halfway through, she also has been more aggressive in enforcing timelines,
interrupting long answers to move on to other subjects.

That approach has produced a faster-paced debate - though, to be fair to Mr.
Lehrer, the candidates themselves were on fire Thursday night. So maybe the pace
was set by them, not her.

- Michael D. Shear

10:10 P.M. | How Much Will Style Define the Debate?

One of the big questions in the next 24 hours is whether this debate will be
judged more on style than the detail of the exchanges. That is something the
Obama campaign is worrying about - and the Romney campaign is hoping for - as
this debate plays out.

Mr. Biden has repeatedly made the case against Mr. Ryan  - and Mr. Romney - that
Mr. Obama did not during last week's presidential debate. But substance aside,
will Mr. Biden be scored for his style? Will his laughing, eye-rolling and
interrupting be seen as too pushy, too aggressive, too disrespectful?

Democrats will certainly argue that is the worst kind of political analysis -
style over substance. But as Al Gore can certainly attest, that often is the way
debates are judged. And Republicans will surely push that line in the hours
ahead.

Will it work?  Mr. Biden is not running for president, so at least in theory, he
can afford to sacrifice some likability in the service of firing up the
Democratic base and putting into the political atmosphere the Democratic
arguments that Mr. Obama failed to make last week.

- Adam Nagourney

10:08 P.M. | Fact Check: 100 Department of Energy Investigations?

Mr. Ryan, in discussing the 2009 stimulus package, said that the Department of
Energy's inspector general had initiated 100 criminal investigations involving
fraud in the spending program, known as the American Recovery and Reinvestment
Act.

The claim is based on statements from the agency's inspector general, Gregory
Friedman, who told Congress last November that he had begun 100 such
investigations into what he called "various schemes, including the submission of
false information, claims for unallowable or unauthorized expenses and other
improper uses of Recovery Act funds."

Mr. Friedman said that the investigations had led to five criminal prosecutions
and recovery of more than $2.3 million.

According to an Associated Press account of his testimony, Mr. Friedman said the
fraud was a result in part of the fact that very few "shovel ready" projects
were available for government investment at the time the package was enacted.
The Department of Energy received more than $35 billion in one-time funds and
had no infrastructure and few people to oversee such a huge inflow, the
inspector general said.

- John M. Broder

10:05 P.M. | Debate Highlights Differences, Especially on Taxes

Anyone looking for a clash of philosophy found it in this debate, especially on
taxes.

Mr. Biden angrily denounced the tax proposal forwarded by Mr. Ryan and Mr.
Romney, calling it an attack on the middle class.

"This is unconscionable," Mr. Biden said "The middle class got knocked on their
heels. The great recession crushed them. They need some help now."

By contrast, he said, the Bush tax cuts on wealthy people should be allowed to
expire.

Mr. Ryan offered a drastically different vision, saying that the Democratic
approach would be an increase of tax rates on small businesses that would cost
700,000 jobs.

"There aren't enough rich people and small businesses to tax to pay for all
their spending," Mr. Ryan said.

Turning to the camera, he said to viewers, "Watch out, middle class, the tax
bill is coming to you."

The debate offered viewers a clear picture of the differences between the two
campaigns - a difference that was at best muddled by the performance at the
first debate between Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney.

But the exchange was also less civil, with Mr. Biden and Mr. Ryan repeatedly
interrupting each other. Mr. Biden was especially aggressive, offering retorts
to just about every fact that Mr. Ryan tried to offer.

"Not mathematically possible," Mr. Biden repeatedly said to Mr. Ryan's claim
about the Republican tax cut plan.

- Michael D. Shear

10:02 P.M. | Fact Check: Has Obama Been Inconsistent on Iran?

"How are we going to prevent war?" Mr. Biden demanded at one point, after Mr.
Ryan charged that the administration had been wildly inconsistent - vowing that
Iran would never be permitted to get a weapon, then backtracking and saying that
war with Iran would be a disaster. Here, both sides have the facts on their
side.

Mr. Ryan is correct that the administration's language on the utility of a
military attack has been all over the map. While officials routinely say "all
options are on the table," at various points both Defense Secretary Leon Panetta
and the chairman of the joint chiefs, Martin E. Dempsey, have said that an
attack on Iran could drive the nuclear program further underground, and may set
it back for only a while.

But Mr. Biden was right when he said that, while he couldn't go into classified
data, "we feel quite confident" that the United States could deal a military
blow to Iran's nuclear program. The question is how big a blow.

Most experts say that only one weapon in the American arsenal, the Massive
Ordinance Penetrator - a weapon the Israelis don't possess - could pierce the
deep underground nuclear enrichment center at Fordow. That's the facility the
United States and Israel are concerned about because it produces a form of
uranium close to bomb grade.

Interestingly, both men agreed that they think there is more time available than
Israel has suggested to deal with the problem - and that it cannot happen by
next spring. Mr. Biden said that even if Iran had the nuclear fuel for a bomb,
"we will know if they start the process of building a nuclear weapon." Perhaps
the United States will, but such signals have been missed before.

- David E. Sanger

9:53 P.M. | Fact Check: Comparing Medicare Plans

No program faces bigger changes under Mr. Ryan's budget than Medicare, the
program providing health coverage for the elderly, and his plan to overhaul the
program forms the basis in many respects for Mr. Romney's plan - and Mr. Biden
just took it on head on.

Mr. Ryan's plan calls for reshaping the curren, government-sponsored defined
benefit fee for service insurance system. Under his plan, which would begin a
decade from now, each beneficiary would receive a fixed amount of money -
Democrats call it a voucher - to purchase private insurance or buy into the
existing government program. Under the most recent Ryan plan, the money, known
as premium support, would rise each year by the growth of the economy, plus 0.5
percentage points, considerably slower than health care's current rate of
inflation.

Mr. Ryan believes competition will drive down the cost of health care, keeping
the voucher's value up to date. The Congressional Budget Office projected that
over time, the value of the voucher would erode, shifting the extra costs to the
elderly.

Critics also warn that under Mr. Ryan's plan, private insurers would try to sign
up the healthiest seniors, leaving the sickest, most-expensive-to-cover elderly
to enroll in the government program. That would boost the government's costs and
steeply erode the value of those recipients' vouchers.

Mr. Biden noted that Mr. Romney's original Medicare plan would have cost future
beneficiaries $6,400 in higher costs and questioned what his current plan would
cost. But it is difficult to assess what Mr. Romney's plan would cost, because
he has not released key details.

Unlike Mr. Ryan, who proposed capping the growth of premium support to the
growth of the economy, plus 0.5 percentage points, Mr. Romney has not specified
how much money he would give to future beneficiaries to buy coverage, or how
fast it would grow - making the effects of his proposal difficult to assess.

The Romney campaign's policy director, Lanhee Chen, wrote that while
higher-income seniors might be asked to pay more under Mr. Romney's plan, "all
seniors will be guaranteed sufficient support because the support is actually
set based on what plans will cost."

But the campaign has not said how its plan would work. A question and answer
section of the campaign's Web site puts it this way: "How high will the premium
support be? How quickly will it grow? Mitt continues to work on refining the
details of his plan, and he is exploring different options for ensuring that
future seniors receive the premium support they need while also ensuring that
competitive pressures encourage providers to improve quality and control cost."

Mr. Romney has suggested keeping the growth of the subsidies below the rate of
medical inflation in the past. He told the Washington Examiner last December
that allowing the subsidies to grow at the rate of medical inflation "would have
no particular impact on reining in the excessive cost of our entitlement
program."

If his campaign's theory that increased competition among private plans will
slow the growth of health care costs proves wrong, future beneficiaries could
well face higher costs. (Mr. Romney's pledge to repeal Mr. Obama's health care
law would also cost them more, because part of the law helps Medicare
beneficiaries pay for prescription drugs by filing the so-called doughnut hole.)
But without knowing the size of the subsidies or how fast they would grow, it is
impossible to assign a dollar value to the cost, as the Obama campaign has tried
to do.

- Michael Cooper and Jonathan Weisman

9:54 P.M. | Fact Check: What Did the Stimulus Accomplish?

Mr. Ryan issued a broadside against Mr. Obama's stimulus plan, noting that it
did not keep unemployment below 8 percent, as Mr. Obama's economic advisers
projected it would before he took office. Mr. Biden defended the bill, saying it
helped the economy recover. Who is right?

Before Mr. Obama took office, his economic team issued a paper calling for the
passage of a large economic stimulus plan, and printed a chart that they later
came to regret, which projected that the unemployment rate would remain below 8
percent with a stimulus plan and hit 9 percent without one. (A footnoted warned:
"Forecasts of the unemployment rate without the recovery plan vary
substantially. Some private forecasters anticipate unemployment rates as high as
11% in the absence of action.")

In fact, the unemployment rate had already hit 8.3 percent in February 2009, Mr.
Obama's first full month in office and the month he signed the stimulus into
law. It peaked at 10 percent that October and remained at 8.1 percent this
August.

The 18-month recession officially ended in June 2009, five months into Mr.
Obama's term, as measured by the National Bureau of Economic Research. There is
plenty of debate over how effective Mr. Obama's economic policies have been,
especially given the painfully slow recovery. But even critics who believe that
the president's stimulus law was a missed opportunity - from liberals who say it
was too small to conservatives who say it was wasteful and poorly targeted -
tend to acknowledge what the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has found:
that it did save or create jobs, lower the unemployment rate and help the
economy grow in the short term.

The budget office used ranges to estimate the impact of stimulus. At its peak in
the third quarter of 2010, the budget office found, the stimulus saved or
created the equivalent of between one million and 5.1 million full-time jobs,
lowered the unemployment rate by between 0.4 and two percentage points, and
increased the real gross domestic product by between 0.7 percent and 4.1
percent.

Roughly a third of the stimulus came in the form of tax cuts. It also contained
aid to state and local governments, infrastructure spending, and aid for people
affected by the downturn.

- Michael Cooper

9:51 P.M. | Fact Check: Medicare's $716 Billion Cut?

Mr. Ryan made a claim that journalists and independent fact-checkers have
repeatedly debunked: that President Obama and Congressional Democrats raided
Medicare benefits of $716 billion. But for Mr. Ryan, the claim has drawn
countercharges of hypocrisy on his part.

It was notable enough when Mr. Romney last summer started attacking Mr. Obama
for "raiding" Medicare of $716 billion over 10 years to help pay for
"Obamacare," and then picked as his running mate Mr. Ryan. As the House Budget
Committee chairman, Mr. Ryan had included the same Medicare reductions in the
Republican budgets he had passed in the House for two years in a row.

What was even more remarkable was that Mr. Ryan began echoing the charge against
Democrats within days of joining the Romney ticket. By contrast, two years ago
Mr. Ryan mostly was silent on this line of attack when Republicans took it up in
the 2010 midterm elections. (Back then they spoke of $500 billion in Medicare
cuts; the higher figure now reflects a 10-year period through 2022 instead of
2020; savings grow over time.) Though the attack helped Republicans capture
control of the House in 2010, the next spring Mr. Ryan, now elevated to Budget
Committee chairman, incorporated the Democrats' Medicare savings into his own
10-year budget. He did so again earlier this year.

Now, as in 2010, the Republican charge has several problems.

The $716 billion in reductions over a decade would come not from Medicare
benefits, but from lower reimbursements to health-care providers, drug-makers
and insurers selling so-called Medicare Advantage policies. However, economists
argue that cuts to providers often result in reduced services, and some doctors
do refuse to accept Medicare.

The Democrats' reductions did help offset the cost of Mr. Obama's 2010
health-care law. But rather than reduce Medicare benefits, that law also
provided Medicare recipients with more generous coverage of prescription drugs
and new benefits like free mammograms and other preventive-care treatments.

Also, the Obama reductions added eight years to the life of Medicare's
financially troubled trust fund, to 2024, according to Medicare trustees. If the
cuts were restored, the insolvency date could revert to 2016.

- Jackie Calmes

9:46 P.M. | A Different Story From the Split Screen

If the split screen during last week's presidential debate betrayed a slow and
unresponsive president, it is revealing something else tonight.

Mr. Biden has been an explosion of reactions all night: laughing, rolling his
eyes, grimacing, sighing, furrowing his brow and practically bursting out of his
skin to jump at every answer.

The question is: How will it play?

Among hard-core supporters, it will probably be a good thing, giving them the
sense that the vice president is aggressively challenging the Republican ticket.

But to others - maybe independents - it may just look as if the vice president
had way too many cups of coffee, or maybe Red Bulls.

- Michael D. Shear

9:41 P.M. | Biden Dings Ryan on Stimulus Request

There was a memorable exchange between Mr. Biden and Mr. Ryan about the
much-maligned stimulus program.

Just as Mr. Ryan started to attack the program by pointing to $90 billion in
stimulus funds for green energy projects, Mr. Biden laughed and interrupted.

"Go on our Web site. He sent me two letters saying by the way, 'Can you send me
stimulus money?' " Mr. Biden said. " 'It will create growth and jobs.' Those are
his words. And now, he's sitting here looking at me?"

Mr. Ryan acknowledged saying he had requested stimulus money on behalf of
constituents, saying that "that's what we do."

Before moving on to another subject, Mr. Biden quipped, "By the way, any letter
you send me, I'll entertain it."

"I appreciate that, Joe," Mr. Ryan said.

- Michael D. Shear

9:41 P.M. | Fact Check: Budget Cuts and Embassy Security

Mr. Biden made the charged assertion that Mr. Ryan has proposed budget cuts that
would affect spending for embassy security.

Mr. Ryan has not made any such specific proposal. But his broader budget
proposal would squeeze the nondefense discretionary budget. Presuming that those
budget cuts were applied evenly across federal programs, it would result in a
$300 million cut for securing and maintaining embassies, the Obama campaign has
argued.

"The president certainly doesn¹t need lectures on securing our facilities
overseas from Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan, who¹ve proposed slashing funding for
our diplomatic and embassy security by $298 million dollars" in 2014, an Obama
campaign official told The Hill.

Democrats have repeatedly extrapolated how Mr. Ryan's broader budget proposal
might squeeze individual programs over the course of the campaign.

- Annie Lowrey

9:39 P.M. | Fact Check: Was Obama Silent During Iranian Uprising?

Mr. Ryan argued that the President was not vocal enough when Iranians took to
the streets to protest how the vote was held that re-elected Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad.

It is true that Mr. Obama waited for days to say anything, and then was lukewarm
in his public support of the protesters. It looked and sounded bad, his aides
acknowledged, but they say he feared that any public expression of support would
enable the mullahs to claim that the uprising was the work of the C.I.A. and
crush it. There is a lot of history there: Back in the 1950s the C.I.A. did help
stage a coup in Iran, bringing the shah to power.

In the end, it may not have made a difference: the 2009 protests were crushed,
quite brutally.

Publicly, the White House insists it got it right. Privately many of the
president's aides have their doubts. And when the next protests came, in Egypt
in 2011, Mr. Obama quickly sided with the protesters, after younger members of
his staff said he had to get "on the right side of history."

- David E. Sanger

9:36 P.M. | Fact Check: Blocking New Sanctions on Iran?

Paul Ryan argued that "the administration was blocking us every step of the
way'' on new sanctions on Iran. While the administration did object to some
sanctions Congress was considering, Mr. Biden was closer to right when he argued
that "the Ayatollah sees his economy being crippled'' by sanctions imposed over
the past few years and that Iran's oil sales have plummeted.

Until Mr. Obama came to office, the United Nations sanctions on Iran were pretty
ineffective - travel bans on scientists, some banks on sales of certain kinds of
equipment. But they didn't go after the heart of the Iranian economy, oil sales.
Mr. Obama did exactly that, step by step, making it hard for Iran to get access
to dollars, to get international loans, and even to deliver oil. Even today,
scores of loaded Iranian oil tankers are bobbing off the country's coast, with
nowhere to go.

The result is that the sanctions in place today are far greater than they were
under President Bush. But could they be tighter still, even "crippling'' to use
the phrase Mr. Romney likes? (He borrowed it from Secretary of State Hillary
Rodham Clinton.) Certainly they could - but only if other countries agree.
Because the U.S. has not had diplomatic relations or any significant trade with
Iran for more than three decades, this is all a matter of persuading allies and
other countries, and giving them an alternative to Iranian oil. Mr. Romney has
not said how he would do that.

What Mr. Obama can't say is that while he ratcheted up the sanctions, he also
expanded the covert program to sabotage Iran's nuclear centrifuges - a highly
classified program called "Olympic Games.'' It introduced cyber weapons - a
computer worm - to destabilize the machinery, buying a bit more time for
sanctions to work - but not much.

- David E. Sanger

9:34 P.M. | Vice-Presidential Debate a Contrast With Presidential

It's probably too easy to judge the initial moments of this debate against the
debate between Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney last week.

So of course we will.

First off, Mr. Biden from the opening moment has been doing what Mr. Obama was
scored by Democrats for not doing. He brought the attack to Mr. Romney with the
very first question, pivoting from a tough question on Libya to offer a strong
contrast between Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney on Iraq and the killing of Osama bin
Laden. Within 25 minutes, Mr. Biden invoked Mr. Romney's 47 percent comment,
which never came up at the presidential debate.

If Mr. Obama ceded the stage to Mr. Romney, Mr. Biden - who is anything but
retiring by nature - is not.

And it's not only Mr. Biden who is offering a contrast to last week. Martha
Raddatz, the moderator, is offering a powerful contrast to the low-key (and much
criticized) performance of Jim Lehrer last week. She has been pushing both
candidates with tough and challenging questions, and follow-up.

- Adam Nagourney

9:31 P.M. | Fact Check: Where Is the Red Line?

Paul Ryan and Vice President Biden debated what the so-called red line is on
moving to prevent Iran from gaining nuclear weapons capability.

Sometimes, there has been a clear difference in where President Obama and Mitt
Romney would draw a red line beyond which they would not let Iran go toward a
nuclear weapon. But more often than not, it has been more like a red smudge,
giving both candidates maximum flexibility, while each tries to sound more
determined to stop the Iranian program.

Mr. Obama's position has been the most consistent. He has said consistently that
Iran would not be permitted to get a nuclear weapon. But when pressed about
Iran's achieving a weapons "capability'' - that is, to obtain the fuel and
technology that would put it just short of having a weapon - he said, "I'm not
going to parse that.'' And he hasn't.

Mr. Romney, in contrast, has parsed it - but inconsistently. He usually says he
would not allow Iran to have the capability to make a bomb - to be just a few
screwdriver turns away, as his aides put it. But in an interview last month with
George Stephanopoulos of ABC, Mr. Romney forgot his own position, and made it
sound as if he and Mr. Obama were on the same page. A few days later he went
back to his old formulation.

It sounds like a small difference, but it is a huge one - technologically and
politically. Many experts believe Iran only intends to approach  the line of
having a weapon, stopping a step or two short. That would enable it to stay
inside the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, of which it is a signatory. And it
would make it harder for Israel, or the United States, to mount an attack that
gained global support. Moreover, a "capability'' may be all Iran needs, in a
world where a virtual bomb brings with it almost as much symbolic power as a
real one.

But Mr. Obama is being vague for a reason. "He doesn't want to agree to a
certain amount of uranium, or a certain deadline, that triggers a war," one of
his aides said last month. "He needs room to resolve this peacefully."

- David E. Sanger

9:28 P.M. | The Caucus Click: Romney's Watch Party

- Jim Wilson

9:23 P.M. | Fact Check: Have Iran Sanctions Been Effective Under Obama?

The sanctions in place today are far greater than they were under President
Bush. But they could be tighter still, even "crippling'' to use the phrase Mr.
Romney likes.

On the question of Iran sanctions, Mr. Obama has got a lot of history on his
side. Until Mr. Obama came to office, the United Nations sanctions on Iran were
pretty ineffective - travel bans on scientists, some banks on sales of certain
kinds of equipment. But they didn't go after the heart of the Iranian economy,
oil sales. Mr. Obama did exactly that, step by step, making it hard for Iran to
get access to dollars, to get international loans, and even to deliver oil. Even
today, scores of loaded Iranian oil tankers are bobbing off the country's coast,
with nowhere to go.

The result is that the sanctions in place today are far greater than they were
under President Bush. But could they be tighter still, even "crippling'' to use
the phrase Mr. Romney likes? (He borrowed it from Secretary of State Hillary
Rodham Clinton.) Certainly they could - but only if other countries agree.
Because the U.S. has not had diplomatic relations or any significant trade with
Iran for more than three decades, this is all a matter of persuading allies and
other countries, and giving them an alternative to Iranian oil. Mr. Romney has
not said how he would do that.

What Mr. Obama can't say is that while he ratcheted up the sanctions, he also
expanded the covert program to sabotage Iran's nuclear centrifuges - a highly
classified program called "Olympic Games.'' It introduced cyber weapons - a
computer worm - to destabilize the machinery, buying a bit more time for
sanctions to work - but not much.

- David E. Sanger

9:19 P.M. | Fact Check: Do Marines Guard Embassies?

Mr. Ryan was correct to say that Marine embassy guards serve at both embassies
and consulates.  But he was incorrect when he said that Marines were bodyguards
for the ambassador in Paris or anywhere else. Marines guard the embassy, but do
not usually provide full-time bodyguard protection for ambassadors.  Their
mission is to protect United States personnel, property and classified material.

An earlier version of this post, in assessing the accuracy of Mr. Ryan's opening
statement, incorrectly said where Marine guards can serve. They serve at both
United States embassies and consulates, as Mr. Ryan said, not only at embassies.

- Eric Schmitt

9:16 P.M. | Biden Comes Out Firing

Is Mr. Biden planning on being aggressive?

The vice president came out firing against Mr. Ryan, saying within moments that
his rival's answer was "malarkey."

The subject - Libya and foreign policy - prompted Mr. Ryan to accuse the Obama
administration of troubling failures regarding the attacks on the consulate and
of broader failures in foreign affairs across the region.

Perhaps aware of the desire among Democrats for Mr. Biden to be aggressive, the
statements prompted a quick reply.

"With all due respect, that's a bunch of malarkey," Mr. Biden said, "because not
a single thing he said was accurate."

The vice president retorted that criticism about embassy security from Mr. Ryan
didn't ring true.

"The congressman here cut embassy security $300 million below what we asked
for," he said. And he quickly charged that Mr. Romney had politicized the
attacks early on.

"Governor Romney, before we even knew that our ambassador was killed," made a
statement, Mr. Biden said.

- Michael D. Shear

8:53 P.M. | The Caucus Click: Arriving (and Tweeting) Early

- James Hill

8:54 P.M. | Biden Telegraphs Strategy to Supporters

Wonder what Mr. Biden will do at the debate?

In an e-mail to supporters of President Obama's campaign that was sent out
moments before the debate began, Mr. Biden lays out what he plans to do in his
face-off with Mr. Ryan.

"I told Barack I have one mission tonight: tell the truth and stand up for what
we believe in," Mr. Biden says. "Our side is always going to win when we do
that."

That will come as a relief to Democrats, many of whom were frustrated - and even
angry - at Mr. Obama for not standing up for his beliefs during the debate with
Mitt Romney last week.

Now, the question is whether Mr. Biden will follow through with his promise and
be aggressive in the debate. Part of that will depend on how Mr. Ryan handles
the debate, and what he says.

In the e-mail, Mr. Biden says he's ready for anything.

"I can't predict if Paul Ryan will follow Mitt Romney's lead tonight, hiding and
flat-out denying their unpopular ideas, or if he'll come prepared to have a real
debate about where this country should go," Mr. Biden says. "Trust me, I'm ready
for anything."

If that sounds good to Democrats receiving the e-mail, the campaign will be
happy. Because the message ends with a familiar refrain:

"Please donate $5 or more today," it says.

- Michael D. Shear

8:38 P.M. | Biden and Ryan, Alike in Many Ways

The debate Thursday night will be a study in contrasts. A 69-year-old
silver-haired politician versus an opponent 27 years his junior.

But hold on. Beyond their ages, the differences may not be that stark. Consider:

* Both men are creatures of Congress, having arrived in the nation's capital as
very young men. Mr. Biden started as a senator in 1973, when he was 31. Mr. Ryan
was 28 when he took office.

* Both men are Roman Catholic, though neither wears his religion on his sleeve.

* Both are from small-town America. Mr. Ryan frequently talks about his Norman
Rockwell-like upbringing in Janesville, Wis. Mr. Biden, originally from
Scranton, Pa., frequently takes Amtrak back to his Wilmington, Del., home.

* Both stress their working-class roots. Mr. Biden is a roll-up-your-sleeves
populist who is at his best in front of blue-collar workers in the industrial
Midwest. Mr. Ryan, while monkish, has working-class roots, having had his father
die when he was young.

* Both men are policy wonks. Mr. Ryan has spent a career delving into the
national budget. Mr. Biden was known as a foreign policy guru during his career
in the Senate, and he has been the "sheriff" of the stimulus program, steeped in
facts and figures.

- Michael D. Shear

8:29 P.M. | The Caucus Click: Searching for Romney

- Max Whittaker

8:26 P.M. | Nationals' Win an Omen?

The Washington Nationals kept their first-in-almost-a-century playoff hopes
alive on Thursday, winning Game 4 just before the beginning of the
vice-presidential debate.

So it must be an omen for one of the vice-presidential candidates, right?

The question is: which one?

Neither Mr. Biden nor Mr. Ryan chose to leave the campaign trail to take in one
of the historic games in Washington. Fair weather fans, both.

So who gets the edge from the Washington win?

Maybe Mr. Biden. After all, as vice president he has already gotten to throw out
the first pitch at a Baltimore Orioles game in 2009. (President Obama was out of
the country on his first foreign trip.)

Or, maybe it's Mr. Ryan, who just Thursday was shown wearing a backward red
baseball cap in a photo spread taken last year by Time Magazine. (He was posing
for the Man of the Year feature. He was a runner-up.)

Either way, bet on both men agreeing on one thing: if Washington wins, they will
both root for the team.

- Michael D. Shear

8:21 P.M. | Romney Calls to Wish Ryan Good Luck

Mitt Romney won't be there in person to root on his running mate. But at least
he called.

Campaigning in North Carolina on Thursday, Mr. Romney placed a good-luck phone
call to Mr. Ryan ahead of the congressman's first appearance on a national
debate stage.

The call lasted just five minutes and included some good wishes from a few
friends who happened to be with Mr. Romney in North Carolina.

"Speaker Boehner, Senator Portman and Governor Huckabee were present," according
to a spokesman for the campaign. "Governor Romney handed the phone around so
they could say hello and pass along their best wishes."

- Michael D. Shear

6:44 P.M. | The Caucus Click: Campus Rallies

- James Hill

6:30 P.M. | For Biden and Ryan, Substance and Style Hurdles

The debate on Thursday night between Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and
Representative Paul D. Ryan will be split into nine 10-minute segments, with
Martha Raddatz, the moderator, choosing the topics for each.

Ms. Raddatz, the senior foreign affairs correspondent for ABC News, has said she
plans to alternate between domestic and foreign policy during the 90-minute
debate. Her success at keeping to that schedule may depend on how feisty the two
candidates are.

But if she sticks to her plan, the debate could become a rare, broad-ranging
discussion that offers voters a good opportunity to judge the two men and their
capabilities.

While it is hard to know exactly what topics might come up, here is a look at
some of the possible lines of questioning and the challenges they could pose for
the candidates, on both substance and style. Read more ...

- Michael D. Shear

6:28 P.M. | Six Things to Watch For in Biden-Ryan Debate

Over three days last week, Representative Paul D. Ryan reserved an indoor tennis
court at a Virginia resort - not to practice his backhand, but to hold mock
debates. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has been at his own debate camp in
Delaware this week, overseen by President Obama's top political strategist,
David Axelrod.

After Mitt Romney's momentum-shifting performance in the first presidential
debate, the stakes were raised for the matchup between their chief surrogates.

The vice-presidential candidates have spent weeks going over their own and their
opponent's talking points for Thursday night's debate in Danville, Ky. Here are
six things to watch: Read more ...

- Trip Gabriel

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 12, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Panetta Warns Of Dire Threat Of Cyberattack

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and THOM SHANKER; Elisabeth Bumiller reported from
New York, and Thom Shanker from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words


Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta warned Thursday that the United States was
facing the possibility of a ''cyber-Pearl Harbor'' and was increasingly
vulnerable to foreign computer hackers who could dismantle the nation's power
grid, transportation system, financial networks and government.

In a speech at the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum in New York, Mr. Panetta
painted a dire picture of how such an attack on the United States might unfold.
He said he was reacting to increasing aggressiveness and technological advances
by the nation's adversaries, which officials identified as China, Russia, Iran
and militant groups.

''An aggressor nation or extremist group could use these kinds of cyber tools to
gain control of critical switches,'' Mr. Panetta said. ''They could derail
passenger trains, or even more dangerous, derail passenger trains loaded with
lethal chemicals. They could contaminate the water supply in major cities, or
shut down the power grid across large parts of the country.''

Defense officials insisted that Mr. Panetta's words were not hyperbole, and that
he was responding to a recent wave of cyberattacks on large American financial
institutions. He also cited an attack in August on the state oil company Saudi
Aramco, which infected and made useless more than 30,000 computers.

But Pentagon officials acknowledged that Mr. Panetta was also pushing for
legislation on Capitol Hill. It would require new standards at critical
private-sector infrastructure facilities -- like power plants, water treatment
facilities and gas pipelines -- where a computer breach could cause significant
casualties or economic damage.

In August, a cybersecurity bill that had been one of the administration's
national security priorities was blocked by a group of Republicans, led by
Senator John McCain of Arizona, who took the side of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and said it would be too burdensome for corporations.

The most destructive possibilities, Mr. Panetta said, involve ''cyber-actors
launching several attacks on our critical infrastructure at one time, in
combination with a physical attack.'' He described the collective result as a ''
cyber-Pearl Harbor that would cause physical destruction and the loss of life,
an attack that would paralyze and shock the nation and create a profound new
sense of vulnerability.''

Mr. Panetta also argued against the idea that new legislation would be costly
for business. ''The fact is that to fully provide the necessary protection in
our democracy, cybersecurity must be passed by the Congress,'' he told his
audience, Business Executives for National Security. ''Without it, we are and we
will be vulnerable.''

With the legislation stalled, Mr. Panetta said President Obama was weighing the
option of issuing an executive order that would promote information sharing on
cybersecurity between government and private industry. But Mr. Panetta made
clear that he saw it as a stopgap measure and that private companies, which are
typically reluctant to share internal information with the government, would
cooperate fully only if required to by law.

''We're not interested in looking at e-mail, we're not interested in looking at
information in computers, I'm not interested in violating rights or liberties of
people,'' Mr. Panetta told editors and reporters at The New York Times earlier
on Thursday. ''But if there is a code, if there's a worm that's being inserted,
we need to know when that's happening.''

He said that with an executive order making cooperation by the private sector
only voluntary, ''I'm not sure they're going to volunteer if they don't feel
that they're protected legally in terms of sharing information.''

''So our hope is that ultimately we can get Congress to adopt that kind of
legislation,'' he added.

Mr. Panetta's comments, his most extensive to date on cyberwarfare, also sought
to increase the level of public debate about the Defense Department's growing
capacity not only to defend but also to carry out attacks over computer
networks. Even so, he carefully avoided using the words ''offense'' or
''offensive'' in the context of American cyberwarfare, instead defining the
Pentagon's capabilities as ''action to defend the nation.''

The United States has nonetheless engaged in its own cyberattacks against
adversaries, although it has never publicly admitted it. From his first months
in office, Mr. Obama ordered sophisticated attacks on the computer systems that
run Iran's main nuclear enrichment plants, according to participants in the
program. He decided to accelerate the attacks, which were begun in the Bush
administration and code-named Olympic Games, even after an element of the
program accidentally became public in the summer of 2010.

In a part of the speech notable for carefully chosen words, Mr. Panetta warned
that the United States ''won't succeed in preventing a cyberattack through
improved defenses alone.''

''If we detect an imminent threat of attack that will cause significant physical
destruction in the United States or kill American citizens, we need to have the
option to take action against those who would attack us, to defend this nation
when directed by the president,'' Mr. Panetta said. ''For these kinds of
scenarios, the department has developed the capability to conduct effective
operations to counter threats to our national interests in cyberspace.''

The comments indicated that the United States might redefine defense in
cyberspace as requiring the capacity to reach forward over computer networks if
an attack was detected or anticipated, and take pre-emptive action. These same
offensive measures also could be used in a punishing retaliation for a
first-strike cyberattack on an American target, senior officials said.

Senior Pentagon officials declined to describe specifics of what offensive
cyberwarfare abilities the Defense Department has fielded or is developing. And
while Mr. Panetta avoided labeling them as ''offensive,'' other senior military
and Pentagon officials have recently begun acknowledging their growing focus on
these tools.

The Defense Department is finalizing ''rules of engagement'' that would put the
Pentagon's cyberweapons into play only in case of an attack on American targets
that rose to some still unspecified but significant levels. Short of that, the
Pentagon shares intelligence and offers technical assistance to the F.B.I. and
other agencies.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/12/world/panetta-warns-of-dire-threat-of-cyberatt
ack.html

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta  seeks new standards to
protect vital infrastructure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANÇOIS LENOIR/REUTERS) (A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 12, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Britain, Playing Down a U.S. Warning, Welcomes 2 Chinese Telecom Suppliers

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1445 words


PARIS -- A month ago, as a U.S. congressional committee prepared to warn
American telecommunications networks against buying from two Chinese suppliers,
the founder of one of those companies was finding a warmer reception in London.
There, he posed for photos with Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain in front
of the fireplace at 10 Downing Street in London.

Declaring that Britain was ''open for business,'' Mr. Cameron announced that his
guest, Ren Zhengfei, the chief executive of Huawei, had agreed to expand the
company's already sizable operations in Britain with an investment of £1.2
billion, or $2 billion.

Given the typically close cooperation between the United States and Britain on
security issues, the trans-Atlantic divide over Huawei and another Chinese
equipment provider, ZTE, is striking. On Monday, the Intelligence Committee of
the U.S. House of Representatives branded the companies security threats and
raised the possibility that their gear could be used to spy on American
interests if used in U.S. telecommunications networks.

Huawei has rejected the allegations as ''little more than an exercise in China
bashing and misguided protectionism.''

By contrast, said Roland Sladek, a spokesman for Huawei, ''Europe is almost like
a second home market for us.''

And for good reason. Huawei means jobs and investment for Britain and, more
broadly, for Europe. The company already has 800 employees in Britain and a
research center in Ipswich. The investment announced by Mr. Ren is expected to
create 700 jobs in five years and additional technical centers in the country.
In all, the company has about 7,300 employees in Europe.

Mr. Cameron's government said it had no plans to change its relationship with
the Chinese company in the wake of the U.S. committee's recommendations. But in
a trust-but-verify approach to the partnership, Huawei set up a Cyber Security
Evaluation Center two years ago in Banbury, England. There, its engineers work
alongside officials of Government Communications Headquarters, a British spy
agency, to vet Huawei equipment for use in Britain.

''We recognize, of course, that no systems can be completely invulnerable, but
by working together we can mitigate some of the risks,'' said a spokesman for
the Cabinet Office in London, who asked not to be identified as a matter of
government policy.

Huawei counts as its customers many of the biggest telecommunications companies
in Europe, including BT and Vodafone of Britain, Telefónica of Spain and
Everything Everywhere, a partnership between France Télécom and Deutsche Telekom
in Britain. The company's equipment is in high demand, analysts say, as those
companies scramble to roll out next-generation wireless broadband networks.

ZTE's European telecommunications clients include KPN of the Netherlands. In
Sweden ZTE is working with Hutchison Whampoa of Hong Kong on a high-speed
wireless network.

As the world's second-largest supplier of telecommunications network equipment,
after Ericsson of Sweden, Huawei generated only 4 percent of its $32.4 billion
in revenue in 2011 in the United States. In Europe, Huawei has gotten a
friendlier welcome. Europe accounted for nearly 12 percent of its revenue last
year, and sales in the region rose 26 percent last year, more than twice the
company's worldwide growth rate.

BT, which uses Huawei gear in the metal-clad sidewalk boxes where local
telephone lines are fed into the company's network, considers Huawei a ''trusted
equipment supplier,'' the company said.

''We find them to be good value and high quality -- that's why they have been
chosen as a supplier in a fiercely competitive international market,'' BT added.

The company declined to comment on whether it had received any requests from
U.S. officials to stop doing business with Huawei. The Cabinet Office spokesman
said he was unaware of any such pressure.

''We don't see this as an issue that affects our relationship,'' he said.

The U.S. House committee said Huawei and ZTE had offered to set up review
systems to address U.S. concerns, like the possibility of ''back doors'' that
would allow Chinese government officials to tap into U.S. telecommunications
traffic. But the committee's report says that unlike in Britain, the companies
offered only to let outside security contractors, rather than government
officials, do the monitoring.

Huawei disputes this version of events, with Mr. Sladek saying the company had
''indicated its openness to consider all options in dialogue with the U.S.
authorities,'' including the creation of a system like the one in Britain.

In any case, the congressional report concludes that ''unfortunately, there are
concerns that such efforts, if taken in the United States, will fall short of
addressing security concerns, given the breadth and scale of the U.S.
telecommunications market.''

Huawei says it is the second-biggest Chinese investor in Europe -- after
Zhejiang Geely, which owns the Swedish carmaker Volvo -- and the biggest Chinese
employer in the region. Executives say that additional investments in Europe
will be announced in the coming weeks and that the company's plans will be
unaffected by the developments in the United States.

The company wants to make Europe a focus of its efforts to expand its smartphone
business, which has been smaller than its network infrastructure division. In
the coming weeks, Huawei plans to roll out new handsets to compete with devices
like Apple's iPhone.

Even outside the United States, however, there are some worrying signs for
Huawei and ZTE. While the Chinese companies have attempted to portray the report
by the House Intelligence Committee as being out of step with what is happening
in the rest of the world, similar concerns have been raised elsewhere.

In March, the government of Australia blocked Huawei from supplying equipment
for a national broadband network that country is building. This week, after the
release of the congressional report in Washington, Canadian officials indicated
that they were inclined to exclude Huawei from participating in the construction
of a secure government communications system.

Japan, too, has been a tough market for Huawei to crack. And in Europe, one
major telecommunications provider has ruled out the use of the company's
equipment in its domestic market because of security concerns, according to a
person briefed on purchasing decisions, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the information has not been publicly disclosed.

In July, a French senator, Jean-Marie Bockel, presented a report calling on the
government to ban the use of routers and other equipment from Huawei and ZTE in
French telecommunications networks. Mr. Bockel, a former high-ranking official
in the Defense Ministry, cited concerns similar to those raised by the U.S.
House committee.

''I am not at all against Huawei developing its business in Europe,'' Mr. Bockel
said by telephone. ''But on the subject of security, I am in full agreement with
the Americans. We should not be naïve.''

Mr. Bockel's report has been submitted to the Defense Ministry, though the
government of President François Hollande has not taken action on it. The French
cybersecurity agency declined to comment.

Meanwhile, trade officials at the European Commission in Brussels are
scrutinizing the operations of Huawei and ZTE, amid allegations -- denied by the
companies -- that they may have received unfair subsidies or engaged in
so-called dumping of telecommunications gear, or selling it below their own
production costs in order to undercut competitors.

The commission has received no complaints from European rivals of the Chinese
companies, which would be the normal prerequisite for an anti-dumping or
anti-subsidy case. Analysts say, however, that that could be for fear of
reprisals. European telecommunications suppliers like Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson
and Nokia do not want to be shut out of the fast-growing Chinese market.

Karel De Gucht, the E.U. trade commissioner, is considering a formal
investigation against the companies on the commission's own initiative.

''Mr. De Gucht continues to actively gather evidence so as to be ready to launch
the case as and when required,'' said a senior E.U. official, who insisted on
anonymity because of the preliminary nature of the proceedings.

Despite the possible challenges for Huawei and ZTE, both companies say Europe
remains a much friendlier place for them to do business than the United States.

''Compared with the U.S. market, the European market is much more open and much
more transparent,'' said David Dai Shu, a spokesman for ZTE.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/12/business/global/huawei-chinese-telecom-company
-finds-warmer-welcome-in-europe.html

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The reception desk of Huawei's research and development center
in Wuhan, in central China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHEPHERD ZHOU/CHINATOPIX, VIA
ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 The British prime minister, David Cameron, met with Ren Zhengfei, the chief of
Huawei, in September at 10 Downing Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PR NEWSWIRE, VIA
NEWSCOM) (B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 12, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Dangers of Allowing an Adversary Access to a Network

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 881 words


Schoolchildren learn the tale of the Trojan Horse, the giant gift in which
Odysseus and a platoon of 30 Greek soldiers hid to gain access to the heavily
defended city.

Thousands of years later, it remains a thoroughly modern concept that is
increasingly found at the heart of cyberwarfare strategies. Modern Trojan horses
are computer code or vulnerabilities hidden in software or hardware that would
allow a spy or an attacker to gain access to an adversary's computers and
networks. Find a way to be invited into the computers of your enemy's weapons
and military systems and you can render them useless in the face of an attack.

For more than a decade, Pentagon officials have been anxious about the growing
reliance by the United States electronics industry on Chinese manufacturers. As
the Internet has become the nation's critical infrastructure weaving together
commerce and power systems and even military command and control, it has become
increasingly unthinkable to have a foreign presence in the network. Their fear
is that those building and maintaining the network could build in a Trojan
horse.

Thus it was striking that the word "Trojan" was not mentioned in a 52-page
report issued Monday by the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
focusing on the activities of two giant Chinese telecommunications firms, Huawei
and ZTE, which have long been suspected of having links to the Chinese
government. Beijing has been suspected of trying to steal American corporate and
government secrets through computer espionage.

Stuxnet, a surreptitious program that was reportedly designed by United States
and Israeli intelligence agencies to afflict the Iranian nuclear enrichment
program, had many of the properties of a highly sophisticated Trojan horse. The
program was at the heart of a concerted effort to delay or destroy the Iranian
Natanz nuclear fuel facility. The attack damaged centrifuges and might have
provided a surveillance window into Iranian activities by giving Western
intelligence agencies unfettered access to the desktop computers of Iranian
project managers.

The program acted as a Trojan horse, perhaps delivered first on a USB memory
stick, that then spread through computer networks inside the secret facility
before reaching the outside world. A striking map of the paths followed by
Stuxnet infection created by researchers at Symantec, the Silicon Valley
computer security firm, indicates that Stuxnet actually broke out of Natanz,
rather than breaking in, just as the Greek soldiers climbed out of the horse at
night.

Possibly because the United States is making Trojan horses, that term - if it
exists in the House report on Huawei and ZTE - is said to be found only in a
classified annex to the report that has not been made available.

The published report consists of a series of allegations about the activities of
the companies, including bribery and surveillance, but little hard evidence.
Reports of "suspicious" incidents, including an ostensible case of "beaconing"
from Cricket, a Texas wireless operator that uses Huawei equipment, have been
heatedly denied by Huawei.

If this issue is important enough, saidRichard A. Clarke, who served as the
nation's counterterrorism overseer in both the Clinton andGeorge W. Bush
administrations, there should be ways of declassifying the information. "They're
making important accusations," he said. "Important accusations require important
proof."

According to several former government officials, the real issue is not what has
happened in the past but rather what might happen if Huawei gear were widely
used in American telecommunications networks. Such use would mean that the
company would have to serve and fix the network, requiring extensive access for
its technical personnel to telecommunications networks in the United States.

The danger in letting your potential adversary maintain your network has already
been demonstrated, according to Mr. Clarke, who wrote in "Cyber War: The Next
Threat to National Security and What to Do About It." In 2007, a remarkably
sophisticated computer attack by Israel rendered Syrian antiaircraft radar
useless. Israeli aircraft were able to destroy a Syrian nuclear reactor without
any response from the country's military. He says it was vulnerable because the
Syrians had relied on outsiders to maintain the network.

Mr. Clarke disputes a recent New Yorker article that asserted that the bombing
attack was supported by conventional electronic warfare, which involves jamming
or deceiving an enemies' radar with high-powered radio waves. "Regular
electronic warfare fills the frequencies with static and overpowers the
frequencies," he said. "That wakes people up. That didn't happen. The Syrians
didn't notice the jamming of their radars."

In 2009, The New York Times reported that an American semiconductor industry
executive who claimed to have direct knowledge of the operation said that
technology for disabling the radars had been supplied by Americans to the
Israeli electronic intelligence agency, Unit 8200.

If his account is true, it may be the real reason that the government has worked
so hard to make sure that American computer networks are not made in China.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/11/wheres-the-discussion-of-trojan-horses/

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Trojan Horse, as depicted on Greek pottery. The Trojan Horse
in modern cyberspace is still something to be feared. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. DAGLI
ORTI/DEAGOSTINI, VIA GETTY IMAGES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            October 12, 2012 Friday

Daily Report: Panetta Warns of Threat of Cyberattack on U.S.

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 386 words



HIGHLIGHT: Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta warned Thursday that the United
States was facing the possibility of a "cyber-Pearl Harbor" and was increasingly
vulnerable to foreign computer hackers who could dismantle the nation's power
grid, transportation system, financial networks and government, report Elisabeth
Bumiller and Thom Shanker in Friday's New York Times.


Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta warned Thursday that the United States was
facing the possibility of a "cyber-Pearl Harbor" and was increasingly vulnerable
to foreign computer hackers who could dismantle the nation's power grid,
transportation system, financial networks and government, report Elisabeth
Bumiller and Thom Shanker in Friday's New York Times.

In a speech at the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum on the Hudson River in New
York, Mr. Panetta painted a dire picture of how such an attack on the United
States might unfold. He said he was reacting to increasing aggressiveness and
technological advances by the nation's adversaries, which officials identified
as China, Russia, Iran and militant groups.

"An aggressor nation or extremist group could gain control of critical switches
and derail passenger trains, or trains loaded with lethal chemicals," Mr.
Panetta said. "They could contaminate the water supply in major cities, or shut
down the power grid across large parts of the country."

Defense officials said Mr. Panetta was responding to a recent wave of
cyberattacks on large American financial institutions. He also cited an attack
in August on the state oil company Saudi Aramco, which infected and made useless
more than 30,000 computers.

But Pentagon officials acknowledged that Mr. Panetta was also pushing for
legislation on Capitol Hill. That legislation would require new standards at
critical private-sector infrastructure facilities - like power plants, water
treatment facilities and gas pipelines - where a computer breach could cause
significant casualties or economic damage.

Mr. Panetta's comments, his most extensive to date on cyberwarfare, also sought
to increase the level of public debate about the Defense Department's growing
capacity not only to defend but also to carry out attacks over computer
networks. Even so, he carefully avoided using the words "offense" or "offensive"
in the context of American cyberwarfare, instead defining the Pentagon's
capabilities as "action to defend the nation."


     ·    Connecting the Dots After Cyberattack on Saudi Aramco
     ·    Hackers Lay Claim to Saudi Aramco Cyberattack
     ·    That Was Fast: Criminals Exploit LinkedIn Breach For Phishing Attacks
     ·    Google Issues New Warning for State-Sponsored Attacks
     ·    Dot-Music, Dot-Sport and (Security Experts Hope) Dot-Secure


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (T Magazine)

                            October 12, 2012 Friday

Chic in Review | The Justin Bieber Files

BYLINE: KATHRYN BRANCH

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; culture

LENGTH: 292 words



HIGHLIGHT: All the fashion news of the week that's fit to reprint.


 All the fashion news of the week that's fit to reprint.

 Atwood, Brian
The shoe designer opens his first store. Where? Why uptown Manhattan, of course.

Beauty
The Cut edits its favorite beauty looks from the spring collections. Call me
conservative, but I prefer the slicked-back hair at Rag & Bone over the many
(many) quiffs.

Beckham, Victoria
Is not pregnant.

Bieber, Justin
In case you missed it (cue Law and Order sound), the Biebs' fake "cyber
-bullying" over Twitter was all just a way to release his new music video for
"Beauty and a Beat," a new tune which features Nicki Minaj. #selener

Condé Nast
Lays off 60 employees due to "the challenges of the U.S. economy." Self and
Brides were hit hardest.

Disney
A new short film features Minnie Mouse dreaming of the Paris shows. Picture an
animated Suzy Menkes, Carine Roitfeld and Mickey sitting in the front row.
Genius.

Harper's Bazaar
Hires the former French Vogue editor Carine Roitfeld as its global fashion
director. Chic.

Lagerfeld, Karl
Thinks anorexia is "ridiculous" and has nothing to do with fashion. Clearly, it
must have been opposite day.

Lohan, Lindsay
Dyes her hair back to red. News!

Neiman Marcus
Takes its Christmas look into the 21st century with the help of some cartoons
and the model Karlie Kloss. That girl can act!

Starbucks
Taps   Rodarte for its first collaboration with a fashion house. And not the
Row?

Vogue
The photographer Annie Leibovitz spills the beans on the fashion glossy's next
two covers. Whoops! They are (drum roll, please ...) Rihanna and Anne Hathaway.
(No surprises there.)


     ·    Chic in Review | A Model Lohan
     ·    Chic in Review | Justin Who?
     ·    Chic in Review | Kate vs. Kate
     ·    Chic in Review | Susan Boyle's Bazaar Makeover
     ·    Chic in Review | Ketchup With Those Chanel Fries?


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 14, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iran's Hand Is Suspected In Computer Attacks

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and DAVID E. SANGER; Nicole Perlroth contributed
reporting from San Francisco.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1176 words


WASHINGTON -- American intelligence officials are increasingly convinced that
Iran was the origin of a serious wave of network attacks that crippled computers
across the Saudi oil industry and breached financial institutions in the United
States, episodes that contributed to a warning last week from Defense Secretary
Leon E. Panetta that the United States was at risk of a ''cyber-Pearl Harbor.''

After Mr. Panetta's remarks on Thursday night, American officials described an
emerging shadow war of attacks and counterattacks already under way between the
United States and Iran in cyberspace.

Among American officials, suspicion has focused on the ''cybercorps'' that
Iran's military created in 2011 -- partly in response to American and Israeli
cyberattacks on the Iranian nuclear enrichment plant at Natanz -- though there
is no hard evidence that the attacks were sanctioned by the Iranian government.

The attacks emanating from Iran have inflicted only modest damage. Iran's
cyberwarfare capabilities are considerably weaker than those in China and
Russia, which intelligence officials believe are the sources of a significant
number of probes, thefts of intellectual property and attacks on American
companies and government agencies.

The attack under closest scrutiny hit Saudi Aramco, the world's largest oil
company, in August. Saudi Arabia is Iran's main rival in the region and is among
the Arab states that have argued privately for the toughest actions against
Iran. Aramco, the Saudi state oil company, has been bolstering supplies to
customers who can no longer obtain oil from Iran because of Western sanctions.

The virus that hit Aramco is called Shamoon and spread through computers linked
over a network to erase files on about 30,000 computers by overwriting them. Mr.
Panetta, while not directly attributing the strike to Iran in his speech, called
it ''probably the most destructive attack that the private sector has seen to
date.''

Until the attack on Aramco, most of the cybersabotage coming out of Iran
appeared to be what the industry calls ''denial of service'' attacks, relatively
crude efforts to send a nearly endless stream of computer-generated requests
aimed at overwhelming networks. But as one consultant to the United States
government on the attacks put it several days ago: ''What the Iranians want to
do now is make it clear they can disrupt our economy, just as we are disrupting
theirs. And they are quite serious about it.''

The revelation that Iran may have been the source of the computer attacks was
reported earlier by The Washington Post and The Associated Press.

The attacks on American financial institutions, which prevented some bank
customers from gaining access to their accounts online but did not involve any
theft of money, seemed to come from various spots around the world, and so their
origins are not certain. There is some question about whether those attacks may
have involved outside programming help, perhaps from Russia.

Mr. Panetta spoke only in broad terms, stating that Iran had ''undertaken a
concerted effort to use cyberspace to its advantage.'' Almost immediately,
experts in cybersecurity rushed to fill in the blanks.

''His speech laid the dots alongside each other without connecting them,'' James
A. Lewis, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies,
wrote Friday in an essay for ForeignPolicy.com. ''Iran has discovered a new way
to harass much sooner than expected, and the United States is ill-prepared to
deal with it.''

Iran has a motive, to retaliate for both the American-led financial sanctions
that have cut its oil exports nearly in half, and for the cybercampaign by the
United States and Israel against Iran's nuclear enrichment complex at Natanz.

That campaign started in the Bush administration, when the United States and
Israel first began experimenting with an entirely new generation of weapon: a
cyberworm that could infiltrate another state's computers and then cause havoc
on computer-controlled machinery. In this case, it resulted in the destruction
of roughly a fifth of the nuclear centrifuges that Iran uses to enrich uranium,
though the centrifuges were eventually replaced, and Iran's production
capability has recovered.

Iran became aware of the attacks in the summer of 2010, when the computer worm
escaped from the Natanz plant and was replicated across the globe. The computer
industry soon named the escaped weapon Stuxnet.

Iran announced last year that it had begun its own military cyberunit, and Brig.
Gen. Gholamreza Jalali, the head of Iran's Passive Defense Organization, said
the Iranian military was prepared ''to fight our enemies'' in ''cyberspace and
Internet warfare.'' Little is known about how that group is organized, or where
it has bought or developed its expertise.

The United States has never acknowledged its role in creating the Stuxnet virus,
nor has it said anything about the huge covert program that created it,
code-named Olympic Games, which was first revealed earlier this year by The New
York Times. President Obama drastically expanded the program as a way to buy
time for sanctions to affect Iran, and to stave off a military attack on the
Iranian facilities by Israel, which he feared could quickly escalate into a
broader war.

In advance of Mr. Panetta's speech in New York on Thursday, senior officials
debated how much to talk about the United States's offensive capabilities,
assessing whether such an acknowledgment could help create a deterrent for
countries contemplating attacks on the country

But Mr. Panetta carefully avoided using the words ''offense'' or ''offensive''
in the context of American cyberwarfare, instead defining the Pentagon's
capabilities as ''action to defend the nation.''

''We won't succeed in preventing a cyber attack through improved defenses
alone,'' Mr. Panetta said. ''If we detect an imminent threat of attack that will
cause significant, physical destruction in the United States or kill American
citizens, we need to have the option to take action against those who would
attack us to defend this nation when directed by the president. For these kinds
of scenarios, the department has developed that capability to conduct effective
operations to counter threats to our national interests in cyberspace.''

The comments indicated that the United States might redefine defense in
cyberspace as requiring the capacity to reach forward over computer networks if
an attack was detected or anticipated, and take pre-emptive action. These same
offensive measures also could be used in a punishing retaliation for a
first-strike cyberattack on an American target, senior officials said.

One senior intelligence official described a debate inside the Obama
administration over the pros and cons of openly admitting that the United States
has deployed a new cyber weapon, and could use it in response to an attack, or
pre-emptively.

For now, officials have decided to hold back. ''The countries who need to know
we have it already know,'' the senior intelligence official said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/14/world/middleeast/us-suspects-iranians-were-beh
ind-a-wave-of-cyberattacks.html

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta  warned Thursday of the  risk
of a ''cyber-Pearl Harbor.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            October 21, 2012 Sunday

Disruptions: A Tiny Camera for the Stratosphere

BYLINE: NICK BILTON

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 646 words



HIGHLIGHT: While the smartphone has pushed some camera companies off a cliff, a
tiny, ultrahigh-resolution camera that can record that very feat has taken off
into the stratosphere, figuratively and literally.


There have been two major milestones in narcissistic photography in the last
century. The first was the invention of the self-timer, which Kodak began
selling during World War I. The second came a few years ago, as teenagers stood
at mirrors taking pictures of themselves with camera phones to share online.

The camera phone is perfect for the social networking era. But even smartphones
have a limitation: you need to hold them.

As the smartphone has pushed some camera companies off a cliff, a tiny,
ultrahigh-resolution camera that can record that very feat has taken off into
the stratosphere, figuratively and literally.

The GoPro, which costs $200 to $400, was mounted on Felix Baumgartner as he
sky-dived 24 miles. It has been affixed to jets traveling at Mach 5 and
surfboards sent down 100-foot waves.

As other companies have sunk, GoPro has sold three million cameras in three
years. The market research firm IDC says that makes the GoPro the most popular
video camera in the country.

Last week, the company, which began 10 years ago with a disposable camera
strapped to surfers' wrists, unveiled the Hero 3. You might think a product
announcement from a camera company would feel like a funeral shortly before the
person was going to die. But it felt more like a celebration for someone who was
going to live forever. Big-wave surfers - those who ride 80-foot waves for fun -
showed their GoPro shots to sky divers, who, in turn, had their own stories to
show.

How did this happen? Nick Woodman, the founder and inventor of GoPro, says,
"Right place, right time."

It was almost that simple. Mr. Woodman, 37, made the first, crude GoPro when he
went to Indonesia on a surfing trip. He wanted to take pictures of a friend in
the water. But when he turned the camera around to take pictures of himself, he
realized the company's potential.

"The big 'aha' moment was in 2007, when we realized the bigger opportunity
wasn't just making wearable cameras for photographers," Mr. Woodman said. "It
was making wearable cameras for people to photograph themselves." This was
happening just as Google was buying YouTube and sites like Twitter and Facebook
were going mainstream.

Mr. Woodman began selling inexpensive mounts that could attach the GoPro to
anything: surfboards, bicycles, helmets, body harnesses, cats, you name it.

What happened next was astounding: people started to develop a relationship with
GoPro.

"One of the magical things that started happening with the company was our
customers felt compelled to give us credit in their photos and videos," Mr.
Woodman said. "People would upload videos to YouTube saying, 'Me and my GoPro
going sky diving.' You certainly don't see people uploading videos that say,
'Check out my Sony Cyber-shot ski vacation.' "

A search on YouTube for "GoPro" nets more than half a million videos. Millions
of photos and videos litter social networking sites, all tagged with the
camera's name in the same way people highlight their friends.

Now, the appeal is moving beyond extreme sports enthusiasts, whose idea of fear
is sitting in a cubicle, to the people who sit in cubicles watching GoPro
videos. The big camera companies are trying to displace GoPro, but they may be a
decade too late.

"For the last 50 years, companies like Nikon and Canon have been focused on
precision, which has its benefits but also has its limits," said Chase Jarvis, a
photographer and director. "GoPro is incredibly disruptive to these legacy
camera makers, and I can tell you, their launch parties feel a little bit
different. They are from a different culture."

Brian X. Chen contributed reporting.

E-mail: bilton@nytimes.com


     ·    Disruptions: Will Apple Be the First to Break $1 Trillion?
     ·    Disruptions: The Next Wave for the Wristwatch
     ·    Disruptions: Dining With Robots in Silicon Valley
     ·    With Apple's Siri, a Romance Gone Sour
     ·    Robotic Cameras Will Snap Pictures at the Olympics


LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 22, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Camera Of Daredevils Gains Appeal

BYLINE: By NICK BILTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 619 words


There have been two major milestones in narcissistic photography in the last
century. The first was the invention of the self-timer, which Kodak began
selling during World War I. The second came a few years ago, as teenagers stood
at mirrors taking pictures of themselves with camera phones to share online.

The camera phone is perfect for the social networking era. But even smartphones
have a limitation: you need to hold them.

As the smartphone has pushed some camera companies off a cliff, a tiny,
ultrahigh-resolution camera that can record that very feat has taken off into
the stratosphere, figuratively and literally.

The GoPro, which costs $200 to $400, was mounted on Felix Baumgartner as he
sky-dived 24 miles. It has been affixed to jets traveling at Mach 5 and
surfboards sent down 100-foot waves.

As other companies have sunk, GoPro has sold three million cameras in three
years. The market research firm IDC says that makes the GoPro the most popular
video camera in the country.

Last week, the company, which began 10 years ago with a disposable camera
strapped to surfers' wrists, unveiled the Hero 3. You might think a product
announcement from a camera company would feel like a funeral shortly before the
person was going to die. But it felt more like a celebration for someone who was
going to live forever. Big-wave surfers - those who ride 80-foot waves for fun -
showed their GoPro shots to sky divers, who, in turn, had their own stories to
show.

How did this happen? Nick Woodman, the founder and inventor of GoPro, says,
"Right place, right time."

It was almost that simple. Mr. Woodman, 37, made the first, crude GoPro when he
went to Indonesia on a surfing trip. He wanted to take pictures of a friend in
the water. But when he turned the camera around to take pictures of himself, he
realized the company's potential.

"The big 'aha' moment was in 2007, when we realized the bigger opportunity
wasn't just making wearable cameras for photographers," Mr. Woodman said. "It
was making wearable cameras for people to photograph themselves." This was
happening just as Google was buying YouTube and sites like Twitter and Facebook
were going mainstream.

Mr. Woodman began selling inexpensive mounts that could attach the GoPro to
anything: surfboards, bicycles, helmets, body harnesses, cats, you name it.

What happened next was astounding: people started to develop a relationship with
GoPro.

"One of the magical things that started happening with the company was our
customers felt compelled to give us credit in their photos and videos," Mr.
Woodman said. "People would upload videos to YouTube saying, 'Me and my GoPro
going sky diving.' You certainly don't see people uploading videos that say,
'Check out my Sony Cyber-shot ski vacation.' "

A search on YouTube for "GoPro" nets more than half a million videos. Millions
of photos and videos litter social networking sites, all tagged with the
camera's name in the same way people highlight their friends.

Now, the appeal is moving beyond extreme sports enthusiasts, whose idea of fear
is sitting in a cubicle, to the people who sit in cubicles watching GoPro
videos. The big camera companies are trying to displace GoPro, but they may be a
decade too late.

"For the last 50 years, companies like Nikon and Canon have been focused on
precision, which has its benefits but also has its limits," said Chase Jarvis, a
photographer and director. "GoPro is incredibly disruptive to these legacy
camera makers, and I can tell you, their launch parties feel a little bit
different. They are from a different culture."

Brian X. Chen contributed reporting.

E-mail: bilton@nytimes.com

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/21/disruptions-gopro-camera-records-sky-di
vers-and-surfers/

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A snowboarder wearing a GoPro was photographed by another.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY GOPRO) (B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Latitude)

                            October 22, 2012 Monday

For Fair Elections

BYLINE: MASHA GESSEN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 515 words



HIGHLIGHT: Something extraordinary happened in Russia this weekend: an
opposition movement that began less than a year ago managed to hold a fair
election.


MOSCOW - Late Sunday evening I walked down to Trubnaya Square in central Moscow.
It was cordoned off, as it had been for two days; several police buses were
parked nearby - down from dozens earlier in the day. Clumps of people crowded at
two large white tents. The stage at one end of the square was lit but empty.
1980s music popular with the protest crowd continued to blare.

A man, a woman and two teenagers sat in folding chairs behind the stage. They
wore the facial expressions of people who had pulled off something huge:
exhausted and beaming at the same time. They had indeed been part of something
incredible: they had organized an honest and fair vote in Russia.

Nearly 200,000 people had registered to choose their representatives from among
216 candidates for the Coordinating Council of the Opposition. The 45 people
elected will be charged with devising an alternative system of representation
for those who feel alienated by the Putin government.

The organizers worked to create a voting system that would be entirely
transparent and falsification-proof. People registered to vote online, verifying
their identity with scanned documents, photographs and their cellphone numbers.
A voter ID number was then sent to their phones; that's what they were to use to
vote online. Lists of registered voters were also posted online, open for anyone
to inspect.

The voting was to last one weekend, and the minute the polls closed, at 8 p.m.
on Sunday, the results would be known: the electronic system would have tallied
them automatically. Those who did not have access to the Internet could vote at
any of several locations.

The first 8,500 people voted between midnight and 8 a.m. on Saturday. But then
the Web site of the opposition's electoral committee stopped working because of
a massive cyber attack. The organizers thought they had prepared well for this
exigency, but the scale of the attack exceeded all their expectations. (This was
not the only obstacle the elections faced: Several of the offline voting sites
had to close because of police pressure, and three candidates were arrested
within a couple of days of the election.)

On Saturday night, the organizers decided to extend voting by 24 hours, until
Monday night. By Sunday morning, the servers were back up. I cast my votes. Five
of them were for people who were either behind bars or out on bail: this may
seem like an unusual voting criterion, but I feel that everyone who is facing
criminal charges as a result of protest activities deserves my vote. Other than
that, I voted for people I know and respect and for people who I feel will
ensure that the Coordinating Council is truly representative of all those who
oppose the current regime.

Walking home from Trubnaya Square on Sunday night, I remembered: This is what
voting was supposed to feel like. It was a remarkable accomplishment for a
movement that began less than a year ago under the slogan "For Fair Elections"
[pdf]: a fair election had taken place.


     ·    Pakistan's Missing Voters
     ·    Gul Unleashed
     ·    Men Who Fall From Space
     ·    Chávez Wins, Kirchner Wins
     ·    Re-election Lament


LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            October 22, 2012 Monday

The Internet Attack That Wasn't

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 502 words



HIGHLIGHT: On Monday, a popular security blogger sent out an alert that the
entire Web might be under attack. As it turned out, the Internet was just
undergoing the digital version of a fire drill.


For an hour this afternoon, the entire Internet came under attack. Or so it
seemed.

Brian Krebs, a closely followed computer security blogger, reported on
Twitterthat he had received a tip that the servers that power the entire
Internet were under attack. The well-regarded Mr. Krebs linked to an Internet
Traffic Report that said nine out of 13 Domain Name System servers had been
disabled in the largest denial of service ever reported - topping a 1997
incident in which a technical glitch disabled seven DNS root servers.

"At 1:45pm for about one hour an extremely large distributed denial-of-server
(DDoS) attack took place. The target of the attack were the 13 DNS root servers,
which are responsible for helping to resolving domain names to their respective
IP's. Even though 9 of the 13 servers were disabled in the attack, the remaining
were able to support the additional load without any widespead problems. Prior
to this attack, the largest outage for the root registry was 7 machines in July
of 1997, due to a technical problem."

An attack on the Domain Name System would be devastating. The system converts
people-friendly domain names like yahoo.com into the numeric addresses that
computers use to route traffic. By attacking the root servers that power the
system, attackers would crash the Internet's switchboard, making it impossible
for people to reach Web sites.

Anonymous, the loose hacking collective, threatened to take down the DNS root
servers in March - an effort that was unsuccessful but that prompted a
multimillion-dollar global effort to beef up the DNS system, given the potential
for devastation.

But Monday afternoon's report was a false alarm. And the unusual traffic
directed at the DNS root servers was actually the Internet's version of a fire
drill. The Internet Traffic Report that Mr. Krebs linked to was actually from
2002.

According to people who work closely with the DNS system, who declined to be
named because they were not authorized to speak, those who defend the Domain
Name System underwent an exercise this week to simulate a denial of service
attack on its root servers. The simulation was part of a regular exercise
conducted every six months, to make sure the system can withstand large amounts
of traffic in the event of attack.

The exercise was timed a little more than one week after Leon E. Panetta, the
defense secretary, warned that the United States was vulnerable to "cyber-Pearl
Harbor," with foreign hackers determined to attack the nation's critical
infrastructure, like its water supply and power plants.

As for Mr. Krebs, he later Tweeted that people should disregard his earlier
message. "Some days I just want to unplug and play Halo," Mr. Krebs wrote. "This
is one of those days."


     ·    Two-Step Computer Security, Beyond the A.T.M.
     ·    Online Voter Registration Is Called Vulnerable to Hackers
     ·    The Dangers of Allowing an Adversary Access to a Network
     ·    The Frightening Things You Hear at a Black Hat Conference
     ·    Computer Scientists Break Security Token Key in Record Time


LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                            October 22, 2012 Monday

This Week In Small Business: Looking Stupid on Twitter

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1645 words



HIGHLIGHT: Economic alarm bells, a $41,500 refrigerator, Michael Jordan's
barbecue sauce, and have you said anything you regretted on Twitter?


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.

The Election: Binders of Women

Small-business owners award a narrow victory to President Obama in the second
debate, where it seemed the only good business is a small business. Of course,
it didn't take long for someone to songify the whole thing or for these reviews
of binders for women to appear on Amazon. Matthew Yglesias urges the candidates
to stop talking about small businesses and income tax rates: "There are plenty
of good ideas out there to spark small-business hiring, but to make them happen,
politicians need to take a break from their obsession with arguing about the top
marginal-income tax rate and look instead at payroll taxes and monetary policy."
J.D. Harrison writes a small-business guide to the upcoming election. A new
survey from The Hartford finds that despite their views on the economy,
small-business owners see themselves as largely successful. Oddly, gasoline
prices seem to be dropping in important electoral states.

The Economy: Alarm Bells

Two Americans win Nobel prizes in economics. Business inventories increase,
lifted by automobile stocks. Consumers are asking, "What fiscal cliff?" as
retail sales and industrial production rise. Gallup says economic confidence is
at its highest since May. Residential building permits are strong and housing
construction surges. Manufacturing in the Philadelphia area expands, but the New
York region continues to contract. A forecast says global steel demand will slow
next year. Inflation is up. The federal deficit tops $1 trillion for the fourth
year in a row. Third-quarter earnings season has just begun, but companies are
already sounding alarm bells about the fourth quarter. Weekly unemployment
claims rise sharply.

Marketing: 140 Characters of Stupid

Rachel Blaufeld says you should get out there and stop hiding behind your
computer. Here are four simple ways to get more testimonials for your company. A
new holiday card collection from Hallmark offers something for every business.
More small businesses are turning to Facebook and mobile marketing to drive
growth. Brad Smith explains why you need to start using Google+. Jack Wrigley
compares engagement on social media to window shopping on Main Street: "You need
to pick products or services you feel will cause someone to stop, walk in the
proverbial door, buy what you're selling, and then tell everybody about it." Gaz
Copeland explains how to look stupid in 140 characters. Amy Porterfield alerts
you to a little-known Facebook feature that can help you monitor customers and
competitors.

Your People: Working From Home

Kaylie Astin says that the best employees don't work because they love their
company or boss; they work to advance personal goals. Hospital workers are the
least healthy workers. Amazon plans to hire 50,000 holiday employees and may
enter the semiconductor business. Eric C. Sinoway has thoughts on when to fire a
top performer who hurts your company's culture. This is how the worst employee
ever went on to build a successful company. Here's why your employees shouldn't
work from home. A new study says the shortage of skilled workers may be
exaggerated. Here are the top 10 reasons first-time freelancers fail. The
bloggers at Springwise share some outsourcing ideas.

Retail: Fashion Grows

Fashion is the fastest-growing segment of online commerce, and it's being
propelled by a surprising source: men. Gartner says fake online reviews are
becoming a bigger problem (Yelp hasone answer). Here's how to turn your slowest
foot-traffic day into the most popular day of the week. OpenTable is now
offering mobile booking for restaurant customers. This is the danger of having a
business van with sliding doors.

Cash Flow: A $41,500 Refrigerator

Here's why prepaying expenses may not be your best option. Josh Patrick explains
why you need to care about the cost of capital: "Owners have to come to a better
understanding of what their financial drivers are and figure out ways to produce
the needed returns. Or, if that can't be done, you can do what I did and decide
the industry is never going to allow you to make the returns you need and find a
way to leave." This $41,500 refrigerator is the size of a small car. PayPal
bolsters its credit offering for small businesses. The Boston Beer Company
introduces a program to offer loans to small businesses (and a speed coaching
event) in Los Angeles. Small businesses want better cash flow tools from banks.

Management: The Power of Criticism

Ben Horowitz explains how to make yourself a better chief executive: "It's
important that you give people feedback because you want them to succeed and not
because you want them to fail." Deborah Shane wants to know if you are branding
your competencies, characteristics and intangibles. Nadia Goodman says criticism
can drive you. This is how to create a healthy balance in life. Phil Simon says
you are probably forgetting something before making that big speech. Amy Jo
Martin explains how Nascar uses access to build loyal fans. Holly G. Green wants
you to take her test to determine if you are in the innovation danger zone.
Daniel Kehrer suggests five ways to make service part of your business. A new
study says that the "Physical Internet" - a concept in which goods are handled,
stored and transported in a shared network of manufacturers, retailers and the
transportation industry - would benefit the economy and reduce greenhouse gas
emissions. Over half of global businesses are still constrained by paper
invoices. Ashley Halligan suggests four steps nonprofits can take to establish a
lasting partnership.

Red Tape: Does It Come With Fries?

Looming federal budget cuts are a big risk to small businesses that rely on
government dollars. Michael Keating shares his thoughts on landing a government
contract. The Internal Revenue Service offers a free tax calendar for 2013.
According to this infographic, one in three small-business owners have been sued
in recent years. Someone paid $9,995 for a gallon of McDonald's Michael Jordan
barbecue sauce from 1992.

Around the Country: San Francisco Empties

MSNBC's "Your Business" host JJ Ramberg releases a book to help small-business
owners hook customers. The American Beverage Association sues New York City over
the mayor's soda ban. An Entrepreneur Roadshow at Rutgers Business School in
Newark will discuss pitching investors, the media and retailers. San Francisco
becomes empty in this time lapse video. Waste Management and Sam's Club team up
to provide membership discounts for small businesses. The National Federation of
Independent Business takes "I Built My Business" on tour. A guy falls 24 miles
out of the sky.

Around the World: A Can of Sardines

As penalties crush the rial, Iranians point fingers. The Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said leading indicators for the 34-nation
body point to "weakening growth in coming quarters" for most major economies. A
can of sardines inspired Mark Ruiz - a middle-class, well-educated Filipino from
Quezon City, just outside Manila - to begin his road to social entrepreneurship.
The world's most expensive cocktail is mixed in London. China's economy shows
signs of picking up after a seven-quarter slowdown. A Star Wars flash mob
appears.

Technology: Bad Week on Wall Street

Wall Street is disappointed by Microsoft, Google and IBM. Intel forecasts a big
drop in margins and AMD lays off 15 percent of its workforce. Heather Clancy has
four more mobile app development resources for small businesses. Paul McDougall
says Windows 8 beats the Mac but Brian Barrett advises against preordering
Microsoft's Surface tablet. Here are a few other projects Microsoft is working
on. Best Buy plans its own tablet. The Consumer Electronics Association releases
a list of technologies to watch. A new report says small businesses are
underestimating cyber threats. Take a look inside Google's data centers. As the
smartphone-user population climbed over one billion this week, adoption of such
wireless devices in the industrial environment is inching ever-closer to its own
explosive growth period. NCR upgrades its point of sale systems.

Tweets of the Week

@BobBurg
What separates the star #sales people & exceptional leaders is their unabridged
focus on the *other* person.

@NThickettGreat sales people never sell. They solve problems! It all starts with
great questions and listening.

[#x200f]@DonCooper#Sales Tip: When prospects really trust you, they'll buy what
& when you tell them to.

The Week's Bests

Jim Connolly says this is what every business owner needs to know about winning
arguments: "I often see small-business owners arguing with their customers,
clients and contacts - insisting they are right and the other person is wrong.
They insist on winning the argument (imposing their opinion as the only valid
one) rather than winning the client. That mindset is toxic to our business."

Tom Ewer lays out his stress-free approach to business: "The fact is this - best
laid plans often go awry. You cannot avoid that eventuality. Most adversities we
face become nothing but a blip on the radar in time. So when dealing with
business-related issues, consider them in a bigger context. How will this affect
you in the long-term? Is your life's work being destroyed, or are your goals
just being pushed back by a day or two?"

This Week's Question: Have you said anything you regretted on Twitter?

Gene Marks owns the  Marks Group , a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that
helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on
Twitter.


     ·    This Week in Small Business: Gangnam Style!
     ·    This Week in Small Business: They're Talking About Us!
     ·    This Week in Small Business: About That Replacement Ref
     ·    This Week in Small Business: $931 Billion in Cash
     ·    This Week in Small Business: An Elevator on the Moon


LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Campaign Stops)

                            October 22, 2012 Monday

Debating Points, Global Edition

BYLINE: THE EDITORS

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 6869 words



HIGHLIGHT: Analysts look at the third presidential debate region by region,
argument by argument.


 The editors of Campaign Stops asked our contributors and international analysts
to share their reactions to the third presidential debate. Tune in here for
regular updates.
 2:09 a.m. | Updated

Lynn Vavreck:Why Won't They Stop Agreeing?
Husain Haqqani: A Doomed Strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan
Eric L. Lewis: Mitt Romney's Egypt
Dennis Ross: Who's Prepared on Iran?
Michael S. Doran: Romney's Strategy for Syria
Daniel W. Drezner: The Anti-Bellum Romney
Anne-Marie Slaughter: America's Narcissism
Hanin Ghaddar: The Winner: Bashar al-Assad
Danielle Pletka: Don't Diss Defense Workers
Ross Douthat: Mitt's New Modesty
Dalia Dassa Kaye: A Crucial Difference on Iran
Sheena Chestnut Greitens: Where was Asia?
Nathan Thrall: Not Enough Daylight on Israel
Marisa Porges: Shopping List Foreign Policy

10:14 p.m. Lynn Vavreck | Why Won't They Stop Agreeing?

If we ask people to assess President Obama's performance on foreign policy
issues, we get judgments so closely tied to party identification they are hardly
worth discussing.  But when we take approval of the president out of the
question and ask people about their own ideas on America's role in the world,
there are some surprising areas of agreement - in fact, strong agreement it
turns out.

Using data from the Cooperative Campaign Analysis Project on the appropriate use
of military force, we find that we are not polarized over everything.  Ensuring
access to oil, destroying terrorist camps, intervening in a civil war, assisting
the spread of democracy, and helping our allies are all actions on which most
Americans agree - and sometimes profoundly so. The only worthy uses of our
military forces, the respondents say, are destroying terror training camps and
helping our allies; the rest are not.

Helping the United Nations uphold international law reveals the biggest
difference between the parties - Democrats think it is appropriate and
Republicans soundly disagree (I've presented the percentages separately on this
line for Democrats and Republicans).

But, lest you think the nation isn't polarized on foreign policy, consider this:
on some issues we see bigger differences between the attitudes of men and women
than we see between the parties.  On the question of whether it is appropriate
to use our military forces to destroy a terrorist camp, 71 percent of men say
yes while only half of women approve. On average, women's support for the use of
force is less strong than men's, by about 10 points.

With women making up the larger share (60 percent) of undecided voters and both
candidates fighting hard for their votes, it is not surprising that tonight we
heard more agreement between the two candidates than disagreement.  And although
there is no gender divide on whether Romney "says what he believes," there is a
gender difference on whether Obama is sincere.  Women are 11 points more likely,
on average, to think Obama says what he believes and 12 points more likely to
say this about Obama relative to Romney.


Lynn Vavreck is an associate professor of political science and communication
studies at U.C.L.A.

11:22 p.m. Husain Haqqani | A Doomed Strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan

President Obama said, referring to Osama bin Laden's killing, "If we had asked
Pakistan permission, we would not have gotten him." But if Pakistan can't be
trusted, the president owes the American people an explanation of how he'd deal
with a nuclear-armed impoverished country over the next four years.

Mr. Romney seems committed to changing Pakistani behavior. And although he
claims he wouldn't "divorce" Pakistan, Mr. Romney's answer showed that he would
downgrade Pakistan's status as an American ally. Demanding policy changes from
Pakistan in return for American support and friendship is a sound idea but
neither candidate has spelled out what specific instruments of persuasion or
coercion the United States might successfully deploy to that end.

The discussion over Afghanistan and Pakistan needs to be put in the context of
the wider issue of containing Islamist extremism. Mr. Obama defines success
against Al Qaeda very narrowly, glossing over how jihadist networks are already
preparing to regroup in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region after the withdrawal of
American combat forces in 2014. Mr. Obama has not articulated a plan to deal
with that challenge.

Killing bin Laden was a positive development but it alone will not make the
United States and its allies safe from terrorists. Al Qaeda and its affiliates
continue to recruit all over the Muslim world and their ability to organize and
train in remote parts of Yemen, Afghanistan and Pakistan has not been completely
disrupted. Little has been done to limit the influence of ideas or organizations
that lead young Muslims into terrorist training camps. And the withdrawal from
Iraq and Afghanistan has strengthened the jihadi narrative that America simply
does not have the staying power and can be forced to withdraw from Muslim
regions at very little cost.

In Afghanistan, the Taliban have neither been decisively defeated nor forced to
the negotiating table. It is unrealistic to assume that a professional Afghan
national army can be raised and fully assigned the task of securing the country
within a short time frame. The Taliban's ability to infiltrate this hastily
assembled army reveals the excessive optimism of this policy.

The United States could have withdrawn from Afghanistan far more successfully if
it hadn't announced a deadline for its withdrawal. That deadline also took away
any incentive for Pakistan's military to work with the United States against the
Taliban, thinking that it could instead sit the Americans out and wait for the
chance to maximize its influence in a post-American Afghanistan. The Obama
administration didn't succeed in persuading or coercing Pakistan into acting
against the Taliban and its unilateralism has only made it more difficult for
the few pro-American elements in Pakistan to fight their own battle against
jihadists.

It's fine to say "We do not want or like war'' but wars against an ideologically
motivated enemy, such as Al Qaeda and its affiliates, are wars of necessity.
Such wars cannot be fought according to a neat timeline and without effective
allies who share both the war's aims and its strategy.

Husain Haqqani served as Pakistan's ambassador to the United States from 2008 to
2011 and is a professor of international relations at Boston University and a
senior fellow at the Hudson Institute.

11:37 p.m. Eric L. Lewis | Mitt's Romney's Egypt

Pity poor Egypt. After suffering through thirty years of the Mubarak
kleptocracy, the people of Egypt rose up, deposed the dictator and elected a new
president, Mohammed Morsi. To be sure, the victory of Morsi and the Muslim
Brotherhood may not have been the first choice of American policy makers, but
one cannot have a policy of commitment to democracy and then reject democratic
outcomes.

The new Egyptian government will no doubt be less friendly than the Mubarak
regime, which was reliable, but at the expense of human rights, economic
development, transparency and hope for the Egyptian people. Yet Morsi promptly
reaffirmed what President Obama called in tonight's debate a "red line," the
peace treaty with Israel, which has permitted Israel to have predictability from
the largest country in the region.

None of these developments appear to satisfy Mitt Romney, who characterized
Egypt as part of the "chaos" and "extremism" of Syria and Mali. While hailing
the progress in Libya as "wonderful," he warns that "next door" is Egypt, where
the election of a "Muslim brotherhood President" constitutes a "reversal in the
kind of hopes we had for that region." Romney said he would not have supported
retaining Mubarak, but he views the outcome of a free election - indeed a
predictable outcome of an election held so soon after the revolution - as a
failure of the Arab Spring.

It is way too early to declare Egypt a success. It is not easy to shake off a
sclerotic and corrupt system that was in place for sixty years. It is a country
of 80 million people, many of whom live in terrible poverty. It exports many of
its most talented people because its economy cannot accommodate them. Its Coptic
Christian minority is uneasy, to say the least. The business community has
largely remained on the sidelines. And many in its new government have spent the
last thirty years avoiding the brutal security apparatus of the Mubarak regime
rather than readying themselves for the challenges of governing a modern state.

But Romney's suggestion that the election of a Muslim Brotherhood government
constitutes a reversal for the region is indicative of a dangerous equation of
Muslim ruling parties with "jihadists" and "terrorists." Syria and Iran were
Baathist governments, nominally socialist secular states. The Assad clan and
Saddam Hussein did not kill in the name of jihad. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan
in Turkey governs as a moderate Islamist, sharing some ideological roots with
the Muslim Brotherhood. Rejected for membership in the European Union, Turkey
under Erdogan has surged ahead of the peripheral European nations and assumed a
leadership role in the region. To be sure, Hamas also has roots in the Muslim
Brotherhood. Whether Egypt moves toward the Turkish model or the Hamas model
will be determined in significant measure by the wisdom of American policy.

The Romney approach - lumping Egypt with Mali, Baathists with Islamists, the
Muslim Brotherhood with jihadists - retains the ahistorical arrogance of the
Bush years. We need to understand the social and political dynamics of countries
that we would purport to influence. And we need to have the humility to
understand that our influence must be exercised with restraint and pragmatism.
Mitt Romney's apparent belief in restructuring the world from the top down as we
would wish it to be shows an obdurate refusal to learn from the tragic mistakes
of the past.

Eric L. Lewis is a partner at Lewis Baach PLLC in Washington.

11:48 p.m. Dennis Ross | Who's Prepared on Iran?

Listening to tonight's debate, one would be hard-pressed to identify a clear
difference between what President Barack Obama and Governor Mitt Romney would do
in dealing with Iran.  Both made it clear that prevention, not containment, of a
nuclear armed Iran is their objective.  The President was particularly blunt,
saying that as long as he is president, Iran will not become a nuclear-armed
state.  While Mr. Romney made it clear that America could not accept Iran
becoming nuclear weapons capable, the president went further and said that we
could not allow Iran to develop a "breakout capacity."  By this he meant that
America could not allow Iran to reach the point where its accumulated enriched
uranium, the level of enrichment, and the numbers and quality of centrifuges
would allow Iran to quickly create nuclear weapons before we could act
militarily to prevent it.

Their mutual emphasis on prevention does not mean that either Mr. Obama or Mr.
Romney will forgo diplomacy and rush to war.  Both were clear that the use of
force is the last resort.  Both cited their belief that increasing the pressure
of crippling sanctions may yet alter  Iranian behavior.  The President took
pride in having mobilized the world to impose crippling sanctions that are now
wreaking havoc with the Iranian economy.  Mr. Romney agreed on their effect, and
the need to do more.  We can certainly anticipate that both would seek to
tighten the economic sanctions in 2013.  To be sure, Mr. Romney went further in
one respect:  he is prepared to indict the President of Iran under the Genocide
Convention and treat Iranian diplomats the way those of apartheid South Africa
were treated.

Both also indicated that they would see if a diplomatic or negotiated outcome
was possible.  My expectation is that regardless of who is elected, there will
be a diplomatic initiative or endgame proposal designed to test whether Iran is
prepared to accept an outcome in which it has civil nuclear power but its
nuclear program is restricted in a way that would largely deny it a breakout
capability.
I say that because prevention as an objective necessarily will lead at some
point to the use of force against the Iranian nuclear program if diplomacy
fails.  I don't see either Mr. Obama or Mr. Romney resorting to force without
being able to demonstrate that they sought to exhaust all other options first.

The bottom line:  their basic approach to Iran seems very similar.  But the
president, having lived with and thought through the issue for the last four
years, is more equipped to move more quickly on Iran than Mr. Romney.  If
elected, Mr. Romney would have to establish his administration and probably
conduct a review of his options.  President Obama has already done that.

Dennis Ross, a former State Department and National Security Council official,
was a special assistant to President Obama for the Middle East and South Asia
from 2009 to 2011. He is now a counselor at the Washington Institute for Near
East Policy.

12:01 a.m. Michael S. Doran | Romney's Strategy for Syria

On Syria, Mitt Romney won - but only on points, certainly not with a knock-out
blow.  Mr. Romney addressed the question in a manner that showed a superior
strategic vision.  He framed the civil war in Syria as an opportunity, a chance
to strike at Iran.  "Syria," Mr. Romney said, "is Iran's only ally in the Arab
world," stressing the role the regime of Bashar al-Assad plays as Iran's base
for extending its influence in the Eastern Mediterranean.   Toppling Mr. Assad,
Mr. Romney correctly explained, would deal a blow to Hezbollah and roll back
Iranian influence throughout the region.

By contrast, President Obama listed a number of actions that his administration
has taken, but failed to place them in a wider context.  He did not even mention
Iran in the course of the discussion.

Syria represents a very rare thing in international politics: a crisis in which
our strategic interests and values are in perfect alignment.  At least 30,000
have died, and millions have been made refugees.  As the greatest power in the
Middle East, the United States is untrue to itself if it fails to take decisive
action against a dictator who murders civilians with impunity.

Yet, in fact, the Obama administration has been relatively passive, as Prime
Minister Erdogan of Turkey recently complained.  "Right now," Mr. Erdogan said,
"there are certain things being expected from the United States," but America
has "not yet catered to those expectations." In the debate tonight Mr. Romney
struck a similar note, stressing that America "should be playing the leadership
role."

But Mr. Romney did not define a clear path forward.  The president claimed that
Romney "doesn't have different ideas, and that's because we're doing exactly
what we should be doing to try to promote a moderate, Syrian leadership."  There
was truth in the statement.

At a moment when there is no appetite among Americans for a new foreign
adventure, Mr. Romney was careful to stress that he did not support deploying
the American military in Syria.  He even rejected the idea of enforcing a no-fly
zone.  Yet an American-implemented no-fly zone is precisely what is needed to
turn the Romney strategic vision into a practical reality.

Mr. Romney displayed a much better grasp of the strategic stakes in Syria, but
when it came to specifics, his policy differed little from the president's.

Michael S. Doran, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, served on the
National Security Council and at the Defense Department official between 2005
and 2008.

12:02 a.m. Daniel W. Drezner | The Anti-Bellum Romney

Many people believe that Mitt Romney won the first debate because of Barack
Obama's somnambulant performance. That overlooked Romney's deft pivot to the
center, which he pulled off by doing things like praising government regulation.
This is consistent with a truism in political science: in an election,
candidates try to target the median voter. In presidential politics, candidates
might win primaries by pleasing their party's ideological base - but in general
elections, they target the moderates, because those are the voters decide the
election.

Romney doubled down on that strategy in the foreign policy debate. After a year
of very hot and bellicose rhetoric, the governor sounded different tonight. He
argued that "we can't kill our way out of" the problems in the Middle East. He
averred that "we want a peaceful planet." He explicitly stated he didn't want to
get involved militarily in Syria. Romney said the sanctions in Iran were
working. He praised the president on numerous fronts - Afghanistan and Pakistan
in particular. He even talked about China as a partner before bashing its trade
policies. To be fair, the governor has said some of this before, but tonight the
emphasis was on diplomacy and peace, not brute force.

In doing all this, Romney was trying to allay the fears of undecided voters who
are wary of expending more blood and treasure overseas. Romney's sotto voce
message was that he would be a hot-headed, trigger-happy cowboy - like the Last
Republican President Who Shall Not Be Named. For undecided voters who are
clearly sick of foreign wars, this could be very soothing indeed.

Will it work? One difference between this debate and the one in Denver is that
President Obama seemed prepared for the pivot this time. The president was
ready, willing and able to highlight the inconsistencies in Romney's previous
statements and claims. He accused Romney of being "all over the map" on numerous
issues. He also ridiculed Romney's proposed naval buildup, pointing out that
foreign policy wasn't a game of Battleship. It seems like the president was
genuinely proud of his foreign policy accomplishments - as opposed to simply
treading water on the economy.

For the past month, Mitt Romney had been chipping away at Obama's foreign policy
record. Tonight he seemed to want to emulate it. His clear hope is that the
performance was good enough for voters to be comfortable with him as a sober and
prudent commander-in-chief. That way, they can ignore Obama's critique and
happily forget about international relations for another four years. We'll find
out over the next few days if he succeeded.

Daniel W. Drezner is a professor of international politics at Tufts and blogs at
Foreign Policy magazine.

12:21 a.m. Anne-Marie Slaughter | America's Narcissism

The much-heralded foreign policy debate wasn't really a debate, as Barack Obama
and Mitt Romney agreed on 90 percent of the issues. And it was barely about
foreign policy, as education reform (we all love teachers), Detroit,
nation-building at home, and taxes got far more play than any part of the world
other than the Middle East, North Africa, Afghanistan and Pakistan, and China.

Romney trotted out a new rhetorical meme: "America must promote principles of
peace." Obama looked and sounded every inch the commander-in-chief. But the
lasting impression of the debate, certainly for anyone watching in the rest of
the world, is just how narrowly Americans define foreign policy. Neither
candidate mentioned NATO. Indeed, neither candidate mentioned the European Union
or the Eurozone crisis, other than Mr. Romney's dire predictions that the United
States will soon be Greece unless he is elected.

Moving east, the candidates barely mentioned a single country in East Asia other
than China. There was only the briefest reference to Japan (our closest ally in
Asia) by the moderator and a single mention of North Korea (another very
dangerous nuclear power). Indonesia, the largest Muslim country in the world,
didn't come up. For that matter, there was no reference to India (a mere billion
people).  This silence is all the more striking given Mr. Obama's reference at
the end of the debate to his administration's purported "pivot to Asia," a pivot
that was supposed to be away from the Middle East. Yet when Mr. Obama was asked
to name the greatest threat to the United States he said terrorist networks; Mr.
Romney said a nuclear Iran.

Beyond individual countries, consider the silence on the global issues that are
vitally important to the rest of the world. Neither candidate ever uttered the
word "climate." Or drug violence. Or poverty, disease, food, water, or even
energy.

This really wasn't a debate about foreign policy or world affairs. It was the
projection of the American electoral map onto the globe. All discussion of
Israel and Islam was targeted at Florida; all discussion of China was targeted
at Ohio. From a real foreign policy perspective, a business in which we devote a
great deal of time and effort to reassuring and mobilizing our friends and
allies and trying to solve global problems, we can only hope the rest of the
world wasn't listening.

Anne-Marie Slaughter, a professor of politics and international affairs at
Princeton, was director of policy planning at the State Department from 2009 to
2011.

12:41 a.m.  Hanin Ghaddar | The Winner: Bashar al-Assad

Tonight's debate was expected to reveal the candidates' thorough and detailed
strategies when it comes to the American foreign policy. However, this debate
offered very little.

Syria is a case in point. Both candidates seem to have the same confused and
paralyzed policy towards Syria. They both want to make friends with the Syrian
people, but the real competition was instead on who can be a better friend to
Israel.

Governor Mitt Romney was simply advocating President Obama's foreign policy in
Syria, which is inaction. There are simply no meaningful differences. Both want
to let the Syrian people "determine their own fate," which so far has been a
very bloody and dark one.

Power comes with responsibility, and the Syrians expected a more responsible
stance from what should be the most powerful state in the world. On both Twitter
and Facebook, Syrians expressed disappointment with both candidates. They saw
America's power implemented in Libya and wanted the same treatment. However, it
seems both Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama have washed their hands of the Syrian people
and decided to stay in the viewing seat.

The policy of inaction in Syria, which apparently will continue no matter which
candidate wins, has led to the humanitarian crisis which both candidates
lamented, and also to the rise of Islamists. Because of inaction in Syria, the
United States is losing the opportunity to lead. America's inaction in Syria is
causing chaos to spread to neighboring countries, such as Turkey, Jordan, and
last but not least Lebanon, where a car bomb killed senior Lebanese security
official Gen. Wissam al-Hassan and unleashed a wave of sectarian street violence
across the country. More inaction will mean more sectarian violence, not only in
Syria, but throughout the region. The United States and its allies surely do not
wish to see that.

For the Syrian people, intervention never meant boots on the ground. They have
specifically asked for safe havens and anti-aircraft missiles, not more. That's
all they need to defeat the Assad regime. Both candidates failed to discuss
these options in detail. The Syrian people deserve to know why these two
specific requests are so hard for the United States to offer. Instead, all they
heard was "we are afraid to give you arms because we do not trust you won't use
it against us." Without trust, there can be no friendship.

The only difference between the two was that Romney seemed to see the Middle
East as one big space of terror. He repeatedly referred to the developments in
past two years in the region as chaos and tumult. This is an insult to the
people who have sacrificed their lives, and still are, in order to topple their
dictators. That's also a bad way to make friends.

The Syrians understood tonight that no matter who wins, they are on their own,
and that the big winner of this debate is Bashar al-Assad.

Hanin Ghaddar is the editor of NOW Lebanon.

12:47 a.m. Danielle Pletka | Don't Diss Defense Workers

If what you care about is foreign policy and you tuned in tonight, you may have
been a tad disappointed by the focus on car tires and teachers and by Barack
Obama's rather robotic insistence on "nation building here at home."  If you
care about national defense and are particularly worried about sequestration
(the plan that would likely cut $500 billion from the defense budget in January
2013), the President's blithe assertion that it won't happen - no proof, no
policy, just "I'm Barack Obama and I approve this message" - may not have
convinced you.

On the other hand, Mitt Romney did little more to convey the security costs of a
rollback in defense that could mean that, by the end of this decade, Americans
will be spending more annually to service their national debt that they will on
national security.

Mr. Romney recycled the oft-used sentiment that the President's request for
naval ships will be the smallest since 1917.  Mr. Obama quoted Mr. Romney's
talking points back to him, citing the actual year - 1916 - and ridiculed
Romney's failure to understand that the military doesn't fight with bayonets and
horses anymore.  But the reality is that Mr. Obama's request is for a Navy
unseen since 1916.  And for an Air Force little improved from the one our
fathers knew.  And for a tanker fleet so ancient, all operations are analog.
And for a bomber fleet conceived during the Carter years.  In that context, cute
horse comments are a lame comeback.

If your aim is to win in Virginia, it is probably better not to make fun of the
naval fleet (note to the Obama team). Defense workers in Ohio and Virginia are
game for more investment. If you want to score points on national defense, it's
probably best not to be snide (though hipsters love it).  Truth be told, many
who believe in America's national mission are comfortable with the "peace
through strength" message Mr. Romney sought to convey.

Fundamentally, the question is less about the score that Twitter and the
spinners give to their favored obsession.  Rather, it's about who sends a
message of American resolve, belief in American power, and commitment to
American investment in defense.  If that's what matters to you - be you American
voter, adversary, or terrorist - then it's likely that Mr. Romney's message, on
principle and politics, hit home a little harder than Mr. Obama's.  And that,
folks, is what the debates are all about.

Danielle Pletka is the vice president for foreign and defense studies at the
American Enterprise Institute.

12:52 a.m. Ross Douthat | Mitt's New Modesty

When Mitt Romney punctuated one of his early answers tonight with a reference to
the Islamist forces gaining power in the collapsing state of Mali - a reference
obscure to almost every viewer, except those who share my particular obsession
with the ripple effects of our Libyan intervention - I had the sense that
genuine swing voters must have almost all the time: I thought, hey, he's talking
to me.

That sense persisted for much of the night. As a conservative who's grown
steadily more skeptical of military interventions ever since the weapons of mass
destruction didn't turn up in Iraq, I've been critical of Romney throughout this
campaign for trying to out-hawk President Obama at every turn, and for trying to
sell a war-weary public on the largely implausible idea that Obama is a
weak-kneed appeaser unwilling to show toughness overseas. But tonight, given the
chance to throw that argument in the president's face, the Republican nominee
mostly soft-pedaled it, shying away from sharp contrasts, emphasizing areas of
agreement and repeatedly mentioning his own desire for peace.

Romney's turn toward pragmatism was most pronounced on Afghanistan, where he
basically endorsed the White House's plan for a 2014 withdrawal without offering
any of his usual hawkish criticisms and caveats. But the same
difference-blurring thread ran through almost all his answers. Yes, he promised
more military spending and tried to hit the president hard on Obama's supposed
"apology tour" in the Middle East, but otherwise this debate felt like a
90-minute confirmation of what a lot of analysts have pointed out: Strip away
the "no apologies" rhetoric, and the differences between the president and his
rival on foreign policy look relatively modest.

This isn't necessarily a good thing for the country, which probably deserves a
more robust debate over American strategy than the one we just watched. And by
essentially acknowledging the overlap between his posture and the president's,
Romney almost guaranteed that Obama would win the debate on points - which the
president pretty clearly did, deploying the advantages of incumbency (not to
mention the execution of a certain Al Qaeda leader) effectively in an arena
where Americans are still inclined to trust him.

The question is what the audience was looking for. If they were looking for
evidence that a Romney administration would deliver significantly better results
overseas, then they probably came away disappointed, and Obama's win will boost
him in the polls. But if they were just looking (as I'll admit that I was
looking) to be reassured that Romney is something other than a wild-eyed
warmonger, then the Republican nominee may have helped his cause tonight even in
defeat.

Ross Douthat is an Op-Ed columnist.

1:09 a.m.  Dalia Dassa Kaye |  A Crucial Difference on Iran

Mitt Romney and Barack Obama had some sharp rhetorical exchanges, but on
substance there were few discernible differences. If Mr. Obama was expecting Mr.
Romney to distinguish himself by supporting military policies that would be
unpopular with Americans (whether in Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan or Iran), he was
likely disappointed. Mr. Romney went out of his way to argue that killing bad
guys would not be enough to fight radical forces; economic development,
education and civil society are key ingredients to future stability. Mr. Obama
couldn't agree more.

Mr. Obama said his aim is to get Iran to stop its "nuclear program," while
Romney spoke about preventing a "nuclear-capable" Iran. But neither candidate
defined the point in Iran's nuclear enrichment that would trigger military
action.  Both agreed military action would be the last resort. And Mr. Romney
even credited Mr. Obama for applying crippling sanctions, only criticizing him
for not doing it earlier (which of course Mr. Obama denied) and suggesting he
would find ways to strengthen them.

But on the Iran file, a consequential distinction emerged. For Mr. Obama, the
intent of crippling sanctions is to bring Iran to the negotiating table to agree
to give up its nuclear program and abide by United Nations resolutions, arguing
there's a "deal to be had." In contrast, Mr. Romney called for diplomatic
isolation of Iran, arguing Iran's diplomats should be treated like pariahs
around the world. Diplomatic pressure, as Mr. Romney advocates, is not the same
as negotiations. The dilemma is how sanctions and pressure would dissuade Iran's
leaders from pursuing their nuclear program (as Mr. Romney recommended) if a
President Romney wouldn't  agree to sit down and talk with them.

Mr. Obama did not appear to pick up on this disconnect, most likely because he
wanted to emphasize the "tough" aspects of his Iran policy and not the off-ramp
strategy that will inevitably involve bilateral negotiations with Iran. But if a
Romney administration were to pursue a policy shunning diplomacy, it is hard to
see how the current sanctions policies, and more covert actions like sabotage,
would lead to a resolution. The more likely scenario if diplomacy is rejected or
fails is continued escalation--and potentially war.

Dalia Dassa Kaye is director of the Center for Middle East Public Policy at the
RAND Corporation.

1:35 a.m. Sheena Chestnut Greitens | Where was Asia?

Tonight both presidential candidates acknowledged the centrality of Asia to
America's interests.  The Obama administration offers its "Asia pivot" as a
foreign policy success story.  Mitt Romney wants a bigger Navy to keep America's
commitments in the region credible and robust.  According to Secretary of
Defense Leon Panetta, 60 percent of the Navy's warships will be located in the
Pacific by 2020.

Not once tonight did anyone talk about what those ships are going to do when
they get there.

Tonight's foreign policy debate allotted less than 15 of its 90 minutes to Asia,
a region with the world's fastest economic growth rates and over half of its
population. The only country receiving more than a passing mention was China,
and even China was discussed only in economic terms.

How to handle the security relationship between the two countries with the
world's largest military budgets went unmentioned, as did the United States'
broader strategy in a region critical to American security interests, where the
next president will have to make a series of tough choices and may well face
multiple foreign policy crises.

There was no discussion of American policy on the Korean peninsula, where 28,500
American forces stand watch in a war that has not ended, and where our allies
this weekend evacuated residents along the DMZ after North Korea threatened to
retaliate against an activist group's balloon launch with artillery fire.

There was no discussion of the recently announced plan to rotate more American
planes, ships, and personnel through the Philippines, which in April sailed an
American-made cutter into confrontation with China in disputed waters, and then
suggested that America was obligated to assist in that confrontation under the
terms of a 1951 Mutual Defense Treaty.

There was no discussion of Taiwan, which asked the United States for over 60 new
F-16 fighters and last year got a $5.8 billion upgrade to its old ones instead -
a decision that the official Chinese press called "a despicable breach of faith"
- or of the American "Air-Sea Battle" concept generally perceived to be a
template for future conflict with China.

There was no discussion of whether America's commitment to those who call for
democracy and human rights - a commitment both candidates affirmed - can or
should extend past Tunisia and Tahrir to Tibet, where over fifty people have set
themselves on fire without producing the political change that a single
self-immolation sparked in the Arab World.

Today the world's attention is riveted on crises in the Middle East.  Tomorrow's
flashpoints lie in Asia.  Unfortunately, tonight's debate did little to clarify
how either candidate would handle a 3 a.m. phone call that comes not from
Benghazi, but from Beijing.

Sheena Chestnut Greitens is a doctoral candidate in government at Harvard and a
fellow at the United States Institute of Peace and at the Miller Center,
University of Virginia.

1:48 a.m. Nathan Thrall | Not Enough Daylight on Israel

Monday's debate in Boca Raton offered another venue for President Obama and Mitt
Romney to compete over who can appear closer to Israel. Mr. Obama trumpeted his
administration's "unprecedented military and intelligence cooperation" with
Israel, while Mr. Romney advertised his close relationship with Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.

Mr. Obama contrasted Mr. Romney's decision to use his recent trip to Israel to
"take donors" and "attend fundraisers" with the president's own visits to
Israel's Holocaust memorial and the "town of Sderot, which had experienced
missiles raining down from Hamas." Mr. Romney countered by asserting that the
president had generated "turmoil" with Israel, noting that 38 Democratic
senators had signed a letter urging him to repair the damage.

Mr. Romney also repeated his earlier criticism of the president having
reportedly stated that there should be daylight between the United States and
Israel when negotiating a settlement between Israel and the Palestinians. Yet,
by definition, some distance must exist between a mediator and the parties to a
negotiation if that mediator is to live up to its claim of being an honest
broker.

If wishing to eliminate any daylight between America and one party to the
conflict is Mr. Romney's desire, it is one at odds with his professed goal to
help Israelis and the Palestinians reach a peace agreement - a goal he did not
seem to possess when at a closed-door fundraiser in Florida earlier this year he
said the Palestinians have "no interest whatsoever in establishing peace," and
"the pathway to peace is almost unthinkable to accomplish." Romney went on:

You hope for some degree of stability, but you recognize that this is going to
remain an unsolved problem - and we kick the ball down the field and hope that
ultimately, somehow, something will happen and resolve it.

Kicking the ball down the field while professing an interest in an
Israeli-Palestinian settlement is precisely what President Obama has been doing
for the last several years. The policy of the next administration, whether Mr.
Romney's first or Mr. Obama's second, will be to uphold this status quo:
supporting an unelected Palestinian prime minister and a Palestinian president
whose term long ago expired; continuing to prevent the exercise of power by the
victors in the last Palestinian national election; negotiating with a set of
unelected P.L.O. leaders who cannot credibly claim to represent most
Palestinians; prioritizing the funding of Palestinian security forces who arrest
their political opponents and prevent peaceful protests against Israeli
settlements and military installations; and meekly criticizing Israel's
expanding settlement construction while exercising no leverage in order to
thwart it.

These policies will eventually backfire, as they have in other parts of the
region where the United States stood against popular aspirations and supported
authoritarian regimes. But on these issues, there is precious little daylight
between the candidates.

Nathan Thrall is a Jerusalem-based Middle East analyst with the International
Crisis Group.

2:09 a.m. Marisa Porges | Shopping List Foreign Policy

At least Game 7 of the National League Championship Series was a blowout. But if
you chose to watch tonight's debate instead of baseball - hoping, like many of
us, for clarity on the next four years of American foreign policy - you were
sorely disappointed.

What did we hear? Not a lot. Not a single mention of looming cyber threats,
despite the fact that Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta recently sounded an
alarm about America's vulnerability to a possible "cyber Pearl Harbor." No
mention of Yemen and the growing influence of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula,
which many consider the most significant terrorist threat in the world. Nor was
there any discussion of Guantánamo or the future of American detention
operations, leaving major questions unanswered about how the United States would
handle captured terrorists in the future.

How would each candidate face the considerable challenges of the Afghanistan
transition - like propping up the Afghan security forces, trying to negotiate a
settlement with the Taliban, or forestalling a full-scale civil war after
American and NATO forces depart?  Apparently, it's not a concern. For Mr.
Romney, it was simple as saying the Afghans "will be ready by the end of 2014."
Full stop. While President Obama acknowledged in passing that the transition in
Afghanistan "has to take place in a responsible fashion," he quickly changed
course and began talking about veterans and jobs in America. Both are critical
issues, to be sure. But neither is particularly helpful for those wondering if
thousands of American lives lost and billions of dollars spent in Afghanistan
will be wasted by a poorly executed transition.

Those concerned with the future of American engagement in the Middle East were
likewise frustrated. Regarding the ongoing threat of extremism in the Arab
World, Mr. Romney simply suggested a shopping list of grand objectives: economic
development, better education, gender equality, and rule of law--a plan that
sounds an awful lot like nation building. What remained entirely unclear is how
Mr. Romney would actually make progress on any of these fronts, particularly in
countries of critical concern. Meanwhile, Mr. Obama pointed out that we "cannot
just meet these challenges militarily" and quickly mentioned religious
minorities and women and encouraging economic development before neatly
sidestepping to "nation building here at home."

Ultimately, tonight's debate didn't change many (any?) voters' opinions about
either candidate. And it left national security wonks I know banging their heads
against the table, still wondering how the election will affect America's
foreign policies in the years ahead. But at least we're now certain the military
has fewer bayonets than it did in 1916.

Marisa L. Porges, a former counterterrorism adviser in the Departments of
Defense and Treasury, is a fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and
International Affairs at the Harvard Kennedy School.


     ·    To Stop Iran, the G.O.P. Should Back Obama
     ·    Other Stops: Repairing Relations With the Rest of the World
     ·    Blunders and Binders
     ·    Obama's Narrow Victory
     ·    Debating Points: Obama vs. Romney, Round Two


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Campaign Stops)

                            October 22, 2012 Monday

Debating Points, Global Edition

BYLINE: THE EDITORS

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 6868 words



HIGHLIGHT: Analysts look at the third presidential debate region by region,
argument by argument.


 The editors of Campaign Stops asked our contributors and international analysts
to share their reactions to the third presidential debate. Tune in here for
regular updates.
 2:09 a.m. | Updated

Lynn Vavreck:Why Won't They Stop Agreeing?
Husain Haqqani: A Doomed Strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan
Eric L. Lewis: Mitt Romney's Egypt
Dennis Ross: Who's Prepared on Iran?
Michael S. Doran: Romney's Strategy for Syria
Daniel W. Drezner: The Anti-Bellum Romney
Anne-Marie Slaughter: America's Narcissism
Hanin Ghaddar: The Winner: Bashar al-Assad
Danielle Pletka: Don't Diss Defense Workers
Ross Douthat: Mitt's New Modesty
Dalia Dassa Kaye: A Crucial Difference on Iran
Sheena Chestnut Greitens: Where was Asia?
Nathan Thrall: Not Enough Daylight on Israel
Marisa Porges: Shopping List Foreign Policy

10:14 p.m. Lynn Vavreck | Why Won't They Stop Agreeing?

If we ask people to assess President Obama's performance on foreign policy
issues, we get judgments so closely tied to party identification they are hardly
worth discussing.  But when we take approval of the president out of the
question and ask people about their own ideas on America's role in the world,
there are some surprising areas of agreement - in fact, strong agreement it
turns out.

Using data from the Cooperative Campaign Analysis Project on the appropriate use
of military force, we find that we are not polarized over everything.  Ensuring
access to oil, destroying terrorist camps, intervening in a civil war, assisting
the spread of democracy, and helping our allies are all actions on which most
Americans agree - and sometimes profoundly so. The only worthy uses of our
military forces, the respondents say, are destroying terror training camps and
helping our allies; the rest are not.

Helping the United Nations uphold international law reveals the biggest
difference between the parties - Democrats think it is appropriate and
Republicans soundly disagree (I've presented the percentages separately on this
line for Democrats and Republicans).

But, lest you think the nation isn't polarized on foreign policy, consider this:
on some issues we see bigger differences between the attitudes of men and women
than we see between the parties.  On the question of whether it is appropriate
to use our military forces to destroy a terrorist camp, 71 percent of men say
yes while only half of women approve. On average, women's support for the use of
force is less strong than men's, by about 10 points.

With women making up the larger share (60 percent) of undecided voters and both
candidates fighting hard for their votes, it is not surprising that tonight we
heard more agreement between the two candidates than disagreement.  And although
there is no gender divide on whether Romney "says what he believes," there is a
gender difference on whether Obama is sincere.  Women are 11 points more likely,
on average, to think Obama says what he believes and 12 points more likely to
say this about Obama relative to Romney.


Lynn Vavreck is an associate professor of political science and communication
studies at U.C.L.A.

11:22 p.m. Husain Haqqani | A Doomed Strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan

President Obama said, referring to Osama bin Laden's killing, "If we had asked
Pakistan permission, we would not have gotten him." But if Pakistan can't be
trusted, the president owes the American people an explanation of how he'd deal
with a nuclear-armed impoverished country over the next four years.

Mr. Romney seems committed to changing Pakistani behavior. And although he
claims he wouldn't "divorce" Pakistan, Mr. Romney's answer showed that he would
downgrade Pakistan's status as an American ally. Demanding policy changes from
Pakistan in return for American support and friendship is a sound idea but
neither candidate has spelled out what specific instruments of persuasion or
coercion the United States might successfully deploy to that end.

The discussion over Afghanistan and Pakistan needs to be put in the context of
the wider issue of containing Islamist extremism. Mr. Obama defines success
against Al Qaeda very narrowly, glossing over how jihadist networks are already
preparing to regroup in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region after the withdrawal of
American combat forces in 2014. Mr. Obama has not articulated a plan to deal
with that challenge.

Killing bin Laden was a positive development but it alone will not make the
United States and its allies safe from terrorists. Al Qaeda and its affiliates
continue to recruit all over the Muslim world and their ability to organize and
train in remote parts of Yemen, Afghanistan and Pakistan has not been completely
disrupted. Little has been done to limit the influence of ideas or organizations
that lead young Muslims into terrorist training camps. And the withdrawal from
Iraq and Afghanistan has strengthened the jihadi narrative that America simply
does not have the staying power and can be forced to withdraw from Muslim
regions at very little cost.

In Afghanistan, the Taliban have neither been decisively defeated nor forced to
the negotiating table. It is unrealistic to assume that a professional Afghan
national army can be raised and fully assigned the task of securing the country
within a short time frame. The Taliban's ability to infiltrate this hastily
assembled army reveals the excessive optimism of this policy.

The United States could have withdrawn from Afghanistan far more successfully if
it hadn't announced a deadline for its withdrawal. That deadline also took away
any incentive for Pakistan's military to work with the United States against the
Taliban, thinking that it could instead sit the Americans out and wait for the
chance to maximize its influence in a post-American Afghanistan. The Obama
administration didn't succeed in persuading or coercing Pakistan into acting
against the Taliban and its unilateralism has only made it more difficult for
the few pro-American elements in Pakistan to fight their own battle against
jihadists.

It's fine to say "We do not want or like war'' but wars against an ideologically
motivated enemy, such as Al Qaeda and its affiliates, are wars of necessity.
Such wars cannot be fought according to a neat timeline and without effective
allies who share both the war's aims and its strategy.

Husain Haqqani served as Pakistan's ambassador to the United States from 2008 to
2011 and is a professor of international relations at Boston University and a
senior fellow at the Hudson Institute.

11:37 p.m. Eric L. Lewis | Mitt's Romney's Egypt

Pity poor Egypt. After suffering through thirty years of the Mubarak
kleptocracy, the people of Egypt rose up, deposed the dictator and elected a new
president, Mohammed Morsi. To be sure, the victory of Morsi and the Muslim
Brotherhood may not have been the first choice of American policy makers, but
one cannot have a policy of commitment to democracy and then reject democratic
outcomes.

The new Egyptian government will no doubt be less friendly than the Mubarak
regime, which was reliable, but at the expense of human rights, economic
development, transparency and hope for the Egyptian people. Yet Morsi promptly
reaffirmed what President Obama called in tonight's debate a "red line," the
peace treaty with Israel, which has permitted Israel to have predictability from
the largest country in the region.

None of these developments appear to satisfy Mitt Romney, who characterized
Egypt as part of the "chaos" and "extremism" of Syria and Mali. While hailing
the progress in Libya as "wonderful," he warns that "next door" is Egypt, where
the election of a "Muslim brotherhood President" constitutes a "reversal in the
kind of hopes we had for that region." Romney said he would not have supported
retaining Mubarak, but he views the outcome of a free election - indeed a
predictable outcome of an election held so soon after the revolution - as a
failure of the Arab Spring.

It is way too early to declare Egypt a success. It is not easy to shake off a
sclerotic and corrupt system that was in place for sixty years. It is a country
of 80 million people, many of whom live in terrible poverty. It exports many of
its most talented people because its economy cannot accommodate them. Its Coptic
Christian minority is uneasy, to say the least. The business community has
largely remained on the sidelines. And many in its new government have spent the
last thirty years avoiding the brutal security apparatus of the Mubarak regime
rather than readying themselves for the challenges of governing a modern state.

But Romney's suggestion that the election of a Muslim Brotherhood government
constitutes a reversal for the region is indicative of a dangerous equation of
Muslim ruling parties with "jihadists" and "terrorists." Syria and Iran were
Baathist governments, nominally socialist secular states. The Assad clan and
Saddam Hussein did not kill in the name of jihad. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan
in Turkey governs as a moderate Islamist, sharing some ideological roots with
the Muslim Brotherhood. Rejected for membership in the European Union, Turkey
under Erdogan has surged ahead of the peripheral European nations and assumed a
leadership role in the region. To be sure, Hamas also has roots in the Muslim
Brotherhood. Whether Egypt moves toward the Turkish model or the Hamas model
will be determined in significant measure by the wisdom of American policy.

The Romney approach - lumping Egypt with Mali, Baathists with Islamists, the
Muslim Brotherhood with jihadists - retains the ahistorical arrogance of the
Bush years. We need to understand the social and political dynamics of countries
that we would purport to influence. And we need to have the humility to
understand that our influence must be exercised with restraint and pragmatism.
Mitt Romney's apparent belief in restructuring the world from the top down as we
would wish it to be shows an obdurate refusal to learn from the tragic mistakes
of the past.

Eric L. Lewis is a partner at Lewis Baach PLLC in Washington.

11:48 p.m. Dennis Ross | Who's Prepared on Iran?

Listening to tonight's debate, one would be hard-pressed to identify a clear
difference between what President Barack Obama and Governor Mitt Romney would do
in dealing with Iran.  Both made it clear that prevention, not containment, of a
nuclear armed Iran is their objective.  The President was particularly blunt,
saying that as long as he is president, Iran will not become a nuclear-armed
state.  While Mr. Romney made it clear that America could not accept Iran
becoming nuclear weapons capable, the president went further and said that we
could not allow Iran to develop a "breakout capacity."  By this he meant that
America could not allow Iran to reach the point where its accumulated enriched
uranium, the level of enrichment, and the numbers and quality of centrifuges
would allow Iran to quickly create nuclear weapons before we could act
militarily to prevent it.

Their mutual emphasis on prevention does not mean that either Mr. Obama or Mr.
Romney will forgo diplomacy and rush to war.  Both were clear that the use of
force is the last resort.  Both cited their belief that increasing the pressure
of crippling sanctions may yet alter  Iranian behavior.  The President took
pride in having mobilized the world to impose crippling sanctions that are now
wreaking havoc with the Iranian economy.  Mr. Romney agreed on their effect, and
the need to do more.  We can certainly anticipate that both would seek to
tighten the economic sanctions in 2013.  To be sure, Mr. Romney went further in
one respect:  he is prepared to indict the President of Iran under the Genocide
Convention and treat Iranian diplomats the way those of apartheid South Africa
were treated.

Both also indicated that they would see if a diplomatic or negotiated outcome
was possible.  My expectation is that regardless of who is elected, there will
be a diplomatic initiative or endgame proposal designed to test whether Iran is
prepared to accept an outcome in which it has civil nuclear power but its
nuclear program is restricted in a way that would largely deny it a breakout
capability.
I say that because prevention as an objective necessarily will lead at some
point to the use of force against the Iranian nuclear program if diplomacy
fails.  I don't see either Mr. Obama or Mr. Romney resorting to force without
being able to demonstrate that they sought to exhaust all other options first.

The bottom line:  their basic approach to Iran seems very similar.  But the
president, having lived with and thought through the issue for the last four
years, is more equipped to move more quickly on Iran than Mr. Romney.  If
elected, Mr. Romney would have to establish his administration and probably
conduct a review of his options.  President Obama has already done that.

Dennis Ross, a former State Department and National Security Council official,
was a special assistant to President Obama for the Middle East and South Asia
from 2009 to 2011. He is now a counselor at the Washington Institute for Near
East Policy.

12:01 a.m. Michael S. Doran | Romney's Strategy for Syria

On Syria, Mitt Romney won - but only on points, certainly not with a knock-out
blow.  Mr. Romney addressed the question in a manner that showed a superior
strategic vision.  He framed the civil war in Syria as an opportunity, a chance
to strike at Iran.  "Syria," Mr. Romney said, "is Iran's only ally in the Arab
world," stressing the role the regime of Bashar al-Assad plays as Iran's base
for extending its influence in the Eastern Mediterranean.   Toppling Mr. Assad,
Mr. Romney correctly explained, would deal a blow to Hezbollah and roll back
Iranian influence throughout the region.

By contrast, President Obama listed a number of actions that his administration
has taken, but failed to place them in a wider context.  He did not even mention
Iran in the course of the discussion.

Syria represents a very rare thing in international politics: a crisis in which
our strategic interests and values are in perfect alignment.  At least 30,000
have died, and millions have been made refugees.  As the greatest power in the
Middle East, the United States is untrue to itself if it fails to take decisive
action against a dictator who murders civilians with impunity.

Yet, in fact, the Obama administration has been relatively passive, as Prime
Minister Erdogan of Turkey recently complained.  "Right now," Mr. Erdogan said,
"there are certain things being expected from the United States," but America
has "not yet catered to those expectations." In the debate tonight Mr. Romney
struck a similar note, stressing that America "should be playing the leadership
role."

But Mr. Romney did not define a clear path forward.  The president claimed that
Romney "doesn't have different ideas, and that's because we're doing exactly
what we should be doing to try to promote a moderate, Syrian leadership."  There
was truth in the statement.

At a moment when there is no appetite among Americans for a new foreign
adventure, Mr. Romney was careful to stress that he did not support deploying
the American military in Syria.  He even rejected the idea of enforcing a no-fly
zone.  Yet an American-implemented no-fly zone is precisely what is needed to
turn the Romney strategic vision into a practical reality.

Mr. Romney displayed a much better grasp of the strategic stakes in Syria, but
when it came to specifics, his policy differed little from the president's.

Michael S. Doran, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, served on the
National Security Council and at the Defense Department official between 2005
and 2008.

12:02 a.m. Daniel W. Drezner | The Anti-Bellum Romney

Many people believe that Mitt Romney won the first debate because of Barack
Obama's somnambulant performance. That overlooked Romney's deft pivot to the
center, which he pulled off by doing things like praising government regulation.
This is consistent with a truism in political science: in an election,
candidates try to target the median voter. In presidential politics, candidates
might win primaries by pleasing their party's ideological base - but in general
elections, they target the moderates, because those are the voters decide the
election.

Romney doubled down on that strategy in the foreign policy debate. After a year
of very hot and bellicose rhetoric, the governor sounded different tonight. He
argued that "we can't kill our way out of" the problems in the Middle East. He
averred that "we want a peaceful planet." He explicitly stated he didn't want to
get involved militarily in Syria. Romney said the sanctions in Iran were
working. He praised the president on numerous fronts - Afghanistan and Pakistan
in particular. He even talked about China as a partner before bashing its trade
policies. To be fair, the governor has said some of this before, but tonight the
emphasis was on diplomacy and peace, not brute force.

In doing all this, Romney was trying to allay the fears of undecided voters who
are wary of expending more blood and treasure overseas. Romney's sotto voce
message was that he would be a hot-headed, trigger-happy cowboy - like the Last
Republican President Who Shall Not Be Named. For undecided voters who are
clearly sick of foreign wars, this could be very soothing indeed.

Will it work? One difference between this debate and the one in Denver is that
President Obama seemed prepared for the pivot this time. The president was
ready, willing and able to highlight the inconsistencies in Romney's previous
statements and claims. He accused Romney of being "all over the map" on numerous
issues. He also ridiculed Romney's proposed naval buildup, pointing out that
foreign policy wasn't a game of Battleship. It seems like the president was
genuinely proud of his foreign policy accomplishments - as opposed to simply
treading water on the economy.

For the past month, Mitt Romney had been chipping away at Obama's foreign policy
record. Tonight he seemed to want to emulate it. His clear hope is that the
performance was good enough for voters to be comfortable with him as a sober and
prudent commander-in-chief. That way, they can ignore Obama's critique and
happily forget about international relations for another four years. We'll find
out over the next few days if he succeeded.

Daniel W. Drezner is a professor of international politics at Tufts and blogs at
Foreign Policy magazine.

12:21 a.m. Anne-Marie Slaughter | America's Narcissism

The much-heralded foreign policy debate wasn't really a debate, as Barack Obama
and Mitt Romney agreed on 90 percent of the issues. And it was barely about
foreign policy, as education reform (we all love teachers), Detroit,
nation-building at home, and taxes got far more play than any part of the world
other than the Middle East, North Africa, Afghanistan and Pakistan, and China.

Romney trotted out a new rhetorical meme: "America must promote principles of
peace." Obama looked and sounded every inch the commander-in-chief. But the
lasting impression of the debate, certainly for anyone watching in the rest of
the world, is just how narrowly Americans define foreign policy. Neither
candidate mentioned NATO. Indeed, neither candidate mentioned the European Union
or the Eurozone crisis, other than Mr. Romney's dire predictions that the United
States will soon be Greece unless he is elected.

Moving east, the candidates barely mentioned a single country in East Asia other
than China. There was only the briefest reference to Japan (our closest ally in
Asia) by the moderator and a single mention of North Korea (another very
dangerous nuclear power). Indonesia, the largest Muslim country in the world,
didn't come up. For that matter, there was no reference to India (a mere billion
people).  This silence is all the more striking given Mr. Obama's reference at
the end of the debate to his administration's purported "pivot to Asia," a pivot
that was supposed to be away from the Middle East. Yet when Mr. Obama was asked
to name the greatest threat to the United States he said terrorist networks; Mr.
Romney said a nuclear Iran.

Beyond individual countries, consider the silence on the global issues that are
vitally important to the rest of the world. Neither candidate ever uttered the
word "climate." Or drug violence. Or poverty, disease, food, water, or even
energy.

This really wasn't a debate about foreign policy or world affairs. It was the
projection of the American electoral map onto the globe. All discussion of
Israel and Islam was targeted at Florida; all discussion of China was targeted
at Ohio. From a real foreign policy perspective, a business in which we devote a
great deal of time and effort to reassuring and mobilizing our friends and
allies and trying to solve global problems, we can only hope the rest of the
world wasn't listening.

Anne-Marie Slaughter, a professor of politics and international affairs at
Princeton, was director of policy planning at the State Department from 2009 to
2011.

12:41 a.m.  Hanin Ghaddar | The Winner: Bashar al-Assad

Tonight's debate was expected to reveal the candidates' thorough and detailed
strategies when it comes to the American foreign policy. However, this debate
offered very little.

Syria is a case in point. Both candidates seem to have the same confused and
paralyzed policy towards Syria. They both want to make friends with the Syrian
people, but the real competition was instead on who can be a better friend to
Israel.

Governor Mitt Romney was simply advocating President Obama's foreign policy in
Syria, which is inaction. There are simply no meaningful differences. Both want
to let the Syrian people "determine their own fate," which so far has been a
very bloody and dark one.

Power comes with responsibility, and the Syrians expected a more responsible
stance from what should be the most powerful state in the world. On both Twitter
and Facebook, Syrians expressed disappointment with both candidates. They saw
America's power implemented in Libya and wanted the same treatment. However, it
seems both Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama have washed their hands of the Syrian people
and decided to stay in the viewing seat.

The policy of inaction in Syria, which apparently will continue no matter which
candidate wins, has led to the humanitarian crisis which both candidates
lamented, and also to the rise of Islamists. Because of inaction in Syria, the
United States is losing the opportunity to lead. America's inaction in Syria is
causing chaos to spread to neighboring countries, such as Turkey, Jordan, and
last but not least Lebanon, where a car bomb killed senior Lebanese security
official Gen. Wissam al-Hassan and unleashed a wave of sectarian street violence
across the country. More inaction will mean more sectarian violence, not only in
Syria, but throughout the region. The United States and its allies surely do not
wish to see that.

For the Syrian people, intervention never meant boots on the ground. They have
specifically asked for safe havens and anti-aircraft missiles, not more. That's
all they need to defeat the Assad regime. Both candidates failed to discuss
these options in detail. The Syrian people deserve to know why these two
specific requests are so hard for the United States to offer. Instead, all they
heard was "we are afraid to give you arms because we do not trust you won't use
it against us." Without trust, there can be no friendship.

The only difference between the two was that Romney seemed to see the Middle
East as one big space of terror. He repeatedly referred to the developments in
past two years in the region as chaos and tumult. This is an insult to the
people who have sacrificed their lives, and still are, in order to topple their
dictators. That's also a bad way to make friends.

The Syrians understood tonight that no matter who wins, they are on their own,
and that the big winner of this debate is Bashar al-Assad.

Hanin Ghaddar is the editor of NOW Lebanon.

12:47 a.m. Danielle Pletka | Don't Diss Defense Workers

If what you care about is foreign policy and you tuned in tonight, you may have
been a tad disappointed by the focus on car tires and teachers and by Barack
Obama's rather robotic insistence on "nation building here at home."  If you
care about national defense and are particularly worried about sequestration
(the plan that would likely cut $500 billion from the defense budget in January
2013), the President's blithe assertion that it won't happen - no proof, no
policy, just "I'm Barack Obama and I approve this message" - may not have
convinced you.

On the other hand, Mitt Romney did little more to convey the security costs of a
rollback in defense that could mean that, by the end of this decade, Americans
will be spending more annually to service their national debt that they will on
national security.

Mr. Romney recycled the oft-used sentiment that the President's request for
naval ships will be the smallest since 1917.  Mr. Obama quoted Mr. Romney's
talking points back to him, citing the actual year - 1916 - and ridiculed
Romney's failure to understand that the military doesn't fight with bayonets and
horses anymore.  But the reality is that Mr. Obama's request is for a Navy
unseen since 1916.  And for an Air Force little improved from the one our
fathers knew.  And for a tanker fleet so ancient, all operations are analog.
And for a bomber fleet conceived during the Carter years.  In that context, cute
horse comments are a lame comeback.

If your aim is to win in Virginia, it is probably better not to make fun of the
naval fleet (note to the Obama team). Defense workers in Ohio and Virginia are
game for more investment. If you want to score points on national defense, it's
probably best not to be snide (though hipsters love it).  Truth be told, many
who believe in America's national mission are comfortable with the "peace
through strength" message Mr. Romney sought to convey.

Fundamentally, the question is less about the score that Twitter and the
spinners give to their favored obsession.  Rather, it's about who sends a
message of American resolve, belief in American power, and commitment to
American investment in defense.  If that's what matters to you - be you American
voter, adversary, or terrorist - then it's likely that Mr. Romney's message, on
principle and politics, hit home a little harder than Mr. Obama's.  And that,
folks, is what the debates are all about.

Danielle Pletka is the vice president for foreign and defense studies at the
American Enterprise Institute.

12:52 a.m. Ross Douthat | Mitt's New Modesty

When Mitt Romney punctuated one of his early answers tonight with a reference to
the Islamist forces gaining power in the collapsing state of Mali - a reference
obscure to almost every viewer, except those who share my particular obsession
with the ripple effects of our Libyan intervention - I had the sense that
genuine swing voters must have almost all the time: I thought, hey, he's talking
to me.

That sense persisted for much of the night. As a conservative who's grown
steadily more skeptical of military interventions ever since the weapons of mass
destruction didn't turn up in Iraq, I've been critical of Romney throughout this
campaign for trying to out-hawk President Obama at every turn, and for trying to
sell a war-weary public on the largely implausible idea that Obama is a
weak-kneed appeaser unwilling to show toughness overseas. But tonight, given the
chance to throw that argument in the president's face, the Republican nominee
mostly soft-pedaled it, shying away from sharp contrasts, emphasizing areas of
agreement and repeatedly mentioning his own desire for peace.

Romney's turn toward pragmatism was most pronounced on Afghanistan, where he
basically endorsed the White House's plan for a 2014 withdrawal without offering
any of his usual hawkish criticisms and caveats. But the same
difference-blurring thread ran through almost all his answers. Yes, he promised
more military spending and tried to hit the president hard on Obama's supposed
"apology tour" in the Middle East, but otherwise this debate felt like a
90-minute confirmation of what a lot of analysts have pointed out: Strip away
the "no apologies" rhetoric, and the differences between the president and his
rival on foreign policy look relatively modest.

This isn't necessarily a good thing for the country, which probably deserves a
more robust debate over American strategy than the one we just watched. And by
essentially acknowledging the overlap between his posture and the president's,
Romney almost guaranteed that Obama would win the debate on points - which the
president pretty clearly did, deploying the advantages of incumbency (not to
mention the execution of a certain Al Qaeda leader) effectively in an arena
where Americans are still inclined to trust him.

The question is what the audience was looking for. If they were looking for
evidence that a Romney administration would deliver significantly better results
overseas, then they probably came away disappointed, and Obama's win will boost
him in the polls. But if they were just looking (as I'll admit that I was
looking) to be reassured that Romney is something other than a wild-eyed
warmonger, then the Republican nominee may have helped his cause tonight even in
defeat.

Ross Douthat is an Op-Ed columnist.

1:09 a.m.  Dalia Dassa Kaye |  A Crucial Difference on Iran

Mitt Romney and Barack Obama had some sharp rhetorical exchanges, but on
substance there were few discernible differences. If Mr. Obama was expecting Mr.
Romney to distinguish himself by supporting military policies that would be
unpopular with Americans (whether in Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan or Iran), he was
likely disappointed. Mr. Romney went out of his way to argue that killing bad
guys would not be enough to fight radical forces; economic development,
education and civil society are key ingredients to future stability. Mr. Obama
couldn't agree more.

Mr. Obama said his aim is to get Iran to stop its "nuclear program," while
Romney spoke about preventing a "nuclear-capable" Iran. But neither candidate
defined the point in Iran's nuclear enrichment that would trigger military
action.  Both agreed military action would be the last resort. And Mr. Romney
even credited Mr. Obama for applying crippling sanctions, only criticizing him
for not doing it earlier (which of course Mr. Obama denied) and suggesting he
would find ways to strengthen them.

But on the Iran file, a consequential distinction emerged. For Mr. Obama, the
intent of crippling sanctions is to bring Iran to the negotiating table to agree
to give up its nuclear program and abide by United Nations resolutions, arguing
there's a "deal to be had." In contrast, Mr. Romney called for diplomatic
isolation of Iran, arguing Iran's diplomats should be treated like pariahs
around the world. Diplomatic pressure, as Mr. Romney advocates, is not the same
as negotiations. The dilemma is how sanctions and pressure would dissuade Iran's
leaders from pursuing their nuclear program (as Mr. Romney recommended) if a
President Romney wouldn't  agree to sit down and talk with them.

Mr. Obama did not appear to pick up on this disconnect, most likely because he
wanted to emphasize the "tough" aspects of his Iran policy and not the off-ramp
strategy that will inevitably involve bilateral negotiations with Iran. But if a
Romney administration were to pursue a policy shunning diplomacy, it is hard to
see how the current sanctions policies, and more covert actions like sabotage,
would lead to a resolution. The more likely scenario if diplomacy is rejected or
fails is continued escalation--and potentially war.

Dalia Dassa Kaye is director of the Center for Middle East Public Policy at the
RAND Corporation.

1:35 a.m. Sheena Chestnut Greitens | Where was Asia?

Tonight both presidential candidates acknowledged the centrality of Asia to
America's interests.  The Obama administration offers its "Asia pivot" as a
foreign policy success story.  Mitt Romney wants a bigger Navy to keep America's
commitments in the region credible and robust.  According to Secretary of
Defense Leon Panetta, 60 percent of the Navy's warships will be located in the
Pacific by 2020.

Not once tonight did anyone talk about what those ships are going to do when
they get there.

Tonight's foreign policy debate allotted less than 15 of its 90 minutes to Asia,
a region with the world's fastest economic growth rates and over half of its
population. The only country receiving more than a passing mention was China,
and even China was discussed only in economic terms.

How to handle the security relationship between the two countries with the
world's largest military budgets went unmentioned, as did the United States'
broader strategy in a region critical to American security interests, where the
next president will have to make a series of tough choices and may well face
multiple foreign policy crises.

There was no discussion of American policy on the Korean peninsula, where 28,500
American forces stand watch in a war that has not ended, and where our allies
this weekend evacuated residents along the DMZ after North Korea threatened to
retaliate against an activist group's balloon launch with artillery fire.

There was no discussion of the recently announced plan to rotate more American
planes, ships, and personnel through the Philippines, which in April sailed an
American-made cutter into confrontation with China in disputed waters, and then
suggested that America was obligated to assist in that confrontation under the
terms of a 1951 Mutual Defense Treaty.

There was no discussion of Taiwan, which asked the United States for over 60 new
F-16 fighters and last year got a $5.8 billion upgrade to its old ones instead -
a decision that the official Chinese press called "a despicable breach of faith"
- or of the American "Air-Sea Battle" concept generally perceived to be a
template for future conflict with China.

There was no discussion of whether America's commitment to those who call for
democracy and human rights - a commitment both candidates affirmed - can or
should extend past Tunisia and Tahrir to Tibet, where over fifty people have set
themselves on fire without producing the political change that a single
self-immolation sparked in the Arab World.

Today the world's attention is riveted on crises in the Middle East.  Tomorrow's
flashpoints lie in Asia.  Unfortunately, tonight's debate did little to clarify
how either candidate would handle a 3 a.m. phone call that comes not from
Benghazi, but from Beijing.

Sheena Chestnut Greitens is a doctoral candidate in government at Harvard and a
fellow at the United States Institute of Peace and at the Miller Center,
University of Virginia.

1:48 a.m. Nathan Thrall | Not Enough Daylight on Israel

Monday's debate in Boca Raton offered another venue for President Obama and Mitt
Romney to compete over who can appear closer to Israel. Mr. Obama trumpeted his
administration's "unprecedented military and intelligence cooperation" with
Israel, while Mr. Romney advertised his close relationship with Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.

Mr. Obama contrasted Mr. Romney's decision to use his recent trip to Israel to
"take donors" and "attend fundraisers" with the president's own visits to
Israel's Holocaust memorial and the "town of Sderot, which had experienced
missiles raining down from Hamas." Mr. Romney countered by asserting that the
president had generated "turmoil" with Israel, noting that 38 Democratic
senators had signed a letter urging him to repair the damage.

Mr. Romney also repeated his earlier criticism of the president having
reportedly stated that there should be daylight between the United States and
Israel when negotiating a settlement between Israel and the Palestinians. Yet,
by definition, some distance must exist between a mediator and the parties to a
negotiation if that mediator is to live up to its claim of being an honest
broker.

If wishing to eliminate any daylight between America and one party to the
conflict is Mr. Romney's desire, it is one at odds with his professed goal to
help Israelis and Palestinians reach a peace agreement - a goal he did not seem
to possess when at a closed-door fundraiser in Florida earlier this year he said
the Palestinians have "no interest whatsoever in establishing peace," and "the
pathway to peace is almost unthinkable to accomplish." Romney went on:

You hope for some degree of stability, but you recognize that this is going to
remain an unsolved problem - and we kick the ball down the field and hope that
ultimately, somehow, something will happen and resolve it.

Kicking the ball down the field while professing an interest in an
Israeli-Palestinian settlement is precisely what President Obama has been doing
for the last several years. The policy of the next administration, whether Mr.
Romney's first or Mr. Obama's second, will be to uphold this status quo:
supporting an unelected Palestinian prime minister and a Palestinian president
whose term long ago expired; continuing to prevent the exercise of power by the
victors in the last Palestinian national election; negotiating with a set of
unelected P.L.O. leaders who cannot credibly claim to represent most
Palestinians; prioritizing the funding of Palestinian security forces who arrest
their political opponents and prevent peaceful protests against Israeli
settlements and military installations; and meekly criticizing Israel's
expanding settlement construction while exercising no leverage in order to
thwart it.

These policies will eventually backfire, as they have in other parts of the
region where the United States stood against popular aspirations and supported
authoritarian regimes. But on these issues, there is precious little daylight
between the candidates.

Nathan Thrall is a Jerusalem-based Middle East analyst with the International
Crisis Group.

2:09 a.m. Marisa Porges | Shopping List Foreign Policy

At least Game 7 of the National League Championship Series was a blowout. But if
you chose to watch tonight's debate instead of baseball - hoping, like many of
us, for clarity on the next four years of American foreign policy - you were
sorely disappointed.

What did we hear? Not a lot. Not a single mention of looming cyber threats,
despite the fact that Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta recently sounded an
alarm about America's vulnerability to a possible "cyber Pearl Harbor." No
mention of Yemen and the growing influence of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula,
which many consider the most significant terrorist threat in the world. Nor was
there any discussion of Guantánamo or the future of American detention
operations, leaving major questions unanswered about how the United States would
handle captured terrorists in the future.

How would each candidate face the considerable challenges of the Afghanistan
transition - like propping up the Afghan security forces, trying to negotiate a
settlement with the Taliban, or forestalling a full-scale civil war after
American and NATO forces depart?  Apparently, it's not a concern. For Mr.
Romney, it was simple as saying the Afghans "will be ready by the end of 2014."
Full stop. While President Obama acknowledged in passing that the transition in
Afghanistan "has to take place in a responsible fashion," he quickly changed
course and began talking about veterans and jobs in America. Both are critical
issues, to be sure. But neither is particularly helpful for those wondering if
thousands of American lives lost and billions of dollars spent in Afghanistan
will be wasted by a poorly executed transition.

Those concerned with the future of American engagement in the Middle East were
likewise frustrated. Regarding the ongoing threat of extremism in the Arab
World, Mr. Romney simply suggested a shopping list of grand objectives: economic
development, better education, gender equality, and rule of law--a plan that
sounds an awful lot like nation building. What remained entirely unclear is how
Mr. Romney would actually make progress on any of these fronts, particularly in
countries of critical concern. Meanwhile, Mr. Obama pointed out that we "cannot
just meet these challenges militarily" and quickly mentioned religious
minorities and women and encouraging economic development before neatly
sidestepping to "nation building here at home."

Ultimately, tonight's debate didn't change many (any?) voters' opinions about
either candidate. And it left national security wonks I know banging their heads
against the table, still wondering how the election will affect America's
foreign policies in the years ahead. But at least we're now certain the military
has fewer bayonets than it did in 1916.

Marisa L. Porges, a former counterterrorism adviser in the Departments of
Defense and Treasury, is a fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and
International Affairs at the Harvard Kennedy School.


     ·    To Stop Iran, the G.O.P. Should Back Obama
     ·    Other Stops: Repairing Relations With the Rest of the World
     ·    Blunders and Binders
     ·    Obama's Narrow Victory
     ·    Debating Points: Obama vs. Romney, Round Two


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Campaign Stops)

                            October 22, 2012 Monday

Debating Points, Global Edition

BYLINE: THE EDITORS

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 6868 words



HIGHLIGHT: Analysts look at the third presidential debate region by region,
argument by argument.


 The editors of Campaign Stops asked our contributors and international analysts
to share their reactions to the third presidential debate. Tune in here for
regular updates.
 2:09 a.m. | Updated

Lynn Vavreck:Why Won't They Stop Agreeing?
Husain Haqqani: A Doomed Strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan
Eric L. Lewis: Mitt Romney's Egypt
Dennis Ross: Who's Prepared on Iran?
Michael S. Doran: Romney's Strategy for Syria
Daniel W. Drezner: The Anti-Bellum Romney
Anne-Marie Slaughter: America's Narcissism
Hanin Ghaddar: The Winner: Bashar al-Assad
Danielle Pletka: Don't Diss Defense Workers
Ross Douthat: Mitt's New Modesty
Dalia Dassa Kaye: A Crucial Difference on Iran
Sheena Chestnut Greitens: Where Was Asia?
Nathan Thrall: Not Enough Daylight on Israel
Marisa Porges: Shopping List Foreign Policy

10:14 p.m. Lynn Vavreck | Why Won't They Stop Agreeing?

If we ask people to assess President Obama's performance on foreign policy
issues, we get judgments so closely tied to party identification they are hardly
worth discussing.  But when we take approval of the president out of the
question and ask people about their own ideas on America's role in the world,
there are some surprising areas of agreement - in fact, strong agreement it
turns out.

Using data from the Cooperative Campaign Analysis Project on the appropriate use
of military force, we find that we are not polarized over everything.  Ensuring
access to oil, destroying terrorist camps, intervening in a civil war, assisting
the spread of democracy, and helping our allies are all actions on which most
Americans agree - and sometimes profoundly so. The only worthy uses of our
military forces, the respondents say, are destroying terror training camps and
helping our allies; the rest are not.

Helping the United Nations uphold international law reveals the biggest
difference between the parties - Democrats think it is appropriate and
Republicans soundly disagree (I've presented the percentages separately on this
line for Democrats and Republicans).

But, lest you think the nation isn't polarized on foreign policy, consider this:
on some issues we see bigger differences between the attitudes of men and women
than we see between the parties.  On the question of whether it is appropriate
to use our military forces to destroy a terrorist camp, 71 percent of men say
yes while only half of women approve. On average, women's support for the use of
force is less strong than men's, by about 10 points.

With women making up the larger share (60 percent) of undecided voters and both
candidates fighting hard for their votes, it is not surprising that tonight we
heard more agreement between the two candidates than disagreement.  And although
there is no gender divide on whether Romney "says what he believes," there is a
gender difference on whether Obama is sincere.  Women are 11 points more likely,
on average, to think Obama says what he believes and 12 points more likely to
say this about Obama relative to Romney.


Lynn Vavreck is an associate professor of political science and communication
studies at U.C.L.A.

11:22 p.m. Husain Haqqani | A Doomed Strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan

President Obama said, referring to Osama bin Laden's killing, "If we had asked
Pakistan permission, we would not have gotten him." But if Pakistan can't be
trusted, the president owes the American people an explanation of how he'd deal
with a nuclear-armed impoverished country over the next four years.

Mr. Romney seems committed to changing Pakistani behavior. And although he
claims he wouldn't "divorce" Pakistan, Mr. Romney's answer showed that he would
downgrade Pakistan's status as an American ally. Demanding policy changes from
Pakistan in return for American support and friendship is a sound idea but
neither candidate has spelled out what specific instruments of persuasion or
coercion the United States might successfully deploy to that end.

The discussion over Afghanistan and Pakistan needs to be put in the context of
the wider issue of containing Islamist extremism. Mr. Obama defines success
against Al Qaeda very narrowly, glossing over how jihadist networks are already
preparing to regroup in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region after the withdrawal of
American combat forces in 2014. Mr. Obama has not articulated a plan to deal
with that challenge.

Killing bin Laden was a positive development but it alone will not make the
United States and its allies safe from terrorists. Al Qaeda and its affiliates
continue to recruit all over the Muslim world and their ability to organize and
train in remote parts of Yemen, Afghanistan and Pakistan has not been completely
disrupted. Little has been done to limit the influence of ideas or organizations
that lead young Muslims into terrorist training camps. And the withdrawal from
Iraq and Afghanistan has strengthened the jihadi narrative that America simply
does not have the staying power and can be forced to withdraw from Muslim
regions at very little cost.

In Afghanistan, the Taliban have neither been decisively defeated nor forced to
the negotiating table. It is unrealistic to assume that a professional Afghan
national army can be raised and fully assigned the task of securing the country
within a short time frame. The Taliban's ability to infiltrate this hastily
assembled army reveals the excessive optimism of this policy.

The United States could have withdrawn from Afghanistan far more successfully if
it hadn't announced a deadline for its withdrawal. That deadline also took away
any incentive for Pakistan's military to work with the United States against the
Taliban, thinking that it could instead sit the Americans out and wait for the
chance to maximize its influence in a post-American Afghanistan. The Obama
administration didn't succeed in persuading or coercing Pakistan into acting
against the Taliban and its unilateralism has only made it more difficult for
the few pro-American elements in Pakistan to fight their own battle against
jihadists.

It's fine to say "We do not want or like war'' but wars against an ideologically
motivated enemy, such as Al Qaeda and its affiliates, are wars of necessity.
Such wars cannot be fought according to a neat timeline and without effective
allies who share both the war's aims and its strategy.

Husain Haqqani served as Pakistan's ambassador to the United States from 2008 to
2011 and is a professor of international relations at Boston University and a
senior fellow at the Hudson Institute.

11:37 p.m. Eric L. Lewis | Mitt's Romney's Egypt

Pity poor Egypt. After suffering through thirty years of the Mubarak
kleptocracy, the people of Egypt rose up, deposed the dictator and elected a new
president, Mohammed Morsi. To be sure, the victory of Morsi and the Muslim
Brotherhood may not have been the first choice of American policy makers, but
one cannot have a policy of commitment to democracy and then reject democratic
outcomes.

The new Egyptian government will no doubt be less friendly than the Mubarak
regime, which was reliable, but at the expense of human rights, economic
development, transparency and hope for the Egyptian people. Yet Morsi promptly
reaffirmed what President Obama called in tonight's debate a "red line," the
peace treaty with Israel, which has permitted Israel to have predictability from
the largest country in the region.

None of these developments appear to satisfy Mitt Romney, who characterized
Egypt as part of the "chaos" and "extremism" of Syria and Mali. While hailing
the progress in Libya as "wonderful," he warns that "next door" is Egypt, where
the election of a "Muslim brotherhood President" constitutes a "reversal in the
kind of hopes we had for that region." Romney said he would not have supported
retaining Mubarak, but he views the outcome of a free election - indeed a
predictable outcome of an election held so soon after the revolution - as a
failure of the Arab Spring.

It is way too early to declare Egypt a success. It is not easy to shake off a
sclerotic and corrupt system that was in place for sixty years. It is a country
of 80 million people, many of whom live in terrible poverty. It exports many of
its most talented people because its economy cannot accommodate them. Its Coptic
Christian minority is uneasy, to say the least. The business community has
largely remained on the sidelines. And many in its new government have spent the
last thirty years avoiding the brutal security apparatus of the Mubarak regime
rather than readying themselves for the challenges of governing a modern state.

But Romney's suggestion that the election of a Muslim Brotherhood government
constitutes a reversal for the region is indicative of a dangerous equation of
Muslim ruling parties with "jihadists" and "terrorists." Syria and Iran were
Baathist governments, nominally socialist secular states. The Assad clan and
Saddam Hussein did not kill in the name of jihad. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan
in Turkey governs as a moderate Islamist, sharing some ideological roots with
the Muslim Brotherhood. Rejected for membership in the European Union, Turkey
under Erdogan has surged ahead of the peripheral European nations and assumed a
leadership role in the region. To be sure, Hamas also has roots in the Muslim
Brotherhood. Whether Egypt moves toward the Turkish model or the Hamas model
will be determined in significant measure by the wisdom of American policy.

The Romney approach - lumping Egypt with Mali, Baathists with Islamists, the
Muslim Brotherhood with jihadists - retains the ahistorical arrogance of the
Bush years. We need to understand the social and political dynamics of countries
that we would purport to influence. And we need to have the humility to
understand that our influence must be exercised with restraint and pragmatism.
Mitt Romney's apparent belief in restructuring the world from the top down as we
would wish it to be shows an obdurate refusal to learn from the tragic mistakes
of the past.

Eric L. Lewis is a partner at Lewis Baach PLLC in Washington.

11:48 p.m. Dennis Ross | Who's Prepared on Iran?

Listening to tonight's debate, one would be hard-pressed to identify a clear
difference between what President Barack Obama and Governor Mitt Romney would do
in dealing with Iran.  Both made it clear that prevention, not containment, of a
nuclear armed Iran is their objective.  The President was particularly blunt,
saying that as long as he is president, Iran will not become a nuclear-armed
state.  While Mr. Romney made it clear that America could not accept Iran
becoming nuclear weapons capable, the president went further and said that we
could not allow Iran to develop a "breakout capacity."  By this he meant that
America could not allow Iran to reach the point where its accumulated enriched
uranium, the level of enrichment, and the numbers and quality of centrifuges
would allow Iran to quickly create nuclear weapons before we could act
militarily to prevent it.

Their mutual emphasis on prevention does not mean that either Mr. Obama or Mr.
Romney will forgo diplomacy and rush to war.  Both were clear that the use of
force is the last resort.  Both cited their belief that increasing the pressure
of crippling sanctions may yet alter  Iranian behavior.  The President took
pride in having mobilized the world to impose crippling sanctions that are now
wreaking havoc with the Iranian economy.  Mr. Romney agreed on their effect, and
the need to do more.  We can certainly anticipate that both would seek to
tighten the economic sanctions in 2013.  To be sure, Mr. Romney went further in
one respect:  he is prepared to indict the President of Iran under the Genocide
Convention and treat Iranian diplomats the way those of apartheid South Africa
were treated.

Both also indicated that they would see if a diplomatic or negotiated outcome
was possible.  My expectation is that regardless of who is elected, there will
be a diplomatic initiative or endgame proposal designed to test whether Iran is
prepared to accept an outcome in which it has civil nuclear power but its
nuclear program is restricted in a way that would largely deny it a breakout
capability.
I say that because prevention as an objective necessarily will lead at some
point to the use of force against the Iranian nuclear program if diplomacy
fails.  I don't see either Mr. Obama or Mr. Romney resorting to force without
being able to demonstrate that they sought to exhaust all other options first.

The bottom line:  their basic approach to Iran seems very similar.  But the
president, having lived with and thought through the issue for the last four
years, is more equipped to move more quickly on Iran than Mr. Romney.  If
elected, Mr. Romney would have to establish his administration and probably
conduct a review of his options.  President Obama has already done that.

Dennis Ross, a former State Department and National Security Council official,
was a special assistant to President Obama for the Middle East and South Asia
from 2009 to 2011. He is now a counselor at the Washington Institute for Near
East Policy.

12:01 a.m. Michael S. Doran | Romney's Strategy for Syria

On Syria, Mitt Romney won - but only on points, certainly not with a knock-out
blow.  Mr. Romney addressed the question in a manner that showed a superior
strategic vision.  He framed the civil war in Syria as an opportunity, a chance
to strike at Iran.  "Syria," Mr. Romney said, "is Iran's only ally in the Arab
world," stressing the role the regime of Bashar al-Assad plays as Iran's base
for extending its influence in the Eastern Mediterranean.   Toppling Mr. Assad,
Mr. Romney correctly explained, would deal a blow to Hezbollah and roll back
Iranian influence throughout the region.

By contrast, President Obama listed a number of actions that his administration
has taken, but failed to place them in a wider context.  He did not even mention
Iran in the course of the discussion.

Syria represents a very rare thing in international politics: a crisis in which
our strategic interests and values are in perfect alignment.  At least 30,000
have died, and millions have been made refugees.  As the greatest power in the
Middle East, the United States is untrue to itself if it fails to take decisive
action against a dictator who murders civilians with impunity.

Yet, in fact, the Obama administration has been relatively passive, as Prime
Minister Erdogan of Turkey recently complained.  "Right now," Mr. Erdogan said,
"there are certain things being expected from the United States," but America
has "not yet catered to those expectations." In the debate tonight Mr. Romney
struck a similar note, stressing that America "should be playing the leadership
role."

But Mr. Romney did not define a clear path forward.  The president claimed that
Romney "doesn't have different ideas, and that's because we're doing exactly
what we should be doing to try to promote a moderate, Syrian leadership."  There
was truth in the statement.

At a moment when there is no appetite among Americans for a new foreign
adventure, Mr. Romney was careful to stress that he did not support deploying
the American military in Syria.  He even rejected the idea of enforcing a no-fly
zone.  Yet an American-implemented no-fly zone is precisely what is needed to
turn the Romney strategic vision into a practical reality.

Mr. Romney displayed a much better grasp of the strategic stakes in Syria, but
when it came to specifics, his policy differed little from the president's.

Michael S. Doran, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, served on the
National Security Council and at the Defense Department official between 2005
and 2008.

12:02 a.m. Daniel W. Drezner | The Anti-Bellum Romney

Many people believe that Mitt Romney won the first debate because of Barack
Obama's somnambulant performance. That overlooked Romney's deft pivot to the
center, which he pulled off by doing things like praising government regulation.
This is consistent with a truism in political science: in an election,
candidates try to target the median voter. In presidential politics, candidates
might win primaries by pleasing their party's ideological base - but in general
elections, they target the moderates, because those are the voters decide the
election.

Romney doubled down on that strategy in the foreign policy debate. After a year
of very hot and bellicose rhetoric, the governor sounded different tonight. He
argued that "we can't kill our way out of" the problems in the Middle East. He
averred that "we want a peaceful planet." He explicitly stated he didn't want to
get involved militarily in Syria. Romney said the sanctions in Iran were
working. He praised the president on numerous fronts - Afghanistan and Pakistan
in particular. He even talked about China as a partner before bashing its trade
policies. To be fair, the governor has said some of this before, but tonight the
emphasis was on diplomacy and peace, not brute force.

In doing all this, Romney was trying to allay the fears of undecided voters who
are wary of expending more blood and treasure overseas. Romney's sotto voce
message was that he would be a hot-headed, trigger-happy cowboy - like the Last
Republican President Who Shall Not Be Named. For undecided voters who are
clearly sick of foreign wars, this could be very soothing indeed.

Will it work? One difference between this debate and the one in Denver is that
President Obama seemed prepared for the pivot this time. The president was
ready, willing and able to highlight the inconsistencies in Romney's previous
statements and claims. He accused Romney of being "all over the map" on numerous
issues. He also ridiculed Romney's proposed naval buildup, pointing out that
foreign policy wasn't a game of Battleship. It seems like the president was
genuinely proud of his foreign policy accomplishments - as opposed to simply
treading water on the economy.

For the past month, Mitt Romney had been chipping away at Obama's foreign policy
record. Tonight he seemed to want to emulate it. His clear hope is that the
performance was good enough for voters to be comfortable with him as a sober and
prudent commander-in-chief. That way, they can ignore Obama's critique and
happily forget about international relations for another four years. We'll find
out over the next few days if he succeeded.

Daniel W. Drezner is a professor of international politics at Tufts and blogs at
Foreign Policy magazine.

12:21 a.m. Anne-Marie Slaughter | America's Narcissism

The much-heralded foreign policy debate wasn't really a debate, as Barack Obama
and Mitt Romney agreed on 90 percent of the issues. And it was barely about
foreign policy, as education reform (we all love teachers), Detroit,
nation-building at home, and taxes got far more play than any part of the world
other than the Middle East, North Africa, Afghanistan and Pakistan, and China.

Romney trotted out a new rhetorical meme: "America must promote principles of
peace." Obama looked and sounded every inch the commander-in-chief. But the
lasting impression of the debate, certainly for anyone watching in the rest of
the world, is just how narrowly Americans define foreign policy. Neither
candidate mentioned NATO. Indeed, neither candidate mentioned the European Union
or the Eurozone crisis, other than Mr. Romney's dire predictions that the United
States will soon be Greece unless he is elected.

Moving east, the candidates barely mentioned a single country in East Asia other
than China. There was only the briefest reference to Japan (our closest ally in
Asia) by the moderator and a single mention of North Korea (another very
dangerous nuclear power). Indonesia, the largest Muslim country in the world,
didn't come up. For that matter, there was no reference to India (a mere billion
people).  This silence is all the more striking given Mr. Obama's reference at
the end of the debate to his administration's purported "pivot to Asia," a pivot
that was supposed to be away from the Middle East. Yet when Mr. Obama was asked
to name the greatest threat to the United States he said terrorist networks; Mr.
Romney said a nuclear Iran.

Beyond individual countries, consider the silence on the global issues that are
vitally important to the rest of the world. Neither candidate ever uttered the
word "climate." Or drug violence. Or poverty, disease, food, water, or even
energy.

This really wasn't a debate about foreign policy or world affairs. It was the
projection of the American electoral map onto the globe. All discussion of
Israel and Islam was targeted at Florida; all discussion of China was targeted
at Ohio. From a real foreign policy perspective, a business in which we devote a
great deal of time and effort to reassuring and mobilizing our friends and
allies and trying to solve global problems, we can only hope the rest of the
world wasn't listening.

Anne-Marie Slaughter, a professor of politics and international affairs at
Princeton, was director of policy planning at the State Department from 2009 to
2011.

12:41 a.m.  Hanin Ghaddar | The Winner: Bashar al-Assad

Tonight's debate was expected to reveal the candidates' thorough and detailed
strategies when it comes to the American foreign policy. However, this debate
offered very little.

Syria is a case in point. Both candidates seem to have the same confused and
paralyzed policy towards Syria. They both want to make friends with the Syrian
people, but the real competition was instead on who can be a better friend to
Israel.

Governor Mitt Romney was simply advocating President Obama's foreign policy in
Syria, which is inaction. There are simply no meaningful differences. Both want
to let the Syrian people "determine their own fate," which so far has been a
very bloody and dark one.

Power comes with responsibility, and the Syrians expected a more responsible
stance from what should be the most powerful state in the world. On both Twitter
and Facebook, Syrians expressed disappointment with both candidates. They saw
America's power implemented in Libya and wanted the same treatment. However, it
seems both Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama have washed their hands of the Syrian people
and decided to stay in the viewing seat.

The policy of inaction in Syria, which apparently will continue no matter which
candidate wins, has led to the humanitarian crisis which both candidates
lamented, and also to the rise of Islamists. Because of inaction in Syria, the
United States is losing the opportunity to lead. America's inaction in Syria is
causing chaos to spread to neighboring countries, such as Turkey, Jordan, and
last but not least Lebanon, where a car bomb killed senior Lebanese security
official Gen. Wissam al-Hassan and unleashed a wave of sectarian street violence
across the country. More inaction will mean more sectarian violence, not only in
Syria, but throughout the region. The United States and its allies surely do not
wish to see that.

For the Syrian people, intervention never meant boots on the ground. They have
specifically asked for safe havens and anti-aircraft missiles, not more. That's
all they need to defeat the Assad regime. Both candidates failed to discuss
these options in detail. The Syrian people deserve to know why these two
specific requests are so hard for the United States to offer. Instead, all they
heard was "we are afraid to give you arms because we do not trust you won't use
it against us." Without trust, there can be no friendship.

The only difference between the two was that Romney seemed to see the Middle
East as one big space of terror. He repeatedly referred to the developments in
past two years in the region as chaos and tumult. This is an insult to the
people who have sacrificed their lives, and still are, in order to topple their
dictators. That's also a bad way to make friends.

The Syrians understood tonight that no matter who wins, they are on their own,
and that the big winner of this debate is Bashar al-Assad.

Hanin Ghaddar is the editor of NOW Lebanon.

12:47 a.m. Danielle Pletka | Don't Diss Defense Workers

If what you care about is foreign policy and you tuned in tonight, you may have
been a tad disappointed by the focus on car tires and teachers and by Barack
Obama's rather robotic insistence on "nation building here at home."  If you
care about national defense and are particularly worried about sequestration
(the plan that would likely cut $500 billion from the defense budget in January
2013), the President's blithe assertion that it won't happen - no proof, no
policy, just "I'm Barack Obama and I approve this message" - may not have
convinced you.

On the other hand, Mitt Romney did little more to convey the security costs of a
rollback in defense that could mean that, by the end of this decade, Americans
will be spending more annually to service their national debt that they will on
national security.

Mr. Romney recycled the oft-used sentiment that the President's request for
naval ships will be the smallest since 1917.  Mr. Obama quoted Mr. Romney's
talking points back to him, citing the actual year - 1916 - and ridiculed
Romney's failure to understand that the military doesn't fight with bayonets and
horses anymore.  But the reality is that Mr. Obama's request is for a Navy
unseen since 1916.  And for an Air Force little improved from the one our
fathers knew.  And for a tanker fleet so ancient, all operations are analog.
And for a bomber fleet conceived during the Carter years.  In that context, cute
horse comments are a lame comeback.

If your aim is to win in Virginia, it is probably better not to make fun of the
naval fleet (note to the Obama team). Defense workers in Ohio and Virginia are
game for more investment. If you want to score points on national defense, it's
probably best not to be snide (though hipsters love it).  Truth be told, many
who believe in America's national mission are comfortable with the "peace
through strength" message Mr. Romney sought to convey.

Fundamentally, the question is less about the score that Twitter and the
spinners give to their favored obsession.  Rather, it's about who sends a
message of American resolve, belief in American power, and commitment to
American investment in defense.  If that's what matters to you - be you American
voter, adversary, or terrorist - then it's likely that Mr. Romney's message, on
principle and politics, hit home a little harder than Mr. Obama's.  And that,
folks, is what the debates are all about.

Danielle Pletka is the vice president for foreign and defense studies at the
American Enterprise Institute.

12:52 a.m. Ross Douthat | Mitt's New Modesty

When Mitt Romney punctuated one of his early answers tonight with a reference to
the Islamist forces gaining power in the collapsing state of Mali - a reference
obscure to almost every viewer, except those who share my particular obsession
with the ripple effects of our Libyan intervention - I had the sense that
genuine swing voters must have almost all the time: I thought, hey, he's talking
to me.

That sense persisted for much of the night. As a conservative who's grown
steadily more skeptical of military interventions ever since the weapons of mass
destruction didn't turn up in Iraq, I've been critical of Romney throughout this
campaign for trying to out-hawk President Obama at every turn, and for trying to
sell a war-weary public on the largely implausible idea that Obama is a
weak-kneed appeaser unwilling to show toughness overseas. But tonight, given the
chance to throw that argument in the president's face, the Republican nominee
mostly soft-pedaled it, shying away from sharp contrasts, emphasizing areas of
agreement and repeatedly mentioning his own desire for peace.

Romney's turn toward pragmatism was most pronounced on Afghanistan, where he
basically endorsed the White House's plan for a 2014 withdrawal without offering
any of his usual hawkish criticisms and caveats. But the same
difference-blurring thread ran through almost all his answers. Yes, he promised
more military spending and tried to hit the president hard on Obama's supposed
"apology tour" in the Middle East, but otherwise this debate felt like a
90-minute confirmation of what a lot of analysts have pointed out: Strip away
the "no apologies" rhetoric, and the differences between the president and his
rival on foreign policy look relatively modest.

This isn't necessarily a good thing for the country, which probably deserves a
more robust debate over American strategy than the one we just watched. And by
essentially acknowledging the overlap between his posture and the president's,
Romney almost guaranteed that Obama would win the debate on points - which the
president pretty clearly did, deploying the advantages of incumbency (not to
mention the execution of a certain Al Qaeda leader) effectively in an arena
where Americans are still inclined to trust him.

The question is what the audience was looking for. If they were looking for
evidence that a Romney administration would deliver significantly better results
overseas, then they probably came away disappointed, and Obama's win will boost
him in the polls. But if they were just looking (as I'll admit that I was
looking) to be reassured that Romney is something other than a wild-eyed
warmonger, then the Republican nominee may have helped his cause tonight even in
defeat.

Ross Douthat is an Op-Ed columnist.

1:09 a.m.  Dalia Dassa Kaye |  A Crucial Difference on Iran

Mitt Romney and Barack Obama had some sharp rhetorical exchanges, but on
substance there were few discernible differences. If Mr. Obama was expecting Mr.
Romney to distinguish himself by supporting military policies that would be
unpopular with Americans (whether in Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan or Iran), he was
likely disappointed. Mr. Romney went out of his way to argue that killing bad
guys would not be enough to fight radical forces; economic development,
education and civil society are key ingredients to future stability. Mr. Obama
couldn't agree more.

Mr. Obama said his aim is to get Iran to stop its "nuclear program," while
Romney spoke about preventing a "nuclear-capable" Iran. But neither candidate
defined the point in Iran's nuclear enrichment that would trigger military
action.  Both agreed military action would be the last resort. And Mr. Romney
even credited Mr. Obama for applying crippling sanctions, only criticizing him
for not doing it earlier (which of course Mr. Obama denied) and suggesting he
would find ways to strengthen them.

But on the Iran file, a consequential distinction emerged. For Mr. Obama, the
intent of crippling sanctions is to bring Iran to the negotiating table to agree
to give up its nuclear program and abide by United Nations resolutions, arguing
there's a "deal to be had." In contrast, Mr. Romney called for diplomatic
isolation of Iran, arguing Iran's diplomats should be treated like pariahs
around the world. Diplomatic pressure, as Mr. Romney advocates, is not the same
as negotiations. The dilemma is how sanctions and pressure would dissuade Iran's
leaders from pursuing their nuclear program (as Mr. Romney recommended) if a
President Romney wouldn't  agree to sit down and talk with them.

Mr. Obama did not appear to pick up on this disconnect, most likely because he
wanted to emphasize the "tough" aspects of his Iran policy and not the off-ramp
strategy that will inevitably involve bilateral negotiations with Iran. But if a
Romney administration were to pursue a policy shunning diplomacy, it is hard to
see how the current sanctions policies, and more covert actions like sabotage,
would lead to a resolution. The more likely scenario if diplomacy is rejected or
fails is continued escalation--and potentially war.

Dalia Dassa Kaye is director of the Center for Middle East Public Policy at the
RAND Corporation.

1:35 a.m. Sheena Chestnut Greitens | Where Was Asia?

Tonight both presidential candidates acknowledged the centrality of Asia to
America's interests.  The Obama administration offers its "Asia pivot" as a
foreign policy success story.  Mitt Romney wants a bigger Navy to keep America's
commitments in the region credible and robust.  According to Secretary of
Defense Leon Panetta, 60 percent of the Navy's warships will be located in the
Pacific by 2020.

Not once tonight did anyone talk about what those ships are going to do when
they get there.

Tonight's foreign policy debate allotted less than 15 of its 90 minutes to Asia,
a region with the world's fastest economic growth rates and over half of its
population. The only country receiving more than a passing mention was China,
and even China was discussed only in economic terms.

How to handle the security relationship between the two countries with the
world's largest military budgets went unmentioned, as did the United States'
broader strategy in a region critical to American security interests, where the
next president will have to make a series of tough choices and may well face
multiple foreign policy crises.

There was no discussion of American policy on the Korean peninsula, where 28,500
American forces stand watch in a war that has not ended, and where our allies
this weekend evacuated residents along the DMZ after North Korea threatened to
retaliate against an activist group's balloon launch with artillery fire.

There was no discussion of the recently announced plan to rotate more American
planes, ships, and personnel through the Philippines, which in April sailed an
American-made cutter into confrontation with China in disputed waters, and then
suggested that America was obligated to assist in that confrontation under the
terms of a 1951 Mutual Defense Treaty.

There was no discussion of Taiwan, which asked the United States for over 60 new
F-16 fighters and last year got a $5.8 billion upgrade to its old ones instead -
a decision that the official Chinese press called "a despicable breach of faith"
- or of the American "Air-Sea Battle" concept generally perceived to be a
template for future conflict with China.

There was no discussion of whether America's commitment to those who call for
democracy and human rights - a commitment both candidates affirmed - can or
should extend past Tunisia and Tahrir to Tibet, where over fifty people have set
themselves on fire without producing the political change that a single
self-immolation sparked in the Arab World.

Today the world's attention is riveted on crises in the Middle East.  Tomorrow's
flashpoints lie in Asia.  Unfortunately, tonight's debate did little to clarify
how either candidate would handle a 3 a.m. phone call that comes not from
Benghazi, but from Beijing.

Sheena Chestnut Greitens is a doctoral candidate in government at Harvard and a
fellow at the United States Institute of Peace and at the Miller Center,
University of Virginia.

1:48 a.m. Nathan Thrall | Not Enough Daylight on Israel

Monday's debate in Boca Raton offered another venue for President Obama and Mitt
Romney to compete over who can appear closer to Israel. Mr. Obama trumpeted his
administration's "unprecedented military and intelligence cooperation" with
Israel, while Mr. Romney advertised his close relationship with Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.

Mr. Obama contrasted Mr. Romney's decision to use his recent trip to Israel to
"take donors" and "attend fundraisers" with the president's own visits to
Israel's Holocaust memorial and the "town of Sderot, which had experienced
missiles raining down from Hamas." Mr. Romney countered by asserting that the
president had generated "turmoil" with Israel, noting that 38 Democratic
senators had signed a letter urging him to repair the damage.

Mr. Romney also repeated his earlier criticism of the president having
reportedly stated that there should be daylight between the United States and
Israel when negotiating a settlement between Israel and the Palestinians. Yet,
by definition, some distance must exist between a mediator and the parties to a
negotiation if that mediator is to live up to its claim of being an honest
broker.

If wishing to eliminate any daylight between America and one party to the
conflict is Mr. Romney's desire, it is one at odds with his professed goal to
help Israelis and Palestinians reach a peace agreement - a goal he did not seem
to possess when at a closed-door fundraiser in Florida earlier this year he said
the Palestinians have "no interest whatsoever in establishing peace," and "the
pathway to peace is almost unthinkable to accomplish." Romney went on:

You hope for some degree of stability, but you recognize that this is going to
remain an unsolved problem - and we kick the ball down the field and hope that
ultimately, somehow, something will happen and resolve it.

Kicking the ball down the field while professing an interest in an
Israeli-Palestinian settlement is precisely what President Obama has been doing
for the last several years. The policy of the next administration, whether Mr.
Romney's first or Mr. Obama's second, will be to uphold this status quo:
supporting an unelected Palestinian prime minister and a Palestinian president
whose term long ago expired; continuing to prevent the exercise of power by the
victors in the last Palestinian national election; negotiating with a set of
unelected P.L.O. leaders who cannot credibly claim to represent most
Palestinians; prioritizing the funding of Palestinian security forces who arrest
their political opponents and prevent peaceful protests against Israeli
settlements and military installations; and meekly criticizing Israel's
expanding settlement construction while exercising no leverage in order to
thwart it.

These policies will eventually backfire, as they have in other parts of the
region where the United States stood against popular aspirations and supported
authoritarian regimes. But on these issues, there is precious little daylight
between the candidates.

Nathan Thrall is a Jerusalem-based Middle East analyst with the International
Crisis Group.

2:09 a.m. Marisa Porges | Shopping List Foreign Policy

At least Game 7 of the National League Championship Series was a blowout. But if
you chose to watch tonight's debate instead of baseball - hoping, like many of
us, for clarity on the next four years of American foreign policy - you were
sorely disappointed.

What did we hear? Not a lot. Not a single mention of looming cyber threats,
despite the fact that Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta recently sounded an
alarm about America's vulnerability to a possible "cyber Pearl Harbor." No
mention of Yemen and the growing influence of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula,
which many consider the most significant terrorist threat in the world. Nor was
there any discussion of Guantánamo or the future of American detention
operations, leaving major questions unanswered about how the United States would
handle captured terrorists in the future.

How would each candidate face the considerable challenges of the Afghanistan
transition - like propping up the Afghan security forces, trying to negotiate a
settlement with the Taliban, or forestalling a full-scale civil war after
American and NATO forces depart?  Apparently, it's not a concern. For Mr.
Romney, it was simple as saying the Afghans "will be ready by the end of 2014."
Full stop. While President Obama acknowledged in passing that the transition in
Afghanistan "has to take place in a responsible fashion," he quickly changed
course and began talking about veterans and jobs in America. Both are critical
issues, to be sure. But neither is particularly helpful for those wondering if
thousands of American lives lost and billions of dollars spent in Afghanistan
will be wasted by a poorly executed transition.

Those concerned with the future of American engagement in the Middle East were
likewise frustrated. Regarding the ongoing threat of extremism in the Arab
World, Mr. Romney simply suggested a shopping list of grand objectives: economic
development, better education, gender equality, and rule of law--a plan that
sounds an awful lot like nation building. What remained entirely unclear is how
Mr. Romney would actually make progress on any of these fronts, particularly in
countries of critical concern. Meanwhile, Mr. Obama pointed out that we "cannot
just meet these challenges militarily" and quickly mentioned religious
minorities and women and encouraging economic development before neatly
sidestepping to "nation building here at home."

Ultimately, tonight's debate didn't change many (any?) voters' opinions about
either candidate. And it left national security wonks I know banging their heads
against the table, still wondering how the election will affect America's
foreign policies in the years ahead. But at least we're now certain the military
has fewer bayonets than it did in 1916.

Marisa L. Porges, a former counterterrorism adviser in the Departments of
Defense and Treasury, is a fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and
International Affairs at the Harvard Kennedy School.


     ·    To Stop Iran, the G.O.P. Should Back Obama
     ·    Other Stops: Repairing Relations With the Rest of the World
     ·    Blunders and Binders
     ·    Obama's Narrow Victory
     ·    Debating Points: Obama vs. Romney, Round Two


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Campaign Stops)

                            October 22, 2012 Monday

Debating Points, Global Edition

BYLINE: THE EDITORS

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 6868 words



HIGHLIGHT: Analysts look at the third presidential debate region by region,
argument by argument.


 The editors of Campaign Stops asked our contributors and international analysts
to share their reactions to the third presidential debate. Tune in here for
regular updates.
 2:09 a.m. | Updated

Lynn Vavreck:Why Won't They Stop Agreeing?
Husain Haqqani: A Doomed Strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan
Eric L. Lewis: Mitt Romney's Egypt
Dennis Ross: Who's Prepared on Iran?
Michael S. Doran: Romney's Strategy for Syria
Daniel W. Drezner: The Anti-Bellum Romney
Anne-Marie Slaughter: America's Narcissism
Hanin Ghaddar: The Winner: Bashar al-Assad
Danielle Pletka: Don't Diss Defense Workers
Ross Douthat: Mitt's New Modesty
Dalia Dassa Kaye: A Crucial Difference on Iran
Sheena Chestnut Greitens: Where Was Asia?
Nathan Thrall: Not Enough Daylight on Israel
Marisa Porges: Shopping List Foreign Policy

10:14 p.m. Lynn Vavreck | Why Won't They Stop Agreeing?

If we ask people to assess President Obama's performance on foreign policy
issues, we get judgments so closely tied to party identification they are hardly
worth discussing.  But when we take approval of the president out of the
question and ask people about their own ideas on America's role in the world,
there are some surprising areas of agreement - in fact, strong agreement it
turns out.

Using data from the Cooperative Campaign Analysis Project on the appropriate use
of military force, we find that we are not polarized over everything.  Ensuring
access to oil, destroying terrorist camps, intervening in a civil war, assisting
the spread of democracy, and helping our allies are all actions on which most
Americans agree - and sometimes profoundly so. The only worthy uses of our
military forces, the respondents say, are destroying terror training camps and
helping our allies; the rest are not.

Helping the United Nations uphold international law reveals the biggest
difference between the parties - Democrats think it is appropriate and
Republicans soundly disagree (I've presented the percentages separately on this
line for Democrats and Republicans).

But, lest you think the nation isn't polarized on foreign policy, consider this:
on some issues we see bigger differences between the attitudes of men and women
than we see between the parties.  On the question of whether it is appropriate
to use our military forces to destroy a terrorist camp, 71 percent of men say
yes while only half of women approve. On average, women's support for the use of
force is less strong than men's, by about 10 points.

With women making up the larger share (60 percent) of undecided voters and both
candidates fighting hard for their votes, it is not surprising that tonight we
heard more agreement between the two candidates than disagreement.  And although
there is no gender divide on whether Romney "says what he believes," there is a
gender difference on whether Obama is sincere.  Women are 11 points more likely,
on average, to think Obama says what he believes and 12 points more likely to
say this about Obama relative to Romney.


Lynn Vavreck is an associate professor of political science and communication
studies at U.C.L.A.

11:22 p.m. Husain Haqqani | A Doomed Strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan

President Obama said, referring to Osama bin Laden's killing, "If we had asked
Pakistan permission, we would not have gotten him." But if Pakistan can't be
trusted, the president owes the American people an explanation of how he'd deal
with a nuclear-armed impoverished country over the next four years.

Mr. Romney seems committed to changing Pakistani behavior. And although he
claims he wouldn't "divorce" Pakistan, Mr. Romney's answer showed that he would
downgrade Pakistan's status as an American ally. Demanding policy changes from
Pakistan in return for American support and friendship is a sound idea but
neither candidate has spelled out what specific instruments of persuasion or
coercion the United States might successfully deploy to that end.

The discussion over Afghanistan and Pakistan needs to be put in the context of
the wider issue of containing Islamist extremism. Mr. Obama defines success
against Al Qaeda very narrowly, glossing over how jihadist networks are already
preparing to regroup in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region after the withdrawal of
American combat forces in 2014. Mr. Obama has not articulated a plan to deal
with that challenge.

Killing bin Laden was a positive development but it alone will not make the
United States and its allies safe from terrorists. Al Qaeda and its affiliates
continue to recruit all over the Muslim world and their ability to organize and
train in remote parts of Yemen, Afghanistan and Pakistan has not been completely
disrupted. Little has been done to limit the influence of ideas or organizations
that lead young Muslims into terrorist training camps. And the withdrawal from
Iraq and Afghanistan has strengthened the jihadi narrative that America simply
does not have the staying power and can be forced to withdraw from Muslim
regions at very little cost.

In Afghanistan, the Taliban have neither been decisively defeated nor forced to
the negotiating table. It is unrealistic to assume that a professional Afghan
national army can be raised and fully assigned the task of securing the country
within a short time frame. The Taliban's ability to infiltrate this hastily
assembled army reveals the excessive optimism of this policy.

The United States could have withdrawn from Afghanistan far more successfully if
it hadn't announced a deadline for its withdrawal. That deadline also took away
any incentive for Pakistan's military to work with the United States against the
Taliban, thinking that it could instead sit the Americans out and wait for the
chance to maximize its influence in a post-American Afghanistan. The Obama
administration didn't succeed in persuading or coercing Pakistan into acting
against the Taliban and its unilateralism has only made it more difficult for
the few pro-American elements in Pakistan to fight their own battle against
jihadists.

It's fine to say "We do not want or like war'' but wars against an ideologically
motivated enemy, such as Al Qaeda and its affiliates, are wars of necessity.
Such wars cannot be fought according to a neat timeline and without effective
allies who share both the war's aims and its strategy.

Husain Haqqani served as Pakistan's ambassador to the United States from 2008 to
2011 and is a professor of international relations at Boston University and a
senior fellow at the Hudson Institute.

11:37 p.m. Eric L. Lewis | Mitt's Romney's Egypt

Pity poor Egypt. After suffering through thirty years of the Mubarak
kleptocracy, the people of Egypt rose up, deposed the dictator and elected a new
president, Mohammed Morsi. To be sure, the victory of Morsi and the Muslim
Brotherhood may not have been the first choice of American policy makers, but
one cannot have a policy of commitment to democracy and then reject democratic
outcomes.

The new Egyptian government will no doubt be less friendly than the Mubarak
regime, which was reliable, but at the expense of human rights, economic
development, transparency and hope for the Egyptian people. Yet Morsi promptly
reaffirmed what President Obama called in tonight's debate a "red line," the
peace treaty with Israel, which has permitted Israel to have predictability from
the largest country in the region.

None of these developments appear to satisfy Mitt Romney, who characterized
Egypt as part of the "chaos" and "extremism" of Syria and Mali. While hailing
the progress in Libya as "wonderful," he warns that "next door" is Egypt, where
the election of a "Muslim brotherhood President" constitutes a "reversal in the
kind of hopes we had for that region." Romney said he would not have supported
retaining Mubarak, but he views the outcome of a free election - indeed a
predictable outcome of an election held so soon after the revolution - as a
failure of the Arab Spring.

It is way too early to declare Egypt a success. It is not easy to shake off a
sclerotic and corrupt system that was in place for sixty years. It is a country
of 80 million people, many of whom live in terrible poverty. It exports many of
its most talented people because its economy cannot accommodate them. Its Coptic
Christian minority is uneasy, to say the least. The business community has
largely remained on the sidelines. And many in its new government have spent the
last thirty years avoiding the brutal security apparatus of the Mubarak regime
rather than readying themselves for the challenges of governing a modern state.

But Romney's suggestion that the election of a Muslim Brotherhood government
constitutes a reversal for the region is indicative of a dangerous equation of
Muslim ruling parties with "jihadists" and "terrorists." Syria and Iran were
Baathist governments, nominally socialist secular states. The Assad clan and
Saddam Hussein did not kill in the name of jihad. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan
in Turkey governs as a moderate Islamist, sharing some ideological roots with
the Muslim Brotherhood. Rejected for membership in the European Union, Turkey
under Erdogan has surged ahead of the peripheral European nations and assumed a
leadership role in the region. To be sure, Hamas also has roots in the Muslim
Brotherhood. Whether Egypt moves toward the Turkish model or the Hamas model
will be determined in significant measure by the wisdom of American policy.

The Romney approach - lumping Egypt with Mali, Baathists with Islamists, the
Muslim Brotherhood with jihadists - retains the ahistorical arrogance of the
Bush years. We need to understand the social and political dynamics of countries
that we would purport to influence. And we need to have the humility to
understand that our influence must be exercised with restraint and pragmatism.
Mitt Romney's apparent belief in restructuring the world from the top down as we
would wish it to be shows an obdurate refusal to learn from the tragic mistakes
of the past.

Eric L. Lewis is a partner at Lewis Baach PLLC in Washington.

11:48 p.m. Dennis Ross | Who's Prepared on Iran?

Listening to tonight's debate, one would be hard-pressed to identify a clear
difference between what President Barack Obama and Governor Mitt Romney would do
in dealing with Iran.  Both made it clear that prevention, not containment, of a
nuclear armed Iran is their objective.  The President was particularly blunt,
saying that as long as he is president, Iran will not become a nuclear-armed
state.  While Mr. Romney made it clear that America could not accept Iran
becoming nuclear weapons capable, the president went further and said that we
could not allow Iran to develop a "breakout capacity."  By this he meant that
America could not allow Iran to reach the point where its accumulated enriched
uranium, the level of enrichment, and the numbers and quality of centrifuges
would allow Iran to quickly create nuclear weapons before we could act
militarily to prevent it.

Their mutual emphasis on prevention does not mean that either Mr. Obama or Mr.
Romney will forgo diplomacy and rush to war.  Both were clear that the use of
force is the last resort.  Both cited their belief that increasing the pressure
of crippling sanctions may yet alter  Iranian behavior.  The President took
pride in having mobilized the world to impose crippling sanctions that are now
wreaking havoc with the Iranian economy.  Mr. Romney agreed on their effect, and
the need to do more.  We can certainly anticipate that both would seek to
tighten the economic sanctions in 2013.  To be sure, Mr. Romney went further in
one respect:  he is prepared to indict the President of Iran under the Genocide
Convention and treat Iranian diplomats the way those of apartheid South Africa
were treated.

Both also indicated that they would see if a diplomatic or negotiated outcome
was possible.  My expectation is that regardless of who is elected, there will
be a diplomatic initiative or endgame proposal designed to test whether Iran is
prepared to accept an outcome in which it has civil nuclear power but its
nuclear program is restricted in a way that would largely deny it a breakout
capability.
I say that because prevention as an objective necessarily will lead at some
point to the use of force against the Iranian nuclear program if diplomacy
fails.  I don't see either Mr. Obama or Mr. Romney resorting to force without
being able to demonstrate that they sought to exhaust all other options first.

The bottom line:  their basic approach to Iran seems very similar.  But the
president, having lived with and thought through the issue for the last four
years, is more equipped to move more quickly on Iran than Mr. Romney.  If
elected, Mr. Romney would have to establish his administration and probably
conduct a review of his options.  President Obama has already done that.

Dennis Ross, a former State Department and National Security Council official,
was a special assistant to President Obama for the Middle East and South Asia
from 2009 to 2011. He is now a counselor at the Washington Institute for Near
East Policy.

12:01 a.m. Michael S. Doran | Romney's Strategy for Syria

On Syria, Mitt Romney won - but only on points, certainly not with a knock-out
blow.  Mr. Romney addressed the question in a manner that showed a superior
strategic vision.  He framed the civil war in Syria as an opportunity, a chance
to strike at Iran.  "Syria," Mr. Romney said, "is Iran's only ally in the Arab
world," stressing the role the regime of Bashar al-Assad plays as Iran's base
for extending its influence in the Eastern Mediterranean.   Toppling Mr. Assad,
Mr. Romney correctly explained, would deal a blow to Hezbollah and roll back
Iranian influence throughout the region.

By contrast, President Obama listed a number of actions that his administration
has taken, but failed to place them in a wider context.  He did not even mention
Iran in the course of the discussion.

Syria represents a very rare thing in international politics: a crisis in which
our strategic interests and values are in perfect alignment.  At least 30,000
have died, and millions have been made refugees.  As the greatest power in the
Middle East, the United States is untrue to itself if it fails to take decisive
action against a dictator who murders civilians with impunity.

Yet, in fact, the Obama administration has been relatively passive, as Prime
Minister Erdogan of Turkey recently complained.  "Right now," Mr. Erdogan said,
"there are certain things being expected from the United States," but America
has "not yet catered to those expectations." In the debate tonight Mr. Romney
struck a similar note, stressing that America "should be playing the leadership
role."

But Mr. Romney did not define a clear path forward.  The president claimed that
Romney "doesn't have different ideas, and that's because we're doing exactly
what we should be doing to try to promote a moderate, Syrian leadership."  There
was truth in the statement.

At a moment when there is no appetite among Americans for a new foreign
adventure, Mr. Romney was careful to stress that he did not support deploying
the American military in Syria.  He even rejected the idea of enforcing a no-fly
zone.  Yet an American-implemented no-fly zone is precisely what is needed to
turn the Romney strategic vision into a practical reality.

Mr. Romney displayed a much better grasp of the strategic stakes in Syria, but
when it came to specifics, his policy differed little from the president's.

Michael S. Doran, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, served on the
National Security Council and at the Defense Department official between 2005
and 2008.

12:02 a.m. Daniel W. Drezner | The Anti-Bellum Romney

Many people believe that Mitt Romney won the first debate because of Barack
Obama's somnambulant performance. That overlooked Romney's deft pivot to the
center, which he pulled off by doing things like praising government regulation.
This is consistent with a truism in political science: in an election,
candidates try to target the median voter. In presidential politics, candidates
might win primaries by pleasing their party's ideological base - but in general
elections, they target the moderates, because those are the voters decide the
election.

Romney doubled down on that strategy in the foreign policy debate. After a year
of very hot and bellicose rhetoric, the governor sounded different tonight. He
argued that "we can't kill our way out of" the problems in the Middle East. He
averred that "we want a peaceful planet." He explicitly stated he didn't want to
get involved militarily in Syria. Romney said the sanctions in Iran were
working. He praised the president on numerous fronts - Afghanistan and Pakistan
in particular. He even talked about China as a partner before bashing its trade
policies. To be fair, the governor has said some of this before, but tonight the
emphasis was on diplomacy and peace, not brute force.

In doing all this, Romney was trying to allay the fears of undecided voters who
are wary of expending more blood and treasure overseas. Romney's sotto voce
message was that he would be a hot-headed, trigger-happy cowboy - like the Last
Republican President Who Shall Not Be Named. For undecided voters who are
clearly sick of foreign wars, this could be very soothing indeed.

Will it work? One difference between this debate and the one in Denver is that
President Obama seemed prepared for the pivot this time. The president was
ready, willing and able to highlight the inconsistencies in Romney's previous
statements and claims. He accused Romney of being "all over the map" on numerous
issues. He also ridiculed Romney's proposed naval buildup, pointing out that
foreign policy wasn't a game of Battleship. It seems like the president was
genuinely proud of his foreign policy accomplishments - as opposed to simply
treading water on the economy.

For the past month, Mitt Romney had been chipping away at Obama's foreign policy
record. Tonight he seemed to want to emulate it. His clear hope is that the
performance was good enough for voters to be comfortable with him as a sober and
prudent commander-in-chief. That way, they can ignore Obama's critique and
happily forget about international relations for another four years. We'll find
out over the next few days if he succeeded.

Daniel W. Drezner is a professor of international politics at Tufts and blogs at
Foreign Policy magazine.

12:21 a.m. Anne-Marie Slaughter | America's Narcissism

The much-heralded foreign policy debate wasn't really a debate, as Barack Obama
and Mitt Romney agreed on 90 percent of the issues. And it was barely about
foreign policy, as education reform (we all love teachers), Detroit,
nation-building at home, and taxes got far more play than any part of the world
other than the Middle East, North Africa, Afghanistan and Pakistan, and China.

Romney trotted out a new rhetorical meme: "America must promote principles of
peace." Obama looked and sounded every inch the commander-in-chief. But the
lasting impression of the debate, certainly for anyone watching in the rest of
the world, is just how narrowly Americans define foreign policy. Neither
candidate mentioned NATO. Indeed, neither candidate mentioned the European Union
or the Eurozone crisis, other than Mr. Romney's dire predictions that the United
States will soon be Greece unless he is elected.

Moving east, the candidates barely mentioned a single country in East Asia other
than China. There was only the briefest reference to Japan (our closest ally in
Asia) by the moderator and a single mention of North Korea (another very
dangerous nuclear power). Indonesia, the largest Muslim country in the world,
didn't come up. For that matter, there was no reference to India (a mere billion
people).  This silence is all the more striking given Mr. Obama's reference at
the end of the debate to his administration's purported "pivot to Asia," a pivot
that was supposed to be away from the Middle East. Yet when Mr. Obama was asked
to name the greatest threat to the United States he said terrorist networks; Mr.
Romney said a nuclear Iran.

Beyond individual countries, consider the silence on the global issues that are
vitally important to the rest of the world. Neither candidate ever uttered the
word "climate." Or drug violence. Or poverty, disease, food, water, or even
energy.

This really wasn't a debate about foreign policy or world affairs. It was the
projection of the American electoral map onto the globe. All discussion of
Israel and Islam was targeted at Florida; all discussion of China was targeted
at Ohio. From a real foreign policy perspective, a business in which we devote a
great deal of time and effort to reassuring and mobilizing our friends and
allies and trying to solve global problems, we can only hope the rest of the
world wasn't listening.

Anne-Marie Slaughter, a professor of politics and international affairs at
Princeton, was director of policy planning at the State Department from 2009 to
2011.

12:41 a.m.  Hanin Ghaddar | The Winner: Bashar al-Assad

Tonight's debate was expected to reveal the candidates' thorough and detailed
strategies when it comes to the American foreign policy. However, this debate
offered very little.

Syria is a case in point. Both candidates seem to have the same confused and
paralyzed policy towards Syria. They both want to make friends with the Syrian
people, but the real competition was instead on who can be a better friend to
Israel.

Governor Mitt Romney was simply advocating President Obama's foreign policy in
Syria, which is inaction. There are simply no meaningful differences. Both want
to let the Syrian people "determine their own fate," which so far has been a
very bloody and dark one.

Power comes with responsibility, and the Syrians expected a more responsible
stance from what should be the most powerful state in the world. On both Twitter
and Facebook, Syrians expressed disappointment with both candidates. They saw
America's power implemented in Libya and wanted the same treatment. However, it
seems both Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama have washed their hands of the Syrian people
and decided to stay in the viewing seat.

The policy of inaction in Syria, which apparently will continue no matter which
candidate wins, has led to the humanitarian crisis which both candidates
lamented, and also to the rise of Islamists. Because of inaction in Syria, the
United States is losing the opportunity to lead. America's inaction in Syria is
causing chaos to spread to neighboring countries, such as Turkey, Jordan, and
last but not least Lebanon, where a car bomb killed senior Lebanese security
official Gen. Wissam al-Hassan and unleashed a wave of sectarian street violence
across the country. More inaction will mean more sectarian violence, not only in
Syria, but throughout the region. The United States and its allies surely do not
wish to see that.

For the Syrian people, intervention never meant boots on the ground. They have
specifically asked for safe havens and anti-aircraft missiles, not more. That's
all they need to defeat the Assad regime. Both candidates failed to discuss
these options in detail. The Syrian people deserve to know why these two
specific requests are so hard for the United States to offer. Instead, all they
heard was "we are afraid to give you arms because we do not trust you won't use
it against us." Without trust, there can be no friendship.

The only difference between the two was that Romney seemed to see the Middle
East as one big space of terror. He repeatedly referred to the developments in
past two years in the region as chaos and tumult. This is an insult to the
people who have sacrificed their lives, and still are, in order to topple their
dictators. That's also a bad way to make friends.

The Syrians understood tonight that no matter who wins, they are on their own,
and that the big winner of this debate is Bashar al-Assad.

Hanin Ghaddar is the editor of NOW Lebanon.

12:47 a.m. Danielle Pletka | Don't Diss Defense Workers

If what you care about is foreign policy and you tuned in tonight, you may have
been a tad disappointed by the focus on car tires and teachers and by Barack
Obama's rather robotic insistence on "nation building here at home."  If you
care about national defense and are particularly worried about sequestration
(the plan that would likely cut $500 billion from the defense budget in January
2013), the President's blithe assertion that it won't happen - no proof, no
policy, just "I'm Barack Obama and I approve this message" - may not have
convinced you.

On the other hand, Mitt Romney did little more to convey the security costs of a
rollback in defense that could mean that, by the end of this decade, Americans
will be spending more annually to service their national debt that they will on
national security.

Mr. Romney recycled the oft-used sentiment that the President's request for
naval ships will be the smallest since 1917.  Mr. Obama quoted Mr. Romney's
talking points back to him, citing the actual year - 1916 - and ridiculed
Romney's failure to understand that the military doesn't fight with bayonets and
horses anymore.  But the reality is that Mr. Obama's request is for a Navy
unseen since 1916.  And for an Air Force little improved from the one our
fathers knew.  And for a tanker fleet so ancient, all operations are analog.
And for a bomber fleet conceived during the Carter years.  In that context, cute
horse comments are a lame comeback.

If your aim is to win in Virginia, it is probably better not to make fun of the
naval fleet (note to the Obama team). Defense workers in Ohio and Virginia are
game for more investment. If you want to score points on national defense, it's
probably best not to be snide (though hipsters love it).  Truth be told, many
who believe in America's national mission are comfortable with the "peace
through strength" message Mr. Romney sought to convey.

Fundamentally, the question is less about the score that Twitter and the
spinners give to their favored obsession.  Rather, it's about who sends a
message of American resolve, belief in American power, and commitment to
American investment in defense.  If that's what matters to you - be you American
voter, adversary, or terrorist - then it's likely that Mr. Romney's message, on
principle and politics, hit home a little harder than Mr. Obama's.  And that,
folks, is what the debates are all about.

Danielle Pletka is the vice president for foreign and defense studies at the
American Enterprise Institute.

12:52 a.m. Ross Douthat | Mitt's New Modesty

When Mitt Romney punctuated one of his early answers tonight with a reference to
the Islamist forces gaining power in the collapsing state of Mali - a reference
obscure to almost every viewer, except those who share my particular obsession
with the ripple effects of our Libyan intervention - I had the sense that
genuine swing voters must have almost all the time: I thought, hey, he's talking
to me.

That sense persisted for much of the night. As a conservative who's grown
steadily more skeptical of military interventions ever since the weapons of mass
destruction didn't turn up in Iraq, I've been critical of Romney throughout this
campaign for trying to out-hawk President Obama at every turn, and for trying to
sell a war-weary public on the largely implausible idea that Obama is a
weak-kneed appeaser unwilling to show toughness overseas. But tonight, given the
chance to throw that argument in the president's face, the Republican nominee
mostly soft-pedaled it, shying away from sharp contrasts, emphasizing areas of
agreement and repeatedly mentioning his own desire for peace.

Romney's turn toward pragmatism was most pronounced on Afghanistan, where he
basically endorsed the White House's plan for a 2014 withdrawal without offering
any of his usual hawkish criticisms and caveats. But the same
difference-blurring thread ran through almost all his answers. Yes, he promised
more military spending and tried to hit the president hard on Obama's supposed
"apology tour" in the Middle East, but otherwise this debate felt like a
90-minute confirmation of what a lot of analysts have pointed out: Strip away
the "no apologies" rhetoric, and the differences between the president and his
rival on foreign policy look relatively modest.

This isn't necessarily a good thing for the country, which probably deserves a
more robust debate over American strategy than the one we just watched. And by
essentially acknowledging the overlap between his posture and the president's,
Romney almost guaranteed that Obama would win the debate on points - which the
president pretty clearly did, deploying the advantages of incumbency (not to
mention the execution of a certain Al Qaeda leader) effectively in an arena
where Americans are still inclined to trust him.

The question is what the audience was looking for. If they were looking for
evidence that a Romney administration would deliver significantly better results
overseas, then they probably came away disappointed, and Obama's win will boost
him in the polls. But if they were just looking (as I'll admit that I was
looking) to be reassured that Romney is something other than a wild-eyed
warmonger, then the Republican nominee may have helped his cause tonight even in
defeat.

Ross Douthat is an Op-Ed columnist.

1:09 a.m.  Dalia Dassa Kaye |  A Crucial Difference on Iran

Mitt Romney and Barack Obama had some sharp rhetorical exchanges, but on
substance there were few discernible differences. If Mr. Obama was expecting Mr.
Romney to distinguish himself by supporting military policies that would be
unpopular with Americans (whether in Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan or Iran), he was
likely disappointed. Mr. Romney went out of his way to argue that killing bad
guys would not be enough to fight radical forces; economic development,
education and civil society are key ingredients to future stability. Mr. Obama
couldn't agree more.

Mr. Obama said his aim is to get Iran to stop its "nuclear program," while
Romney spoke about preventing a "nuclear-capable" Iran. But neither candidate
defined the point in Iran's nuclear enrichment that would trigger military
action.  Both agreed military action would be the last resort. And Mr. Romney
even credited Mr. Obama for applying crippling sanctions, only criticizing him
for not doing it earlier (which of course Mr. Obama denied) and suggesting he
would find ways to strengthen them.

But on the Iran file, a consequential distinction emerged. For Mr. Obama, the
intent of crippling sanctions is to bring Iran to the negotiating table to agree
to give up its nuclear program and abide by United Nations resolutions, arguing
there's a "deal to be had." In contrast, Mr. Romney called for diplomatic
isolation of Iran, arguing Iran's diplomats should be treated like pariahs
around the world. Diplomatic pressure, as Mr. Romney advocates, is not the same
as negotiations. The dilemma is how sanctions and pressure would dissuade Iran's
leaders from pursuing their nuclear program (as Mr. Romney recommended) if a
President Romney wouldn't  agree to sit down and talk with them.

Mr. Obama did not appear to pick up on this disconnect, most likely because he
wanted to emphasize the "tough" aspects of his Iran policy and not the off-ramp
strategy that will inevitably involve bilateral negotiations with Iran. But if a
Romney administration were to pursue a policy shunning diplomacy, it is hard to
see how the current sanctions policies, and more covert actions like sabotage,
would lead to a resolution. The more likely scenario if diplomacy is rejected or
fails is continued escalation--and potentially war.

Dalia Dassa Kaye is director of the Center for Middle East Public Policy at the
RAND Corporation.

1:35 a.m. Sheena Chestnut Greitens | Where Was Asia?

Tonight both presidential candidates acknowledged the centrality of Asia to
America's interests.  The Obama administration offers its "Asia pivot" as a
foreign policy success story.  Mitt Romney wants a bigger Navy to keep America's
commitments in the region credible and robust.  According to Secretary of
Defense Leon Panetta, 60 percent of the Navy's warships will be located in the
Pacific by 2020.

Not once tonight did anyone talk about what those ships are going to do when
they get there.

Tonight's foreign policy debate allotted less than 15 of its 90 minutes to Asia,
a region with the world's fastest economic growth rates and over half of its
population. The only country receiving more than a passing mention was China,
and even China was discussed only in economic terms.

How to handle the security relationship between the two countries with the
world's largest military budgets went unmentioned, as did the United States'
broader strategy in a region critical to American security interests, where the
next president will have to make a series of tough choices and may well face
multiple foreign policy crises.

There was no discussion of American policy on the Korean peninsula, where 28,500
American forces stand watch in a war that has not ended, and where our allies
this weekend evacuated residents along the DMZ after North Korea threatened to
retaliate against an activist group's balloon launch with artillery fire.

There was no discussion of the recently announced plan to rotate more American
planes, ships, and personnel through the Philippines, which in April sailed an
American-made cutter into confrontation with China in disputed waters, and then
suggested that America was obligated to assist in that confrontation under the
terms of a 1951 Mutual Defense Treaty.

There was no discussion of Taiwan, which asked the United States for over 60 new
F-16 fighters and last year got a $5.8 billion upgrade to its old ones instead -
a decision that the official Chinese press called "a despicable breach of faith"
- or of the American "Air-Sea Battle" concept generally perceived to be a
template for future conflict with China.

There was no discussion of whether America's commitment to those who call for
democracy and human rights - a commitment both candidates affirmed - can or
should extend past Tunisia and Tahrir to Tibet, where over fifty people have set
themselves on fire without producing the political change that a single
self-immolation sparked in the Arab World.

Today the world's attention is riveted on crises in the Middle East.  Tomorrow's
flashpoints lie in Asia.  Unfortunately, tonight's debate did little to clarify
how either candidate would handle a 3 a.m. phone call that comes not from
Benghazi, but from Beijing.

Sheena Chestnut Greitens is a doctoral candidate in government at Harvard and a
fellow at the United States Institute of Peace and at the Miller Center,
University of Virginia.

1:48 a.m. Nathan Thrall | Not Enough Daylight on Israel

Monday's debate in Boca Raton offered another venue for President Obama and Mitt
Romney to compete over who can appear closer to Israel. Mr. Obama trumpeted his
administration's "unprecedented military and intelligence cooperation" with
Israel, while Mr. Romney advertised his close relationship with Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.

Mr. Obama contrasted Mr. Romney's decision to use his recent trip to Israel to
"take donors" and "attend fundraisers" with the president's own visits to
Israel's Holocaust memorial and the "town of Sderot, which had experienced
missiles raining down from Hamas." Mr. Romney countered by asserting that the
president had generated "turmoil" with Israel, noting that 38 Democratic
senators had signed a letter urging him to repair the damage.

Mr. Romney also repeated his earlier criticism of the president having
reportedly stated that there should be daylight between the United States and
Israel when negotiating a settlement between Israel and the Palestinians. Yet,
by definition, some distance must exist between a mediator and the parties to a
negotiation if that mediator is to live up to its claim of being an honest
broker.

If wishing to eliminate any daylight between America and one party to the
conflict is Mr. Romney's desire, it is one at odds with his professed goal to
help Israelis and Palestinians reach a peace agreement - a goal he did not seem
to possess when at a closed-door fundraiser in Florida earlier this year he said
the Palestinians have "no interest whatsoever in establishing peace," and "the
pathway to peace is almost unthinkable to accomplish." Romney went on:

You hope for some degree of stability, but you recognize that this is going to
remain an unsolved problem - and we kick the ball down the field and hope that
ultimately, somehow, something will happen and resolve it.

Kicking the ball down the field while professing an interest in an
Israeli-Palestinian settlement is precisely what President Obama has been doing
for the last several years. The policy of the next administration, whether Mr.
Romney's first or Mr. Obama's second, will be to uphold this status quo:
supporting an unelected Palestinian prime minister and a Palestinian president
whose term long ago expired; continuing to prevent the exercise of power by the
victors in the last Palestinian national election; negotiating with a set of
unelected P.L.O. leaders who cannot credibly claim to represent most
Palestinians; prioritizing the funding of Palestinian security forces who arrest
their political opponents and prevent peaceful protests against Israeli
settlements and military installations; and meekly criticizing Israel's
expanding settlement construction while exercising no leverage in order to
thwart it.

These policies will eventually backfire, as they have in other parts of the
region where the United States stood against popular aspirations and supported
authoritarian regimes. But on these issues, there is precious little daylight
between the candidates.

Nathan Thrall is a Jerusalem-based Middle East analyst with the International
Crisis Group.

2:09 a.m. Marisa Porges | Shopping List Foreign Policy

At least Game 7 of the National League Championship Series was a blowout. But if
you chose to watch tonight's debate instead of baseball - hoping, like many of
us, for clarity on the next four years of American foreign policy - you were
sorely disappointed.

What did we hear? Not a lot. Not a single mention of looming cyber threats,
despite the fact that Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta recently sounded an
alarm about America's vulnerability to a possible "cyber Pearl Harbor." No
mention of Yemen and the growing influence of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula,
which many consider the most significant terrorist threat in the world. Nor was
there any discussion of Guantánamo or the future of American detention
operations, leaving major questions unanswered about how the United States would
handle captured terrorists in the future.

How would each candidate face the considerable challenges of the Afghanistan
transition - like propping up the Afghan security forces, trying to negotiate a
settlement with the Taliban, or forestalling a full-scale civil war after
American and NATO forces depart?  Apparently, it's not a concern. For Mr.
Romney, it was simple as saying the Afghans "will be ready by the end of 2014."
Full stop. While President Obama acknowledged in passing that the transition in
Afghanistan "has to take place in a responsible fashion," he quickly changed
course and began talking about veterans and jobs in America. Both are critical
issues, to be sure. But neither is particularly helpful for those wondering if
thousands of American lives lost and billions of dollars spent in Afghanistan
will be wasted by a poorly executed transition.

Those concerned with the future of American engagement in the Middle East were
likewise frustrated. Regarding the ongoing threat of extremism in the Arab
World, Mr. Romney simply suggested a shopping list of grand objectives: economic
development, better education, gender equality, and rule of law--a plan that
sounds an awful lot like nation building. What remained entirely unclear is how
Mr. Romney would actually make progress on any of these fronts, particularly in
countries of critical concern. Meanwhile, Mr. Obama pointed out that we "cannot
just meet these challenges militarily" and quickly mentioned religious
minorities and women and encouraging economic development before neatly
sidestepping to "nation building here at home."

Ultimately, tonight's debate didn't change many (any?) voters' opinions about
either candidate. And it left national security wonks I know banging their heads
against the table, still wondering how the election will affect America's
foreign policies in the years ahead. But at least we're now certain the military
has fewer bayonets than it did in 1916.

Marisa L. Porges, a former counterterrorism adviser in the Departments of
Defense and Treasury, is a fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and
International Affairs at the Harvard Kennedy School.


     ·    To Stop Iran, the G.O.P. Should Back Obama
     ·    Other Stops: Repairing Relations With the Rest of the World
     ·    Blunders and Binders
     ·    Obama's Narrow Victory
     ·    Debating Points: Obama vs. Romney, Round Two


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 24, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cyberattack On Saudi Firm Disquiets U.S.

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words


The hackers picked the one day of the year they knew they could inflict the most
damage on the world's most valuable company, Saudi Aramco.

On Aug. 15, more than 55,000 Saudi Aramco employees stayed home from work to
prepare for one of Islam's holiest nights of the year -- Lailat al Qadr, or the
Night of Power -- celebrating the revelation of the Koran to Muhammad.

That morning, at 11:08, a person with privileged access to the Saudi state-owned
oil company's computers, unleashed a computer virus to initiate what is regarded
as among the most destructive acts of computer sabotage on a company to date.
The virus erased data on three-quarters of Aramco's corporate PCs -- documents,
spreadsheets, e-mails, files -- replacing all of it with an image of a burning
American flag.

United States intelligence officials say the attack's real perpetrator was Iran,
although they offered no specific evidence to support that claim. But the
secretary of defense, Leon E. Panetta, in a recent speech warning of the dangers
of computer attacks, cited the Aramco sabotage as ''a significant escalation of
the cyber threat.'' In the Aramco case, hackers who called themselves the
''Cutting Sword of Justice'' and claimed to be activists upset about Saudi
policies in the Middle East took responsibility.

But their online message and the burning flag were probably red herrings, say
independent computer researchers who have looked at the virus's code.

Immediately after the attack, Aramco was forced to shut down the company's
internal corporate network, disabling employees' e-mail and Internet access, to
stop the virus from spreading.

It could have been much worse. An examination of the sabotage revealed why
government officials and computer experts found the attack disturbing. Aramco's
oil production operations are segregated from the company's internal
communications network. Once executives were assured that only the internal
communications network had been hit and that not a drop of oil had been spilled,
they set to work replacing the hard drives of tens of thousands of its PCs and
tracking down the parties responsible, according to two people close to the
investigation but who were not authorized to speak publicly about it.

Aramco flew in roughly a dozen American computer security experts. By the time
those specialists arrived, they already had a good handle on the virus. Within
hours of the attack, researchers at Symantec, a Silicon Valley security company,
began analyzing a sample of the virus.

That virus -- called Shamoon after a word embedded in its code -- was designed
to do two things: replace the data on hard drives with an image of a burning
American flag and report the addresses of infected computers -- a bragging list
of sorts -- back to a computer inside the company's network.

Shamoon's code included a so-called kill switch, a timer set to attack at 11:08
a.m., the exact time that Aramco's computers were wiped of memory. Shamoon's
creators even gave the erasing mechanism a name: Wiper.

Computer security researchers noted that the same name, Wiper, had been given to
an erasing component of Flame, a computer virus that attacked Iranian oil
companies and came to light in May. Iranian oil ministry officials have claimed
that the Wiper software code forced them to cut Internet connections to their
oil ministry, oil rigs and the Kharg Island oil terminal, a conduit for 80
percent of Iran's oil exports.

It raised suspicions that the Aramco hacking was retaliation. The United States
fired one of the first shots in the computer war and has long maintained the
upper hand. The New York Times reported in June that the United States, together
with Israel, was responsible for Stuxnet, the computer virus used to destroy
centrifuges in an Iranian nuclear facility in 2010.

Last May, researchers discovered that Flame had been siphoning data from
computers, mainly in Iran, for several years. Security researchers believe Flame
and Stuxnet were written by different programmers, but commissioned by the same
two nations.

If American officials are correct that Shamoon was designed by Iran, then clues
in its code may have been intended to misdirect blame. Shamoon's programmers
inserted the word ''Arabian Gulf'' into its code. But Iranians refer to that
body of water as the Persian Gulf and are very protective of the name. (This
year, Iran threatened to sue Google for removing the name Persian Gulf from its
online maps.)

After analyzing the software code from the Aramco attack, security experts say
that the event involved a company insider, or insiders, with privileged access
to Aramco's network. The virus could have been carried on a USB memory stick
that was inserted into a PC.

Aramco's attackers posted blocks of I.P. addresses of thousands of Aramco PCs
online as proof of the attack. Researchers say that only an Aramco employee or
contractor with access to the company's internal network would have been able to
grab that list from a disconnected computer inside Aramco's network and put it
online.

Neither researchers nor officials have disclosed the names of the attackers
involved. Saudi Aramco said in a statement that it was inappropriate to comment
amid an investigation. The company further stated that it does not comment on
rumor or speculation.

American intelligence officials blame Iran for a similar, subsequent attack on
RasGas, the Qatari natural gas giant, two weeks after the Aramco attack. They
also believe Iran engineered computer attacks that intermittently took America's
largest banks offline in September, and last week disrupted the online banking
Web sites of Capital One and BB&T.

Multiple requests for comment from Iran's interests office in Washington and to
Iran's mission to the United Nations in New York brought no response.

The finger-pointing demonstrates the growing concern in the United States among
government officials and private industry that other countries have the
technology and skill to initiate attacks. ''The Iranians were faster in
developing an attack capability and bolder in using it than we had expected,''
said James A. Lewis, a former diplomat and cybersecurity expert at the Center
for Strategic and International Studies. ''Both sides are going through a dance
to figure out how much they want to turn this into a fight.''

More than two months after the Aramco attack, the company continues to deal with
the aftermath. Still, this month employees were not able to gain access to their
corporate e-mail and internal network for several days. Until the company's
executives decide its systems are secure, employees can no longer access
Aramco's internal network remotely.

The attack, intelligence officials say, was a wake-up call. ''It proved you
don't have to be sophisticated to do a lot of damage,'' said Richard A. Clarke,
the former counterterrorism official at the National Security Council. ''There
are lots of targets in the U.S. where they could do the same thing. The attacks
were intended to say: 'If you mess with us, you can expect retaliation.' ''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/24/business/global/cyberattack-on-saudi-oil-firm-
disquiets-us.html

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Saudi Aramco's Khurais plant. A cyberattack wiped out data on
three-quarters of Aramco's PCs, which Leon Panetta, secretary of defense, called
a ''significant escalation of the cyber threat.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           October 24, 2012 Wednesday

Daily Report: How Aramco Got Hacked

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 378 words



HIGHLIGHT: How hackers unleashed a computer virus that destroyed data on
three-quarters of the PCs of the oil giant Saudi Aramco. American officials
believe Iran was behind the attack.


On Aug. 15, more than 55,000 Saudi Aramco employees stayed home from work to
prepare for one of Islam's holiest nights of the year - Lailat al Qadr, or the
Night of Power - celebrating the revelation of the Koran to Muhammad.

That morning at 11:08, Nicole Perlroth reports in The New York Times, a person
with privileged access to the Saudi state-owned oil company's computers
unleashed a virus to initiate what is regarded as among the most destructive
acts of computer sabotage on a company. The virus erased data on three-quarters
of Aramco's corporate PCs - documents, spreadsheets, e-mail, files - replacing
all of it with an image of a burning American flag.

United States intelligence officials say the attack's real perpetrator was Iran,
although they offered no specific evidence to support that claim. But Defense
Secretary Leon E. Panetta, in a recent speech warning of the dangers of computer
attacks, cited the Aramco sabotage as "a significant escalation of the cyber
threat." In the Aramco case, hackers who called themselves the "Cutting Sword of
Justice" and claimed to be activists upset about Saudi policies in the Middle
East took responsibility.

But their online message and the burning flag were probably red herrings, say
independent computer researchers who have examined the code of the virus.

After analyzing the software code from the Aramco attack, security experts say
the event involved a company insider, or insiders, with privileged access to
Aramco's network. The virus could have been carried on a USB memory stick that
was inserted into a PC.

Aramco's attackers posted blocks of I.P. addresses of thousands of Aramco PCs
online as proof of the attack. Researchers say only an Aramco employee or
contractor with access to the company's internal network would have been able to
grab that list from a disconnected computer inside Aramco's network.

Neither researchers nor officials have disclosed the names of the attackers
involved. Saudi Aramco said in a statement that it was inappropriate to comment
during an investigation, adding that the company had a policy of not commenting
on rumor or speculation.


     ·    Connecting the Dots After Cyberattack on Saudi Aramco
     ·    Among Digital Crumbs from Saudi Aramco Cyberattack, Image of Burning
          U.S. Flag


LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 25, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spies and Co.

BYLINE: By EAMON JAVERS.

Eamon Javers is a Washington correspondent for CNBC and the author of ''Broker,
Trader, Lawyer, Spy: The Secret World of Corporate Espionage.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 894 words


Washington

SUDDENLY, Washington is extremely concerned about Chinese espionage.

Last month, the White House blocked a Chinese company from operating a wind farm
near a sensitive Navy base in Oregon. Next, the House Intelligence Committee
said two Chinese telecommunications firms were manufacturing equipment that
could be used to spy on the United States, and Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta
told business leaders that the country faced the risk of a ''cyber-Pearl
Harbor'' -- an attack that could come from terrorist groups or a country like
China. Finally, during Monday's presidential debate, Mitt Romney warned that the
Chinese were ''stealing our intellectual property, our patents, our designs, our
technology, hacking into our computers.''

There's no question that American companies today are under surveillance: I've
learned that the F.B.I. has obtained a video taken inside a hotel in China that
shows Chinese agents rifling through an American businessman's room, according
to two sources familiar with the tape, which the F.B.I. has been playing as a
warning for corporate security experts. But while the Chinese spying push is
aggressive, American companies have been tapped, bugged and spied on for more
than a hundred years. As often as not, the perpetrators have been other
Americans -- motivated not by patriotism for a foreign flag, but by simple
profit.

In Placerville, Calif., a stockbroker named D. C. Williams took advantage of the
latest high-tech telecommunications gear in an insider trading scam. The year
was 1864. Mr. Williams, claiming to be in the stagecoach business, rented a room
at a hotel called the Sportsman's Hall, where the State Telegraph Company had
offices. Sitting in his room, within earshot of the receiving equipment, Mr.
Williams simply decoded the messages about business deals as they clattered in.
When he tried to bribe the telegraph agent for exclusive access to news on an
important mining lawsuit, the agent turned him in, and Mr. Williams was
arrested.

Or take the case of John Broady, an audacious wiretapper who in the mid-1950s
set up an eavesdropping nest at an apartment in Midtown Manhattan. Working with
a source inside the phone company, he set up equipment capable of tapping and
simultaneously recording 10 phone lines in the area. Among Mr. Broady's clients
was the drug company Pfizer, which hired him to tap the phones of its own
employees and those of a competitor, Squibb.

Mr. Broady was ultimately undone by an anonymous tipster, most likely someone
inside his organization. Bizarrely, at his trial he claimed there was a
nefarious Chinese angle to his scam -- he said he'd used the equipment to spy on
a rogue Chinese Air Force general who'd stolen millions from his government. Mr.
Broady said that someone who wanted to stop the investigation had killed one of
his own agents in Mexico. ''I didn't want them to knock me off, like they did my
man,'' he said, breaking down in tears. ''I have a wife and kids.'' The jury
thought it was an act, and Mr. Broady received a two- to four-year prison
sentence.

Spying for profit continued in more recent times. In the late 1990s, the candy
companies Nestlé and Mars engaged in an epic corporate war that included a
confidential source nicknamed ''Deep Chocolate.'' Former government agents,
working through a subcontractor for Nestlé, snatched garbage bags from the Mars
headquarters, replacing them with dummy trash bags so the custodial staff
wouldn't catch on. Picking through coffee grounds and stale food, they found
shredded documents that they were able to painstakingly reconstruct into
readable corporate records.

In London in the fall of 2008, I met with Nick, a former British Special Forces
soldier who has gone into the private espionage business -- working for
companies around the world to dig up dirt on their competitors or their own
employees. Nick, who asked that I not use his last name, told me that they often
used a simple strategy: they hired subcontractors to rent space in a building
across the street from their competitor, and pointed laser microphones at
conference rooms across the way. Voices in the rooms made slight vibrations in
the windows, and Nick's microphones could translate those back into sound that
he could record.

Technology has changed the volume of information spies can purloin from
corporate files, as well as the types of attacks possible from a distance. But
the principle remains the same: spying is often easier than conducting one's own
research and development. This is certainly true from China's perspective.

What has people in Washington really worried is the idea that such passive theft
could turn into an active threat -- not just snooping, but knocking out
elevators or communications at a presidential event, or shutting down software
controlling water supplies, electrical grids and nuclear power plants.

But while we deal with this new generation of spies, we shouldn't forget the
lessons learned battling the old. The best way to fight technology is not always
with more technology -- it's with human beings. As Mr. Williams and Mr. Broady
learned, the most dangerous threat to a high-tech snoop is an inside source
who's willing to come forward and expose the scheme. Law enforcement officials
in the 19th and 20th centuries found ways to motivate those whistle-blowers. We
must do the same.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/25/opinion/corporate-espionage-american-style.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHNNY SELMAN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 26, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Leaders Of Military In China Announced

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Bree Feng contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 944 words


BEIJING -- China announced the promotions of five generals this week, shaping
the top leadership of the rapidly modernizing military as it becomes a more
dominant player in Asia and challenges American dominance in the region.

And on Friday, China's state news agency, Xinhua, announced that Parliament had
expelled the disgraced former politician Bo Xilai. The expulsion of Mr. Bo, who
has been accused by the government of corruption and failure to disclose the
murder by his wife of a British business executive, removes his immunity from
prosecution.

China's military is likely to remain well financed, even as the Chinese economy
slows, analysts say. The new leaders are expected to push ahead with developing
naval and air power that can rival the United States and with cyberwarfare
capabilities, which the Chinese see as a new and effective way to project power.

The new appointees will almost certainly become members of the Central Military
Commission, a 12-member body that oversees the Chinese military and that is
undergoing major changes as members reach mandatory retirement age.

The jockeying for vacant positions has by all accounts been fierce, with much of
it riding on personal allegiances to President Hu Jintao or Vice President Xi
Jinping. Mr. Xi is expected to succeed Mr. Hu as Communist Party leader at the
18th Party Congress, scheduled to open on Nov. 8, and as president next year.
The full slate of commission members will be unveiled at the Party Congress.

Mr. Hu is chairman of the commission, and one of the big questions hovering over
the Party Congress is whether he will yield this post to Mr. Xi, or hold onto it
for two more years.

Based on family connections and his own professional experience, Mr. Xi has
stronger ties to the military than Mr. Hu, and analysts say that in many
respects the military considers him one of their own. Whether that means Mr. Xi
will rein in the military or give it greater scope as China asserts what it
calls its territorial rights in the South China Sea and East China Sea over the
next decade will be one of the most important strategic questions facing the
country as it enters its new leadership phase, they say.

Among those promoted was Gen. Ma Xiaotian, a former fighter pilot who will
become head of the air force, a service that is now coming to the fore after
long being relegated to a back seat.

''General Ma is unusually outspoken,'' said Chas W. Freeman Jr., former
assistant secretary of defense, who has met with Chinese military figures. ''He
does not yield easily to those with whom he disagrees, though he is willing to
do so if an argument of sufficient logical force is presented. He is
self-confident enough to really enjoy the rough-and-tumble of policy argument.''

In May, General Ma told a TV station based in Hong Kong that the South China
Sea, where China is making increasing territorial claims, was ''none of the
United States' business.'' The Chinese Air Force is now ''seeking to create the
kind of air power that can rival the U.S., and to create similar stealth,
precision strike and long-range strike capabilities,'' said Anthony H.
Cordesman, the senior military analyst at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington. ''It is developing similar enablers in
terms of refueling, electronic warfare systems, airborne command and control,
and satellites.'' Earlier this year, General Ma accompanied China's defense
minister, Liang Guanglie, on a visit to Washington.

Gen. Zhang Youxia, who has publicly criticized the military for its lack of
combat experience, was promoted to be director of the General Armament
Department, which oversees procurement and research.

General Zhang, one of the few senior commanders who does have battlefield
experience, is said by Chinese military scholars to have been wounded during
China's 1979 conflict with Vietnam. In 2009, he was quoted in People's Daily,
the Communist Party mouthpiece, as saying: ''The fires of war are burning
throughout the world. In this area, the gap between the Chinese military and
foreign militaries is growing by the day. This is a real problem.'' Before his
promotion, he was commander of the Shenyang Military Region.

The commander of the Beijing Military Region, Gen. Fang Fenghui, was promoted on
Thursday to chief of the general staff, the Defense Ministry said. The former
political commissar of the Guangzhou Military Region, Zhang Yang, was named
director of the political department, and the former commander of the Nanjing
Military Region, Gen. Zhao Keshi, was promoted to lead the logistics department.

The new commission will almost certainly be overseeing China's development of
cyberwarfare, an area that China views as particularly advantageous, and
relatively inexpensive, said Kevin Pollpeter, China Project Manager for Defense
Group Inc., a firm based in Washington that specializes in China's national
security issues. ''Cyber allows China projection ability it can't get with other
weapons,'' Mr. Pollpeter said at a recent conference in Washington on China's
military.

So far, the Defense Ministry has not announced who will command the
all-important Second Artillery Corps, home to the land-based ballistic and
cruise missile units opposite Taiwan. Also yet to be announced is the new
commander of the navy, another rapidly expanding branch of the military. The
commanders of the Second Artillery Corps and the navy sit on the Central
Military Commission.

Two other posts -- the commission's vice chairmen -- also remain to be
announced. These positions are filled by senior generals who run the day-to-day
operations of the military under the civilian party leadership.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/26/world/asia/china-names-new-military-leaders-as
-transition-nears.html

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 28, 2012 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Best Sellers: Manga: Sunday, October 28th 2012

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 398 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the October 28, 2012
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending October
13, 2012. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Manga
This    On
Week  List
1        2 BLEACH, VOL. 48,  by Tite Kubo. (VIZ Media, $9.99.) Ichigo
           Kurosaki sees dead people and must help usher them safely into
           the afterlife. In this volume, Ichigo undergoes more training.
2        6 BLEACH, VOL. 36,  by Tite Kubo. (VIZ Media, $9.99.) Ichigo
           Kurosaki sees dead people and must help usher them safely into
           the afterlife. In this volume, a look at how "soul catching"
           was done 100 years ago.
3        2 YU-GI-OH! 5D'S, VOL. 3 (YU-GI-OH!,  by Masahiro Hikokubo. (VIZ
           Media, $9.99.) From the publisher: "Yusei has made it into the
           second round of the D1 Grand Prix."
4        2 BAKUMAN, VOL. 15,  by Tsugumi Ohba. (VIZ Media, $9.99.) This
           series is about grade-school boys who want to become
           professionals in the manga industry.
5        2 POKEMON ADVENTURES: DIAMOND AND PEARL/PLATINUM, VOL. 6,  by
           Hidenori Kusaka. (VIZ Media, $7.99.) This Pokemon adventure
           starts out with a case of mistaken identity.
6        3 FAIRY TAIL 21,  by Hiro Mashima. (Kodansha Comics, $10.99.) The
           Fairy Tail are a group of powerful wizards.
7        1 LOVELESS VOL. 1, 2-IN-1,  by Yun Kouga. (VIZ Media, $14.99.)
           From the publisher: "Soubi leads Ritsuka through a maze of new
           experiences, from battles wrought in wordplay to making friends
           at school. But is he any less alone with the secretive Soubi
           than by himself?"
8        1 SKIP BEAT!, VOL. 29,  by Yoshiki Nakamura. (VIZ Media, $9.99.)
           Fame, romance and broken hearts.
9        2 DANCE IN THE VAMPIRE BUND, VOL. 13,  by Nozomu Tamaki. (Seven
           Seas Entertainment, $11.99.) Princess Mina has set up a haven,
           off the coast of Japan, for her vampire people, but danger
           lurks in the form of Lord Ivanovic who wants Mina as his
           vampire bride.
10       1 THE GHOST IN THE SHELL, VOL. 1.5,  by Masamune Shirow.
           (Kodansha Comics, $17.99.) In this future world, the line
           between man and machine has thinned and the agents of Section 9
           fight cyber crimes. In this volume are stories never reprinted
           in America.

URL:

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 30, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Killing the Computer to Save It

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; PROFILES IN SCIENCE PETER G.
NEUMANN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2205 words


MENLO PARK, Calif. -- Many people cite Albert Einstein's aphorism ''Everything
should be made as simple as possible, but no simpler.'' Only a handful, however,
have had the opportunity to discuss the concept with the physicist over
breakfast.

One of those is Peter G. Neumann, now an 80-year-old computer scientist at SRI
International, a pioneering engineering research laboratory here.

As an applied-mathematics student at Harvard, Dr. Neumann had a two-hour
breakfast with Einstein on Nov. 8, 1952. What the young math student took away
was a deeply held philosophy of design that has remained with him for six
decades and has been his governing principle of computing and computer security.

For many of those years, Dr. Neumann (pronounced NOY-man) has remained a voice
in the wilderness, tirelessly pointing out that the computer industry has a
penchant for repeating the mistakes of the past. He has long been one of the
nation's leading specialists in computer security, and early on he predicted
that the security flaws that have accompanied the pell-mell explosion of the
computer and Internet industries would have disastrous consequences.

''His biggest contribution is to stress the 'systems' nature of the security and
reliability problems,'' said Steven M. Bellovin, chief technology officer of the
Federal Trade Commission. ''That is, trouble occurs not because of one failure,
but because of the way many different pieces interact.''

Dr. Bellovin said that it was Dr. Neumann who originally gave him the insight
that ''complex systems break in complex ways'' -- that the increasing complexity
of modern hardware and software has made it virtually impossible to identify the
flaws and vulnerabilities in computer systems and ensure that they are secure
and trustworthy.

The consequence has come to pass in the form of an epidemic of computer malware
and rising concerns about cyberwarfare as a threat to global security, voiced
alarmingly this month by the defense secretary, Leon E. Panetta, who warned of a
possible ''cyber-Pearl Harbor'' attack on the United States.

It is remarkable, then, that years after most of his contemporaries have
retired, Dr. Neumann is still at it and has seized the opportunity to start over
and redesign computers and software from a ''clean slate.''

He is leading a team of researchers in an effort to completely rethink how to
make computers and networks secure, in a five-year project financed by the
Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or Darpa, with Robert N.
Watson, a computer security researcher at Cambridge University's Computer
Laboratory.

''I've been tilting at the same windmills for basically 40 years,'' said Dr.
Neumann recently during a lunchtime interview at a Chinese restaurant near his
art-filled home in Palo Alto, Calif. ''And I get the impression that most of the
folks who are responsible don't want to hear about complexity. They are
interested in quick and dirty solutions.''

An Early Voice for Security

Dr. Neumann, who left Bell Labs and moved to California as a single father with
three young children in 1970, has occupied the same office at SRI for four
decades. Until the building was recently modified to make it
earthquake-resistant, the office had attained notoriety for the towering stacks
of computer science literature that filled every cranny. Legend has it that
colleagues who visited the office after the 1989 earthquake were stunned to
discover that while other offices were in disarray from the 7.1-magnitude quake,
nothing in Dr. Neumann's office appeared to have been disturbed.

A trim and agile man, with piercing eyes and a salt-and-pepper beard, Dr.
Neumann has practiced tai chi for decades. But his passion, besides computer
security, is music. He plays a variety of instruments, including bassoon, French
horn, trombone and piano, and is active in a variety of musical groups. At
computer security conferences it has become a tradition for Dr. Neumann to lead
his colleagues in song, playing tunes from Gilbert and Sullivan and Tom Lehrer.

Until recently, security was a backwater in the world of computing. Today it is
a multibillion-dollar industry, though one of dubious competence, and
safeguarding the nation's computerized critical infrastructure has taken on
added urgency. President Obama cited it in the third debate of the presidential
campaign, focusing on foreign policy, as something ''we need to be thinking
about'' as part of the nation's military strategy.

Dr. Neumann reasons that the only workable and complete solution to the computer
security crisis is to study the past half century's research, cherry-pick the
best ideas and then build something new from the bottom up.

Richard A. Clarke, the nation's former counterterrorism czar and an author of ''
Cyber War: The Next Threat to National Security and What to Do About It''
(Ecco/HarperCollins, 2010), agrees that Dr. Neumann's Clean Slate effort, as it
is called, is essential.

''Fundamentally all of the stuff we're doing to secure networks today is putting
bandages on and putting our fingers in the dike, and the dike springs a leak
somewhere else,'' Mr. Clarke said.

''We have not fundamentally redesigned our networks for 45 years,'' he said.
''Sure, it would cost an enormous amount to rearchitect, but let's start it and
see if it works better and let the marketplace decide.''

Dr. Neumann is one of the most qualified people to lead such an effort to
rethink security. He has been there for the entire trajectory of modern
computing -- even before its earliest days. He took his first computing job in
the summer of 1953, when he was hired to work as a programmer employing an
I.B.M. card-punched calculator.

Today the SRI-Cambridge collaboration is one of several dozen research projects
financed by Darpa's Information Innovation Office as part of a ''cyber
resilience'' effort started in 2010.

Run by Dr. Howard Shrobe, an M.I.T. computer scientist who is now a Darpa
program manager, the effort began with a premise: If the computer industry got a
do-over, what should it do differently?

The program includes two separate but related efforts: Crash, for Clean-Slate
Design of Resilient Adaptive Secure Hosts; and MRC, for Mission-Oriented
Resilient Clouds. The idea is to reconsider computing entirely, from the silicon
wafers on which circuits are etched to the application programs run by users, as
well as services that are placing more private and personal data in remote data
centers.

Clean Slate is financing research to explore how to design computer systems that
are less vulnerable to computer intruders and recover more readily once security
is breached.

Dr. Shrobe argues that because the industry is now in a fundamental transition
from desktop to mobile systems, it is a good time to completely rethink
computing. But among the biggest challenges is the monoculture of the computer
''ecosystem'' of desktop, servers and networks, he said.

''Nature abhors monocultures, and that's exactly what we have in the computer
world today,'' said Dr. Shrobe. ''Eighty percent are running the same operating
system.''

Lessons From Biology

To combat uniformity in software, designers are now pursuing a variety of
approaches that make computer system resources moving targets. Already some
computer operating systems scramble internal addresses much the way a magician
might perform the trick of hiding a pea in a shell. The Clean Slate project is
taking that idea further, essentially creating software that constantly
shape-shifts to elude would-be attackers.

That the Internet enables almost any computer in the world to connect directly
to any other makes it possible for an attacker who identifies a single
vulnerability to almost instantly compromise a vast number of systems.

But borrowing from another science, Dr. Neumann notes that biological systems
have multiple immune systems -- not only are there initial barriers, but a
second system consisting of sentinels like T cells has the ability to detect and
eliminate intruders and then remember them to provide protection in the future.

In contrast, today's computer and network systems were largely designed with
security as an afterthought, if at all.

One design approach that Dr. Neumann's research team is pursuing is known as a
tagged architecture. In effect, each piece of data in the experimental system
must carry ''credentials'' -- an encryption code that ensures that it is one
that the system trusts. If the data or program's papers are not in order, the
computer won't process them.

A related approach is called a capability architecture, which requires every
software object in the system to carry special information that describes its
access rights on the computer, which is checked by a special part of the
processor.

For Dr. Neumann, one of the most frustrating parts of the process is seeing
problems that were solved technically as long ago as four decades still plague
the computer world.

A classic example is ''buffer overflow'' vulnerability, a design flaw that
permits an attacker to send a file with a long string of characters that will
overrun an area of a computer's memory, causing the program to fail and make it
possible for the intruder to execute a malicious program.

Almost 25 years ago, Robert Tappan Morris, then a graduate student at Cornell
University, used the technique to make his worm program spread throughout an
Internet that was then composed of about only 50,000 computers.

Dr. Neumann had attended Harvard with Robert Morris, Robert Tappan Morris's
father, and then worked with him at Bell Laboratories in the 1960s and 1970s,
where the elder Mr. Morris was one of the inventors of the Unix operating
system. Dr. Neumann, a close family friend, was prepared to testify at the trial
of the young programmer, who carried out his hacking stunt with no real
malicious intent. He was convicted and fined, and is now a professor at M.I.T.

At the time that the Morris Worm had run amok on the Internet, the buffer
overflow flaw had already been known about and controlled in the Multics
operating system research project, which Dr. Neumann helped lead from 1965 to
1969.

An early Pentagon-financed design effort, Multics was the first systematic
attempt to grapple with how to secure computer resources that are shared by many
users. Yet many of the Multics innovations were ignored at the time because
I.B.M. mainframes were quickly coming to dominate the industry.

Hope and Worry

The experience left Dr. Neumann -- who had coined the term ''Unics'' to describe
a programming effort by Ken Thompson that would lead to the modern Unix
operating system -- simultaneously pessimistic and optimistic about the
industry's future.

''I'm fundamentally an optimist with regard to what we can do with research,''
he said. ''I'm fundamentally a pessimist with respect to what corporations who
are fundamentally beholden to their stockholders do, because they're always
working on short-term appearance.''

That dichotomy can be seen in the Association for Computing Machinery Risks
Forum newsgroup, a collection of e-mails reporting computer failures and foibles
that Dr. Neumann has edited since 1985. With hundreds of thousands, and possibly
millions, of followers, it is one of the most widely read mailing lists on the
Internet -- an evolving compendium of computer failures, flaws and privacy
issues that he has maintained and annotated with wry comments and the occasional
pun. In 1995 the list became the basis for his book ''Computer-Related Risks''
(Addison-Wesley/ACM Press).

While the Risks list is a reflection of Dr. Neumann's personality, it also
displays his longtime interest in electronic privacy. He is deeply involved in
the technology issues surrounding electronic voting -- he likes to quote Stalin
on the risks:, ''It's not who votes that counts, it's who counts the votes'' --
and has testified, served on panels and written widely on the subject.

Dr. Neumann grew up in New York City, in Greenwich Village, but his family moved
to Rye, N.Y., where he attended high school. J. B. Neumann, Dr. Neumann's
father, was a noted art dealer, first in Germany and then in New York, where he
opened the New Art Circle gallery after moving to the United States in 1923. Dr.
Neumann recalls his father's tale of eating in a restaurant in Munich, where he
had a gallery, and finding that he was seated next to Hitler and some of his
Nazi associates. He left the country for the United States soon afterward.

His mother, Elsa Schmid Neumann, was an artist. His two-hour breakfast with
Einstein took place because she had been commissioned to create a colorful
mosaic of Einstein and had become friendly with him. The mosaic is now displayed
in a reference reading room in the main library at Boston University.

Dr. Neumann's college conversation was the start of a lifelong romance with both
the beauty and the perils of complexity, something that Einstein hinted at
during their breakfast.

''What do you think of Johannes Brahms?'' Dr. Neumann asked the physicist.

''I have never understood Brahms,'' Einstein replied. ''I believe Brahms was
burning the midnight oil trying to be complicated.''

Profiles in Science: This is the 12th article in a series about leaders in
science.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/30/science/rethinking-the-computer-at-80.html

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1)
 CONCEPT: Peter G. Neumann, about 12 years ago, at SRI International in Menlo
Park, Calif., where he's still at work. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM SUGAR) (D4)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 4, 2012 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

How to Earn Your Cyber Stripes

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg.

LENGTH: 164 words


A number of institutions are developing badge systems to recognize specific
skills.

1. Conquer quest-based challenges in subjects like marine biology, coral reef
ecology and cartography. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
plans 15 badges; a pilot program with high school teachers begins in the spring.

2. Build robotic hands or do work in movement, mechatronics, programming or
competitions for the badges 4-H hopes to start issuing in March.

3. Enter or judge an Intel science fair. Badges, being developed by the Society
for Science and the Public, will be ready for the 2013 International Science and
Engineering Fair and the Intel Science Talent Search.

4. Complete a five-week course in the fundamentals of atomic force microscopy
offered by Purdue University's nanoHUB-U.

5. Rescue an astronaut in peril using 11th-grade physics, one of the missions on
Starlite, an MMO (massively multiplayer online game) under development by
Project Whitecard in conjunction with NASA.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/04/education/edlife/how-to-earn-your-cyber
-stripes.html

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 4, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Show Me Your Badge

BYLINE: By KEVIN CAREY.

Kevin Carey is director of the education policy program at the New America
Foundation.

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1684 words


AT the end of ''Fundamentals of Atomic Force Microscopy,'' a short online course
offered by Purdue University, students who score at least 60 percent on the
final exam will receive an e-mail with a file attached. It will contain a
picture of a blue-and-white circle, roughly one inch in diameter, embossed with
the stylized image of an atomic force microscope bouncing a laser beam off a
cantilever into a photodiode, which is how scientists take photographs and
measure the size of very small (nanoscale) things.

The picture is a digital badge, a new type of credential being developed by some
of the most prominent businesses and learning organizations in the world,
including Purdue, Carnegie Mellon, the University of California, the
Smithsonian, Intel and Disney-Pixar. The badge movement is being spearheaded by
the Mozilla Foundation, best known for inventing the free Firefox Web browser,
the choice of nearly one-quarter of all Internet users worldwide.

While they may appear to be just images, digital badges are actually portals
that lead to large amounts of information about what their bearers know and can
do. They are also being used to improve education itself, by borrowing
techniques from video games that keep users playing, until they advance to the
next level.

Badges are gaining currency at the same time that a growing number of elite
universities have begun offering free or low-cost, noncredit courses to anyone
with access to the Internet and a desire to learn. Millions of students have
already signed up for massive open online courses, or MOOCs. By developing
information-age credentials backed by a wide array of organizations outside the
education system, creators of badge programs may be mounting the first serious
competition to traditional degrees since college-going became the norm.

One of the most important functions of college degrees is signaling knowledge
and skill to potential employers. Yet degrees and certificates often do a poor
job of communicating detailed information about graduates. Grade inflation has
steadily obscured the meaning of G.P.A.'s, and there's no easy way to know what
someone who got, for example, an A-minus in Econ 206 actually learned. A badge,
on the other hand, is supposed to indicate specific knowledge and skills.

Stack Overflow, an Internet forum with 1.4 million registered users, awards
members ''reputation'' points and a variety of badges based on answers to
questions posed by fellow computer programmers. Some members devote hundreds of
hours to writing and editing posts that are judged by the Stack Overflow
community to display high levels of expertise. Tomasz Nurkiewicz, an Oslo
software engineer and one of only 88 users to earn a ''Legendary'' Stack
Overflow badge, writes, ''I received numerous job offers from people who either
saw my profile with reputation and all the badges, or were particularly
impressed by one of my answers.''

Carnegie Mellon has developed online courses in robotics and computer science in
which students are awarded badges as they reach learning milestones -- one for
teaching robots to move and another for manipulating robot motion sensors --
ultimately leading to a final badge certifying their overall robot programming
skills. It's similar to the process used in video games. Players accumulate
enough points to achieve higher levels and thus the opportunity to undertake
new, more challenging quests.

Anyone who has ever seen a teenager glued to a screen for hours playing World of
Warcraft can attest to the powerful lure of digital rewards. The buzzword is
''gamification'' -- the use of gaming elements like points, levels and badges to
engage with a product or service. Carnegie Mellon researchers are finding that
integrating badges into courses motivates students to keep learning.
Gamification is even spreading to bricks-and-mortar classes. Some Purdue
professors are awarding badges for reaching benchmarks in regular credit-bearing
courses, including one in health care communications and another in curriculum
and instruction.

Long before gamers began displaying their badges online to demonstrate prowess,
Girl Scouts were sewing theirs on sashes for everyone to see. So it's not
surprising that they are among winners of a competition last year held by
Mozilla, with $2 million from the MacArthur Foundation, to recognize the best
digital badge systems. In their program, Girl Scouts who learn to build apps for
the Android operating system earn badges they can display and share on their
mobile phones.

All of this points toward a world where nontraditional credentials become more
valuable. Instead of taking Advanced Placement tests, high school students can
jump directly into online courses like those offered at Purdue and Carnegie
Mellon and present their badges on college applications. The National
Association of Manufacturers is developing a system of digital badges in the
fields of industrial motor control, robotics and welding -- the kinds of jobs
that, even in a time of high unemployment, can be hard to fill. Over the next
year, Mozilla will be working with the National Human Resources Association and
other organizations to help employers better understand how to use badges.

Over the next year, Mozilla will be working with the National Human Resources
Association and other organizations to help employers better understand how to
use badges.

Of course, the more valuable something becomes, the more vulnerable it is to
fraud. The badge system is designed to be ''open.'' Anyone can create a badge.
How will employers know which to trust?

Colleges and universities have a great deal of built-in credibility and are
regulated by accrediting organizations. Heavyweight badge creators like the
Smithsonian and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration will bring
their own credibility to the table. Everyone else (Mozilla contest winners
include 4H, local youth mentoring groups, and the Minnesota Historical Society)
will rely on one of the principal design features of digital badges: metadata,
or information about information.

Just as photographs taken by GPS-enabled smartphones have latitude and longitude
coordinates embedded within them, digital badges contain information about where
they came from. The metadata within Carnegie Mellon's ''Cortex Principles of
Advanced Programming, Level 2'' badge, for example, provides the date the badge
was issued, the name, title and organizational affiliation of the teacher who
verified the badge, the score the student received on the final exam, and a link
to exam questions.

Anyone can click on Tomasz Nurkiewicz's Stack Overflow badge to examine the
answers he wrote to earn it. With metadata, badges are instantly accessible
portals to evidence of a person's accomplishments, like internship experiences
and portfolios of work. Imagine organizing your credentials into ''groups''
representing a larger body of skill, much as a sequence of college courses adds
up to a major. Except these come from many different sources, not just from
formal institutions. (Mozilla has created a site where badges earned in
different places can be organized and stored.) In this way, badges may be not
just an alternative to traditional résumés and transcripts but an improvement on
them.

It's no coincidence that Mozilla is leading the badge movement. The organization
was born from the wreckage of Netscape, whose multibillion-dollar I.P.O. touched
off the 1990s dot-com boom before the company ultimately lost the ''browser
wars'' to Microsoft's Internet Explorer. A group of Netscape programmers didn't
like the idea of Web access being dominated by a browser owned by a gigantic
profit-seeking company. So they spun off the nonprofit Mozilla Foundation, which
built a lighter, faster browser -- Firefox -- and gave it away. Explorer's
market position has since badly eroded.

Mozilla sees the digital badge effort in similar terms. Erin Knight, its senior
director of learning, says that ''the browser was the first example where there
was a monopoly and we decided to provide an open-source alternative.'' A system
whereby only accredited colleges can offer valuable degrees, she says, is a
''shared monopoly across education, where you have to go down a very prescribed
path to get learning that quote-unquote counts. We want to open that up.''

If digital badges infiltrate the credential market, they could shake the
economic foundations of a higher education industry that over the last 30 years
has consistently increased prices much higher than inflation and family income,
resulting in over $1 trillion in outstanding student loan debt. Colleges have
gotten away with this in large part because the gap in earnings between people
with and without degrees significantly widened during that time. Degree holders
were less likely to lose their jobs during the recent recession, and the number
of jobs requiring degrees grew faster during the recovery. Degrees are valuable,
and only colleges can sell them. So students and parents pay and, increasingly,
borrow, because they feel they have no choice.

Alternative credentials with value in the labor market could change that
equation. Purdue charges in-state students about $1,050 for a three-credit
course. A digital badge earned through its nanoHUB-U subsidiary, which offers
the microscopy and other nanotech courses, costs $30.

Mozilla is talking to providers of MOOCs, some of which offer certificates with
metadata, about adopting its badge design. For now, the credentials are worth
less than traditional credits, at least while employers learn how to use them.
But at 100th the price -- or nothing at all -- badges are still a fantastic
bargain. Elite research universities can provide low-cost courses and badges
without threatening their own business models, which rely heavily on research
financing and a selective, intensive residential experience for undergraduates.
Other colleges may struggle to justify ever-rising tuition.

A flourishing of digital badges could change the way people think about how much
credentials should cost, and what they can be.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/04/education/edlife/show-me-your-badge.html

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HOW TO EARN CYBER STRIPES: 1. Conquer quest-based challenges in
subjects like marine biology, coral reef ecology and cartography. The National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration plans 15 badges
a pilot program with high school teachers begins in the spring. 2. Build robotic
hands or do work in movement, mechatronics, programming or competitions for the
badges 4-H hopes to start issuing in March. 3. Enter or judge an Intel science
fair. Badges, being developed by the Society for Science and the Public, will be
ready for the 2013 International Science and Engineering Fair and Intel Science
Talent Search. 4. Complete a five-week course in the fundamentals of atomic
force microscopy offered by Purdue University's nanoHUB-U. 5. Rescue an
astronaut in peril using 11th-grade physics, one of the missions on Starlite, an
MMO (massively multiplayer online game) under development by Project Whitecard
with NASA. (ED28
 ED29)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 4, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hit Men, Lovers, Other Dangers

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

SECTION: Section MT; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 3092 words


All dates are subject to change.

NOVEMBER

Opened

THE BAY The veteran director Barry Levinson (''Rain Man'') tries his hand at the
''found footage'' style, with an ecological thriller from the producers of the
''Paranormal Activity'' series. With Nansi Aluka, Christopher Denham, Stephen
Kunken, Frank Deal, Kether Donohue and Kristen Connolly.

BONES BRIGADE: AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY From the skateboarder turned documentary
filmmaker Stacy Peralta (''Dogtown and Z-Boys''), the story of how he assembled
a remarkable team of skateboarders called the Bones Brigade in the early '80s.

THE DETAILS Jacob Aaron Estes's film is an existential horror story about a
suburban couple (Tobey Maguire and Elizabeth Banks) whose decision to tidy up
their backyard leads to grotesque complications. With Laura Linney.

FESTIVAL OF LIGHTS In the New York City of the 1980s, a teenager tries to
negotiate a difficult relationship with her mother while yearning for the
Guyanese father she has not seen in 13 years. With Melinda Shankar, Aidan Quinn,
Ritu Singh Pande and Jimi Mistry; Shundell Prasad wrote and directed.

FLIGHT ''Flight'' (Nov. 2) represents Robert Zemeckis's return to live-action
filmmaking after eight years of experimentation with motion capture technology,
beginning with ''The Polar Express'' in 2004. What he's gained from that
experience is a thorough understanding of how the new digital techniques can be
used to enhance a classical style, rather than displace the art and science of
framing, lighting and editing with the pixelated sludge so common in
contemporary Hollywood films.

Denzel Washington stars as an airline pilot who becomes a national hero when he
lands a damaged plane with minimal casualties; subsequent investigation
threatens to reveal the secret he's long managed to hide -- that he's a
high-functioning drug and alcohol abuser. Like many of Mr. Zemeckis's films it's
the story of an emotionally isolated individual who finds his way back to
society, this time with the help of another addict (the British actress Kelly
Reilly) and the hindrance of a group of friends and business associates who
don't always have his best interests in mind, played by John Goodman, Don
Cheadle and Bruce Greenwood. Made on a small budget and a tight schedule, the
film is an intimate drama with room for two heart-stopping suspense sequences --
one involving the aircraft, the other a considerably more humble device: a hotel
room refrigerator. With Melissa Leo and Nadine Velazquez.

GIRL WALK// ALL DAY Jacob Krupnick's ''feature-length music video'' features
Anne Marsen as a woman who literally dances her way through New York City,
inspiring others to join in.

HERE I LEARNED TO LOVE Two brothers, Holocaust survivors now living in Israel,
go on a journey to investigate their past and pay tribute to the women who
protected them. Avi Angel directed.

HIGH GROUND Michael Brown's documentary follows a group of Iraq and Afghanistan
war veterans as they climb Mount Lobuche in the Himalayas -- their way of
healing the wounds of combat.

JACK AND DIANE The romantic relationship of two teenage girls (Juno Temple and
Riley Keough) unleashes seemingly supernatural forces. With Cara Seymour and
Kylie Minogue; Bradley Rust Gray directed.

A LATE QUARTET The members of a classical string ensemble -- Christopher Walken,
Mark Ivanir, Philip Seymour Hoffman and Catherine Keener -- struggle to keep
their professional alliance intact despite illness and interpersonal tensions.
Yaron Zilberman directed.

A LIAR'S AUTOBIOGRAPHY: THE UNTRUE STORY OF MONTY PYTHON'S GRAHAM CHAPMAN An
animated adaptation of Chapman's autobiography, relating the events leading up
to his death in 1989. With the voices of Chapman, Terry Jones, John Cleese,
Michael Palin and Terry Gilliam.

LUV SHUV TEY CHICKEN KHURANA On the run from a London gangster, an unsuccessful
immigrant returns to the Punjabi village where he was born, where he hopes to
cajole his infirm grandfather into recalling the chicken recipe that once made
their family restaurant famous. Sameer Sharma wrote and directed; with Kunal
Kappor and Huma Qureshi.

THE MAN WITH THE IRON FISTS RZA, of the Wu-Tang Clan, directs and stars in a
tribute to Hong Kong action films. With Russell Crowe, Lucy Liu, Rick Yune and
Pam Grier.

A MAN'S STORY Twelve years in the life of the British fashion designer Ozwald
Boateng, captured in a documentary by Varon Bonicos.

NORTH SEA TEXAS A 14-year-old boy falls in love with his 17-year-old neighbor in
a gay coming-of-age story from Belgium, directed by Bavo Defurne.

THE UNDERSTUDY A perennial understudy (Marin Ireland) gets her shot at Broadway
stardom when she decides to eliminate the competition -- literally. With Kelli
Giddish, Richard Kind, Reiko Aylesworth, Gloria Reuben, Aasif Mandvi, Paul
Sparks and Tom Wopat. David Connolly and Hannah Davis directed.

THIS MUST BE THE PLACE Sean Penn as a retired rock star who hasn't abandoned his
goth look at the age of 50; when his estranged father dies, he sets out to honor
his memory by tracking down the former S.S. officer who humiliated him in
Auschwitz. Paolo Sorrentino (''Il Divo'') directed; with Frances McDormand, Judd
Hirsch, Harry Dean Stanton and Heinz Lieven.

VAMPS The director Amy Heckerling reunites with Alicia Silverstone 17 years
after they worked together in ''Clueless'' for a tale of vampire gal pals (Ms.
Silverstone and Krysten Ritter) who consider abandoning immortality for true
love. With Sigourney Weaver, Wallace Shawn, Kristen Johnston and Malcolm
McDowell.

WRECK-IT RALPH John C. Reilly provides the voice of the title character, a
villain in an old-school video game, who breaks into the world of a modern
first-person shooter, with disastrous consequences. Rich Moore directed this
animated film from Walt Disney Studios; with the voices of Alan Tudyk, Jane
Lynch, Rachael Harris, Ed O'Neill and Sarah Silverman.

Nov. 9

BURN Directed by directed by Tom Putnam and Brenna Sanchez, this documentary
looks at the heroic efforts of Detroit firefighters to safeguard a city already
in grave economic peril.

CAFÉ DE FLORE A love story across time and place, involving a young mother in
1960s Paris and a D.J. in contemporary Montreal. Jean-Marc Vallée directed this
French-language feature; with Vanessa Paradis, Kevin Parent, Hélène Florent and
Evelyne Brochu.

CHASING ICE A documentary about the photographer James Balog, whose time-lapse
videos of Arctic ice formations provide graphic evidence of global warming. Jeff
Orlowski directed.

CITADEL A traumatized single father must confront a gang apparently intent on
kidnapping his daughter in an Irish thriller directed by Ciaran Foy. With
Aneurin Barnard and James Cosmo.

COMING UP ROSES A self-dramatizing woman (Bernadette Peters) and her teenage
daughter (Rachel Brosnahan) move from small town to small town in search of a
better life. Lisa Albright directed.

DANGEROUS LIAISONS At least the fifth adaptation of the 18th-century novel by
Pierre Choderlos de Laclos, this one has the distinction of being filmed in
China and set in the Shanghai of the 1930s. With Zhang Ziyi and Cecilia Cheung;
Hur Jin-ho directed.

IN ANOTHER COUNTRY Isabelle Huppert stars in Hong Sang-soo's film about tourists
at a Korean seaside resort.

LINCOLN Daniel Day-Lewis stars as the well-known president in a drama set during
the last four months of his life. With Sally Field, David Strathairn, Joseph
Gordon-Levitt, James Spader, Hal Holbrook and Tommy Lee Jones; Steven Spielberg
directed from a screenplay by Tony Kushner.

LUNCH A group of sports and showbiz types have been gathering every other
Wednesday for lunch at the Valley Inn in Sherman Oaks, Calif. -- a phenomenon
observed in a documentary by Donna Kanter, whose father, Hal Kanter, a longtime
writer for Bob Hope and others, is one of the gang.

NATURE CALLS Patton Oswalt as an assistant scoutmaster who drags a bunch of kids
away from a television-themed slumber party for a real adventure in the woods.
With Johnny Knoxville, Rob Riggle, Maura Tierney, Patrice O'Neal and Darrell
Hammond; Todd Rohal directed.

THE RETURN OF LENCHO Returning to his native Guatemala after 10 years in New
York, a young artist (Mario Lanz) runs afoul of the repressive national police
when he tries to organize an arts festival in a small village. Mario Rosales
wrote and directed.

A ROYAL AFFAIR The mentally unstable king Christian VII of Denmark, his new
English bride and his closest adviser are drawn into a love triangle in a period
drama directed by Nikolaj Arcel. With Mads Mikkelsen, Alicia Vikander and Mikkel
Boe Folsgaard.

SHADY LADY The stranger-than-fiction story of a World War II bomber, the Shady
Lady, that took off on a mission on Friday, Aug. 13, 1943, from a base in
Australia and encountered a series of unimaginable disasters. Tristan Loraine
directed this British documentary.

SKYFALL James Bond No. 23, as directed by Sam Mendes. With Daniel Craig, Ralph
Fiennes, Helen McCrory, Javier Bardem, Judi Dench and Albert Finney.

STARLET In the San Fernando Valley, a lonely 21-year-old woman (Dree Hemingway)
attempts to befriend an isolated 85-year-old (Besedka Johnson).

WHEN A WOLF FALLS IN LOVE WITH A SHEEP From Taiwan, a comedy about a copy shop
employee whose life is transformed when he discovers a drawing of a sheep on the
back of a sheet of paper. Hou Chi-Jan directed.

Nov. 13

JAB TAK HAI JAAN The veteran Indian filmmaker Yash Chopra presents what he says
will be his last work as a director, a romance set in London and starring
Shahrukh Khan and Katrina Kaif.

Nov. 14

THE LAW IN THESE PARTS Ra'anan Alexandrowicz's documentary is a pointed
examination of the legal system set in place by Israel for the West Bank and the
Gaza Strip.

Nov. 15

BARRYMORE Christopher Plummer recreates his Tony Award-winning performance as
John Barrymore in this adaptation of the Broadway play by William Luce, set near
the end of the actor's troubled life. Érik Canuel directed.

A MAN VANISHES The belated United States theatrical premiere of a 1967
documentary by one of Japan's most important directors, Shohei Imamura -- a
portrait of a seemingly unexceptional office worker who was one of the 91,000
Japanese citizens who disappeared that year.

Nov. 16

ANNA KARENINA Joe Wright (''Atonement'') directs Tom Stoppard's adaptation of
Tolstoy's novel, with Keira Knightley in the title role and Aaron Taylor-Johnson
as her lover, Count Vronsky. With Kelly Macdonald, Jude Law, Emily Watson and
Olivia Williams.

THE COMEDY Relieved of financial worries because of an impending inheritance, a
Brooklyn man (Tim Heidecker) passes his time contriving elaborate,
boundary-pushing games with his friends (including Eric Wareheim, Mr.
Heidecker's co-star in the series ''Tim and Eric Awesome Show, Great Job!'').
Rick Alverson directed.

FIRST WINTER All goes well for a group of young urban idealists spending their
first winter living the new age dream in a remote farmhouse, until a massive
power outage forces them to fall back on their own resources. Benjamin Dickinson
directed; with Lindsay Burdge, Paul Manza, Jennifer Kim, Samantha Jacobs,
Matthew Chastain and Kate Lyn Sheil.

GENERATION P The collapse of the Soviet Union offers an unexpected opportunity
for an underemployed poet (Vladimir Yepifantsev) who proves to be a champion
copywriter for the flood of Western products entering the Russian market. Victor
Ginzburg directed, from the novel by Victor Pelevin.

HAPPY NEW YEAR A troubled veteran of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan (Michael
Cuomo) finds encouragement and comradeship among the residents of a psychiatric
ward in a veterans' hospital. K. Lorrel Manning directed. With J. D. Williams
and Monique Gabriela Curnen.

HITLER'S CHILDREN Chanoch Ze'evi's documentary looks at how some of the
descendants of Nazi high commanders have struggled to live with the horrors in
their family histories.

MEA MAXIMA CULPA: THE SILENCE IN THE HOUSE OF GOD The documentarian Alex Gibney
(''Taxi to the Dark Side'') examines the abuse scandals plaguing the Catholic
Church.

PRICE CHECK A midlevel executive in a supermarket chain (Eric Mabius) finds both
the thrill of ambition and a threat to his happy home life when his new boss
(Parker Posey) takes him under her wing. Michael Walker wrote and directed.

LA RAFLE During the German occupation of Paris, the French police collaborate by
rounding up some 13,000 Jews for eventual deportation to the death camps. Rose
Bosch directed; with Jean Reno, Mélanie Laurent and Gad Elmaleh.

28 HOTEL ROOMS A pair of business travelers (Chris Messina and Marin Ireland)
meet and have a one-night stand that develops into something much more. Matt
Ross wrote and directed.

THE TWILIGHT SAGA: BREAKING DAWN -- PART 2 Kristen Stewart, Robert Pattinson and
Taylor Lautner return for the final installment in the gothic romance franchise.
Bill Condon directed.

Nov. 21

IRVINE WELSH'S ECSTASY The seedy nightclubs of 1990s Edinburgh provide the
setting for Rob Heydon's shrewdly retitled adaptation of Irvine Welsh's novel
''The Undefeated,'' with Adam Sinclair as a drug runner who double-crosses his
boss.

LIFE OF PI A shipwreck leaves an Indian boy (Suraj Sharma) adrift on a small
lifeboat with a zebra, a hyena, a tiger and an orangutan. Ang Lee (''Brokeback
Mountain'') directed this 3-D production, based on the novel by Yann Martel.
With Gérard Depardieu, Irrfan Khan and Tobey Maguire.

RED DAWN Dan Bradley directed this remake of John Milius's 1984 film about high
school students who form themselves into a guerrilla band when the United States
is invaded by foreign forces -- in this version, from North Korea. With Chris
Hemsworth, Adrianne Palicki and Josh Hutcherson.

RISE OF THE GUARDIANS Santa Claus, the Easter Bunny, the Tooth Fairy, the
Sandman and Jack Frost reinvent themselves as superheroes when an evil spirit
named Pitch tries to take over the world. Chris Pine, Alec Baldwin, Hugh
Jackman, Isla Fisher and Jude Law head the voice cast in this animated film,
directed by Peter Ramsey.

THE SILVER LININGS PLAYBOOK Bradley Cooper stars as a young man who moves back
in with his parents (Jacki Weaver and Robert De Niro) after eight months in an
institution; Jennifer Lawrence helps him get back on his feet. David O. Russell
directed from Matthew Quick's novel; with Chris Tucker, Anupam Kher, Shea
Whigham, John Ortiz and Julia Stiles.

Nov. 23

THE CENTRAL PARK FIVE Convicted of the 1989 rape of a woman in Central Park,
five Harlem teenagers each spent between 6 and 13 years before their innocence
was proved by DNA evidence. This documentary, directed by Ken Burns, Sarah Burns
and David McMahon, tells their story.

GOTTFRIED HELNWEIN AND THE DREAMING CHILD A look behind the scenes as the
Austrian artist designs an opera about the Holocaust, ''The Child Dreams,'' for
the Israeli Opera in Tel Aviv. Lisa Kirk Colburn directed.

HITCHCOCK Anthony Hopkins impersonates the Master of Suspense in a portrait
composed around the making of ''Psycho'' (and based on Stephen Rebello's book on
that subject). With Helen Mirren as Alma Reville, Hitchcock's wife and creative
partner; Scarlett Johansson as Janet Leigh; Jessica Biel as Vera Miles; and
James D'Arcy as Anthony Perkins. Sacha Gervasi (''Anvil: The Story of Anvil'')
directed.

RUST AND BONE He (Matthias Schoenaerts) is a single father living uneasily with
his sister and her husband in Antibes, France; she (Marion Cotillard) is a whale
trainer at the nearby Marineland. A tragic accident brings them close together.
Jacques Audiard (''A Prophet'') directed.

SEEDS OF RESILIENCY Stories of 12 heroic individuals who have survived tragedy
and gone on to personal accomplishments. Susan Polis Schutz directed.

Nov. 28

BEWARE OF MR. BAKER The influential and unbridled rock 'n' roll drummer Ginger
Baker, profiled in a documentary by Jay Bulger.

EX-GIRLFRIENDS Graham (Alexander Poe) has two: one he wants to get back together
with (Kristen Connolly) and one he's remained friends with (Jennifer Carpenter).
He finds they're both seeing the same guy, touching off an ethical dilemma. Mr.
Poe wrote and directed.

Nov. 30

CALIFORNIA SOLO Robert Carlyle as an aging British rock musician who lost his
career to alcoholism; now, a D.U.I. charge might lead to his deportation from
the United States. With Danny Masterson; Marshall Lewy wrote and directed.

CERTAINTY A young Catholic couple, Deb (Adelaide Clemens) and Dom (Tom
Lipinski), attend a pre-Cana -- a relationship seminar required for a
church-sanctioned marriage. Peter Askin directed; with Giancarlo Esposito and
Valerie Harper.

THE COLLECTION Marcus Dunstan's sequel to ''The Collector'' (2009) stars Emma
Fitzpatrick as a woman held prisoner by a psychopathic killer in a booby-trapped
hotel; it's up to Josh Stewart, returning from the original film, to get her out
alive.

DRAGON When a peaceful craftsman (Donnie Yen) living in a small Chinese village
reveals an unexpected mastery of martial arts, a local detective (Takeshi
Kaneshiro) decides he must be hiding something -- probably a criminal past.
Peter Ho-Sun Chan directed.

ELZA A recent university graduate (Stana Roumillac) leaves Paris to return to
her hometown in Guadeloupe in search of the father she barely knew. Mariette
Monpierre directed.

KILLING THEM SOFTLY From Andrew Dominik, the director of ''The Assassination of
Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford,'' an adaptation of a George V. Higgins
novel about an enforcer (Brad Pitt) assigned to investigate a heist that
occurred during a mob-sponsored poker game. With Richard Jenkins, James
Gandolfini and Ray Liotta.

KING KELLY An aspiring Internet sex star (Louisa Krause) encounters some career
problems when her vengeful ex-boyfriend steals her car. Andrew Neel directed;
with Libby Woodbridge, Roderick Hill and Will Brill.

OTELO BURNING Three teenage residents of the South African township of
Lamontville discover the joys of surfing just as their country is entering a
period of profound transformation. Sara Blecher directed.

SAVING GRACE B. JONES Sent to spend a summer in a quiet Southern town, a
traumatized young girl (Rylee Fansler) witnesses the return of a former mental
patient (Tatum O'Neal) to her family (Michael Biehn, Penelope Ann Miller). With
Piper Laurie and Scott Wilson. Connie Stevens (''Hawaiian Eye'') was a
co-writer, and produced and directed.

UNIVERSAL SOLDIER: DAY OF RECKONING Jean-Claude Van Damme returns as an
invincible robo-zombie-soldier in the fourth installment of a franchise that
began way back in 1992. He teams up with a fellow cyber-creature (Dolph
Lundgren) to restore order in an anarchic future world. John Hyams directed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/04/movies/november-release-schedule.html

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top, Jennifer Lawrence and Bradley Cooper in ''The Silver
Linings Playbook'' and Jun-Sang Yu and Isabelle Huppert in ''In Another
Country.'' Right, Brad Pitt in ''Killing Them Softly.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOJO
WHILDEN/THE WEINSTEIN COMPANY
CANNES FILM FESTIVAL
MELINDA SUE GORDON/COGAN'S PRODUCTIONS)
Far left, a priest and child in Alex Gibney's documentary ''Mea Maxima Culpa:
The Silence in the House of God.'' Below, Robert Pattinson in ''The Twilight
Saga: Breaking Dawn -- Part 2.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HBO DOCUMENTARY FILMS
ANDREW COOPER/SUMMIT ENTERTAINMENT) (MT14)
Suraj Sharma plays a survivor of a disaster at sea who travels with a Bengal
tiger and other creatures in Ang Lee's ''Life of Pi,'' a 3-D adaptation of the
novel by Yann Martel. It opens Nov. 21. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RHYTHM & HUES/20TH
CENTURY FOX)
Daniel Craig hits the road as James Bond in Sam Mendes's ''Skyfall,'' the 23rd
installment of the action franchise. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANÇOIS DUHAMEL/COLUMBIA
PICTURES) (MT16)
   Anthony Hopkins portrays Alfred Hitchcock and Helen Mirren  his wife, Alma,
in ''Hitchcock,'' about the making of ''Psycho.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE
TENNER/FOX SEARCHLIGHT PICTURES) (MT17)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 8, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Carmen Basilio Dies at 85; Took Title From Robinson

BYLINE: By RICHARD GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 878 words


Carmen Basilio, the welterweight and middleweight boxing champion of the 1950s
who fought two brutal bouts with Sugar Ray Robinson, winning his middleweight
title and then losing it to him, died on Wednesday in Rochester. Basilio, who
lived in Irondequoit, a suburb of Rochester, was 85.

His death was announced by the International Boxing Hall of Fame in Canastota,
N.Y., where Basilio was born. He was among its first class of inductees in 1990.

They called him the Upstate Onion Farmer -- his Italian immigrant father worked
the onion fields near Syracuse -- but from the time he was a youngster, Basilio
wanted nothing more than to be a pro boxer. He became a champion with an
unrelenting style of attack, willing to take punishment as well as dish it out.

''There was no one with more determination than Carmen,'' his trainer Angelo
Dundee, one of boxing's most renowned cornermen, was once quoted by The Boston
Globe as saying.

In September 1957, Basilio, who held the welterweight championship, stepped up a
weight class when he challenged Robinson for his middleweight title before a
crowd of 38,000 at Yankee Stadium.

Basilio had resented Robinson ever since their brief encounter four years
earlier in Midtown Manhattan.

''He pulled up with his entourage with his big Cadillac,'' Basilio recalled in
an interview with the Cyber Boxing Zone Web site. ''I was walking past, so I
decided to go over and introduce myself. I said: 'Hi, Ray, I just fought Billy
Graham the week before, the No. 1 welterweight. I'm Carmen Basilio.' He gave me
the brushoff, and I felt about an inch high.''

Basilio won the middleweight title in a split decision over Robinson, who, pound
for pound, was widely considered the best boxer in history. Robinson almost
floored Basilio with a left hook near the end of the 13th round, and he
delivered a right hand to the body near the close of the 14th round that left
Basilio reeling. But Basilio, displaying his customary grit, pressed forward in
the 15th round, punching away steadily.

Basilio's craggy face was a mess when he met with reporters in the locker room.
He had a heavy gauze bandage protecting a cut along the outer edge of his left
eyebrow, and his eyes were slits from large welts on his cheek bones. He was
rubbing a chunk of ice in a towel across his bruised lips.

''I figured my aggressiveness gave me the edge,'' he said.

Basilio was required to give up his welterweight title when he won the
middleweight crown, but he was awarded the Hickok Belt as the top professional
athlete of 1957.

He lost the middleweight title to Robinson at Chicago Stadium in March 1958 in
another split decision after fighting with his left eye virtually closed from
the seventh round on, a victim of Robinson's right hook. Basilio rallied with
left hooks to the body in the 9th and 10th rounds, but it was not enough to keep
Robinson from winning the middleweight championship for a fifth time.

Carmen Basilio was born on April 2, 1927, in Canastota, about 25 miles east of
Syracuse, and was one of 10 children. His father was ''a fight nut,'' he
recalled, who bought his sons boxing gloves. Basilio boxed in the Marine Corps
during World War II, then made his pro debut in 1948.

His first title fight came in 1953, when he scored a second-round knockdown of
the welterweight champion Kid Gavilan but lost a 15-round decision.

He won the welterweight championship in June 1955 with a 12th-round knockout of
Tony DeMarco, then stopped DeMarco again in Round 12 of a rematch. He lost the
crown on a decision to Johnny Saxton in March 1956, then regained it and
defended it against Saxton, knocking him out each time.

After his second match with Robinson, he fought only occasionally and made three
unsuccessful bids to win a middleweight title again, losing twice on knockouts
to Gene Fullmer and on a decision to Paul Pender in 1961, his last fight.

He had a career record of 56 wins (27 by knockout), 16 losses and 7 draws.

The International Boxing Hall of Fame was built in part as a tribute to Basilio
and his nephew Billy Backus, who held the welterweight title in the early 1970s.
The Hall contains bronze busts of Basilio and of Backus, who is not an inductee.

After retiring from boxing, Basilio, a high-school dropout, taught physical
education at Le Moyne College in Syracuse. He also worked in public relations
for the Genesee Brewing Company. Basilio's wife, Josie, traced his decline in
health to heart bypass surgery in 1992, The Associated Press reported. A
magnetic resonance imaging scan revealed no brain damage from his prizefighting
days, she said.

In May 2009, Canastota High School, where Basilio was once a member of the
boxing team, presented him with a diploma in recognition of his achievements.

Basilio is survived by his wife, four children and many grandchildren and
great-grandchildren, The Rochester Democrat and Chronicle said.

Basilio said he had no regrets, despite all the tattooing his face and body
took.

''I don't enjoy getting hurt, waking up with a puffed eye and pain, stiff all
over,'' he told Sports Illustrated as he neared the end of his career. ''But you
have to take the bitter with the sweet. The sweet is when guys recognize you on
the street, say, 'Hello, champ,' know who you are. It will always be sweet for
me.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/08/sports/carmen-basilio-boxer-who-beat-sugar-ray
-robinson-for-title-dies-at-85.html

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carmen Basilio, right, won the middleweight title with a split
decision over Sugar Ray Robinson at Yankee Stadium in 1957. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Basilio in 1955. He had a career record of 56 wins, 16 losses and 7 draws.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                            November 11, 2012 Sunday

What Party Congress? On 'Singles Day,' China Said to Surpass U.S. Cyber Sales

BYLINE: DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 652 words



HIGHLIGHT: Nov. 11 was the fourth day of the week-long 18th Party Congress, but
it was also Singles Day, in which a lot more Chinese took part.


BEIJING - In China on Sunday, as the leaders huddled, the people shopped. A lot.

Nov. 11 may have been the fourth day of the weeklong 18th Party Congress which
is choosing, in secret, a party Central Committee and the future leaders of the
country's 1.35 billion people. But it was also Singles Day - an unofficial
festival that Chinese say is unique in the world, marked by furious shopping,
often online, for anything from winter clothes to jewelry to cars, for those
either celebrating or bemoaning their single status.

For the government, which is spooked by falling economic growth rates as it
negotiates a delicate political transition, the consumption boom - even if just
for one day - is a boon.

The origins of what is known in Chinese as "Guanggun jie," or, literally, "Bare
Branch Festival" (guanggun also means bachelor), are somewhat mysterious, but
reportedly date back to a charmingly low-key, local story: the uneventful lives
of four single, male, Chinese university students in the 1990s, as a blogger on
the social networking site Renren.com explains in a bilingual entry called "Lu
Zhenxing's Diary." (Does anyone else feel a movie script stirring?)

"An old story goes that once there were four single men, leading very boring
lives. None of them were married, or had lovers, or did anything exciting. They
just sat around all day and played Mahjong," Lu Zhenxing's Diary narrates.

"One day they played Mahjong from 11 in the morning until 11 at night," it runs.
The four numerals, added together, perfectly represented their plight: four
single men. And the date was 11.11. It was all too good to be true, and "These
college students have since graduated, and carried their university tradition
into society," Lu Zhenxing's Diary notes, with celebrations among the unmarried
beginning in Nanjing, a former capital where one of the country's most famous
universities, Nanjing University, is located, in the 1990s. "Singles Day is now
a special day for all fashionable youths," the diary notes.

The story can't be proven, but either way, it's a welcome boost for the
government, which is pushing for an upsurge in domestic consumption as China's
economy has plunged, as my colleague Keith Bradsher writes.

The Associated Press reported that in the first 13 hours of business on Sunday,
merchants on Tmall.com, which is owned by online giant Alibaba, took in a
whopping 10 billion renmimbi, or $1.6 billion.

That would top the $1.25 billion that research firm comScore said online
retailers in the United States took last year on Cyber Monday, the Monday after
Thanksgiving, and might make Singles Day the biggest e-commerce sales day on
record, The A.P. wrote.

"This is very, very big for us," Steve Wang, vice president of Tmall.com and
head of Web site operations, said, and Sunday might be the "biggest e-shopping
orgy ever," the company said on its Web site. China has 193 million online
shoppers, more than the 170 million in the United States - and the number is
only growing, The A.P. wrote.

Yet while some single Chinese people were celebrating their status, others felt
highly ambiguous about it.

"The main way to celebrate Singles Day is to have dinner with your single
friends, but it's important that each person pay their own way to show their
independence," the diary noted.

But, "People also hold 'blind date' parties in an attempt to bid goodbye to
their single lives," it continued. "Some people will use this date and this
meaning to tell their special someone that they are the only 'one' in their
heart." And, with that, presumably exit the ranks of those shopping up a storm
on that day.


     ·    Shut Out of Party Congress and Power Transfer, Chinese Citizens Turn
          to Humor
     ·    An Intimate Look Inside the 'Eighteenth Big'
     ·    China's Changing of the Guard: The Rise of Xi
     ·    China Fights to Go Beyond Organs Harvested From Executed Prisoners
     ·    As Party Congress Nears, Beijing Fears Subversive Ping-Pong Balls


LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 12, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Timeline Shows F.B.I. Discovered Affair In Summer

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE and CHARLIE SAVAGE; Reporting was contributed by Michael
S. Schmidt, Eric Schmitt, Mark Mazzetti and Michael R. Gordon.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1778 words


WASHINGTON -- High-level officials at the Federal Bureau of Investigation and
the Justice Department were notified in the late summer that F.B.I. agents had
uncovered what appeared to be an extramarital affair involving the director of
the Central Intelligence Agency, David H. Petraeus, government officials said
Sunday.

But law enforcement officials did not notify anyone outside the F.B.I. or the
Justice Department until last week because the investigation was incomplete and
initial concerns about possible security breaches, which would demand more
immediate action, did not appear to be justified, the officials said.

The new accounts of the events that led to Mr. Petraeus's sudden resignation on
Friday shed light on the competing pressures facing F.B.I. agents who recognized
the high stakes of any investigation involving the C.I.A. director but who were
wary of exposing a private affair with no criminal or security implications. For
the first time Sunday, the woman whose report of harassing e-mails led to the
exposure of the affair was identified as Jill Kelley, 37, of Tampa, Fla.

Some members of Congress have protested the delay in being notified of the
F.B.I.'s investigation of Mr. Petraeus until just after the presidential
election. Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California and the chairwoman of
the Intelligence Committee, said Sunday that her committee would ''absolutely''
demand an explanation. An F.B.I. case involving the C.I.A. director ''could have
had an effect on national security,'' she said on ''Fox News Sunday.'' ''I think
we should have been told.''

But the bureau's history would make the privacy question especially significant;
in his decades-long reign as the F.B.I.'s first director, J. Edgar Hoover
sometimes directed agents to spy improperly on the sex lives of public figures
and then used the resulting information to pressure or blackmail them.

Law enforcement officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the
delicacy of the investigation, defended the F.B.I.'s handling of the case.
''There are a lot of sensitivities in a case like this,'' said a senior law
enforcement official. ''There were hints of possible intelligence and security
issues, but they were unproven. You constantly ask yourself, 'What are the
notification requirements? What are the privacy issues?' ''

A close friend of the Petraeus family said Sunday that the intimate relationship
between Mr. Petraeus and his biographer, Paula Broadwell, began after he retired
from the military last year and about two months after he started as C.I.A.
director. It ended about four months ago, said the friend, who did not want to
be identified while discussing personal matters. In a letter to the C.I.A. work
force on Friday, Mr. Petraeus acknowledged having the affair. Ms. Broadwell has
not responded to repeated requests for comment.

Under military regulations, adultery can be a crime. At the C.I.A., it can be a
security issue, since it can make an intelligence officer vulnerable to
blackmail, but it is not a crime.

On Sunday, the same Petraeus family friend confirmed the identity of Ms. Kelley,
whose complaint to the F.B.I. about ''harassing'' e-mails, eventually traced to
Ms. Broadwell, set the initial investigation in motion several months ago. Ms.
Kelley and her husband became friends with Mr. Petraeus and his wife, Holly,
when Mr. Petraeus was head of the military's Central Command, which has its
headquarters at MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa. Ms. Kelley, who volunteers to
help injured service members and military families at MacDill, has been
photographed with the Petraeuses at social events in Tampa.

''We and our family have been friends with General Petraeus and his family for
over five years,'' Ms. Kelley and her husband, Scott Kelley, said in a statement
released Sunday. ''We respect his and his family's privacy, and want the same
for us and our three children.''

The statement did not acknowledge that it was Ms. Kelley who received the
e-mails, which was first reported by The Associated Press.

The involvement of the F.B.I., according to government officials, began when Ms.
Kelley, alarmed by about half a dozen anonymous e-mails accusing her of
inappropriate flirtatious behavior with Mr. Petraeus, complained to an F.B.I.
agent who is also a personal friend. That agent, who has not been identified,
helped get a preliminary inquiry started. Agents working with federal
prosecutors in a local United States attorney's office began trying to figure
out whether the e-mails constituted criminal cyber-stalking.

Because the sender's account had been registered anonymously, investigators had
to use forensic techniques -- including a check of what other e-mail accounts
had been accessed from the same computer address -- to identify who was writing
the e-mails.

Eventually they identified Ms. Broadwell as a prime suspect and obtained access
to her regular e-mail account. In its in-box, they discovered intimate and
sexually explicit e-mails from another account that also was not immediately
identifiable. Investigators eventually ascertained that it belonged to Mr.
Petraeus and studied the possibility that someone had hacked into Mr. Petraeus's
account or was posing as him to send the explicit messages.

Eventually they determined that Mr. Petraeus had indeed sent the messages to Ms.
Broadwell and concluded that the two had had an affair. Then they turned their
scrutiny on him, examining whether he knew about or was involved in sending the
harassing e-mails to Ms. Kelley.

It was at that point -- sometime in the late summer -- that lower-level Justice
Department officials notified supervisors that the case had become more
complicated, and the Criminal Division's Computer Crime and Intellectual
Property Section began working on the investigation as well.

It remains unclear whether the F.B.I. also gained access to Mr. Petraeus's
personal e-mail account, or if it relied only on e-mails discovered in Ms.
Broadwell's in-box. It also remains uncertain exactly when the information about
Mr. Petraeus reached Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. and Robert S. Mueller
III, the F.B.I. director. Both men have declined to comment.

But under the Attorney General Guidelines that govern domestic law enforcement
officials, agents must notify F.B.I. headquarters and the Department of Justice
whenever they are looking at a ''sensitive investigative matter,'' which
includes cases ''involving the activities of a domestic public official.''

F.B.I. agents interviewed Ms. Broadwell for the first time the week of Oct. 21,
and she acknowledged the affair, a government official briefed on the matter
said. She also voluntarily gave the agency her computer. In a search, the agents
discovered several classified documents, which raised the additional question of
whether Mr. Petraeus had given them to her. She said that he had not. Agents
interviewed Mr. Petraeus the following week. He also admitted to the affair but
said he had not given any classified documents to her. The agents then
interviewed Ms. Broadwell again on Friday, Nov. 2, the official said.

Based on that record, law enforcement officials decided there was no evidence
that Mr. Petraeus had committed any crime and tentatively ruled out charges
coming out of the investigation, the official said. Because the facts had now
been settled, the agency notified James R. Clapper, the director of national
intelligence, about 5 p.m. on the following Tuesday -- Election Day.

Meanwhile, the F.B.I. agent who had helped get a preliminary inquiry started,
and learned of Mr. Petraeus's affair and the initial concerns about security
breaches, became frustrated. Apparently unaware that those concerns were largely
resolved, the agent alerted the office of Representative Eric Cantor, Republican
of Virginia, the House majority leader, about the inquiry in late October. Mr.
Cantor passed on the agent's concerns to Mr. Mueller.

Officials said Sunday that the timing of the notifications had nothing to do
with the election, noting that there was no obvious political advantage for
either President Obama or Mitt Romney in the news that the C.I.A. director had
had an affair; Mr. Petraeus is highly regarded by both Republicans and
Democrats. They also said that Mr. Cantor's call to the F.B.I. on Oct. 31 had
not accelerated or otherwise influenced the investigation, which they said had
never stalled.

F.B.I. and Justice Department officials knew their handling of the case would
ultimately receive immense scrutiny and took significant time to determine whom
they were legally required to inform, according to a senior law enforcement
official.

''This was very thought-through,'' the official said.

The law requires that the Senate and House intelligence committees be kept
''fully and currently informed'' of intelligence activities, which conceivably
might cover an investigation into a possible compromise of the C.I.A. director's
e-mail account and the possession of classified documents by Ms. Broadwell.

But Justice Department and F.B.I. rules, designed to protect the integrity of
investigations and the privacy of people who come under scrutiny, say that
investigators should not share potentially damaging information about unproved
allegations or private matters unless it is critical for the investigation.

Glenn A. Fine, the inspector general for the Justice Department from 2000 to
2011, said it appeared that the F.B.I. was ''legitimately following a lead''
about possible criminal wrongdoing or a security breach.

''Some have said the F.B.I. was out to get the C.I.A.,'' said Mr. Fine, who is
now a partner at the law firm Dechert LLP in Washington. ''That might have been
true 20 years ago. But it is hard to believe that is going on today.''

John Prados, a historian and an author on intelligence and its abuses, said the
case ''posed several dilemmas for the F.B.I.'' that would have prompted agents
and their bosses to proceed gingerly.

''Petraeus is a very important person, so they would want to be crystal clear on
exactly what happened and what the implications were,'' Mr. Prados said. ''There
was probably a sense that it had to be taken to top bureau officials. And bureau
officials probably thought they had better tell the White House and Congress and
the D.N.I., or they might get in trouble later,'' he added, referring to the
director of national intelligence.

But if the security issues were resolved and no crime had been committed, Mr.
Prados said, there was no justification for informing Congress or other agencies
that Mr. Petraeus had had an affair.

''In my view, it should never have been briefed outside the bureau,'' he said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/12/us/us-officials-say-petraeuss-affair-known-in-
summer.html

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Natalie Khawam, David H. Petraeus, Scott Kelley, Jill
Kelley and Holly Petraeus at an event in Tampa in 2010. Ms. Kelley's  complaint
about harassing e-mails prompted the initial inquiry that led to Mr. Petraeus's
resignation as director of the C.I.A. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY SCHERZER/TAMPA BAY
TIMES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            November 12, 2012 Monday

Reform and the Internet, With Chinese Characteristics

BYLINE: BILL BISHOP

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 794 words



HIGHLIGHT: China's 18th Communist Party congress has two more days to run but
preliminary reports predict there will be no significant changes coming out of
the meeting. What DealBook readers need to know about China this week.


China's 18th Communist Party congress has two more days to run but preliminary
reportspredict there will be no significant changes coming out of the meeting.

Some in the Chinese commentariat are not yet so bearish on the prospect, even
though Hu Jintao unsurprisingly said "we will never copy a Western political
system."

It was never realistic to expect an announcement of major changes. There are
signs in official statements of positive economic measures, but it will take
months or longer for Xi Jinping to consolidate his rule, especially since he
will have tomanage two predecessors - Hu Jintao and Jiang Zemin - and avoid
directly challenging their legacies.

The lineup of the Politburo Standing Committee, expected to shrink to seven men
in the 18th congress from nine in the 17th, will be a good but incomplete
indicator of the likelihood for future changes. There is much speculation about
the identity and political leanings of the new leadership, but other than Mr. Xi
and Li Keqiang, we know nothing and have just speculation until the official
unveiling Thursday.

The goal of any changes is to strengthen the rule of the Communist Party and
ensure the continuation of what the leadership calls "the Great Chinese
Renaissance." That is why many observers,myself included, believe that Mr. Xi
will have to push through significant changes to stay in power, as the economic
and social pressures in China have reached a dangerous level not seen in many
years.

CHINA's MANAGEMENT OF THE INTERNET over the last few days has not been
encouraging for those who want to believe the leadership will push reforms.
Beijing blocked access to many Google services and thwarted usageof Virtual
Private Networks, or V.P.N.'s, that foreigners and increasing numbers of Chinese
use to scale the "Great Firewall." I have lived in Beijing since 2005, and these
have been the most draconian few days of Internet restrictions I have
experienced.

Chinese "cybercrats" have tolerated V.P.N.'s as the vast majority of citizens on
the Internet do not have one, and foreign firms and financial institutions rely
on them. Perhaps fear of publication of another story about the finances of a
leader's family during the gathering led to the decision to tighten Internet
controls.

Indiscriminate blocking of major parts of the global Internet is not going to
help China in its quest to internationalize the renminbi and make it a reserve
currency. Internet controls at the level of the last few days may alsodeter
foreign firms from moving their regional headquarters to China.

CHINA'S INTERNET IS BOOMING, with nearly 600 million "netizens," and is one of
the fastest-growing markets in the world. More than a dozen Chinese Internet
firms have listed on stock exchanges in the United States. Clearly censorship
has not been bad for business.

China's dominant search engine, Baidu, whose shares have soared since Google's
2010 partial pullout, trades on the Nasdaq market ata $36 billion market
capitalization.Tencent, listed in Hong Kong, is worth about $62 billion, making
it the third- or fourth-largest Internet firm in the world by market cap.
Alibabarecorded $3.1 billion in sales during Sunday's "Singles Day" event on its
Tmall service, topping the $1.25 billion American online retailers took in last
year on Cyber Monday.

None of the Chinese Internet companies have made material expansions into the
United States, Europe or Japan, but some are making inroads in the developing
world. Tencent has been the most aggressive and WeChat,a mobile messaging app
that has 200 million users, is rapidly gaining a global following.

American investors will have a chance to invest in another Chinese Internet
company with the impending Nasdaqinitial public offering of YY.com, a profitable
communications platform for game players. Itsinvestors include Steamboat
Ventures, a fund affiliated with Disney.

The former United States ambassador to China, Jon M. Huntsman Jr., recently told
a Stanford University conferencethat he expected Mr. Xi to relax Internet
controls in the next couple of years. In July, Google's chairman, Eric Schmidt,
said that the Great Firewall will eventually fall. Last week, Bloomberg's
editorial section published "Mr. Xi, Tear Down This Firewall!" I even predicted
it in an August interview.

Foreign hopes aside, there is no reason China cannot continue changing its
economy while maintaining some Internet controls. Political change and Internet
restrictions will have a harder time coexisting.

In the meantime, the world needs to get used to the fact that China is serious
about building "Socialism with Chinese characteristics" and an "Internet with
Chinese characteristics."


     ·    China Gets Back to Work
     ·    A Loophole Poses Risks to Investors in Chinese Companies


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 13, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

F.B.I. Inquiry Into E-Mails Raises Questions on Motives

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE and CHARLIE SAVAGE; Elisabeth Bumiller contributed
reporting while flying on the secretary of defense's plane between Honolulu and
Perth, Australia.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1150 words


WASHINGTON -- Is a string of angry e-mails really enough, in an age of
boisterous online exchanges, to persuade the F.B.I. to open a cyberstalking
investigation?

Sometimes the answer is yes, law enforcement officials and legal experts said
Monday -- especially if the e-mails in question reflect an inside knowledge of
the director of the Central Intelligence Agency.

That was true of the e-mails sent anonymously to Jill Kelley, a friend of the
C.I.A. director, David H. Petraeus, which prompted the F.B.I. office in Tampa,
Fla., to begin an investigation last June. The inquiry traced the e-mails to Mr.
Petraeus's biographer, Paula Broadwell, exposed their extramarital affair and
led Friday to his resignation after 14 months as head of the intelligence
agency.

On Monday night, F.B.I. agents went to Ms. Broadwell's home in Charlotte, N.C.,
and were seen carrying away what several reporters at the scene said were boxes
of documents. A law enforcement official, speaking on condition of anonymity
because the case remains open, said Ms. Broadwell had consented to the search.

Some commentators have questioned whether the bureau would ordinarily
investigate a citizen complaint about unwanted e-mails, suggesting that there
must have been a hidden motive, possibly political, to take action. F.B.I.
officials are scheduled to brief the Senate and House intelligence committees on
Tuesday about the case.

But law enforcement officials insisted on Monday that the case was handled ''on
the merits.'' The cyber squad at the F.B.I.'s Tampa field office opened an
investigation, after consulting with federal prosecutors, based on what appeared
to be a legitimate complaint about e-mail harassment.

The complaint was more intriguing, the officials acknowledged, because the
author of the e-mails, which criticized Ms. Kelley for supposed flirtatious
behavior toward Mr. Petraeus at social events, seemed to have an insider's
knowledge of the C.I.A. director's activities. One e-mail accused Ms. Kelley of
''touching'' Mr. Petraeus inappropriately under a dinner table.

''There was a legitimate case to open on the facts, with the support of the
prosecutors,'' said the official who described the search at Ms. Broadwell's
home. He added, ''They asked, does somebody know more about Petraeus than you'd
expect?''

Ms. Kelley, a volunteer with wounded veterans and military families, brought her
complaint to a rank-and-file agent she knew from a previous encounter with the
F.B.I. office, the official also said. That agent, who had previously pursued a
friendship with Ms. Kelley and had earlier sent her shirtless photographs of
himself, was ''just a conduit'' for the complaint, he said. He had no training
in cybercrime, was not part of the cyber squad handling the case and was never
assigned to the investigation.

But the agent, who was not identified, continued to ''nose around'' about the
case, and eventually his superiors ''told him to stay the hell away from it, and
he was not invited to briefings,'' the official said. The Wall Street Journal
first reported on Monday night that the agent had been barred from the case.

Later, the agent became convinced -- incorrectly, the official said -- that the
case had stalled. Because of his ''worldview,'' as the official put it, he
suspected a politically motivated cover-up to protect President Obama. The agent
alerted Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, who called the F.B.I. director,
Robert S. Mueller III, on Oct. 31 to tell him of the agent's concerns.

The official said the agent's self-described ''whistle-blowing'' was ''a little
embarrassing'' but had no effect on the investigation.

David H. Laufman, who served as a federal prosecutor in national security cases
from 2003 to 2007, said, ''there's a lot of chatter and noise about
cybercrimes,'' and most of it does not lead to an investigation. But he added,
''It's plausible to me that if Ms. Kelley indicated that the stalking was
related to her friendship with the C.I.A. director, that would have elevated it
as a priority for the bureau.''

Orin S. Kerr, a George Washington University law professor who specializes in
computer crime issues, said it was ''surprising that they would devote the
resources'' to investigating who was behind a half-dozen harassing e-mails.

''The F.B.I. gets a lot of tips, and investigating any one case requires an
agent or a few agents to spend a lot of time,'' he said. ''They can't do this
for every case, and the issue is, why this one case?''

Still, Mr. Kerr -- a trial attorney in the Justice Department's computer crimes
and intellectual property section from 1998 to 2001 -- said it was likely that
several factors, in addition to the Petraeus connection, made the complaint
stand out. Ms. Kelly was fairly prominent in Tampa social circles and had
previously had dealings with the F.B.I. agent who took her complaint.

Moreover, he said, the F.B.I. has been putting more resources into investigating
cyberstalking crimes in recent years.

A government official clarified on Monday that F.B.I. agents' first interview
with Ms. Broadwell -- at which she is said to have admitted having had an affair
with Mr. Petraeus, and voluntarily allowed agents to search her computer -- took
place in September. An earlier account had put that interview during the week of
Oct. 21.

Before Ms. Broadwell spoke to the F.B.I. agents, Mr. Petraeus had learned that
she had sent offensive e-mails to Ms. Kelley and asked her to stop, another
official said. By the time agents interviewed the C.I.A. director during the
week of Oct. 28, he was aware of the cyberstalking investigation and readily
acknowledged his affair with Ms. Broadwell, the official said.

Mr. Petraeus's former colleagues in the Obama administration have said little
about the circumstances preceding his resignation. But on Monday, Defense
Secretary Leon E. Panetta, the director of the C.I.A. before Mr. Petraeus,
criticized the F.B.I. for not informing members of the Congressional
intelligence committees of its investigation.

''As a former director of the C.I.A., and having worked very closely with the
intelligence committees, I believe that there is a responsibility to make sure
that the intelligence committees are informed of issues that could affect the
security of those intelligence operations,'' he said on a flight to Australia.

His remarks were similar to those by the Senate Intelligence Committee's
chairwoman, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, on Sunday.

Mr. Petraeus's former spokesman, Steve Boylan, told ABC's ''Good Morning
America'' on Monday that the C.I.A. director was ''devastated'' over the affair
and its consequences.

''He deeply regrets and knows how much pain this causes his family,'' he said.

Mr. Boylan, a retired Army colonel, said Holly Petraeus, Mr. Petraeus's wife of
38 years, ''is not exactly pleased right now.''

''Furious would be an understatement.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/13/us/timeline-shows-fbi-discovered-petraeus-affa
ir-in-summer.html

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Unwanted e-mails sent anonymously  to Jill Kelley, above,  led
to an F.B.I. investigation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS O'MEARA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 17, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hacking General Petraeus

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA.

Charles M. Blow is off today.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 789 words


This is not going to end well for the F.B.I.

We are now entering the second phase of the David Petraeus scandal. The first
phase began on Nov. 9 when Petraeus revealed that he had had an affair and
resigned as C.I.A. director. For the next week, the press scrambled to keep
abreast of every head-spinning new plot twist. General Petraeus slept with whom?
Jill Kelley did what? Petraeus's biographer/mistress titled her book what? Phase
1 of any big national scandal ends when the New York tabloids stop writing their
laugh-out-loud cover headlines (''Cloak and Shag Her'' screamed The New York
Post) and relegate the story to the inside pages. That happened on Friday.

In Phase 2, people begin to grapple with the scandal's larger meaning, assuming,
of course, that it has some larger meaning. The sordid John Edwards affair, for
instance, showed that he had never been fit for public office, much less the
vice presidency. The Bernie Madoff scandal showed that investors will happily
suspend disbelief when their fund manager's returns are too good to be true.

But the Petraeus scandal could well end up teaching some very different lessons.
If the most admired military man in a generation can have his e-mail hacked by
F.B.I. agents, then none of us are safe from the post-9/11 surveillance machine.
And if an affair is all it takes to force such a man from office, then we truly
have lost all sense of proportion.

Let's go back to the scene of the so-called crime, to Tampa, Fla., where Kelley,
an attractive wannabe socialite, gets some unsettling e-mails from an anonymous
sender. If she had any sense, she would block the e-mail address and be done
with it. But because she knows that men will bend the rules for her -- after
all, high-ranking military officers granted her unfettered access to MacDill Air
Force Base -- she goes to her (male) F.B.I. friend, who advocates with his
superiors for an investigation. They agree.

But on what grounds? I looked up the cyber-stalking statute. It says that a
crime has been committed when e-mail ''causes substantial emotion distress'' or
places the victim in ''reasonable fear of death or serious bodily injury.''

This strikes me as a pretty high standard. It is possible, I suppose, that the
anonymous e-mails Kelley was getting from Paula Broadwell, Petraeus's former
mistress, met that standard. And the F.B.I. has worked hard to make Broadwell's
e-mails sound as threatening as possible. But once they leak out, as they surely
will, I strongly suspect that we'll see that the law was just a fig leaf.

So, too, with the ''classified information'' Broadwell is supposed to have. (And
didn't you love the F.B.I.'s big show of carting away her computers?) Given the
government's propensity, since 9/11, to stamp ''classified'' on every piece of
paper short of the paper towels in the commissary, my guess is that this claim
is also going to turn out to be less than earth-shattering. Once the F.B.I.
learned the truth -- that it was just about sex -- it needed a high-minded
rationale to keep snooping. Broadwell did the F.B.I. a huge favor by leaving
''classified'' information on her computer.

I understand why Petraeus felt he needed to resign; the affair had violated his
own code of honor. I also understand that his propensity for publicity and
control made him unpopular among the C.I.A. rank-and-file. But I still wish
President Obama had refused his request to resign.

I wish the president had said that although General Petraeus had made a mistake
in his personal life -- an all-too-human mistake, made by millions of people
every day -- the consequences of that mistake should be dealt with by him, his
wife and his former lover. I wish he had said that the affair should not trump
his decades of public service, or stop him from continuing to serve. I wish he
had said that the Justice Department's inspector general was going to conduct an
inquiry into whether the F.B.I. had acted appropriately in handling Kelley's
complaint.

On MSNBC on Friday afternoon, Andrea Mitchell spoke to Senator Roy Blunt, a
Republican from Missouri, who had just come from a closed-door Intelligence
Committee meeting where Petraeus had testified.

''Do you think he had to resign?'' she asked.

''Based on what I know, I wouldn't think so,'' Blunt replied. ''Clearly,'' he
added, ''this is not someone who is going to be subject to blackmail.'' Thus did
Blunt swat away the one legitimate rationale for forcing Petraeus from his job
because of his affair.

In the weeks to come, a lot more people are going to come to the same conclusion
-- and are going to ask the same questions about the ease with which the
government can look at our e-mails and peep into our bedrooms. Such a rethinking
is long overdue.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/17/opinion/nocera-hacking-general-petraeus.html

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Our Hard Drives, Ourselves

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 871 words


ASK yourself: if Anthony Weiner had been sitting on a bar stool when his libido
flared, would he have reached out and flashed someone? Taken off his shirt, then
taken off even more?

Highly doubtful. And it's just as doubtful that if he'd been flirting with a
groupie across a restaurant table, rather than on Facebook, he would have talked
as dirty as he did. Too many potential eavesdroppers.

But cyberspace unleashed him, goading him to boldly go where no would-be New
York City mayor should. And cyberspace undid him, creating an indelible record
of where he'd traveled, and in what manner of undress. In lieu of eavesdroppers
whom he could have disputed, he had digital footprints that he couldn't deny,
and they traced a path not to Gracie Mansion but to political ruin.

Like Tiger Woods and so many others before and after him, Weiner met up with
what may go down as the greatest contradiction of contemporary life: how safe we
feel at our touch pads and keyboards; how exposed and imperiled we really are.

That's the contradiction that David Petraeus and Paula Broadwell are now coming
to terms with, and the oxymoron brought to mind by the imprudent escapades of
these two -- along with the Tampa socialite with diplomatic ''inviolability,''
the other general with too much time for e-mail and the F.B.I. agent who made a
mannequin sandwich of himself -- isn't ''military intelligence.'' It's
''electronic privacy.''

There's no true, dependable privacy when we're tapping or typing. And on one
level we're conscious of this. Major scandals, minor news stories and the plots
of police procedurals remind us, time and again, that the seemingly evanescent
communications through our smartphones, tablets, laptops (how presciently
named!) and personal computers aren't evanescent at all. They live on, float
around and can be reeled in by a lawyer with a subpoena, a hacker with an agenda
or a run-of-the-mill technician just letting his curiosity get the better of
him.

But this awareness is more a faint beep at the edges of our thoughts than the
screeching siren it should be. It doesn't fully sink in, because it's so
dissonant with how protected and anonymous a cocoon we seem to inhabit when
we're texting, e-mailing or surfing the Web. A neighbor has no eyes or ears on
what we're up to. Neither does the co-worker in the adjacent cubicle, the
pregnant woman nursing a decaffeinated latte at the next table or, for that
matter, the significant other snoozing just a few inches away.

There's a thrilling sense of isolation and permission, and the dim threat of
eventual discovery is apparently no match for it. If it were, the example of the
disgraced Congressman Mark Foley would have stopped Weiner, and the trials of
the displaced Gov. Mark Sanford would have given Petraeus pause.

THE Petraeus drama reflects the enticements and betrayals of our new,
disembodied modes of discourse. The come-ons, the flirtations, the stalking, the
alleged harassment: all were abetted by the deceptive cloak of cyberspace, and
all were immortalized there. It's a story of people not just behaving badly but
e-mailing badly as well. Has that now become a distinction without a difference?
Have the lines entirely blurred?

Cyberspace gives people more than an illusion of protection. It gives them
nerve, freeing them to engage in a kind of explicit and assertive dialogue that
two people sitting across from each other, or even talking on the phone, would
in most cases be too shy to broach. It allows for false fronts, a false bravado
and, with both, a false, reckless velocity.

Back in the era of a Jane Austen novel, a suitor put pen to paper, his pace
slow, his pauses frequent and the reply -- itself written in longhand --
probably weeks away. Romance had a rhythm that accommodated reconsideration. It
had a built-in cooling-off period.

The sexting, cyber-assisted hookups and online affairs of today have nothing of
the sort. They unfold at the speed of impulse, in part because they have such a
hypothetical, provisional aspect, negotiated as they are in a cloud of sorts, no
contact required. But their weightlessness is paired with their durable record.

That contradiction covers more than romantic overtures and erotic play, and
anyone who sees nothing of himself or herself in the digital heedlessness of
Petraeus or Weiner is focusing too narrowly on the sex.

Be honest: when's the last time you tossed off a snide aside about a colleague
or a secret about a friend in an e-mail whose retrieval would cause you not just
embarrassment but actual trouble? A week ago? An hour ago?

You did it despite all the instances when you or someone you knew had mistyped
the address at the top of an e-mail -- such an easy error, given the way our
precocious devices assume our thoughts and finish them for us -- and the message
had landed where it wasn't supposed to.

You did it despite the knowledge that an employer with no compunction about
intrusion could be spying.

And you did it because that glowing and treacherous screen in front of you is
somehow the greenest light of all, persuading you that you're alone with your
malice, your mischief, your game of pretend. After all, how could a communion so
faceless prompt a brutal unmasking?

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/18/opinion/sunday/Bruni-Our-Hard-Drives-Ourselves
.html

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN WISEMAN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                            November 19, 2012 Monday

Cyberwar and Social Media in the Gaza Conflict

BYLINE: ALAN COWELL

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 265 words



HIGHLIGHT: The war in Gaza is being fought in cyberspace and via social media as
well as on the ground and in the air.


LONDON - The grievances in the Gaza war may be as ancient as the history of a
torn and tangled region that underpins one of the world's most intractable
disputes. But the weapons are spanking new, reflecting the nature of war in the
cyber-era.

As I mention in my latest column for the IHT, both sides are trying to harness
social networks to promote their rival versions of the unfolding and uneven
battle between the conventional might of the Israel Defense Forces and the
rocket-firing units of Hamas's armed wing.

But the cyberwar goes beyond that. Anonymous, the hacking collective, says it
hasstruck at official Israel Web sites, and the Israeli authorities themselves
say that a staggering 44 million hacking attempts have been made since the
latest conflagration began last Wednesday. Only one succeeded for 10 minutes or
so on an unspecified site, according to Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz.

Most hacking attempts have been made on defense-related sites.

On Monday, part of the war seemed to have tipped in Israel's favor with the
I.D.F.'s Twitter posts far outnumbering those of the armed wing of Hamas, which
seemed to have posted with far less frequency than earlier.

"The war is taking place on three fronts," Carmela Avner, Israel's chief
information officer, told Reuters. "The first is physical, the second is on the
world of social networks and the third is cyber."


     ·    Tweeters Urge Leaders to Give Peace a Chance
     ·    In Israel, Paddleball as Fitness Regime
     ·    Inside the Arafat Assassination Conspiracies
     ·    Israel Gets the Blame for Flame Virus
     ·    Decoding the French Presidential Election Early


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            November 19, 2012 Monday

Today's Scuttlebot: Gaza Tech War and the Belarus Browser

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 161 words



HIGHLIGHT: The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the
Web for important and peculiar items. Monday's selection includes a video of a
toddler meeting a robot spider, an e-mail error by the Taliban that is at the
very least embarrassing, and a potential way to shore up wireless service during
emergencies like Hurricane Sandy.


Some interesting items that the tech reporters and editors of The New York Times
found on the Web recently. See more here.

Wi-Fi From the Sky
Huffingtonpost.com |  Drones or balloons carrying WiFi antennas could provide
connectivity to affected areas after future disasters. -- Joshua Brustein

The Gaza Strip Cyber War
Vice.com |  From Telecomix to Gaza civilians: instructions on how to tweet in
case they lose Internet. -- Somini Sengupta

Why Is Belarus the Only Country Where Opera Is the Top Browser?
Theatlantic.com |  Efficiency and security have been crucial in a country that
historically has had a primitive Internet infrastructure. -- Howell Murray

PhantomX Running Phoenix Code
YouTube |  Would you let this robot run loose around your kids? (It's $1,200.
Adding to wish list.)  -- David Gallagher

Taliban Uses CC Instead of BCC, Exposes Identities of 400
Boing Boing |  Oops. The Taliban hit CC instead of BCC, exposing more than 400
e-mail contacts. -- Nicole Perlroth

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           November 20, 2012 Tuesday

Cyber Attacks From Iran and Gaza on Israel More Threatening Than Anonymous's
Efforts

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 856 words



HIGHLIGHT: Anonymous has put forth tens of millions of hacking efforts on
Israeli government sites and businesses in the last week, intermittently
knocking hundreds offline, defacing some and erasing the databases for others.
But compared with other recent cyber attacks on Israeli targets, the Anonymous
efforts are a minor annoyance.


Anonymous, the loose coalition of hackers waging war on Israeli Web sites, is
the least of Israel's cyber problems. Its campaign against Israel is a minor
annoyance compared with a wave of cyber attacks that have hit the country over
the last year from Iran and Gaza.

Since Wednesday - when Israel began air strikes into Gaza-Anonymous hackers have
retaliated with millions of hacking efforts on Israeli government and private
business sites, intermittently taking hundreds offline, defacing some with
anti-Israel messages, deleting Web databases for others and dumping thousands of
citizens' usernames and passwords online.

The campaign, which hackers have dubbed #OpIsrael, is essentially the digital
equivalent of a business getting hit with graffiti; it is a costly nuisance, but
eventually databases can be recovered, messages removed and sites come back
online. Israeli officials say the vast majority of the hacking efforts over the
last week on government sites - some 44 million tries by one official's count -
have been unsuccessful, with the exception of one site that went "wobbly for a
few minutes," the Israeli finance minister, Yuval Steinitz, told reporters,
before recovering.

Attacks from Iran and Gaza are another matter.

In July, security researchers at Kaspersky Lab and Seculert, two computer
security firms, discovered that a strain of malware had infected Israeli
companies. Many of those companies handle critical infrastructure, like the
country's energy and water supplies, computer and telecom networks. The malware,
which the researchers named "Mahdi" after a command in its code, appears to have
originated in Iran. Elements of the code were written in Farsi, dates in the
malware's code were formatted according to the Persian calendar, and the domains
used in the attacks were registered to Islamic Azad University in Tehran. The
term "Mahdi" may have also been a clue; for Shiites, Mahdi is a messianic
figure.

The malware was designed to spy on computers by copying images and files,
grabbing screenshots and using infected computers as recording devices to record
users' conversations. While many companies have been able to scrub the malware
from their systems, security researchers say Mahdi is still actively spying on
computers, predominantly in Israel, but also in Afghanistan, the United Arab
Emirates, Saudi Arabia and the United States.

More recently, Israel was forced to take its police department offline two weeks
ago after security experts discovered that many of the department's computers
had been infected with a remote-access tool, or RAT, which gives attackers
realtime control of victims' machines. The RAT appeared to be an off-the-shelf
variation that can be bought on public sites for as little as $50.

After some investigation, researchers at Norman, a computer security firm in
Fairfax, Va., noted that the  attacks originated from command-and-control
centers in Gaza and that the same servers had been spying for over a year, first
on computers in Palestine and then in Israel.

As far back as October 2011, the same command-and-control center had been used
to spy on Palestinians. Palestinians received targeted e-mails, written in
Arabic, that compelled them to click links that, when opened, gave  attackers
full access to their computers. The e-mails often baited victims with
politically relevant topics. One  discussed last year's exchange of an Israeli
soldier for Palestinian prisoners. Another included a video critical of
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas's treatment of Palestinians.

Then this year, in May, the same group of attackers shifted their target to
Israel from Palestine. Israelis received e-mails, in English and Hebrew, that
also discussed politically relevant topics,  like Mitt Romney's supposed support
for an Israeli airstrike on Iran. The e-mails also compelled recipients to click
links that deployed the RAT.

Researchers have stopped short of blaming the attacks on any one group, but Aviv
Raff, the chief technology officer of Seculert, said the content of the e-mails
and the location of the command-and-control centers made clear that the attacks
originated in Palestine.

Compared with those campaigns, Anonymous's attacks on Israeli Web sites almost
seem innocuous. And by Tuesday morning, six days after the group announced
#OpIsrael, the collective's campaign already showed signs of dissent.

Some Anonymous members took to Twitterto decry another member who had included
an anti-Semitic screed alongside a data spill of thousands of Israeli e-mail
addresses. And another member who had participated in several Anonymous
campaigns in the past said he was abstaining this time around.

"I haven't thrown my full weight and support behind #OpIsrael because its goals
may be dubious," the hacker wrote in a direct message on Twitter. "That said, I
only have influence. Not control. I throw my influence around from time to time,
but that's the only tool I have."


     ·    Anonymous Attacks Israeli Web Sites
     ·    Anonymous Steps Up Attacks on Israeli Sites
     ·    A Hacker Charms and Disappoints
     ·    Symantec Says Hackers Tried Extortion
     ·    Anonymous Says It Knocked Citigroup Sites Offline


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                           November 20, 2012 Tuesday

Cyber Monday Now Includes Hotel Deals

BYLINE: EMILY BRENNAN

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 209 words



HIGHLIGHT: Discounts on hotel stays will be amid the deals on electronics and
toys on Cyber Monday.


When Internet users go online tomorrow, Cyber Monday, they will find some
notable discounts on hotel stays amid the deals on electronics and toys.

Since the name was first coined in 2005, Cyber Monday has been a marketing
strategy used to entice consumers online after they jump-start their in-store
holiday shopping on Black Friday, and it has worked well: Last year's iteration
brought in $1.25 billion in online sales, according to comScore, a digital
analytics company.

Hotels have caught on to the fact that "in one day, you can book thousands of
dollars," said Nancy Friedman, a public relations specialist.

Some hotels are offering deals just for the holiday season, but others go beyond
it: For reservations made through Nov. 26, Orbitz is offering 15 percent off
stays between Nov. 15 and Jan. 5 at select hotels, while the Maritime Hotel in
New York City (above) is offering a 26 percent discount on rooms through the end
of 2013 for bookings made that day.


     ·    Booking a Hotel in New York? Use Your Cell Power to Call, Not Surf.
     ·    A Bed-and-Breakfast Deal Proves Popular at Hotels
     ·    Walkabout - 11/19: Bracing for Thanksgiving Traffic and Tracing
          Lincoln's Footsteps
     ·    Mount Airy Is Adding Pool, Lounge and Bar
     ·    At British Airways, iPads For Tapping Guests' Needs


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Bucks)

                          November 21, 2012 Wednesday

Wednesday Reading: Brushing Up on Holiday Table Manners

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 132 words



HIGHLIGHT: Brushing up on table manners before Thanksgiving, car rental agencies
warn of shortages for holiday, Cyber Monday now includes hotel deals and other
consumer-focused news from The New York Times.



     ·    Some New England states keep Thanksgiving at the table. (National)
     ·    Administration defines essential benefits for health plans. (National)
     ·    Airlines' on-time performance improves. (Business)
     ·    Car rentalagencies warn of holiday shortages. (N.Y./Region)
     ·    Thanksgiving dinner for 40 people. (Dining)
     ·    Parents worry about future impact of online activity. (Bits)
     ·    Syncing an iPad wirelessly. (Gadgewise)
     ·    More options for free mobile phone calls. (Gadgetwise)
     ·    Documenting the slaughter of wildlife. (Green)
     ·    The not-so-hidden calories from alcohol. (Well)
     ·    A leafy green Thanksgiving. (Well)
     ·    Brushing up on table-manners before Thanksgiving. (Motherlode)
     ·    Pose questions to an expert on female sexuality. (Booming)
     ·    Cyber Monday now includes hotel deals. (In Transit)
     ·    Thanksgiving fun in Plymouth, Mass. (Frugal Traveler)



LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Bucks)

                          November 21, 2012 Wednesday

You're Probably One of Two Kinds of Shoppers

BYLINE: CARL RICHARDS

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 627 words



HIGHLIGHT: If you're a hard-core shopper, you're not going to want to spend any
time in the stores with people like Carl Richards, the artist-in-residence at
the Bucks blog.


 Carl Richards is a certified financial planner in Park City, Utah, and is the
director of investor education at the BAM Alliance. His book, "The Behavior
Gap," was published this year. His sketches are archived on the Bucks blog.

It's official: I'm not a shopper! It has been a long and lonely road to this
point, but it feels good to finally discover the truth about myself.

Last summer I needed a new sport coat. My current one was 10 years old and
looked it. I kept putting off buying a new one, because every time I go shopping
it's no fun. No fun for me and no fun for anyone who goes with me. My wife vows
never to go with me again after just about every shopping trip. Luckily, she
forgets the pain just enough since I need her help if I have any hope of looking
presentable.

Based on anecdotal evidence, I'm guessing that some people find shopping fun,
even (or especially) on Black Friday. I have even heard that people actually
like to go out with friends for the specific purpose of shopping. Some people
even plan vacations around the activity.

This has long been a puzzle for me. It's not that I want to become a
recreational shopper. I just want to make it a bit less painful for people to be
around me when a situation requires a trip to the store.

After years of working on my problem, I think I have it figured out.

In an effort to simplify the issue, I've divided the world into two kinds of
people: those who think shopping is fun and those that don't. There's only a
problem when you don't know which camp you belong to.

Shoppers enjoy options. I guess it's fun for them to think about which shirt
goes well with the sport coat they're there to get. To nonshoppers, options just
get in the way of getting stuff done. For them, shopping is not about
entertainment, mixing and matching or assembling an evening ensemble (whatever
that is).

It's about the fastest way in and out of the store with the exact item you
already know you need or want. This activity isn't even the same thing as
shopping. It deserves its own name, maybe purpose-driven-shopping, or even
better "getting stuff."

When you're getting stuff, you know what you want. It was determined before you
walked in the door. No need to even think about accessories. Now here's what my
clothes shopping looks like! Need a tie with that? Hmm, let me look at that
list. Nope, it's not there. A belt? No, it's not on the list. Extended warranty?
Not on the list.

Getting stuff requires research. You need to know what you want. If you're a
nonshopper, don't go to the store to do that research, or if you do, don't take
a shopper with you. They will think they're going on a fun activity, like a
fourth-grade field trip. Since you're at cross purposes, it can lead to conflict
when you put on your game face in the parking lot. For you, this is not fun and
games; it's getting stuff done.

The Internet is a great place for research, and I suggest you call it that. When
you're approached by a shopper and they ask what you're doing on the Gap Web
site, tell them, "Research." This will make it clear that this is not fun, and
if they decide to help, there should be no expectation of fun.

Looking back on the arguments I've had over money with my wife, many of them
involve silent drives home after shopping. So if my theory holds true,
acknowledging that I'm a getting stuff person and my wife is a shopping person
can end these arguments. The same could hold true for you.

How does this compare to your shopping experience? Do you fall into the category
of "getting stuff" or "shopping?"


     ·    The Best Time to Buy and Sell College Textbooks
     ·    It's Back-to-School Sales Tax Holiday Season
     ·    Would You Pay More to Charge It?
     ·    When Setting a Budget Can Backfire
     ·    American Express Incentives to Push Deals on Twitter


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 22, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

How Sheep Wear It

BYLINE: By ERICA M. BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 143 words


THIS fall you're as likely to see shearling on the outside of a jacket as on the
inside (not to mention all over our accessories), with some of the most chic
looks combined with leather. In stores now, you can find a

Phillip Lim shearling letterman jacket, a J Brand leather bomber with a
shearling front and, from Alexander McQueen, a black leather jacket with
shearling sleeves that could make your knees weak. This high-

collar style from the French label Hôtel Particulier,

with its leather buckles, contrasting leather trim and combination of short- and
long-hair shearling, would make a grand statement, day and night. Food for
thought this Thanksgiving: stalk your dream coat for Cyber Monday (when this one
goes on sale), then donate an older one to the needy.

Hôtel Particulier shearling and leather jacket, $2,295 at

Intermix stores; intermixonline.com.

URL:

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 22, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Click Wisely to Shop, and Enjoy the Pie

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; TOOL KIT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1409 words


Some people may be looking forward to leaving Thanksgiving dinner before the pie
is served to join the Black Friday rush, which will begin during dinnertime
Thursday, earlier than ever, at stores like Sears, Walmart and Lord & Taylor.

But for those who prefer to stay for the pie course, avoid the lines and
freezing temperatures and shop from the comfort of their homes, there are just
as many deals to be found online this year, especially for smart shoppers.

Last year, online shoppers spent $816 million on Black Friday, an increase of 26
percent from the year before, and an additional $2.3 billion over Thanksgiving
weekend and Cyber Monday, according to comScore. It expects online spending to
rise this year.

Online, there is no commute, no parking and no crowds -- and shopping can be
done in bed or at the Thanksgiving dinner table. Still, you cannot try clothes
on, you have to wait for your purchase to arrive and there is always the nagging
feeling that a better price is just one more click away.

To find your way around those problems, here are some tips from online shopping
pros, retailers and shopping bloggers.

BARGAINS START EARLY ''Cyber Monday is passé,'' said Fiona Dias, chief strategy
officer for ShopRunner.com, a network of e-commerce sites. ''With online sales
beginning as early as the Wednesday night before Thanksgiving, consumers who
hold out for the best deal may find that what they are looking for has already
sold out.''

Amazon.com, for example, started its Black Friday deals on Monday, but they end
Saturday. SHOP ON TUESDAYS One of the secrets of online shopping is that prices
change by the second. To maximize your chances of getting the best price
year-round, shop on Tuesday, a variety of e-commerce experts say. For whatever
reason, Tuesday is when most e-commerce sites, including Shopbop, Etsy and
RetailMeNot, post discounts and new items.

No matter the day, online retailers often start sales in the wee hours, so shop
early.

As for the time of year, women's clothes, shoes and accessories are discounted
most in January, February, August and September, according to Shop It To Me, an
online shopping search site. For consumer electronics like laptops, shop in
midsummer and late September, before and after the back-to-school rush,
according to Decide.com, a price comparison site.

NEVER PAY FULL PRICE Online holiday shoppers should use 40 percent off as a
benchmark for a good deal, said Marjorie Cader, a Shop It To Me spokeswoman,
based on discount data the site has collected. Expect discounts that are about 5
percent better from online-only retailers than from those that also operate
brick and mortar stores, she said.

Comparison shopping sites like TheFind or ShopStyle can locate the best prices;
Google or coupon sites like RetailMeNot can also help find a discount.

Google, Amazon and even flash sale sites like Gilt.com do not always have the
lowest prices. You might check small shopping blogs dedicated to your favorite
brands, like Grechen's Closet for contemporary women's clothes or J. Crew
Aficionada.

''Spend 20 minutes and ensure you are getting the best deal out there,'' said
John Faith, senior vice president of mobile at WhaleShark Media, which operates
coupon sites, including RetailMeNot.

BE A HAGGLER This is the year haggling at the cash register could become
acceptable, as offline retailers try to keep shoppers offline. If you find a
better price online -- by using an application like RedLaser or searching Amazon
-- ask whether the cashier will match it. Big retailers like Target have already
said they will.

WAIT TILL THE LAST MINUTE Procrastinators might benefit during the holidays.
Electronics sold online are least expensive in the week before Christmas,
according to Decide, especially TVs, laptops and cameras.

And while Dec. 17 is the last day that most online retailers will offer free
shipping in time for Christmas, Walmart, the luxury clothing seller Net-a-Porter
and others will deliver the same day. In San Francisco and New York, eBay now
offers same-day delivery from hundreds of stores, including Macy's, Target and
Toys ''R'' Us.

NEVER PAY FOR SHIPPING... Nine of ten retailers will offer free shipping on
certain purchases this holiday season, and a third will offer free shipping on
all purchases, according to the National Retail Federation.

Some, though, require that you enter a promotional code, so it's wise to take a
minute to look around the Web site or search a coupon site to find it.

Stores including Walmart, Toys ''R'' Us and Nordstrom allow you to shop online
and pick up your order locally.

...OR FOR RETURNS Sites like Zappos.com and Piperlime send prepaid shipping
labels, but beware.

''When it comes to returns, read the fine print,'' said Brian Hoyt, a spokesman
for WhaleShark Media. Some merchants include a prepaid return label but subtract
the price from your refund, and others charge a restocking fee as high as 30
percent for consumer electronics.

Many companies, including Gap and J. Crew, also let you return an online
purchase to a local store. And until Dec. 31, PayPal will cover the return
shipping cost if the merchant does not, as long as you pay with PayPal and make
the return within 30 days.

SEARCH WISELY Try searching synonyms, like ''coat'' instead of ''jacket.'' On
sites like eBay, try leaving out words -- if you are looking for an Yves Saint
Laurent handbag on eBay, search for ''Saint Laurent'' or ''Laurent bag.''

''If you search for 'Yves Saint Laurent,' you'll be fighting over pieces with a
bigger group of people,'' said Sophia Amoruso, founder and chief executive of
the e-commerce retailer Nasty Gal, who suggested purposefully misspelling brand
names as well. ''Think of what an uninformed person might list a really great
designer piece as, and you can get an amazing gem for an incredible price.''

EBay Fashion also lets shoppers search by taking a cellphone picture of a fabric
to find similar designs.

GET INSPIRED Search for ''black sequin dress,'' and you'll get 128 results on
Zappos.com, 2,618 on Amazon.com and a truly overwhelming 18 million on Google.

One solution: Trust online curators to suggest items. Etsy creates lists of
recommended items. On Pinterest, you can peruse items culled by others. Other
sites to search for inspiration: Polvyore, Fancy, Svpply, Lookbook.nu and We
Heart It.

TRY IT ON, VIRTUALLY You can visit sites that show real people wearing the
clothes you're interested in buying, like Go Try It On, Fashism and Rent the
Runway and sites that show video, including Asos, MyHabit and Joyus. Or, as long
as a site offers free shipping and returns, order two sizes and return one.

SHOP INTERNATIONALLY ''Don't let international shopping scare you off,'' said
Caroline Nolan, the writer of Pregnant Fashionista, a maternity shopping blog.

Many international e-commerce sites, like Asos, ship free to the United States.
And because the seasons are different, winter clothes in Australia, for
instance, go on sale just as Americans are starting to shop for winter, she
said. FarFetch has items from small boutiques worldwide and 1stDibs is good at
finding rare items like an antique from Paris. On eBay, you might have luck
finding items made by a European designer by switching to eBay's site for a
particular country.

MAKE SITES WORK FOR YOU On Shop It To Me, you can enter your favorite designers
and sizes and the site will send you personalized e-mails with promotions and
sales. Many sites allow shoppers to place a symbol like a heart on best-liked
items or save them to a wish list. On a site like Pinterest, shoppers can build
a list.

''You always think you'll remember where you saw something or what brand it was,
but really you never do,'' said Noria Morales, style director at SugarInc, a
network of fashion and lifestyle blogs.

Even better, sites like Shopbop and Polyvore send alerts when items you have
saved go on sale or are running low. EBay sends alerts when new items are listed
for a search you have saved.

BE DILIGENT No one has time to read 50 e-mails a day from retailers. But for
your favorite e-commerce sites, it is worth signing up for e-mails, as well as
tracking them on Facebook and Twitter, where they often post exclusive deals.
Many online shoppers have more luck hunting for items than trusting services to
send alerts, said Grechen Reiter, owner of Grechen Media, a network of shopping
blogs.

''It is the thrill of the hunt that gets us going, after all,'' she said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/22/technology/personaltech/online-shopping-tips-f
or-the-holidays.html

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ebay, top, delivers to shoppers in New York and  San Francisco.
Some sites, like RetailMeNot, cut  prices for shoppers using promotional codes.
(B8)  DRAWING (B8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (On the Runway)

                           November 22, 2012 Thursday

New Shopping App for Black Friday

BYLINE: SIMONE S. OLIVER

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 215 words



HIGHLIGHT: The interactive app ushers old school lottery scratch-and-win tickets
into the present, and manages to exploit shoppers' innate gaming nerve in a
simple and enjoyable way.


Just in time for Gray Thursday, Black Friday and Cyber Monday: a new
location-based shopping app, Scratch Hard.  Available at the iTunes store,  the
mobile app seeks to make holiday shopping a little easier and perhaps save some
money.

Been lusting after a new winter coat? The app lets you explore deals by location
and category. "Scratch" the virtual stickers to unveil any special sales nearby.

Shopping categories include health and beauty, electronics and jewelry, but
"apparel has the most user interest so far," said Tony Sayegh, the company's
chief  executive. "It's also the category where we have the most offers."

For those gearing up for Black Friday, the app can also help with shopping
logistics.

Mr. Sayegh said that his company scours deals from three sources: directly from
major retailers, Web sites and old-fashioned legwork.

Scratch Hard aims to circumvent "checking in" to stores or using bar codes to
scan products in order to get discounts.  In the future, Scratch Hard users can
create profiles that alerts them to specific offers.

Available for download on the iPhone, iPad or iTouch.

Tool Kit: Click Wisely to Shop, and Enjoy the Pie

Scouting Report: Black Friday Sales


     ·    Mr. Madison Moves On
     ·    Behind the Veil
     ·    A Vintage Trove in South Beach
     ·    With Real Presence
     ·    Pucker Up for Pucci


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                           November 22, 2012 Thursday

Vignettes of Black Friday

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

LENGTH: 5766 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Lede is checking out the mood of Black Friday shoppers as the
economically critical holiday season kicks off. In Times Square, some had been
anticipating a sale for months.


With promotions, discounts and doorbusters already well under way on
Thanksgiving Day itself, many big-box retailers are making Black Friday stretch
longer than ever. The Lede is checking out the mood of American consumers in
occasional vignettes Thursday and Friday as the economically critical holiday
shopping season kicks off.

4:41 P.M. | Life in the Slow Lane

Not far from the frantic crush of local malls, the merchants of downtown Upland,
Calif., quietly rolled a few racks of merchandise out to the sidewalks under the
bright sun of an 80-degree day. They stood back and waited.

At 10 a.m., a few shoppers started to stroll through town. But it was hardly a
hotbed of consumer activity.

"I think we're going to get a little bit more business tomorrow than today,"
said Jake McCarty, assistant manager at Roy's Cyclery, which has been in
business since 1962. "People think most small shops are going to be closed on
Black Friday."

The downtown business district of Upland, a 14-block area that sits 35 miles
east of Los Angeles, dates from the citrus boom of the 1890s. With more than a
dozen restaurants and nearly 200 businesses, the area has seen both better times
and worse. If anything, it's showing a slight uptick from the recent economic
crash, with city sales tax revenue up about by 2 percentage points in the
2011-2012 fiscal year, according to Jeff Zwack, the city's development service
director.

But you wouldn't necessarily sense the comeback Friday, since the local
merchants association has taken pains to avoid competing with the giant
retailers on their big day. In fact, Historic Downtown Upland Inc. was planning
a "shop till you drop" event for the evening of Dec. 13, with music, sidewalk
sales and Santa stationed in the gazebo in the center of town.

Despite the low expectations, a few crowd-averse shoppers wandered the streets.

Brandi Koenke, 40, of Claremont, stopped in the Utility Boardshop with her
family of four. It was their second stop after a quick venture into a nearby
Kohl's discount department store. The shop was offering a discount on a watch
that she was looking at for her 15-year-old son, Ryan.

After the experience at Kohl's, she said, "this was much nicer. No crowds." It
was her last stop for the day.

Down the street at the bike shop, Kendrick Stallard emerged with a small bag of
supplies.

"This has nothing to do with the fact that the Friday is black," said Mr.
Stallard, a 22-year-old choreographer from Fontana. "We're going on a bike
adventure, and we couldn't care less."

Across the street, Mary Aneen slowly made her way through the displays in front
of the antique stores. "I don't shop on Black Friday," she said. "Too many
people, too many lines, and you never get what you want. I like antiques."

Down the street, next to the Metrolink commuter train station, Fred Paciocco,
owner of Pacific Wine Merchants, had time to give a tour of the shop, which is
in a city-owned former Santa Fe train station built in 1937. He pointed out the
specially ordered light fixtures, the original cabinetry and the old ticket
counter that now serves as the back bar for wine tasting.

Mr. Paciocco took the slow start on Friday in stride; he had done good business
in the days leading up to Thanksgiving, and he expected to do well at Christmas,
too.

"We're like most retailers," he said. "If you don't do it in November or
December, you're not going to make it."

- Rebecca Fairley Raney

 3:15 P.M. | Hunting TVs and Telephones in the Great North

Shoppers waiting outside Sam's Club in Eagan, Minn., for Friday's 7 a.m. opening
clung to free Starbuck's Holiday Blend coffee as they endured freezing
temperatures and biting winds and collected brightly colored vouchers for
laptops and big-screen TVs.

The biggest draw: a 96-cent Samsung Galaxy S III smartphone. Once inside, they
beelined for tickets for the 63 in stock, which sold out shortly after the store
opened. Customers could make an appointment for later in the day or another day
to purchase the phone, choosing from three carriers, Verizon, T-Mobile or
Sprint.

"O.K., this is my last blue for Sprint," an employee called out at 7:08 a.m.

Erin Mustonen, 23, a consultant from Eagan who graduated from college last
December, was the first in line outside Sam's, arriving with her boyfriend at
5:30 a.m. and snagging a 65-inch Vizio Smart TV for $998. It was sweet
redemption since she was the 21st shopper to seek a 60-inch Vizio Thursday night
at nearby Walmart, which had 20 in stock.

Sam's early-bird shoppers voiced satisfaction in having had a normal
Thanksgiving celebration, bucking the Thursday-night push.

"I don't like it," said Denny Johnson, 66, a retired property manager from
Burnsville who had come for a 51-inch Samsung TV. "They're going to start this
on Veterans Day if they keep going."

Subbamanoz Kristam, a 27-year-old software engineer living in Eagan, stood
outside with a friend while their wives huddled in the car - only to learn that
the Samsung doorbuster didn't include AT&T customers. The lines seemed longer
than last year, he said.

Mr. Kristam's friend, Praveen Elagala, 30, also a software engineer in Eagan,
had embarked on his first Black Friday to buy a 55-inch Samsung LED TV for $998.
"It's pretty exciting," he said, sipping his coffee. "My wife will be happy."

Archie Weatherspoon IV, 29, a probation officer from St. Paul, came with his
wife and two young boys, who munched on McDonald's hash browns as they awaited a
Samsung Galaxy ticket.

Mr. Weatherspoon had almost called off the plan for their first Black Friday
outing after watching a YouTube video of a Thursday night cellphone fight at an
out-of-state Walmart. "I don't want to bring my kids out if it's going to be
that chaotic," he said. But he decided to trust Sam's for a "more organized"
set-up and left with a Samsung ticket and five $9.98 Blu-ray DVDs.

Chuck Magnusson, 74, a retired highway engineer from Detroit Lakes, bought a
Samsung Galaxy for Sprint's unlimited texting plan so he could keep up with his
dexterous kids.

Jeff Sengbusch, 48, a health care support clinician from South St. Paul,
hazarded his first Black Friday in more than 20 years. "I've worked maintenance
at a mall - I've seen arms broken, people shoved and kids trampled," he said.

Concerned about the economy and President Obama's re-election, Mr. Sengbusch
said he planned to cut holiday buying way back, having typically spent $250 to
$300 on each of his children. "I'm setting a $50 limit because I can't afford
the future taxes. I can only give so much."

Others succumbed to Black Friday whims. "I didn't even want it," Meshia Flood,
36, a student from Eagan, told a worker standing near the exit, referring to the
40-inch Sanyo LED TV on her cart. She and her 13-year-old daughter had come for
the Samsung Galaxy but hadn't managed to snag one of the Verizon phones, which
disappeared minutes after opening.

- Christina Capecchi

 2:02 P.M. | Electronics Sell Well

At a Kmart in Memphis, hours before the sun rose on Black Friday, there was
already a return. Alton Hays taped up a box and brought back a wet-dry vacuum he
purchased on Thursday. It didn't have wheels and was missing its wand.

But many other electronic items were still going out the door. Most of the
sleep-deprived shoppers were there for the handful of "doorbuster" deals worth
some effort, they said: televisions priced at an average $200 off regular price
and discounted washers/dryers, telephones and cameras.

Kinson Fant, 37, wanted one of the larger televisions, but the store's limited
stock was already spoken for through tickets passed out earlier. Ms. Fant, who
lost her job at Nike's distribution center in Memphis six days earlier, settled
for a 19-inch television for $88.

When Glenda Wallace, a long-haul truck driver, finished her wait in the
electronics line - the longest one in the store - she wheeled her shopping cart
carrying her 52-inch television she just bought to the opposite end of the store
to begin another hour or two wait in the second-longest line - the one for
layaways.

She ended up buying one television, receiving a raincheck on a second one and
putting a third in layaway all for herself.

Last year, she said, she spent $7,000 on Christmas presents for her family.
She's told them all this year that things will be different. Not because of the
economy - just because.

"I'm spending less this year. I sure am," Ms. Wallace said. "Because, I ain't
buying nobody nothing! You can save a lot of money that way. They got all they
needed from me last year."

Others said they cut back spending for other reasons. "We're spending less this
year because we've found better deals," said 31-year-old Regina Woods, a child
care provider, who was in the Kmart electronics line with her husband,
37-year-old Daryl Woods.

- Cindy Wolff

 1:47 P.M. | Bargain-Hunting on a Tight Budget

Matt and Veronica Lynagh of Columbus, Ohio, made a series of financial changes
after their daughter was born last December that  radically changed their
approach to Christmas shopping this year.

Veronica, 29, quit her job this year as a director of sales for the Columbus
Dispatch newspaper to start her own marketing consulting business so that she
could spend more time at home with the baby. They used some of their savings to
pay off credit card debt. They refinanced their home, saving them $200 a month.
Matt, 30, who works at Jegs, an auto parts supply company, traded his Dodge Ram
1500 Crew Cab pickup for a Mazda 6 SUV, which saved them $250 a month on gas.
They also started aggressively putting money into savings.

They also got serious about budgeting. They created a spreadsheet that's
color-coded for income and spending. A few months ago, Veronica used the
spreadsheet to set $700 aside to prepare for holiday shopping.

"Our feeling now is to spend, but do it responsibly," Veronica said.

Another reason for their belt-tightening was political. They both voted for Mitt
Romney, largely because they worry about runaway government spending under
President Obama. "We're nervous" about Obama's re-election, Veronica said. "Our
government is spending money we don't have. Somebody eventually will pay that
off, and it will be my daughter."

So this year, they won't buy any presents with credit cards. They'll use their
bank cash cards instead. "We don't put anything on credit anymore," Matt said.

Meanwhile, they use the same shopping system that they have for years, in which
Matt does the bulk of the Black Friday shopping. His strategy is to avoid
popular stores like Walmart, where there are often long lines, focusing instead
on smaller locations. When he arrives, he finds the nearest uniformed employee,
points at a desired item in the store's Black Friday newspaper ad, and asks,
"Where's this?" He walks briskly to the indicated spot, grabs the gift and heads
straight for the cashier.

"I feel it would be really stupid to pay full price this season when all the
stores have such good deals," Matt said.

After using his system at Toys "R" Us and spending $135.02 on gifts for his
daughter, he drove to Best Buy, where the line was still wrapped around the
building, even though the store had opened at midnight, an hour and a half
earlier.

"Forget that," he said. "I wanted a hard drive for photos, but I'm not going to
wait in line for that."

- Christopher Maag

 12:04 P.M. | Protests at Walmarts

3:55 P.M. | Updated

Walmart faced not only a throng of shoppers on Black Friday, but what a
union-backed group said was the biggest wave of protests that the retailer has
faced. On Thursday night, there were protests at Walmart stores in Miami, Dallas
and Milwaukee, part of what the group, OUR Walmart, said would be rallies at
1,000 Walmart stores in 46 states.

In Milwaukee, more than 50 workers and their allies demonstrated outside a
Walmart store, and in Kenosha, Wisc., more than 30 did, carrying signs that
spelled out, "Respect the Workers." In Quincy, Mass., two dozen workers and
their supporters demonstrated during the night, with an illuminated projection
on the store's outside walls saying, "Massachusetts Supports Walmart Workers
Rights," the labor group said. On Friday morning in the Washington, D.C., area,
several hundred people - a combination of Walmart workers and their supporters,
many from various labor unions - demonstrated at a series of Walmart stores.

OUR Walmart - its formal name is Organization United for Respect at Walmart -
clams several thousand Walmart employees as members and said that many of them
would not report to work Friday in what the group says is a strike. The group,
which works closely with the United Food and Commercial Workers International
Union, said its members were protesting what it said was retaliation by Walmart
managers against employees who speak out about their wages, part-time hours and
working conditions.

Walmart officials have repeatedly called the protests "a publicity stunt." The
company issued a statement Friday saying that 26 protests had occurred at its
stores on Thursday night. "Many of them did not include any Walmart associates,"
the company said. It estimated that fewer than 50 Walmart employees had
participated in the protests on Thanksgiving evening.

"In fact, this year, roughly the same number of associates missed their
scheduled shift as last year," Bill Simon, the company's chief executive
officer, said in the statement.

Nancy Cleeland, spokeswoman for the National Labor Relations Board, said the
labor board would not respond on Friday to a complaint that Walmart filed last
week asking for a court injunction to bar the protests.

In a news release issued by OUR Walmart, Colby Harris, a member of the group and
a Walmart employee for three years who said he walked off the job in Lancaster,
Texas, said, "Our voices are being heard. And thousands of people in our cities
and towns and all across the country are joining our calls for change at
Walmart."

Walmart's 1.4 million employees in the United States are not unionized, and some
of them have complained about their wages, lack of rights and the company's
hostile attitude toward any employee support for a union. Walmart has asserted
that the protests are yet another union-engineered effort to harass and apply
pressure to the company  after the United Food and Commercial Workers has
repeatedly failed in its efforts to unionize various Walmart stores.

Update:

In what organizers said was one of the biggest protests, more than 500 people -
Walmart employees, community backers and some members of the clergy - rallied
outside the Walmart store in Paramount, Calif., a Los Angeles suburb. Some of
those protesters were arrested after engaging in civil disobedience by blocking
Lakewood Boulevard.

Walmart officials said that most of the protesters were not company employees,
but rather community supporters, and said some had been bussed from store to
store to engage in multiple protests.

Dan Schlademan, one of the protests' main organizers and the director of Making
Change at Wal-Mart, an arm of the food and commercial workers union, said that
hundreds of Walmart workers had gone on strike on Friday and engaged in protests
across the country. But he acknowledged that most of the demonstrators were
community allies, saying they shared the goal of pressing Wal-Mart to improve
wages and to stop what they say is widespread retaliation.

- Steven Greenhouse

10:16 A.M. | As Black Friday Goes, So Goes the Economy?

Analysts and investors pay a lot of attention to Black Friday figures and
anecdotes, hoping that they will provide some insight into the consumer psyche
and by extension the overall economy. Consumer spending, after all, represents
about 70 percent of total economic output, and Black Friday is the most hyped
shopping day of the year.

But it's not clear how much Black Friday activity actually tells us about the
underlying health of the economy, or even about how much consumers are going to
spend in the subsequent few weeks.

"History suggests that strong sales on Black Friday tend to be followed by weak
sales over the rest of the holidays and that weak sales on Black Friday tend to
be followed by strong sales later on," Paul Dales, senior United States
economist for Capital Economics, wrote in a note to clients, adding that the
overall relationship between sales during Thanksgiving week and sales over the
entire holiday season is weak.

"This would make sense if people have a fixed amount of cash that they allocate
to either Black Friday or the rest of the holidays," he said. "Good Black Friday
sales may then just mean that households have brought forward some of their
holiday spending."

Consumer confidence has been quite strong in the last few months, in any case,
suggesting that people may be willing to spend more money over the whole holiday
period than they had in the last few years, regardless of how that spending is
staggered over the next few weeks.

"We are in a very peculiar situation where corporations, politicians and
financial markets all worry a lot about the 'fiscal cliff,' whereas households
don't seem to care," said Torsten Slok, chief international economist at
Deutsche Bank Securities, referring to the government budget negotiations.

Consumers may be more optimistic because they believe the value of their homes
have bottomed out and so they're starting to feel wealthier. The job market is
firming up, too.

"Obviously, the unemployment rate is not dropping tons, but it's dropping enough
that it's noteworthy and is making people feel more confident about their jobs
and their own situation," said Alison Paul, vice chairman and United States
retail and distribution leader for Deloitte.

The other good news is there are five weekends between Thanksgiving and
Christmas this year, which is one more than there has been the last couple of
years. "Those are the big shopping days, regardless of how much business the
stores are doing during the week," said Ms. Paul.

- Stephanie Clifford and Catherine Rampell

9:37 A.M. | A Deal's Not Always a Deal

People come out for Black Friday sales for, among other reasons, the once-a-year
deeply discounted bargains. At least, that's what stores want consumers to
expect they're getting. But smartphones have enabled consumers to get savvier
about fact-checking those "bargains."

Brick-and-mortar stores have responded this year by promising to honor major
online competitors' prices. They want to avoid the encroachment of so-called
showrooming - shoppers using the physical locations to see what they may buy on
the Internet - onto one of their biggest (and most profitable) shopping days of
the year.

"This is one of the more profound changes this year because it really puts the
power back into the hands of the folks in the stores," said Alison Paul, vice
chairman and United States retail and distribution leader at Deloitte. "These
are the new rules of the road. For years, the store clerks had no authority to
do this."

Best Buy, Target, Fry's Electronics and Staples have all agreed to price-match
with at least some online competitors. Target has even installed free Wi-Fi in
every store, according to Bryan Everett, the company's senior vice president of
stores, even though it makes it easier for customers to check competitors'
prices.

"That speaks to our level of confidence in our pricing," he said. "We've worked
very hard on our pricing this year to make sure it's sharp and people can shop
with confidence."

Consumer analysts and advocates recommend putting your smartphone to good use
and price-checking, since Black Friday "deals" aren't always just that.

"About a third of the time it's not a good deal," said Mike Fridgen, chief
executive of Decide, a price-prediction Web site. "Some are egregious," he said,
citing some offers he has seen for headphones. "That price has risen over the
last few weeks as we've been getting closer to the holidays, and now they're
discounting it back to a level similar to what it was weeks ago, but not the
lowest we've seen."

Another reason brick-and-mortar stores may be slowing the loss of customers to
online competitors is that more states have started forcing online retailers to
pay sales taxes. That's chipping away at the pricing edge of some major
companies like Amazon.com, according to Nelson Granados, professor at the
Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University.

- Catherine Rampell

 9:14 a.m. | Searching for Significance

On Twitter, some people are wondering what Black Friday sales will mean for the
economy and the markets, minutes before they open in New York:

Black Friday feels like election day all over again, this time we are taking
exit polls from malls instead of voting areas
- Peter Eller (@Peter_Eller10)23 Nov 12

8:21 A.M. | Was Black Thursday Good for Retailers?

Early Friday, retail executives were already starting to assess how their
decision to start Black Friday well before midnight on Thursday had affected
consumer behavior.

Bryan Everett, Target's senior vice president of stores, said that Target's
decision to open at 9 p.m. on Thursday rather than midnight this year resulted
in more families in the store and in customers staying longer.

"Usually it's just a parent with a child, or mom and dad, or just a single guest
in the store," he said, drawing on his previous 10 years of observing Black
Fridays at Target. "This year we were seeing four- to five-person families."

He said as a consequence, there was more "cross-shopping" this year: in addition
to the surge in big-screen LCD TVs, iPads, iPods, DVDs and Xboxes, "we saw a
nice pattern of shopping in the apparel and home departments." Kids' pajamas,
blankets, sheets sets, pillows and scarves all did particularly well.

Mr. Everett did not yet have any specific sales numbers to report, but based on
anecdotal reports he said he believed the volume of customers was about the same
as last year, while shopping carts were fuller.

- Catherine Rampell

 8:09 A.M. | A Civic Duty to Shop After Sandy

It was cold and dark, with the end of Thanksgiving only four hours old, when
Ines Wishart awoke, donned a hat and winter's coat and stood in line under the
pale glow of parking lot lights at the Lord & Taylor in Westfield, N.J., for
Black Friday.

"We really want to support the downtown and the businesses here after what
happened," said Ms. Wishart, 49, a teacher who lives in Westfield and was
without power for a week after Hurricane Sandy.

Around the region, shopping centers and downtowns that had been frozen by the
late October hurricane bustled with shoppers during paperboy hours on Friday.
Some, like Ms. Wishart, said they came out of a sense of civic duty to help
hometown businesses recover revenue. And others, like Genevieve Cece, 33, a
homemaker who lives in neighboring Clark, N.J., and lost power for four days,
said shopping was a way to put behind them the storm's bad memories.

"You come out to shop and get back to normal. You've got to move forward with
your life," she said, carting a Lord & Taylor bag from the store.

For the majority of Friday's insomniac consumers, the motivation to stimulate
the local economy was far more personal than public. When asked for whom they
had gotten up at 4:15 a.m. to shop, Westfield residents Susie Katz, 51, and her
daughter Maddie Katz, 17, answered in unison.

"Ourselves," they said.

A line of perhaps 150 shoppers snaked from the front door of the Westfield Lord
& Taylor deep into the parking lot, and when a church bell tolled five times,
dozens more ran up to the line from their idling cars. A woman just inside the
door handed out coupons worth $20. By 5:15 a.m., the lot was full, save for the
parking spots furthest away. Some shoppers sprinted the length of the lot,
trailing huffs of vapor that hung like clouds.

"I wanted that extra $20 off," said Jodi Marvosa, 45, a caterer who lives in
Westfield, who bought pajamas, boots and a sweater.

Linda Coleman, who works in education and lives in Westfield, came to the store
with her daughter Danielle Coleman, 26, just for the experience.

"It seemed like an adventure. I mean, who gets up at 5 o'clock to shop?" she
said. "I'm shocked by how many people are inside."

Elsewhere, the early Black Friday scene was less manic. At the Hudson Mall in
Jersey City, which was closed for weeks because of storm damage, Devlyn
Courtier, 21, who works at Hudson County Community College, was the only one in
line outside the Game Stop at 4 a.m. He said he woke at 3 a.m. and walked to the
mall in order to buy a PlayStation system for his girlfriend.

"I wanted to make sure I was one of the first people here," he said.

He added that he knew that the mall had been affected by Sandy, but was
surprised by its condition.

"You wouldn't notice it now," he said. "It looks like nothing happened."

For some early morning shoppers, the party started Thanksgiving night and just
didn't stop. Brittany Dannunzio and Lindsay Laguna, both 19 of Scotch Plains,
drove to Tinton Falls in Monmouth County to shop from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Then
they spent a couple of hours in a chrome-covered diner and counted down until
the Lord & Taylor's in Westfield opened at 5 a.m.

"I plan on sleeping sometime - I just don't know when," Ms. Dannunzio said
later, outside the Victoria's Secret in downtown Westfield.

When the store's doors unlocked at 6 a.m., the two young women squealed, "It's
open!" and charged inside. Ms. Laguna said that they would soon go to "whatever
opens up next."

For other sleepless shoppers, the morning was more frustrating. Cagla Yavuz, 19,
and Yasemin Karamete, 20, of Westfield, spent an anxious night sipping tea and
pinching each other to keep from falling asleep only to leave Lord & Taylor
empty-handed at 5:15 a.m., grumbling about the crowds.

"Never again," Ms. Yavuz said. "We didn't even try anything on. People were
pushing and shoving - the lines were ridiculous."

Ms. Karamete, who had hoped to buy some Ugg boots, said she was now looking
forward to shopping on the day after Christmas.

- Nate Schweber

7:50 A.M. | Macy's Mayhem

Who exactly are all those crazy people who go to Macy's at midnight for Black
Friday?

Turns out a lot of them have been pondering that very question themselves, and
finally decided to show up to see what the big deal was.

"We've been hearing about this for years in Canada, where we don't have Black
Friday," said Donna Ward, 48, from just outside Toronto, who was waiting outside
the flagship Macy's at Herald Square around 11:20 p.m. on Thursday. "We came
just to see what's there to see. We want to see the stampedes!"

When the doors opened at precisely midnight, huddled masses of about 11,000
streamed in, according to Jim Sluzewski, a spokesman for Macy's. They burst in
like water at the seams of a leaky ship, gushing in from all nine entrances,
running and cheering, with their arms pumping above their heads like marathoners
crossing the finishing line.

"Let's get in front of the cameras!" called Andre Hejazi, 19, from Salt Lake
City, as he charged in with his friend Latoya Boender, 23, from Holland, both
mugging for the dozens of journalists squatting inside the entrance to capture
the mayhem.

The crowd was mostly young again this year, Mr. Sluzewski said. He noted that
this was the second year the store opened its doors around midnight instead of a
few hours before dawn on Friday. The younger Black Friday clientele may not be
unique to Macy's; a Gallup poll found that more than a third of Americans aged
18-29 planned on shopping on Black Friday this year, compared to just 18 percent
of American adults over all.

The Macy's crowd after midnight was full of foreign tourists - many of those
interviewed said they were from Brazil, Canada and Japan - and plenty of college
students looking for deals or at least some good stories for their friends.

"We can go all night - we're in college and we're used to not sleeping," said
Maricel Zamoras, 22, a senior at Southern Adventist University in Collegedale,
Tenn., which brought students to the city on an eight-day field trip to study
the sociology and business of New York. Ms. Zamoras and her friend Jessica
Anzai, 20, agreed that shopping on Black Friday provided a hearty taste of both
subjects.

"I'm looking to see what I can get that's really good that's also really, really
cheap," Ms. Zamoras said. "But if I go home empty-handed that's O.K. too."

- Catherine Rampell

 11:07 p.m. | The Hard Core and the Merely Curious

At 8 p.m. Thursday, as the Times Square Toys "R" Us opened its doors, the line
of circular-clutching deal-seekers curled halfway around a city block. The lucky
first couple of hundred people in line had been given Santa hats and goodie bags
by the store to honor their punctuality and warm their noggins, although the
evening temperature was mild.

"We got here early for the iPod and tablets deals," said Shequel Pearce, 39,
holding up tickets she was given by Toys "R" Us staff that guaranteed her these
items in case stock ran low. Visiting from Nassau in the Bahamas, she and her
family arrived at 4:30 p.m. and were near the very front of the line. "We didn't
come to New York just to shop, but we're here, so we're gonna shop," she said.

Parents farther back grumbled about how long the line was this year compared
with last year, when the store opened at 10 p.m., and others peeled crying
children away with a promise that they could visit "tomorrow." Some tourists
braved the line just to see what the fuss was about.

"I guess I don't really have any particular goals for tonight's shopping, but it
seems less nerve-racking to stand in line here than walking through all of
that," said Patrick Tucker, a 24-year-old from Kansas City, motioning to the
clogged pedestrian traffic on the sidewalks of Times Square.

Some had been anticipating this sale for months and were in for the long haul.

"We'll probably spend the whole night at Macy's after this," said Iona Rashmi of
Manhattan, who said she did the same last year. "I do my shopping for the whole
year this night - holidays, birthdays, everything I need to buy for friends and
family. The deals are better."

As when Moses parted the Red Sea, once the doors to the building opened, those
in line streamed in swiftly. By about 8:30 p.m. or so, there was no line.

Parents reading lists off of scraps of paper or their smartphones clustered
around the Avengers gear, Monster High dolls, Barbies, Legos and scooters. There
was a separate line within the store to get into the video game section.

Tina Lee of Manhattan lugged around eight gigantic blue mesh Toys "R" Us bags
full of toys and gifts, saying she had been tasked by her coworkers to do all
their purchasing since they were stuck working Thursday night and Friday.

"It's sad I have to be the one to do it, but at least I have the night off,"
said Ms. Lee.

Brazilian tourists in particular said they had purposely timed their visit to
New York for this long weekend because they had been hearing about this magical
American holiday called Black Friday for a couple of years now.

"Tonight I'm going to Old Navy, H&M, Sephora and maybe Apple, but maybe that's
tomorrow," said Maria Augusta, 33, of São Paulo, Brazil. She bought a package
deal for a flight and hotel for around $3,000 just so she could make her
purchases at New York prices. "Everything is so expensive in Brazil. They think
we're all millionaires. It is worth it, very worth it, to fly here to shop."

- Catherine Rampell

8:29 p.m. | Hungry for Deals on Thursday

While some stores made the controversial decision to open on Thanksgiving,
consumers were not necessarily buying into the "Black Thursday" rush just yet.

In Midtown Manhattan, a handful of the major chain stores, like Lord & Taylor,
Old Navy and Foot Locker, staffed up on Thursday for people who wanted to get an
early start. After all, a recent report from the International Council of
Shopping Centers and Goldman Sachs estimated that some 41 million people were
expected to take advantage of the increased Thanksgiving hours to shop before or
after stuffing their faces with turkey and pie.

As of mid- to late afternoon, though, some of the stores were not especially
busy.

On the third floor of Old Navy on West 34th Street around 4 p.m., racks of
neatly hung children's fleeces, pants and shirts remained still unmussed by
shoppers. In some areas of the store, in fact, the shoppers were nearly
outnumbered by polite and cheerful salespeople, who were handing out fliers
about Friday's deals beginning at midnight, 4 a.m., and 8 a.m.

Many of the people who were shopping said they did not come in seeking
particular deals. Like Luiz and Sayonara Nascimento of Florianopolis, Brazil, or
Maxine and Bill Sauber of Carlisle, Penn., they just happened to wander by and
decided to browse.

"The door was open and the music was blasting, so we figured why not?" said Ms.
Sauber. She said she was looking around for potential gifts for grandchildren
but hadn't decided whether to buy anything yet.

Likewise, several people interviewed at Lord & Taylor said they had not planned
on doing any major shopping. They decided to come in after spotting people
toting Lord & Taylor shopping bags in Bryant Park and around the Macy's
Thanksgiving Day Parade route.

"So far the deals aren't that great," said Rachel Feldman, 20, of Brooklyn, who
was browsing the shoe collection because she said she had some time before going
to a friend's dinner feast. She bought some chocolates at a shop at Bryant Park,
but nothing at Lord & Taylor.

Many shoppers congregated around the boots and pumps on display, but other
floors of designer clothes and sportswear had very few people milling around at
5:30, an hour and a half before closing time.

There were at least some customers who came on Thursday because they were not
able to shop on Friday.

"You know those other stores are losing money by being closed right now," said
Latasha Jones, 46, at Old Navy. She said she finished cooking the night before
to give herself time to shop on Thanksgiving since she had work on Friday. "It's
an off-day for a lot of people, and it's the only time we can shop."

Once her Thanksgiving dinner in Manhattanville was over, she said, she expected
to be back in Midtown for Macy's midnight opening.

"I'm not going to make it out all night," she said. "But I need to get some
bargains. With this economy, I need to save money just like everybody else."

- Catherine Rampell


     ·    Ikea Apologizes for Removing Women From Saudi Catalog
     ·    Soccer Hooligans in Israel Bring Racist Chants to Shopping Mall
     ·    Killing on Oxford Street Mars Boxing Day in London
     ·    Updates on Financial Market Upheaval
     ·    Live Blog: The Markets


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Bucks)

                            November 23, 2012 Friday

On Shopping Post-Thanksgiving

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 261 words



HIGHLIGHT: Weighing how to spend the post-Thanksgiving weekend.


I've never been much of a Black Friday shopper.

For one thing, I don't like crowds. So some families' tradition of venturing out
together to shop doesn't hold much appeal for me. My own family's holiday
tradition involved watching high school football and then eating as much as
possible -- but not spending as much as possible, the day after.

Perhaps it has something to do with my roots in New England, where some states
cling to Colonial-era retail lawsthat de-emphasize holiday shopping.

Cyber Monday-- or at least, "cyber weekend-after-Thanksgiving" -- is something I
can possibly embrace. I do a lot of shopping online anyway, and I do plan to buy
holiday gifts for family and friends. So why not see if good deals can be found
on the Internet, and knock some items off the list?

The reality, though, is that I probably won't buy a lot of stuff online in the
next few days. The three days after Thanksgiving promise to be mostly free of
the usual organized sports and other activities for my children. We greatly
enjoy their games -- and they do, too -- but it's nice to have a break with
unscheduled time together. So I'll probably spend much of my time just hanging
out with them (and resisting my youngest child's entreaties to put up our
Christmas tree early).

How about you? How does shopping figure -- or not -- into your post-Thanksgiving
plans?


     ·    You're Probably One of Two Kinds of Shoppers
     ·    It's Back-to-School Sales Tax Holiday Season
     ·    When Setting a Budget Can Backfire
     ·    Cash Mobs Promote Spending (and Socializing) Locally
     ·    Holiday Shipping Dates, Free and Otherwise


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 25, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cyber Monday Now Includes Hotel Deals

BYLINE: By EMILY BRENNAN

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 174 words


When Internet users go online tomorrow, Cyber Monday, they will find some
notable discounts on hotel stays amid the deals on electronics and toys.

Since the name was first coined in 2005, Cyber Monday has been a marketing
strategy used to entice consumers online after they jump-start their in-store
holiday shopping on Black Friday, and it has worked well: Last year's iteration
brought in $1.25 billion in online sales, according to comScore, a digital
analytics company.

Hotels have caught on to the fact that "in one day, you can book thousands of
dollars," said Nancy Friedman, a public relations specialist.

Some hotels are offering deals just for the holiday season, but others go beyond
it: For reservations made through Nov. 26, Orbitz is offering 15 percent off
stays between Nov. 15 and Jan. 5 at select hotels, while the Maritime Hotel in
New York City (above) is offering a 26 percent discount on rooms through the end
of 2013 for bookings made that day.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://intransit.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/11/20/cyber
-monday-now-includes-hotel-deals/

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 25, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama's Ticking Clock

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF, MATT BAI, ERIC SPITZNAGEL, JOHN HODGMAN, SAMANTHA
HENIG, MAUD NEWTON, MARNIE HANEL, HOPE REEVES, TYLER COWEN, JESSICA GROSS, ELIOT
GLAZER, MARIO BATALI, LIZZIE SKURNICK, SPENCER BAILEY and MIKE HUCKABEE

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ONE-PAGE MAGAZINE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 766 words


THE BIG PROFILE: CHRIS CORNELL

By Dave Itzkoff

Over the years, Chris Cornell has learned to keep his growly, grungy singing
voice in top condition. ''Obviously, don't do anything stupid that's
destructive,'' says the frontman of Soundgarden, which has reunited and released
a new album, ''King Animal.'' ''But also, don't worry about it.'' Take the
example of Tom Waits, Cornell says: ''A voice is an instrument -- create
something that's inspired with that instrument. His has done a lot of weird
things, but whatever it's doing, he seems to make an amazing painting out of
it.''

THE MEH LIST

By Samantha Henig

Cyber Monday

Merino wool

''Hyde Park on the Hudson''

Provolone

Photos of topless men

The San Diego ChargersPodcasts*

Additional reporting and user experience by Libby Gery

* Submitted via #mehlist by @james_smitsGIRL TALK

By Jessica Gross

According to a recent study in the journal Sex Roles, the ratio of male to
female pronouns in U.S. literature tracks the rise in women's cultural status.
In the mid-'60s, there were 4.5 male pronouns for every female one. Now it's 2
to 1. ''There's big progress,'' the study's author, Jean Twenge, says. Her
thoughts on that he/she construction? ''It's awkward, but it is egalitarian.''

AND SO IT GOES

By Maud Newton

In a new collection of his letters, Kurt Vonnegut turns his roving wit on even
his own mental health. Was admitting to seeing a psychotherapist for writer's
block akin to ''saying, 'We don't have any kids yet, but brother, you should see
us try'?'' he wondered in 1953. Years later he pondered the unlikelihood of
consulting a shrink named O'Connell. ''Oh, well,'' he concluded, ''only a
Catholic could find my atheism interesting.''

WASHINGTON MONUMENTS: IS THIS OVER YET?

By Matt Bai

In theory, a re-elected president gets four more years. But not really. You
spend the first six months after an election breaking in a new cabinet and
leadership team. By then, you're only a year or so from the midterm elections,
which are followed by the start of the next presidential cycle. All of which
means a second-term president has only a matter of months, really, to command
the conversation. But hey, no pressure.

WHAT I'M DRINKING NOW

By Mario Batali

Around Thanksgiving, I want a cranberry ginger Collins. I fill a Collins glass
with ice, add a jigger of gin and squeeze in half a lime. I make a simple syrup
with a nob of thinly sliced ginger and then roll wet cranberries in sugar and
pop them in the freezer. When they're cold, I toss in 5 or 6, add 1 tablespoon
of the ginger syrup and fill with Schweppes bitter lemon.

LEGS OF STEEL

By Hope Reeves

Jiangsu Province's new Gate to the East is composed of two 74-story office
towers merging into each other. The building was designed to echo the Arc de
Triomphe, but it instead resembles a pair of low-rise jeans. After a local
blogger complained that walking through the structure would be like crawling
''between someone else's legs,'' a Shanghai Daily headline earnestly asked, ''Is
It an Arch or Just Plain Pants?''

THAT SHOULD BE A WORD

By Lizzie Skurnick

(FLAG-UH-KNEE), n.

1. Guilt over an unanswered e-mail. ''Consumed with flagony, Jin stared again at
her college roommate's lengthy update.'' See also: sendriloquist (avid
forwarder); e-mass (store e-mails in in-box).

JUDGE JOHN HODGMAN RULES

By John Hodgman

SHANNON WRITES: My husband and I feel entitled to unrestricted access to our
children's leftover Halloween candy. Our children feel that since they do all
legwork, they hold sole distribution rights. Your judgment is requested. I
generally find it important to remind children that they are serfs. Though they
may work your land, everything upon it is technically your property, down to the
tiniest Lego brick. That said, you do not wish to raise slaves (or Tea Party
recruits). Halloween is a form of entrepreneurial training, and to confiscate
the fruits of their labor without limit is predatory. You may take one piece of
candy in symbolic tribute to the roads and infrastructure they did not build;
but even then, keep it to a Bit-O-Honey, or else you risk an uprising.

Listen to the podcast and submit questions for adjudication to
www.maximumfun.org/jjho

A ONE-SENTENCE BOOK REVIEW

By Tyler Cowen

''The Dawn of Innovation,'' by Charles R. Morris: The early 19th century as a
pep talk for today.

HOW TO CELEBRATE THE HOLIDAYS

By Mike Huckabee

On Christmas Eve, we go to the service at our church, and when it's over, we go
out for Chinese food. When everything in your world is changing and always being
rearranged, it's nice to have something that has a constant value. As told to
Spencer Bailey

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/25/magazine/obamas-ticking-clock.html

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REX FEATURES/ASSOCIATED PRESS
HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES
BRANTLEY GUTIERREZ
GETTY IMAGES
MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ALEX ROBBINS
ELISABETH MOCH)
CHARTS (CHART BY KYLE HILTON)
 GRAPHICS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (On the Runway)

                            November 25, 2012 Sunday

A Sampling of Cyber Monday Sales

BYLINE: JOANNA NIKAS

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 277 words



HIGHLIGHT: If shopping from the comfort of your couch is more your pace, here
are a few Cyber Monday deals you won't want to ignore:


After seeing images of crowded malls and videos of shoppers fighting over phones
at Wal-Mart on Black Friday, it isn't surprising that more retailers are
increasing their online offerings. If shopping from the comfort of your couch is
more your pace, here are a few Cyber Monday deals you may not want to ignore:

C. Wonder

Looking to refashion your wardrobe with colorful cardigans or leopard-print
loafers? Visit Cwonder.com. Through Cyber Monday, the site is offering 30
percent off all purchases over $100 and free shipping.

Bloomingdale's

Log on to Bloomingdales.com to get $50 off every $250 worth of merchandise.
Shoppers may also get 55 percent off most pieces from the in-house brands Aqua
and C by Bloomingdale's. And if you are searching for a gift for Dad, the men's
store at Bloomingdale's is marking down its pieces by 50 percent.

Perry Ellis

Perryellis.com will be lowering prices on entire orders by 50 percent, as well
as offering free shipping.

Gilt Groupe

Gilt Groupe is introducing its "Free Fall" sale on Monday at 11:45 a.m., with
items going on sale for about 5 to 10 minutes. Throughout that window of time,
the items will keep dropping in price. There will be more sales that day
starting at 3 p.m., 6 p.m. and 9 p.m.

BaubleBar

For every $40 spent on BaubleBar, an online accessories shop, you will receive a
free gift of your choosing from more than 200 items. Spend $80 and get two
gifts; spend $120, get three gifts; spend $160, get four gifts, and so on.
(There is no limit.)

Interactive Feature: Holiday Gift Guide - Travel in Style


     ·    Lessons in Discounts
     ·    Mr. Madison Moves On
     ·    Behind the Veil
     ·    A Vintage Trove in South Beach
     ·    With Real Presence


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 26, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Early Push For Sales Undercuts Black Friday

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD; Rebecca Fairley Rainey, Christina Capecchi and
Christopher Maag contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 872 words


After spending years to make Black Friday into the year's blockbuster shopping
day, retailers undercut themselves last week.

Sales on the day after Thanksgiving fell from those a year earlier, according to
one major tracker, the first decline since the recession of 2008, as stores
started their ''doorbuster'' promotions early in the week and opened for
business on Thursday evening.

The culprit seems to be less a faltering economy and more a diffusion of holiday
shopping to other days and online.

Black Friday ''is certainly not dead,'' said Matthew Shay, chief executive of
the National Retail Federation trade group, but ''it's starting to spread out.''

For major retailers, Black Friday's role appears to be changing. This year,
stores like Target, Sears and Toys ''R'' Us opened on Thanksgiving evening,
while Walmart started its first doorbuster deals at 8 p.m., drawing shoppers to
stores earlier than ever and lessening Friday's appeal.

While store visits on the Friday after Thanksgiving rose 3.5 percent from last
year, to more than 307 million visits, retail sales decreased 1.8 percent,
according to the research firm ShopperTrak.

On Thanksgiving, meanwhile, there was almost a 21 percent increase in the number
of people making visits to stores or Web sites in the United States, according
to the National Retail Federation.

''The early promotions and early openings on Thursday drew some of the sales
that would normally land on Friday into Thursday,'' said Bill Martin, founder of
ShopperTrak. ''What we're going to start looking at is the 'Black Weekend,' a
four-day weekend.''

About 28 percent of people surveyed by the federation who said they were
shopping over the weekend started at midnight or earlier on Thanksgiving. In
2009, when major retailers started experimenting with Thanksgiving openings,
that figure was just 3 percent.

''You want to be open if they want to go shopping,'' said Laura Gurski, a
partner and global head of A.T. Kearney's retail practice. But as a result,
''the kickoff of the holiday season is being redefined.''

One clear winner for the weekend was online shopping. Sales increased 17.4
percent on Thanksgiving, and 20.7 percent the next day, according to I.B.M.,
which tracks e-commerce transactions from 500 retailers.

And consumers who were shopping this weekend said that about 40 percent of their
dollars were spent online, according to the retail federation's survey.

The ShopperTrak data showing that visits were up but sales were down on Friday
suggested that many people were buying online instead, Ms. Gurski said.

''It's more a social event to go out shopping on that Friday than where you make
your actual purchases,'' she said, adding that it also depended ''on how
enticing the online offer is.''

Over the Thanksgiving weekend, the retail federation said, shoppers increased
their average spending to $423, from $398 in the period a year earlier.

''Now we're seeing, really, a five-day weekend that starts Thursday and will end
tomorrow,'' said Mr. Shay of the federation, referring to Monday.

But there are also signs that shoppers are getting weary of the extension of
special shopping days, with Thanksgiving now added to a packed schedule of Black
Friday, Small Business Saturday, Cyber Monday, Mobile Tuesday and on and on.

The federation predicted after a survey this month that 147 million people would
shop over the Black Friday weekend, but only 137 million people turned out,
according to the group's latest polling. Still, turnout was up 4.6 percent from
last year.

Though retail researchers and consultants say Thanksgiving openings will
probably become more commonplace, some shoppers objected to them.

''I don't like it,'' said Denny Johnson, 66, a retired property manager from
Burnsville, Minn., who had come to the Sam's Club in Eagan, Minn., on Friday for
a 51-inch Samsung television. ''They're going to start this on Veterans Day if
they keep going.''

Archie Weatherspoon IV, 29, a probation officer from St. Paul, had come with his
wife and two young boys, who munched on McDonald's hash browns as they awaited a
ticket for a Samsung Galaxy S III smartphone. Mr. Weatherspoon had almost called
off the plan for the family's first Black Friday outing after watching a YouTube
video of a Thursday night cellphone fight at an out-of-state Walmart. ''I don't
want to bring my kids out if it's going to be that chaotic,'' he said.

In Upland, Calif., on Friday morning, Toby Taylor, 46, was resting on a bench on
a quiet street of small businesses. He said he was not at the mall because
''it's too crowded. I don't know if the savings are worth those crowds.''

Stores being open on Thanksgiving ''bothers me,'' said Veronica Lynagh, of
Columbus, Ohio. ''Last year, I got upset because I had 25 people here for
Thanksgiving dinner, and at 8 p.m. the whole family left to wait in line at Best
Buy. I thought it was ridiculous. Why would you leave your family to go stand in
line and buy things?''

Yet Mr. Shay said that Thanksgiving falls when it does in part because of the
efforts of the retailer Fred R. Lazarus Jr., head of Federated Department
Stores. He lobbied President Franklin D. Roosevelt to move Thanksgiving up a
week -- and thus extend the holiday shopping season.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/26/business/chasing-early-sales-retailers-undercu
t-black-friday.html

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers looked for deals at Macy's annual Black Friday shopping
event in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            November 26, 2012 Monday

The Early Word: Inflection

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 454 words



HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at
what's happening in Washington.


 In Today's Times:
With Congress returning today to dive into discussions about a deal to avert a
year-end fiscal crisis, President Obama is rallying his army of supporters to
press Republicans into accepting a plan that includes higher taxes on the
wealthy, Michael D. Shear writes. After his supporters largely stayed away from
the raucous health care debates of 2009, President Obama and his aides hope that
a nascent e-mail and social media campaign will mobilize voters, especially in
important states.

Lesbian Republicans, also known as "unicorns," are joining their more visible
male counterparts to fight the stereotype that all gays and lesbians are
Democrats, Sarah Wheaton writes. Among them are women like  Kathryn Lehman, an
attorney who helped write the federal law banning gay marriage, who is now
working to overturn it.

Military planners are drawing up plans for a contingency of American and allied
forces to remain in Afghanistan after the United States and NATO withdraw troops
in 2014. But Michael Gordon explains that the planners, in trying to meet the
deadline, have run up against challenges like how to compensate for
Afghanistan's limited airpower and lack of medical facilities.

Around the Web:

Despite a consensus among Congressional negotiators that higher taxes should be
part of a deal to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff at the end of the year,
lawmakers remain far apart on the details of how taxes should go up and who
should pay, according to the Washington Post.

On the Sunday talk shows, Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a Republican
policy heavyweight, said he would be willing to violate an anti-tax pledge to
avert a fiscal crisis. The clip is among the seven top talking points from
yesterday's shows, as compiled by the Daily Beast.

Happening in Washington:

Timing for Cyber Monday, the White Househas released a report by the president's
economic advisers predicting how a spike in tax rates at the end of the year
would affect retailers and consumers if Congress does not act to extend the
current lower rates.

Congress returns from its Thanksgiving break today, with the Senate convening at
2 p.m.

Around 10 a.m., the Capitol Christmas tree is expected to arrive on the west
front lawn of the Capitol. It will be lit from nightfall until 11 p.m. each
evening through Dec. 26.

At 11 a.m., John Morton, the federal director of Immigrations and Customs
Enforcement, will announce the names of Web sites seized by the agency for
selling counterfeit goods to unsuspecting holiday shoppers.


     ·    The Early Word: Cliff
     ·    The Early Word: Final Round
     ·    Obama's Afghanistan Exit Plan Gets Mixed Reviews in Congress
     ·    Afghan Strategy Has Loomed Over Obama Presidency
     ·    McCain and Manchin Clash on Afghanistan


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            November 26, 2012 Monday

Today's Scuttlebot: Cyber Monday Deals and Samsung's Chinese Suppliers

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 194 words



HIGHLIGHT: The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the
Web for important and peculiar items. Monday's selection includes a debunking of
a viral post about Facebook and copyright, a false report of an acquisition by
Google and a company that benefited from the problems with Apple Maps.


Some interesting items that the tech reporters and editors of The New York Times
found on the Web recently. See more here.

Facebook Debunks Viral Hoax That It Owns Users' Content
Latimes.com |  Facebook doesn't own your content. And no, you don't have to post
those status updates reaffirming copyright protection. -- Nicole Perlroth

Someone Invented a $400 Million Google Deal
Buzzfeed.com |  Whether the maneuver was stock manipulation or simply for the
lulz, it was very, very illegal. -- Jenna Wortham

All the Cyber Monday Deals
Gizmodo.com |  And when they say all, they mean ALL. -- Jenna Wortham

Samsung Addresses Labor Issues at China Suppliers
WSJ.com |  Samsung says it will take corrective action for labor abuses at its
suppliers' factories in China. -- Damon Darlin

Bullet Points on Ev's New Start-up
Threads2.scripting.com |  What's Evan Williams's new venture, Medium, all about?
A few hints here. -- Damon Darlin

Apple's Map Mess Helps Transit App
Gigaom.com |  Embark, a free public transit app, was downloaded 100,000 times
after Apple introduced its maps. -- Damon Darlin

Microsoft Has Failed
Semiaccurate.com |  Is it game over for Microsoft? -- Brian X. Chen

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Bucks)

                            November 26, 2012 Monday

The People Who Are Spending More This Season

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 224 words



HIGHLIGHT: Nearly a quarter of survey respondents said their financial situation
had improved this year.


As Cyber Monday unfolds, consumers seem a bit more comfortable with spending
this holiday season, according to an annual survey.

Twelve percent of those surveyed said they would spend more this year, compared
with 8 percent last year, according to the survey, which was commissioned by the
Consumer Federation of America and the Credit Union National Association.

At the same time, the percentage who said they would spend less declined to 38
percent from 41 percent, the survey found.

ORC International conducted the survey of 1,012 adults by land line and
cellphone from Nov. 9-13.

The results indicate continued gradual improvement in holiday spending plans
since a sharp decline four years ago, said Bill Hampel, chief economist for the
CUNA, in a statement.

The intention of consumers to increase holiday spending may reflect improvement
in their financial situation. From 2011 to 2012, the percentage who said their
financial situation was better rose from 19 to 24.

Many families, however, remain strapped. Only half (49 percent) said they had
extra money to pay for an unexpected expense of $1,000.

What are your spending plans for the holidays this year?


     ·    On Shopping Post-Thanksgiving
     ·    Citi Offers Price Protection Service
     ·    Goodbye Orange Ball, Hello Capital One 360
     ·    Understanding the High Cost of Veterinary Training
     ·    When Free Stuff Leads You Astray


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                            November 26, 2012 Monday

Walkabout - 11/26: Cyber Monday Cruises; Flights Take Off in Africa; Hertz Goes
to Italy

BYLINE: EMILY BRENNAN

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 174 words



HIGHLIGHT: A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.


 Cyber Cruising Tour companies and cruise lines jump aboard the Cyber Monday
bandwagon, offering steep discounts for trips this winter. (USA Today)

African Skies The first flight of Fastjet, a new budget airline backed by
easyJet founder, is set to take offtomorrow from Tanzania's biggest city, Dar es
Salaam. (Independent)

 Arrivederci,  Cyber Cafes Hertz, which began offering mobile Wi-Fi to rental
car customers abroad, expands to Italy. (Jaunted)

Wynn Eyes Phillie Casino magnate Steve Wynn put in a bid for a $50 million
license to operate a casino in Philadelphia with up to 5,000 slot machines and
250 table games. (Hotel Chatter)

Extreme Snow Sports Bucking skiing and snowboarding, the truly adventurous climb
frozen waterfalls of ice in Jasper National Park in Alberta, Canada. (BBC)


     ·    With Its 'Lincoln' Tour, Virginia Is for Moviegoers
     ·    JetBlue Wants You To Decide on an App
     ·    Cyber Monday Now Includes Hotel Deals
     ·    Walkabout - 11/19: Bracing for Thanksgiving Traffic and Tracing
          Lincoln's Footsteps
     ·    Mount Airy Is Adding Pool, Lounge and Bar


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 27, 2012 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Retailers' Discounts Worry Investors

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 446 words


The stock market mostly slipped on Monday, pulling back from last week's gains
in Thanksgiving-shortened trading, as retailers fell on concerns about heavy
discounts at the start of the holiday shopping season and the overhang of
federal budget negotiations kept investors wary of making big bets.

The Nasdaq composite index closed higher, led by gains in eBay and Apple. The
Standard & Poor's 500-stock index cut most of its losses during Monday's trading
session and remained above its 200-day moving average, maintaining its long-term
upward trend.

The S.& P. 500 consumer discretionary index fell 0.5 percent after the start of
the holiday shopping season over the four-day Thanksgiving weekend. Target, one
of the largest retailers by market value, fell $1.71, or 2.6 percent, to $62.78.

''The concern is big retailers are discounting so much, sales look better, but
at what cost?'' said Angel Mata, managing director of listed equity trading at
Stifel Nicolaus Capital Markets.

Bucking the retail trend, shares of eBay closed at their highest in almost eight
years, rising $2.39, or 4.9 percent, to $51.40, as the online marketplace posted
strong sales on Cyber Monday. Amazon gained $3.74, or 1.6 percent, to $243.62.

The White House showed little enthusiasm on Monday for a proposal to avoid the
fiscal shock of tax increases and spending cuts to take effect at the first of
the year by limiting tax deductions and loopholes, instead of allowing tax rates
to rise for the richest Americans.

Investors are hoping for advances in Congressional talks over the more than $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases that threaten to drag the American
economy back into recession.

Indications of progress in talks, or just a political willingness to negotiate,
contributed to the market's recent rally. Major indexes last week gained 3 to 4
percent; the Dow Jones industrial average moved above 13,000 and the S.&P. 500
above 1,400 for the first time since Nov. 6.

On Monday, the Dow industrials fell 42.31 points, or 0.33 percent, to 12,967.37.
The S.& P. 500 dropped 2.86 points, or 0.20 percent, to 1,406.29. The Nasdaq
gained 9.93 points, or 0.33 percent, to 2,976.78.

Apple, a big mover in the Nasdaq, jumped $18.03, or 3.2 percent, to $589.53. The
company said on Friday that it had asked a federal court to add six more
products to its patent infringement lawsuit against Samsung Electronics,
including the Samsung Galaxy Note II, the latest move in the continuing legal
war between the two companies.

In the bond market, interest rates slipped. The price of the Treasury's 10-year
note rose 8/32, to 99 20/32, while its yield fell to 1.67 percent, from 1.69
percent on Friday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/27/business/daily-stock-market-activity.html

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial
average at 1-minute intervals  yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                           November 29, 2012 Thursday

Internet Shutdown Reported Across Syria

BYLINE: ANNE BARNARD and ROBERT MACKEY

LENGTH: 1540 words



HIGHLIGHT: Internet access disappeared across Syria on Thursday, and airports
were closed, prompting antigovernment activists to warn that the authorities
might be planning to escalate their crackdown.


Last Updated, 5:37 p.m. Internet access disappeared across Syria on Thursday,
and commercial air traffic was halted, prompting antigovernment activists to
warn that the authorities might be planning to escalate their crackdown against
the country's raging uprising. Only residents with their own satellite
connections to the Internet could access the Web, activists said. Disruptions to
phone service were also reported.

The network service provider Akamai posted a chart on Twitter showing the sudden
drop off in Internet connections in Syria.

Akamai traffic data supports @renesys observation (http://t.co/uxC2ZhTo) that
Syria is effectively off the Internet http://t.co/haNHwb5y

- StateOfTheInternet (@akamai_soti)29 Nov 12

In a blog post reporting the shutdown, Jim Cowie, the chief technology officer
of Renesys, a company based in New Hampshire that tracks Internet traffic,
wrote:

Starting at 10:26 UTC (12:26pm in Damascus), Syria's international Internet
connectivity shut down. In the global routing table, all 84 of Syria's IP
address blocks have become unreachable, effectively removing the country from
the Internet.

A network engineer for CloudFlare, a San Francisco company that helps defend Web
sites from cyber attacks, recorded video of network routes being withdrawn as
the Web was cut off.

A post on the company's blog explained, "Syrian Telecommunications (AS29386) is
represented by the red dot in the middle of the video. The lines represent
routes to the Syrian upstream providers."

Arbor Networks, a company in Lexington, Mass., that provides tools for
monitoring the performance of networks, confirmed that it, too, documented the
sudden disappearance of Internet traffic to and from Syria on Thursday between
10:00 and 11:00 U.T.C. (12 p.m. and 1 p.m. local time in Syria). According to
Arbor, "a snapshot taken from the vantage point of 246 network operators around
the world," showed traffic dropped "to virtually nothing." An updated graph
posted on Arbor's Web site showed that, the Internet was still off at on
Thursday night at 11 p.m. local time in Syria.

Google reported that access to all of its services inside Syria was down, and an
Internet security expert named Chris Ginley told Wired's Danger Room blog,
"Syria is offline."

A representative of EgyptAir in Cairo told The Times that flights to Damascus,
the Syrian capital, were suspended indefinitely and it was not clear when they
would resume again. One opposition activist noted that an online flight-tracking
Web site showed a blank spot over Syria.

Flight Radar: #Damascus International Airport is off the map. Seems radar
communications equipment has been shut.

http://t.co/Xi1OkTjI

- NMSyria (@NMSyria)29 Nov 12

There were conflicting reports of the reason for the airport shutdown. An
antigovernment activist in Beirut said that the airport in Damascus, the
capital, had been closed cut for two days as rebel fighters edged ever closer,
while the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said that the airport was shut
because of a fierce government counteroffensive. State media had reported that
it was closed for maintenance purposes, but the activist said the shutdown was
because of "hit-and-run" strikes by rebels intending to force the closure of the
facility.

In an update on the Web shutdown, Mr. Cowie added:

Looking closely at the continuing Internet blackout in Syria, we can see that
traceroutes into Syria are failing, exactly as one would expect for a major
cutoff. The primary autonomous system for Syria is the Syrian Telecommunications
Establishment; all of their customer networks are currently unreachable.

Now, there are a few Syrian networks that are still connected to the Internet,
still reachable by traceroutes, and indeed still hosting Syrian content. These
are five networks that use Syrian-registered IP space, but the originator of the
routes is actually Tata Communications. These are potentially offshore, rather
than domestic, and perhaps not subject to whatever kill-switch was thrown today
within Syria.

Opposition activists outside the country, who have relied on the Internet to
distribute video documenting the uprising, scrambled to chart the contours of
the communications disruption.

Syrians abroad please call Syrian Mobiles phones and landlines. If any number
works send the location my way. It is important. #Syria

- wissamtarif (@wissamtarif)29 Nov 12

Some supporters of the Syrian government reported with dismay that parts of the
country bordering Turkey were still online.

Terrorist towns in northern #Syria are still connected to the internet via
cables through #Turkey.

- [#x2729] Syrian Commando [#x2729] (@syriancommando)29 Nov 12

Daniel Etter, a photojournalist in Istanbul who has worked in northern Syria,
told my colleague Liam Stack that he was on the phone with a fixer in Aleppo on
Thursday when the line cut out. He added in a note on Twitter that some Syrian
towns near the Turkish border are connected to Turkey's mobile phone network.

The Internet has been a strategic weapon for the uprising and the government
alike, allowing activists to organize and communicate but also exposing them to
surveillance. Fighters, activists and witnesses upload video of rebel exploits
and atrocities by both government and rebel forces.

Our colleague C.J. Chivers, who has reported from inside Syria, notes that the
government has done the same with electricity for many months -- switching it on
and off in various places" to disrupt the opposition. "Utility service can be
both a carrot and a stick; in other words, a weapon of sorts."

Syria's information minister, Omran Al Zoubi, denied that the government was
responsible for the Internet blackout, saying that reports that roads to the
airport in Damascus had been closed were untrue.

Opposition activists, however, disagreed, reporting that roads near the airport
had been cut off due to heavy fighting.

UPDATE: #Damascus International Airport still closed in addition to all roads
leading to the airport #Syria

- ANA New-Media Assoc (@ANA_Feed)29 Nov 12

Rami Jarrah, a British-Syrian activist who coordinates a network of citizen
journalists inside Syria from Cairo, reported on Twitter that Syrian state
television acknowledged the Internet blackout.

#Syria State TV: "Telecommunications malfunction is now being treated and will
be back on soon"

- Alexander Page (@AlexanderPageSY)29 Nov 12

The Local Coordinating Committees, a coalition of Syrian activist groups,
reported the shutdown in most parts of Damascus and in its suburbs as well as
"most parts of the governorates of Hama, Homs, Dara'a; in all parts of the
governorates of Tartous and Swaida; and in some cities in Deir Ezzor and Raqqa."

At the height of the protests in Egypt in 2011, that country's authorities
switched off the Internet to block opposition activists from communicating and
documenting their rebellion. Internet access was also cut in Libya last year
during the revolt that toppled Col. Muammar el-Qadaffi.

Fighting has been especially intense around Damascus over the past two weeks
with rebels seizing air bases and weapons there. Rebels have put the government
under increasing pressure in recent weeks taking oil fields in eastern Syria and
a major air base outside Aleppo and demonstrating their increasing ability to
shoot down aircraft.

Rebel advances are gradually forcing the government to shrink the area it seeks
to control and some analysts have speculated that if the Syrian government felt
its core interests were threatened -- if, for instance, Aleppo was in danger of
being cut off from Damascus or the rebels succeeded in ringing the capital --
the military might start an even more desperate crackdown

"Deliberately or not the rebels could be forcing the regimes hand " said Yezid
Sayigh a military analyst at the Carnegie Middle East Center in Beirut.

The Internet cutoff apparently made some activists suspect that moment was at
hand.

BREAKING: following total shutdown of all telecommunication services in #Syria
heavy clashes now heard on #Mezzeh main road #Damascus

- Alexander Page (@AlexanderPageSY)29 Nov 12

The battle for Damascus could start soon...if not already.

- Maysaloon (@Maysaloon)29 Nov 12

In a message distributed on Thursday, the Local Coordinating Committees said
that they would "hold the regime responsible for any massacres that would be
committed in any Syrian cities after such a move was made. Also, they call upon
the world to move quickly and to take practical steps to protect civilians from
the regime's crimes."

The Beirut-based opposition blogger and journalist Shakeeb al-Jabri noted that
while many antigovernment activists in Syria have access to the Web through
other means, that is very likely not true for many of the government's
supporters.

@techsoc @acarvin The sad part is that I doubt any Assadists have sat modems and
they are locked out now. :-)

- Shakeeb Al-Jabri (@LeShaque)29 Nov 12

Mai Ayyad, Hala Droubi and Liam Stack contributed reporting.


     ·    Janine di Giovanni Answers Reader Questions on Syria
     ·    Video of Lebanese Military Taking to Beirut's Streets
     ·    Protesters March Against War in Istanbul as Tension With Syria
          Escalates
     ·    Syrian Video Activists Plan News Broadcasts to Offer an Alternative to
          State Media
     ·    Syracuse University Filmmaker Killed in Syria


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 30, 2012 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Are We Becoming Cyborgs?

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; GLOBAL AGENDA | CONVERSATION; Pg.

LENGTH: 4096 words


SINCE broadband began its inexorable spread at the start of this millenium,
Internet use has expanded at a cosmic rate. Last year, the number of Internet
users topped 2.4 billion -- more than a third of all humans on the planet. The
time spent on the screen was 16 hours per week globally -- double that in
high-use countries, and much of that on social media. We have changed how we
interact. Are we also changing what we are?

We put that question to three people who have written extensively on the
subject, and brought them together to discuss it with Serge Schmemann, the
editor of this magazine. The participants: Susan Greenfield, professor of
synaptic pharmacology at Oxford. She has written and spoken widely on the impact
of new technology on users' brains. Maria Popova, the curator behind Brain
Pickings, a Web site of ''eclectic interestingness.'' She is also an M.I.T.
Futures of Entertainment Fellow and writes for Wired and The Atlantic. Evgeny
Morozov, the author of The Net Delusion: The Dark Side of Internet Freedom . He
is a contributing editor to The New Republic .

Serge Schmemann : The question we are asking is: Are we being turned into
cyborgs? Are new digital technologies changing us in a more profound and perhaps
troubling way than any previous technological breakthrough?

Let me start with Baroness Greenfield. Susan, you've said some very scary things
about the impact of the Internet not only on how we think, but on our brains.
You have said that new technologies are invasive in a way that the printing
press, say, or the electric light or television were not. What is so different?

Susan Greenfield: Can I first qualify this issue of ''scary''? What I'm really
trying to do is stimulate the debate and try and keep extreme black or white
value judgments out of it. Whether people find it scary or not is a separate
question.

Very broadly, I'd like to suggest that technologies up until now have been a
means to an end. The printing press enabled you to read both fiction and fact
that gave you insight into the real world. A fridge enabled you to keep your
food fresh longer. A car or a plane enabled you to travel farther and faster.

What concerns me is that the current technologies have been converted from being
means to being ends. Instead of complementing or supplementing or enriching life
in three dimensions, an alternative life in just two dimensions -- stimulating
only hearing and vision -- seems to have become an end in and of itself. That's
the first difference.

The second is the sheer pervasiveness of these technologies over the other
technologies. Whilst it's one thing for someone like my mum, who's 85 and a
widow, to go onto Facebook for the first time -- not that she's done this, but
I'd love for her to do it -- to actually widen her circle and stimulate her
brain, there are stats coming out, for example, that over 50 percent of kids,
between 13 and 17, spend 30-plus hours a week recreationally in front of a
screen.

So what concerns me is not the technology in itself, but the degree to which it
has become a lifestyle in and of itself rather than a means to improving your
life.

Schmemann : Maria, I've seen some amazing statistics on the time you spend
online, on your tablet, and also on reading books and exercise. You seem to have
about 30 hours to your day. Yet you've argued that the information diet works
like any good diet: You shouldn't think about denying yourself information, but
rather about consuming more of the right stuff and developing healthy habits.

Has this worked for you? How do you filter what is good for you?

Maria Popova : Well, I don't claim to have any sort of universal litmus test for
what is valuable for culture at large; I can only speak for myself. It's sort of
odd to me that this personal journey of learning that has been my site and my
writing has amassed quite a number of people who have tagged along for the ride.
And a little caveat to those statistics: A large portion of that time is spent
with analog stuff -- mostly books, and a lot of them old, out-of-print books.

Which brings me to the cyborg question. My concern is really not -- to Baroness
Greenfield's point -- the degree to which technology is being used, but the way
in which we use it.

The Web by and large is really well designed to help people find more of what
they already know they're looking for, and really poorly designed to help us
discover that which we don't yet know will interest us and hopefully even change
the way we understand the world.

One reason for this is the enormous chronology bias in how the Web is organized.
When you think about any content management system or blogging platform, which
by the way many mainstream media use as their online presence -- be it Wordpress
or Tumblr, and even Twitter and Facebook timelines -- they're wired for
chronology, so that the latest floats to the top, and we infer that this means
that the latest is the most meaningful, most relevant, most significant. The
older things that could be timeless and timely get buried.

So a lot of what I do is to try to resurface these old things. Actually, in
thinking about our conversation today, I came across a beautiful 1945 essay that
was published in The Atlantic by a man named Vannevar Bush, who was the director
of the Office of Scientific Research and Development. He talks about information
overload and all these issues that, by the way, are not at all unique to our
time. He envisions a device called the Memex, from ''memory'' and ''index''; he
talks about the compression of knowledge, how all of Encyclopedia Britannica can
be put in the Memex, and we would use what we would now call metadata and
hyperlinks to retrieve different bits of information.

His point is that at the end of the day, all of these associative relations
between different pieces of information, how they link to one another, are
really in the mind of the user of the Memex, and can never be automated. While
we can compress the information, that's not enough, because you need to be able
to consult it.

That's something I think about a lot, this tendency to conflate information and
knowledge. Ultimately, knowledge is an understanding of how different bits of
information fit together. There's an element of correlation and interpretation.
While we can automate the retrieving of knowledge, I don't think we can ever
automate the moral end on making sense of that and making sense of ourselves.

Schmemann : Evgeny, in your book, you paint a fairly ominous picture of the
Internet as something almost of a Brave New World -- a breeding ground, you say,
not of activists, but slacktivists -- people who think that clicking on a
Facebook petition, for example, counts as a political act.

Do you think that technology has taken a dangerous turn?

Evgeny Morozov : I don't think that any of the trends I've been writing about
are the product of some inherent logic of technology, of the Internet itself. To
a large extent they are the product of a political economy and various market
conditions that these platforms operate in.

It just happens that sites like Facebook do want to have you clicking on new
headlines and new photos and new news from your friends, in part because the
more you click the more they get to learn about you; and the more they get to
learn about you the better advertising they can sell.

In that sense, the Internet could be arranged very differently. It doesn't have
to be arranged this way. The combination of public/private funding and platforms
we have at the moment makes it more likely that we'll be clicking rather than,
say, reading or getting deeper within one particular link.

As for the political aspect, I didn't mean to paint a picture that is so dark.
As a platform, as a combination of various technologies, the Internet does hold
huge promise. Even Facebook can be used by activists for smart and strategic
action.

The question is whether it will displace other forms of activism, and whether
people will think they're campaigning for something very important when they are
in fact joining online groups that have very little relevance in the political
world -- and which their governments are actually very happy with. Many
authoritarian governments I document in the book are perfectly O.K. with young
people expressing discontent online, so long as it doesn't spill out into the
streets.

What I am campaigning against is people who think that somehow social media and
Internet platforms can replace that whole process of creating and making and
adjusting their strategy. It cannot. We have to be realistic about what these
platforms can deliver, and once we are, I think we can use them to our
advantage.

Schmemann : You have all spoken of the risk of misusing the new technology. Is
not such apprehension about new technology as old as technology itself?

Popova : I think one of the most human tendencies is to want to have a concrete
answer and a quantifiable measure of everything. And when we deal with degrees
of abstraction, which is what any new technology in essence compels us to do, it
can be very uncomfortable.

Not to cite historical materials too much, but it reminds me of another old
essay, this by a man named Abraham Flexner in 1939, called ''The Usefulness of
Useless Knowledge.'' He says, basically, that curiosity is what has driven the
most important discoveries of science and inventions of technology. Which is
something very different from the notion of practical or useful knowledge, which
is what we crave. We want a concrete answer to the question, but at the same
time it's this sort of boundless curiosity that has driven most of the great
scientists and inventors.

Morozov : It's true that virtually all new technologies do trigger what
sociologists would call moral panics, that there are a lot of people who are
concerned with the possible political and social consequences, and that this has
been true throughout the ages. So in that sense we are not living through unique
or exceptional times.

That said, I don't think you should take this too far. Surrounded by all of this
advanced technology now, we tend to romanticize the past; we tend to say,
''Well, a century ago or even 50 years ago, our life was completely
technologically unmediated; we didn't use technology to get things done and we
were living in this nice environment where we had to do everything by
ourselves.''

This is not true. If you trace the history of mankind, our evolution has been
mediated by technology, and without technology it's not really obvious where we
would be. So I think we have always been cyborgs in this sense.

You know, anyone who wears glasses, in one sense or another, is a cyborg. And
anyone who relies on technology in daily life to extend their human capacity is
a cyborg as well. So I don't think that there is anything to be feared from the
very category of cyborg. We have always been cyborgs and always will be.

The question is, what are some of the areas of our life and of our existence
that should not be technologically mediated? Our friendships and our sense of
connectedness to other people -- perhaps they can be mediated, but they have to
be mediated in a very thoughtful and careful manner, because human relations are
at stake. Perhaps we do have to be more critical of Facebook, but we have to be
very careful not to criticize the whole idea of technological mediation. We only
have to set limits on how far this mediation should go, and how exactly it
should proceed.

Greenfield : I don't fear the power of the technology and all the wonderful
things it can do -- these are irrefutable -- but more how it is being used by
people. The human mind -- this is where I do part company with Evgeny -- is not
one that we could say has always been a cyborg. There is no evidence for this
statement. Niels Bohr, the famous physicist, once admonished a student: ''You're
not thinking; you're just being logical.'' I think it actually demeans human
cognition to reduce it to computational approaches and mechanistic operations.

I'm worried about how that mind might be sidetracked, corrupted, underdeveloped
-- whatever word you want to use -- by technology.

Human brains are exquisitely evolved to adapt to the environment in which
they're placed. It follows that if the environment is changing in an
unprecedented way, then the changes too will be unprecedented. Every hour you
spend sitting in front of a screen is an hour not talking to someone, not giving
someone a hug, not having the sun on your face. So the fear I have is not with
the technology per se, but the way it's used by the native mind.

Morozov : There are many things I could say in response. The choice to view
everything through the perspective of the human brain is a normative choice that
we could debate. I'm not sure that that's the right unit of analysis. It in
itself has a cultural tendency to reduce everything to neuroscience. Why, for
example, should we be thinking about these technologies from the perspective of
the user and not of the designer?

Greenfield : The user constitutes the bulk of our society. That's why. They're
the consumers and they're the people who...

Morozov : I know, but, for example, perhaps I want to spend more time thinking
about how we should inspire designers to build better technologies. I don't want
to end up with ugly and dysfunctional technologies and shift the responsibility
to the user...

Greenfield : But Evgeny, the current situation is constituted by the current
users...

Morozov : ...but it shouldn't be left up to the individuals to hide from all the
ugly designs and dysfunctional links that Facebook and other platforms are
throwing at them, right? It's not just a matter of not visiting certain Web
sites. It's also trying to alert people in Silicon Valley and designers and...

Greenfield : Yes, they've got minds as well, so I wouldn't disenfranchise them.
Everything starts with the people. It's about people, and how we're living
together and how we're using the technology.

Popova : To return to the point about cyborgs -- and I think both of you touch
on something really important here, which is this notion of, what is the human
mind supposed to do, or what does it do? The notion of a cyborg is essentially
an enhanced human. And I think a large portion of the cyborgism of today is
algorithms.

So much of the fear is that rather than enhancing human cognition, they're
beginning to displace or replace meaningful human interactions.

With Google Street View's new ''neural network'' artificial intelligence
technology, for example, they're able to tell whether an object is a house or a
number. That's something that previously a human would have to sort through the
data to do.

That's an enormous magnitude of efficiency higher than what we used to have. But
the thing to remember is that these are concrete criteria. It's like a binary
decision: Is this a house, is this a number? As soon as it begins to bleed into
the abstract -- is this a beautiful house, is this a beautiful number? -- we
can't trust an algorithm, or even hope that an algorithm would be able to do
that.

The fear that certain portions of the human mind would be replaced or displaced
is very misguided. You guys have been talking a lot about this notion of choice:
The future is choice, both for us as individuals and what we choose to engage
with, and what careers we take, and whether we want to hire the designers in
Silicon Valley to build better algorithms -- those are choices -- and also at a
governmental and state level, where the choice is what kind of research gets
funded.

My concern is that many of the biases in the way knowledge and information are
organized on the Web are not necessarily in humanity's best interest. When you
think about so-called social curation -- algorithms that recommend what to read
based on what your friends are reading -- there's an obvious danger. Eli Pariser
called it ''The Filter Bubble'' of information, and it's not really broadening
your horizons.

I think the role of whatever we want to call these people, information filters
or curators or editors or something else, is to broaden the horizons of the
human mind. The algorithmic Web can't do that, because an algorithm can only
work with existing data. It can only tell you what you might like, based on what
you have liked.

Greenfield : Maria, you mentioned differentiating information from knowledge.
Whilst we can easily define information, knowledge is a little bit more elusive.
My own definition of knowledge, or true understanding, is seeing one thing in
terms of other things. For example, Shakespeare's ''Out, out, brief candle'' --
you can only really understand that if you see the extinction of a candle in
terms of the extinction of life.

In order to have knowledge, you need some kind of conceptual framework. You need
a means for joining up the dots with the information or the facts that you've
encountered throughout your life, not someone else's life. Only when you can
embed a fact or a person or an event within an ever wider framework do you
understand it more deeply.

Speaking of Google, there's a wonderful quote from Eric Schmidt, the chairman of
Google: ''I still believe that sitting down and reading a book is the best way
to really learn something. And I worry that we're losing that.'' So whilst we
shouldn't be too awed by the power of information, we should never, never
confuse it with insight.

Popova : I completely agree. This conflation of information and insight is
something I constantly worry about. Algorithms can help access information, but
the insight we extract from it is really the fabric of our individual, lived
human experience. This can never be replaced or automated.

Schmemann : Let me relate what you say to my own craft: journalism. We in what
is now condescendingly called ''the legacy media'' live in terror of the
Internet, and the sense that it is creating a kind of information anarchy. Our
purpose in life has always been to apply what you have called experience,
knowledge, judgment and order to what we call news.

Now the Internet and Facebook not only have assumed this function, but they
create communities of people who share the same prejudice, the same ideology. To
me, this may be a greater danger than shifting newspapers to a different
platform.

Morozov : If it's really happening, it is a danger. But I'm not convinced that
it's actually happening. The groups that are hanging out in bubbles -- whether
it's the liberals in their bubble or the conservatives in their bubble -- tend
to venture out into sources that are the exact opposite of their ideological
positions.

You actually see liberals checking Fox News, if only to know what the
conservatives are thinking. And you're seeing conservatives who venture into
liberal sources, just to know what The New York Times is thinking. I think there
is a danger in trying to imagine that those platforms -- the Internet,
television, newspapers -- all exist in their own little worlds and don't
overlap.

Greenfield : I think a related issue, if you take conventional print and
broadcast media compared to the Internet, is speed. When you read a paper or a
book, you have time for reflection. You think about it, you put it down to stare
at the wall. Now what concerns me is the way people are instantly tweeting. As
soon as they're having some experience, some input, they're tweeting for fear
that they may lose their identity if they don't make some kind of instant
response.

This is a concern for me, apart from the obvious want of regulation and slander
and unsubstantiated lies that people spread around, that people no longer have
the time for reflection.

Popova : If I may slightly counter that, I would argue that there's actually an
enormous surge in interest in a sort of time-shifted reading -- delayed and
immersive reading that leaves room for deeper processing. We've seen this with
the rise of apps like Instapaper and Read It Later and long-form ventures like
The Atavist and Byliner, which are essentially the opposite of the experience of
the Web, which is an experience of constant stimulation and flux.

These tools allow you to save content and engage with it later in an environment
that is controlled, that is ad-free, that is essentially stimulus-free, other
than the actual stimulus in front of you.

Greenfield : I'll just add one more thing, and that is the alarming increase in
prescriptions for drugs used for attentional disorders in most Western countries
over the last decade or two. Of course, it could be doctors are prescribing more
liberally or that attentional illnesses are now becoming medicalized in a way
they weren't before. But my own view, especially for the younger brain, is that
if you take a brain with the evolutionary mandate, which the human brain has, to
adapt to the environment; if you place such a brain in an environment that is
fast-paced, loud and sensory-laden, then the brain will adapt to that. Why would
it compete with the other, three-dimensional world?

And whilst the apps that Maria raises are fine for the more mature person,
younger kids could be handling it in a very different way. My concern is that we
are heading toward a short attention span and a premium on sensationalism rather
than on abstract thought and deeper reflection.

Schmemann : Susan, having described all these dangers you perceive, do you think
this is something that we as people or we as governments or we as institutions
need to work on? Does this require regulations, or do you think the human spirit
will sort it out?

Greenfield : My emphasis would be away from regulation, to education. You can
regulate 'til you're blue in the face; it doesn't make it any better. I think
that, although, I sit in the House of Lords, as you know, and although we had
debates on all the various regulations on how we might ensure a more benign and
beneficial society, what we really should be doing is thinking proactively about
how, for the first time, can we shape an environment that stretches individuals
to their true potential.

Schmemann : Picking up a bit where Susan was, Evgeny, in your book you talk a
lot about the political uses and misuses of the Internet. You talk about cyber
-utopianism, Internet-centrism, and you call for cyber-realism. What does that
mean?

Morozov : For me, Internet-centrism is a very negative term. By that I mean that
many of our debates about important issues essentially start revolving around
the question of the Internet, and we lose sight of the analytical depths that we
need to be plumbing.

The problem in our cultural debate in the last decade or so is that a lot of
people think the Internet has an answer to the problems that it generates.
People use phrases like, ''This won't work on the Internet,'' or, ''This will
break the Internet,'' or, ''This is not how the Internet works.'' I think this
is a very dangerous attitude because it tends to oversimplify things. Regulation
is great when it comes to protecting our liberties and our freedoms -- things
like privacy or freedom of expression or hate speech. No one is going to cancel
those values just because we're transitioning online.

But when it comes to things like curation, or whether we should have e-readers
distributed in schools, this is not something that regulation can handle. This
is where we will have to make normative choices and decisions about how we want
to live.

Popova : I think for the most part I agree with Evgeny. I think much, if not all
of it, comes down to how we choose to engage with these technologies. Immanuel
Kant had three criteria for defining a human being: One was the technical
predisposition for manipulating things. The second was the pragmatic
predisposition -- to use other human beings and objects to one's own purposes. I
think these two can, to some degree, be automated, and we can use the tools of
the so-called digital age to maximize and optimize those.

His third criterion was what he called moral predisposition, which is this idea
of man treating himself and others according to principles of freedom and
justice. I think that is where a lot of fear comes with the Digital Age -- we
begin to worry that perhaps we're losing the moral predisposition or that it's
mutating or that it's becoming outsourced to things outside of ourselves.

I don't actually think this is a reasonable fear, because you can program an
algorithm to give you news and information, and to analyze data in ways that are
much more efficient than a human could. But I don't believe you could ever
program an algorithm for morality.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/30/opinion/global/maria-popova-evgeny-morozov-sus
an-greenfield-are-we-becoming-cyborgs.html

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            November 30, 2012 Friday

Study May Offer Insight Into Coca-Cola Breach

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 958 words



HIGHLIGHT: A 2010 case study of a security breach at an unnamed Fortune 500
company appears to offers new details of a breach at Coca-Cola.


Spend enough time with cybersecurity experts and chances are you will hear some
variation of this line: There are two types of companies in the United States,
those that have been hacked and those that don't yet know they've been hacked.

Government intelligence officials and cybersecurity specialists say hackers --
predominantly from China -- are siphoning gigabytes, if not terabytes, of data
from companies in the United States every day. We count on much of this
information to deliver the innovative products and services that will lead to
new jobs and economic growth. The security software company McAfee estimates
that in 2008 alone, companies around the world lost more than $1 trillion
because of this sort of intellectual property theft.

"I've seen behind the curtain," Shawn Henry, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.'s former top cyber agent, who recently joined the cybersecurity
start-up CrowdStrike, told me in an interview in April. "I can't go into the
particulars because it's classified, but the vast majority of companies have
been breached."

The problem is that such breaches rarely make headlines because companies fear
what disclosure will mean for their stock price. Google was the first to try to
change that mentality when, in 2010,it disclosed that it and 34 other companies,
many based in Silicon Valley, had been attacked by Chinese hackers. Of those 34,
only Intel and Adobe Systems came forward, and they provided few details.

Still, news of some breaches leak out. That was the case, most recently, with
Coca-Cola. This month, Bloomberg News reported that Coca-Cola was breached by
Chinese hackers in 2009 during a failed $2.4 billion takeover attempt of the
China Huiyuan Juice Group. That attempted deal would have been the largest
foreign acquisition of a Chinese company.

Now, a 2010 case study published by the Mandiant Corporation, a cybersecurity
firm, may offer further details. The study, which does not mention Coca-Cola
specifically, details a 2009 breach of a "Fortune 500 Manufacturer" that aligns
almost perfectly with Bloomberg's account of Coca-Cola's breach.

According to the study:

In 2009, a U.S. based Fortune 500 manufacturing company initiated discussions to
acquire a Chinese corporation. During the negotiations, APT [advanced persistent
threat] attackers compromised computers belonging to the executives of the
U.S.-based company, most likely in an effort to learn more details of the
negotiations. Sensitive data left the company on a weekly basis during
negotiations, potentially providing the Chinese company with visibility to
pricing and negotiation strategies.

As Bloomberg reported, Mandiant's study said the company gained knowledge of the
breach only when law enforcement officials notified it of the intrusion. The
study also details how hackers penetrated the company via a so-called
spearphishing attack, in which the attackers sent e-mails to certain executives
from a fake account ostensibly belonging to the chief executive.

According to Bloomberg, an e-mail containing the subject line: "Save power is
save money! (from CEO)" was sent to the e-mail account of Bernhard Goepelt,
Coca-Cola's current general counsel. The e-mail contained a malicious link that,
once clicked, downloaded malware that gave the attackers full access to
Coca-Cola's network.

Mandiant's 2010 report said the e-mail "was crafted to look like it originated
from a fellow employee and discussed a message from the CEO on conserving
resources."

Tal Be'ery, a senior Web researcher at Imperva, a data security firm, compared
details of the Coca-Cola breach with Mandiant's study and said the two accounts
clearly referred to the same company. Executives at Mandiant and media officers
at Coca-Cola did not return requests for comment.

If Mandiant's study is, in fact, based on Coca-Cola, then it offers new insights
into the breach. According to the study, once in, hackers used password-stealing
software to gain access to other systems on the company's network. They also
used the compromised executive's account to launch what is known as an SQL
server attack, in which hackers exploit a software vulnerability and enter
commands that cause databases to produce their contents.

But one of the most interesting aspects of the breach, according to Mandiant,
was how well the attackers had concealed their tracks. According to Mandiant,
hackers used so-called stub malware. This is an agile agent whose code can be
tweaked by hackers to use it for various functions while leaving a small
forensic footprint.

The one discrepancy between the Bloomberg and Mandiant accounts was why,
ultimately, the company's acquisition fell apart. According to Bloomberg,
Coca-Cola's takeover attempt of China Huiyuan Juice Group was thwarted because
China's Ministry of Commerce rejected it for antitrust reasons. Mandiant's
report offered a different take:

The intrusion had a significant impact on the victim organization. As a result
of the compromise, the U.S. company terminated their acquisition plans. While it
was not possible to determine all the data that had been lost, the victim
company was not able to compete the acquisition and accomplish their business
objectives.

Updated: In an e-mail, Kent J. Landers, a spokesman for Coca-Cola, said that the
company does not comment on security matters, but said Coca-Cola did not
complete its acquisition of China Huiyuan Juice Group "as a result of the China
Ministry of Commerce declining approval for the proposed transaction."


     ·    Insurance Against Cyber Attacks Expected to Boom
     ·    Hacked Chamber of Commerce Opposed Cybersecurity Law
     ·    The Internet Attack That Wasn't
     ·    Online Voter Registration Is Called Vulnerable to Hackers
     ·    Daily Report: Panetta Warns of Threat of Cyberattack on U.S.


LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 1, 2012 Saturday
                        The International Herald Tribune

United by a Catchy Acronym

BYLINE: By IAN BREMMER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg.

LENGTH: 905 words


BRICs, the now familiar term for Brazil, Russia, India, China and the growth of
their economies and influence, have formalized their club and extended their
reach by inviting South Africa to join. But do their meetings and joint
statements really allow them to punch above their individual weight? What do
these countries share beyond a common interest in bolstering their global clout?

The most durable thing about the BRICs is the acronym itself. They cannot be
ignored -- emerging markets accounted for two-thirds of global economic growth
over the past five years, a figure that could rise to as much as 75 percent by
2015. But combining individual countries into classes based on catchy acronyms
adds neither influence to their groupings nor insight into their futures.

There are four main reasons why the BRICs will never function as a single
coherent interest group.

First, we often say BRICs when we really mean China. In the post-World War II
era, the Group of 7 major industrialized countries set the international agenda,
and the United States was the driving force. But China's dominance of the BRICs
is even more pronounced. With a G.D.P. of $7.3 trillion, the Chinese economy is
the second largest in the world -- and larger than all the other BRICs put
together.

South Africa's economy is roughly equivalent to that of China's sixth largest
province. Developments inside China -- from its resource appetites and cyber
capacity to its political and military might -- will drive the actions of the
other BRICs. Russia, India and Brazil will be responding to China, both
cooperatively and antagonistically, much more than they will coordinate with it.

Second, when it comes to their political systems, the BRICs are apples and
oranges...and pears and pineapples. Brazil and India are democracies; Russia and
China are autocracies.

But Brazil's democracy is much more centralized and less diverse than India's.
Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous province, has roughly the same population
as all of Brazil (and four times South Africa's). With more than a dozen
official languages and a remarkably decentralized structure, India is a
challenge all its own. It is also the least international in its outlook:
despite a population of 1.2 billion people, India has about the same number of
diplomats as little New Zealand.

In Russia, Vladimir Putin uses hollow democratic institutions to secure one-man
rule. China's leadership is a cohesive group of party men, aligned in their most
basic interests, who negotiate over the details of reform to preserve an
increasingly untenable status quo rather than to undertake a large-scale
overhaul. The bottom line: if you wanted to pick four major global economies
with as little as possible in common in their politics, the BRICs would be a
decent bet.

Third, their economic systems are wildly different as well. In Russia and China,
the state is the dominant force in the economy. There are significant economic
reasons for both to move away from a state capitalist system that will decay
over time, but both governments have political incentives to keep things as they
are to protect the near-term security of their governments. Brazil and India
lean closer to free market capitalism than to the state-dominated variety.

Nor are the BRICs particularly tied to one another. Brazil has deepened
commercial ties with China, its largest importer, but Russia accounted for only
about 2 percent of China's trade in 2011, and China and India have no bilateral
trade agreements. There are still no direct flights between Beijing or Shanghai
and Mumbai. Each BRIC depends more on its ties with America and Europe than with
other members of its club.

Finally, there is the difference in their most immediate needs. Russia and
Brazil are major resource exporters. China, on the other hand, is the second
largest importer of crude oil, and India is fourth. But beyond the competing
interests of buyers and sellers, there are the frictions within these groups.

India and China are not yet seriously competing with one another for resources,
but as the demographics shift in the two countries and as India becomes more
urban and spends more on its infrastructure, the frictions will grow. Take
water, for example: China and India are home to 37 percent of the global
population, but only 10.8 percent of its water. The population will grow -- and
so will strains on that water as industrialized processes and more upscale (and
water-intensive) eating habits take hold.

For its part, Russia is increasingly threatened by the energy revolution taking
place in the Western hemisphere. Moscow depends on oil sales for state revenue,
and the break-even oil price at which Russia's budget balances has skyrocketed
from $34 a barrel in 2007 to $117 in 2012. Brazil, by contrast, has enough
energy to fulfill its own needs and to sell beyond its borders. As the
geopolitics of energy and basic resources like food and water shift dramatically
over the coming decade, differences among the BRICs will only grow.

In short, the BRICs can agree to disagree with the global status quo. They will
sometimes use their collective weight to obstruct U.S. and European plans. But
the BRICs have too little in common abroad and too much at stake at home to play
a single coherent role on the global stage.

Ian Bremmer is president of Eurasia Group and author of ''Every Nation for
Itself: Winners and Losers in a G-Zero World.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/01/opinion/united-by-a-catchy-acronym.html

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Stampede? Undoubtedly. An Economic Jolt? Maybe Not.

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES;
Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1076 words


THE holiday shopping season started early, and with a roar. Whether that will
help the sagging economy is another matter.

''Spending may well be strong, and that could help us get through another
Christmas,'' said William R. Emmons, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of
St. Louis. ''But the economy is unbalanced and we're still in an enormous
crisis.''

So, despite the early crowds at shopping malls, it's worth noting that much of
the consumption is being financed indirectly -- through the expansive monetary
policies of the Fed, and through deficit spending that has created an enormous
budget gap. ''At some point, we can't go on like this,'' Mr. Emmons said.

For now, the nation's retailers are doing their best to infuse the holidays with
the spirit of consuming. ''Door-busting'' bargains began on Thanksgiving Day
instead of on Black Friday, as had been the custom. Online discounts started
weeks ago, and Cyber Monday, formerly a one-day event, is morphing into a
consumption extravaganza unbound by space or time.

''We're keeping the Cyber Monday party going all week long,'' Amazon.com said on
its site on Thursday afternoon. Walmart declared that its site was ''the only
place to go'' for Cyber Week. ''Shop now while supplies last,'' it said. And
Target offered rapture: ''Get online-only deals all week. Oh joy!''

Over all, the efforts have yielded a mixed harvest. Some reports suggest that
the early shopping has been robust, if not extraordinary. A survey for the
National Retail Federation found that 247 million people did some shopping in
the four days starting on Thanksgiving, up 9.2 percent from last year. Total
spending reached $59.1 billion, up nearly 13 percent.

But a report on Thursday showed that overall sales at 16 retailers -- including
chains like Macy's, Nordstrom, Kohl's and Target -- increased only 1.6 percent
in November for stores open at least a year. Those figures included early
holiday sales.

Furthermore, the financial crisis, the recession and the anemic recovery have
constrained the appetites of many voracious consumers.

''History shows that people only have so much money to spend during the
holidays,'' said Paul Dales, an economist at Capital Economics, a private
forecasting group. ''And if they spend more of it on Black Friday, they'll
probably spend less of it later in the season.''

In other words, while the hoopla of early sales may offer hints about the
competitive advantages of specific retailers -- Amazon.com or Walmart, for
example -- it may not mean much about consumer spending as a whole.

Real income is stagnating, and consumer spending dropped 0.2 percent in October,
the Commerce Department reported on Friday. Even so, consumer spending accounts
for 70.6 percent of gross domestic product, Mr. Emmons said -- a higher
proportion than before the recession. That suggests a predicament for policy
makers, he said, because high levels of consumer spending are associated with a
relatively low pace of economic growth.

The economy needs more exports and investment, and less consumer spending, he
said. ''We really could use a consumption tax to help increase household
saving,'' he said. But with the economy as weak as it is, he acknowledged, such
a tax would not be very popular in Washington.

Consumption during the holidays should be curbed for ecological, cultural and
ethical reasons, said Kalle Lasn, co-founder of the Adbusters Media Foundation.
He advocates transforming Black Friday into Buy Nothing Day -- ''a day to return
to the roots of the holiday, to the frugality -- to living lightly -- which is
really the essence of Christianity and of all great religions.'' Mr. Lasn, who
helped start the Occupy Wall Street movement, called overconsumption a cause of
climate change and other ills. ''It needs to stop,'' he said, ''before we
destroy this planet.''

But efforts to curb consumer spending, especially in the holiday season, may run
counter to deep habits and traditions. American holidays have been defined by an
uneasy alliance among business, religion and politics, said Leigh Eric Schmidt,
author of ''Consumer Rites: The Buying and Selling of American Holidays.''

''Commerce and religion and patriotism are all part of what we have come to know
as the holidays,'' said Mr. Schmidt, a professor of humanities at Washington
University in St. Louis.

''Consumption during the holiday season has come to have a kind of patriotic
quality in the United States,'' he said. In fact, extending the holiday season,
and exhorting people to spend, has sometimes been a matter of public policy.

IN 1939, during the Great Depression, President Franklin D. Roosevelt called
Thanksgiving ''a perfectly movable feast'' -- and he moved up the holiday by one
week, from its traditional date on the last Thursday of November. He thus
proclaimed that Thanksgiving would be on Nov. 23 that year, not Nov. 30.

His agenda was transparent. The economy needed help. As an experiment, he said,
he would try to give retailers a boost by extending the holiday season. But
public opinion was no more unified then than it is now, and his policy was not
universally welcomed.

The New York Times of Aug. 15, 1939, captured the mood: ''Roosevelt to Move
Thanksgiving; Retailers for It, Plymouth Is Not. Football Schedule Makers Also
Get a Headache, With Season Set to End With Fifth Thursday in November.''

The president's home state, New York, went along with the change, but
Connecticut was among many that didn't. Families were divided. Eleanor Lucy
Blydenburgh, a student at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, said that while her
school holiday would be Nov. 23, her parents would celebrate on Nov. 30.
''Really, this situation makes my heart ache,'' she wrote the president, in a
letter held by the Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library.

What's more, as Roosevelt ruefully acknowledged in 1941, the extra days didn't
stimulate the economy. There was no net increase in sales. ''The experiment had
not worked,'' The Times reported in May 1941. People shifted their shopping days
but didn't buy more.

Congress resolved the issue in time for Thanksgiving in 1942. It legislated that
the holiday would henceforth be on November's fourth Thursday, which isn't
always the last one.

That's why Thanksgiving this year was on Nov. 22, not last Thursday. So, once
again, there are extra shopping days, as well as endless consumption
opportunities online -- and reason to doubt that they will mean much for the
economy.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/02/your-money/a-holiday-shopping-stampede-but-may
be-no-economic-jolt.html

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers poured into a shopping mall in Eugene, Ore., at the
start of Black Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN DAVIES/THE REGISTER-GUARD, VIA
ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                            December 3, 2012 Monday

Walkabout - 12/3: Airbnb Hosts Busted for Subletting; Delta Eyes Singapore
Airlines

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 228 words



HIGHLIGHT: A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors.


 Airbnb Hosts Beware  Renters who sublet their apartments through Airbnb may not
be aware they're breaking city ordinances. Some believe the site ought to do a
better job at informing their users. (New York Times)


Delta to the Rescue? As Singapore Airlines looks to unload its 49 percent stake
in Virgin Atlantic, Delta has emerged as a possible suitor for the shares.
(Reuters)

Boardwalk Empire An ad campaign reassures would-be visitors that Atlantic City -
and its famous boardwalk  - are open for business after Hurricane Sandy. (The
New York Times)

Science, Texan Style There's been a flurry of new science museums opening in
recent years. Saturday saw the arrival of one of the biggest and most ambitious:
the Perot Museum of Nature and Science, named after former presidential
candidate and native Texan Ross Perot, in Dallas. (Dallas News)

In Defense of Miami What did Tom Wolfe's new book, "Back to Blood, get wrong
about the city? According to one native, everything from overplaying its ethnic
divisions to ignoring its vibrant arts scene. (New York Times)


     ·    Delta and JetBlue Waive Change Fees After Sandy-Hit Schools Shorten
          Breaks
     ·    National Parks' Free Days Will Come Less Often
     ·    An Airport App Takes You Outside, to a Rental Car
     ·    United Offers a Lift (Nonstop) to Jackson Hole
     ·    Walkabout - 11/26: Cyber Monday Cruises; Flights Take Off in Africa;
          Hertz Goes to Italy


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                            December 3, 2012 Monday

This Week In Small Business: Cliffhanger!

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1548 words



HIGHLIGHT: Don't discount! Consumer confidence rises. Small-business confidence
falls. And the Onion takes on social media marketing.


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.

The Fiscal Cliff: Tax Moves

Here's everything you need to know about the fiscal cliff, and here are Grover
Norquist's five commandments. President Obama warns that the fiscal cliff could
hurt Christmas spending. Keith Hennessey thinks the president is bluffing, and
Michael Lind thinks the fiscal cliff is a lie. The president consults with
small-business owners and makes his fiscal push at a small business in
Pennsylvania. John Paglia says that if Congress can reach a fiscal cliff deal it
will spur small-business hiring, and David Sims says the uncertainty provides
real opportunities. Here are 10 tax moves to make now. The Fed is likely to keep
stimulating into 2013.

The Holidays: Don't Discount

Small Business Saturday spending exceeded expectations, according to research
from the National Federation of Independent Business and American Express (here
is more analysis). Cyber Monday sales soared but Black Friday numbers were down
2 percent this year, despite this huge line that formed at a dollar store. CNN
reported that all Americans over the age of 14 went shopping. And now there's
Giving Tuesday. Kevin Casey learned four small-business lessons from Black
Friday and Cyber Monday, including: "Don't discount." Overall, retail sales
declined in November.

The Holidays II: Bad News for Daily Deal Sites

These are the top holiday marketing techniques for the 2012 holiday season. The
Brett Domino Trio provides the ultimate Christmas medley. Jill Konrath has some
helpful gift-giving suggestions for small-business owners. This infographic
helps us understand the habits of holiday shoppers during a recession. This
video lays out 30 holiday marketing ideas in 30 minutes. Here are two restaurant
tricks that will boost your holiday sales. And there's bad news for daily deal
sites: small businesses are not keen on Groupon this holiday season, and
LivingSocial lays off 400 employees. Ebenezer Snoop reads a cautionary tale of
Christmas.

The Economy: G.D.P. Grows

The Fed's beige book reports weak economic activity. As a fake oil magnate
passes away, Texas growth stalls. Economic activity falls in the Chicago region,
and manufacturing eases (pdf) in Kansas. Household income stagnates again.
Durable goods orders are flat. New home sales fall, but home prices increased 3
percent in the past year. Consumer confidence is at a four-year high, but Wells
Fargo sees an "eye-opening" drop in small-business optimism. Here are the 15
best housing markets for the next five years. Manufacturing activity in the
central Atlantic region advanced moderately, and global steel production
increased despite overcapacity concerns. Gross domestic product growth was
stronger than expected.

Employees: Giving Away the Store

Here are a few tips to help you put both holiday bonuses and compensation
packages in perspective while motivating employees. Pattie Hunt Sinacole helps
you determine when "comp time" can be used. Samsung asks its employees not to
binge-drink so much during company events. A grocer gives his store to his
employees. An employee of the city of Philadelphia almost gets away with a
million-dollar ink-and-toner scam. A new Robert Half study finds most bosses are
O.K. with employees shopping online while at work. Howard Dion explains how to
reduce your risks. Adam Davidson says there is no skills gap.

Start-Up: The Hottest Start-Up Cities

Here's some good advice on choosing a market for your start-up, and this is how
to craft your hobby into a business. These are the 15 hottest start-up cities in
the world, and David Hochman suggests six reasons Los Angeles isbooming with
start-ups. Zach Cutler offers six tips for navigating a start-up through the
first two years, including: "Be flexible." A new report says that start-ups are
leading job creation.

Social Media: #Hashtag

Here's some good advice for using LinkedIn's endorsements properly. I.B.M.'s
Black Friday report says Twitter delivered zero referral traffic, and Facebook
sent just .68 percent. Google is offering a free month of advertising, and Katie
Saxon explains how to set up your first Google AdWords campaign. Here's how to
use Instagram for business. Mark Shaw offers Twitter tips. A couple names their
daughter Hashtag, and an Onion parody explains how to use social media to cover
up a lack of knowledge.

Marketing: R.I.P. Zig

Seth Godin thanks Zig Ziglar, thesales guru, who passed away this week. Rick
Broida has advice on how to hire a graphic-design pro on the cheap. Maria Valdez
Haubrich shares tips for using stock imagery: "Don't get too obvious when
choosing the images. Try to engage your public, make them think for a second on
the illustration, interact with them." A guy teaches his speech class how to
communicate using a fake Spanish accent. Robert Passikoff says "saturation
leveling" is a marketing trend for 2013. A New York University student
inadvertently sends 40,000 e-mails. Laura Hale Brockway offers 19 terrible
e-mail subject lines, including: "Register to Win Your FREE iPod!!" Here are the
seven most powerful words to persuade. A pricing-solution consultant explains
why you are under-pricing your proposals. Here's a helpful introduction to
Google Analytics, and this return-on-investment calculator will help you
determine if your marketing campaign is working.

Management: An Instant Board

Brian Turchin explains how to create an instant board of advisers. An
entrepreneur continues his 100-day quest for rejection. Selena Cuffe explains
how to make your business meaningful. Laura Spencer and Robbi Hess both write
about how to make your day more productive and manage your time better (and with
the time saved, you can take a dive into the world's biggest pile of leaves).
The team at Women Unlimited shares 10 tips to network your business to the next
level. Deb Bailey wonders if getting an M.B.A. can help you become a better
entrepreneur. Pamela Yeo, the founder of a start-up that makes jewelry using the
metal from deactivated landmines, shares entrepreneurial insights.

Around the World: The Sexiest Dictator Alive

Wells Fargo expands its mobile deposit service nationwide and an entrepreneur
expands the Lego universe. Two Powerball winners share a $587 million prize. The
pet industryis growing. The existence of an "extraordinary global network" of
sham company directors, most of them British, is revealed. If you're thinking of
doing business in Latin America you may want to avoid these countries. A house
stands in the middle of the road in China, and the country's Communist Party
newspaper congratulates the North Korean leader on being named "the sexiest man
alive." Canada is the ideal country for women starting a business.

Tech: H.P.'s $9 Billion Disaster

Microsoft reports 40 million copies of Windows 8 have been sold, but Don
Reisinger says that it still has too much "crapware." And a new report says
sales of Windows devices are down 21 percent from last year and Windows 8 tablet
sales are "almost non-existent." The Chevy Volt now comes with its own
application programming interface. David Talbot explains why there is no
spectrum crunch. GE Aviation invests heavily in the 3D printing business, and a
cool new 3D photo booth distributes figurines in lieu of photos. Tom Foremski is
bullish on information technology start-ups. H.P. has a $9 billion disaster.
Here are 10 tech trends for 2013. You can now attach 10-gigabyte files to your
Gmail messages. A new report claims that Android-based tablets are eating away
at the iPad's market share.

Tweet Of The Week

@MarshallRamsey - I didn't win the Powerball but some nice man from Nigeria
e-mailed to let me know I won their lottery!

The Week's Bests

Brad Farris asks what your team experiences in your presence? "When you are in a
place of leadership, sometimes you need to be the person the team needs you to
be. The team looks to the leader to set the tone. It's O.K. to be scared,
uncertain or doubtful; but you can't give in to those feelings. As the leader,
you need to show that you have a plan and are ready to execute that plan,
regardless of what you're feeling."

Todd Wasserman thinks most social media marketing is a waste of time: "The
secret to good social media marketing: Make good products and offer good
services. If you can't trick people into 'liking' your brand, maybe you can try
to make them actually, you know, like your brand. How? Under-promise and
over-deliver. Make products and offer services that are really, really good.
That's not to say you should completely forsake social media marketing
communication. Every once in a while if you have something interesting to say,
then by all means use Twitter or Facebook to say it. But stop posting cute
pictures of puppies to win cheap likes."

This Week's Question: What's the perfect holiday gift for a small-business
owner?

Gene Marks owns the  Marks Group , a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that
helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on
Twitter.


     ·    This Week in Small Business: Reinventing the Toilet
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Meet Your Start-Up Mate
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Another Jobs Bill!
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Happy Holidays?
     ·    This Week In Small Business: Frankenstorm!


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (T Magazine)

                            December 4, 2012 Tuesday

Memo From Miami | What to Do at the Fair

BYLINE: KEVIN MCGARRY

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; culture

LENGTH: 821 words



HIGHLIGHT: A bona fide smorgasbord of art, parties and events invades Miami this
week.


Jet-set snowbirds, unite: it's that time again, the week that promises to occupy
every inch of Miami - well, a few relatively small affluent neighborhoods, at
least - with steroidal event planning, loco brand collaborations and a bona fide
smorgasbord of art. It's Art Basel Miami Beach, and anticipation for 2012's
slate of trade fairs and revelry may only be matched by a universal desire not
to hear the question "are you going to Miami?" again until this time next year.

Though there are 19 art fairs in total by popular count, "the fair" refers to
only one: Art Basel Miami Beach, the 11th edition of which previews on Wednesday
at the Miami Beach Convention Center. Then, a day later, the most consistent
alternative to ABMB, the NADA Art Fair, will celebrate its 10th anniversary, at
the Deauville Hotel. Shaking up the margins is Untitled, and like an errant 2008
presidential primary cutting ahead of Iowa and New Hampshire, this tent-based
upstart on the beach at 13th Street held its V.I.P. vernissage yesterday. With
names like Pulse, Seven, Scope, Aqua, Pool and Ink, taken together, some of the
remaining fairs could be confused for nightclub listings, and maybe this is
fitting given that velvet rope law is absolute in Miami Beach.

Of course there are also parties on the docket. While he may not have much to
celebrate as of late, Jeffrey Deitch's Wednesday shindig, co-hosted by Vanity
Fair at the Raleigh (an event that predates his tenure as director of LA MOCA),
will happen again, with music provided by the Swedish singer-songwriter Lykke
Li, among others. Having made a splash last year in the dunes behind Soho Beach
House, with a barbecue fit not only for royalty but for venture capitalists,
Art.sy will host its sophomore party that same night, this year presented by
Chanel. While invites to Visionaire's Thursday bash at the new SLS Hotel, with
The Net-a-Porter Group, should be as hard to come by as ever, the core
entertainment will suspend the restrictions of capitalism; it's a "Free Store"
organized by the artist Jonathan Horowitz, where guests can donate and/or pick
up personal objects at will. Rounding off the week, MoMA PS1 and Volkswagen may
have come up with an ingenious solution to crowding as well as to karma - their
event on Friday at the Delano, with D.J. sets by Chromeo and Animal Collective,
is a benefit for those affected by Hurricane Sandy, with $100 tickets and $1,000
V.I.P. passes benefiting the Rockaway Waterfront Alliance. (With the exception
of the Sandy benefit, all of these happenings are strictly invite only.)

If you bemoan a lack of commerce-free substance during the Miami art fairs,
well, don't. Area museums are opening a new season of exhibitions: Bill Viola at
MOCA North Miami; Josiah McElheny at Vizcaya Museum and Gardens; and six solo
projects at the Bass Museum of Art. Today in the Design District, the artist-run
nonprofit Bas Fisher Invitational inaugurates a show touting the cyber chic work
of (mostly European) young artists like Simon Denny, Timur Si-Qin, Anne de Vries
and Absolute Vitality Inc. (Keller/Kosmas). The fifth and final "It Ain't Fair,"
organized by the Los Angeles gallery OHWOW, moves to a warehouse on the beach;
from Thursday evening on it will be filled with art made by flashy bad boys and
girls: Nate Lowman, Laurel Nakadate, Terry Richardson and James Franco, to name
a few. In addition, the gallery's pirate radio station Know Wave Radio will be
enlisting special guests, from Mykki Blanco to Cat Power. Then there is ABMB's
roster of extra-curatorial programming, which includes ample talks, films and
performances, among them "Bliss," an outdoor dusk-to-dawn screening (beginning
at 6 p.m. on Friday) of the Icelandic artist Ragnar Kjartansson's 12-hour
re-creation of the final scene of "The Marriage of Figaro." And overhead all
week will be Plane Text, a collaboration between Morgans Hotel Group and Van
Wagner Communications to fly artist-authored aphorisms - by the likes of Jenny
Holzer, Ed Ruscha, Sol LeWitt and a dozen others - over the beach, dragged by
the sorts of small planes that typically advertise bottle service and cruises.

While Jennifer Rubell's popular breakfast installation held at her family's
collection in Wynwood seems to have gone AWOL this year, the kooky culinary
collaborative outfit Kreëmart will be on hand at the Cisneros Fontanals Art
Foundation collection Saturday morning, presenting Carlos Garaicoa's "Sweet and
Safe": a trenchant, chocolate-fueled pantomime of banking (open to the public
with limited capacity). As ever, excess as entertainment is expected.

The family collection of Jennifer Rubell is located in Wynwood, not the Design
District as previously stated.


     ·    24-Hour Arty People | T's Art Basel Miami 'to Do' List
     ·    Art Basel Miami 2009 | Back to Basquiat
     ·    Memo From Miami | Design Now
     ·    Memo From Miami | Richard Prince, Soda Maker
     ·    Memo From Miami | Louis Vuitton's Objets Nomades


LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (In Transit)

                            December 4, 2012 Tuesday

Choosing a Hotel by 'Experience' and Neighborhood

BYLINE: EMILY BRENNAN

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 230 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hipmunk now allows users to browse hotels by neighborhood in 40
cities.


Hipmunk, the travel search engine that allows users to browse flights by a
creative combination of factors like "agony" (price, duration, plus number of
stops), has turned its attention to sorting hotels.

Hipmunk Hotels, introduced last month, uses filters like "Family," "LGBT,"
"Romance," "Business" and "Adventure" to sort hotels and apartment rentals on
sites like Airbnb according to neighborhoods that offer those kinds of
experiences.

A young single person visiting New York, for example, can hit "Adventure" to
bring up listings in Brooklyn or downtown Manhattan like the James New York in
SoHo (above).

Adam Goldstein, the chief executive and co-founder, said he found that a
neighborhood often determines a traveler's experience of a city, but that that
component is missing from most search engines. In each of the 40 cities it
covers, Hipmunk hired local writers to help categorize neighborhoods.

"It's a holistic approach rather than picking the cheapest or the highest
quality,"  Mr. Goldstein said. "We're trying to help users make the best
decisions they can."


     ·    Cyber Monday Now Includes Hotel Deals
     ·    Booking a Hotel in New York? Use Your Cell Power to Call, Not Surf.
     ·    A Bed-and-Breakfast Deal Proves Popular at Hotels
     ·    Walkabout - 12/3: Airbnb Hosts Busted for Subletting; Delta Eyes
          Singapore Airlines
     ·    Delta and JetBlue Waive Change Fees After Sandy-Hit Schools Shorten
          Breaks


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 7, 2012 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

At Dawn We Sleep

BYLINE: By JOSEPH I. LIEBERMAN and SUSAN COLLINS.

Senators Joseph I. Lieberman, an independent from Connecticut, and Susan
Collins, Republican of Maine, are, respectively, the chairman and senior
Republican on the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg.

LENGTH: 1025 words


Washington

IF you read the newspapers on the morning of Dec. 7, 1941, you would have been
led to believe that Japan was poised to attack -- but in Southeast Asia, not
Pearl Harbor. Few experts believed that Japan was prepared to take on the United
States; war, they believed, was not necessarily imminent.

''In view of the presence of new British naval strength at Singapore and
powerful American squadrons in the rear of any southward Japanese expedition, it
is believed there is no immediate likelihood of a large-scale invasion or
bombing,'' The Times quoted an Australian official as saying.

On this anniversary of the Pearl Harbor attack, it's worth remembering that
enemies will attack at a time of their choosing.

In fact, they rely on surprise.

A storm is surely gathering again, and we must resist the false sense of calm.
The attack is not a matter of if, but when. It will not be launched from
aircraft carriers, missile silos or massed armies. It will come through
cyberspace and will strike our most vital computer systems, those that manage
our electricity grids, oil and gas pipelines, telecommunications networks and
financial markets.

We know that our digital networks are being tested, on a minute by minute basis,
by would-be cyberterrorists, criminal gangs, rogue hackers and rival nations who
look for unguarded digital back doors that would allow them to seize control of
our most essential computers.

In invoking Pearl Harbor, we're not trying to be alarmist -- we're borrowing an
analogy the defense secretary, Leon E. Panetta, himself used in an Oct. 11
speech about what a catastrophic cyberattack might look like.

''An aggressor nation or extremist group could use these kinds of cyber tools to
gain control of critical switches,'' he said. ''They could, for example, derail
passenger trains or even more dangerous, derail trains loaded with lethal
chemicals. They could contaminate the water supply in major cities or shut down
the power grid across large parts of the country. The most destructive scenarios
involve cyber actors launching several attacks on our critical infrastructure at
one time, in combination with a physical attack on our country. Attackers could
also seek to disable or degrade critical military systems and communication
networks.''

Mr. Panetta added: ''The collective result of these kinds of attacks could be a
cyber-Pearl Harbor, an attack that would cause physical destruction and the loss
of life. In fact, it would paralyze and shock the nation.''

The harsh reality is that such an attack does not require extensive computer
skills. Earlier this year, The Washington Post reported on an overseas hacker
who gained control of a small Texas water utility using Internet tools available
to anyone. It took him just 10 minutes. The utility learned of the attack only
when proof of it appeared online -- the hacker's warning of how susceptible the
plant was.

Given these warnings and actual evidence of successful attacks, you would hope
that Congress would be working urgently to strengthen the cyberdefenses of our
critical infrastructure -- to make them well-defended forts, rather than
undefended targets.

But twice this year the Senate failed to pass bipartisan cybersecurity
legislation, with the United States Chamber of Commerce leading the opposition.

What made this so frustrating was that we -- along with our Democratic
co-sponsors, Senators Thomas R. Carper of Delaware, Dianne Feinstein of
California and John D. Rockefeller IV of West Virginia -- had already agreed to
a major compromise to address the concerns of the chamber and its Senate allies
by replacing mandatory cybersecurity requirements with voluntary,
industry-developed standards that would also have protected from lawsuits
companies that chose to implement the new standards.

Indeed, the concept of a voluntary, incentive-based system was proposed by the
chamber and other industry groups in a March 2011 white paper and endorsed by a
Republican-led House task force in October 2011.

Our willingness to compromise and adopt this reasonable, moderate approach was
met with irrational resistance -- even after the chamber learned -- thanks to
the F.B.I. -- that it had been the victim of Chinese cyberespionage.

One of the biggest mistakes that enabled the attack on Pearl Harbor was a belief
that Japan lacked the capacity to mount devastating aerial bombing attacks so
far from its borders.

For a modern-day equivalent, look at the recent attack against one of the
world's largest energy businesses, the Saudi oil business Aramco, which had
30,000 of its computers crippled in a cyberattack, wreaking havoc on the
company's operations. If that wasn't a clear enough warning, the destroyed
computers' files were replaced with pictures of burning American flags.

Recently, the consumer banking sites of Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Wells
Fargo, PNC and others came under the largest sustained denial of service attack
in history. The attacks went on for weeks, knocking many of these sites off line
or slowing them to a crawl.

These attacks did not have to be initiated from within the United States or even
a few miles offshore. Cybersecurity experts believe Iran is the likely culprit
in both attacks, and we fear this is just the beginning.

The headlines before the attack on Pearl Harbor turned out to be delusional. No
one can reasonably entertain such a delusion about our adversaries' capacity to
attack us in cyberspace today.

Time has almost run out in this session of Congress, and President Obama will
soon issue an executive order that will establish cybersecurity standards for
critical infrastructure according to the statements of his top cabinet
officials.

But the president's powers are limited, and the issuance of an executive order
is controversial even among some supporters of cybersecurity legislation. The
new Congress must take up this issue, and pass comprehensive legislation to
defend our nation against this gathering cyberthreat. If it doesn't, the day on
which those cyberweapons strike will be another ''date which will live in
infamy,'' because we knew it was coming and didn't come together to stop it.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/07/opinion/will-congress-act-to-protect-against-a
-catastrophic-cyberattack.html

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                          December 12, 2012 Wednesday

Top State Dept. Lawyer Is Leaving

BYLINE: CHARLIE SAVAGE

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 955 words



HIGHLIGHT: The departure of Harold Koh is part of a major overhaul of the Obama
administration's national security legal policy team.


Harold Koh, the top lawyer in the State Department, will step down early next
year and return to teaching at Yale Law School, a department official said on
Wednesday. His impending departure is part of a major overhaul in the Obama
administration's national security legal policy team, including the announcement
last week that the Pentagon general counsel, Jeh C. Johnson, is resigning.

A prominent specialist in international law and human rights, Mr. Koh had been
an outspoken critic of Bush administration legal policies in the war on
terrorism, particularly its claim that harsh interrogation techniques were
lawful despite antitorture laws and treaties. As the State Department legal
adviser, Mr. Koh became a prominent defender of the legality of the Obama
administration's national security policies, including drone strikes and the
operation in which American commandos entered Pakistan and killed the Al Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden.

The more hawkish tone adopted by Mr. Koh in office led to some criticism both by
conservatives, who said his behavior exposed his previous critiques of Bush
administration officials as unfair and overly harsh, and by liberals, who saw
him as having compromised human rights principles.

But Mr. Koh defended his record, saying that the war against Al Qaeda did not
end when President Obama took office and that he was pushing to show the United
States could wage that war using lawful techniques and strategies and not
unlawful ones. He said his positions were consistent when considered in context.

In June 2011, the Obama administration claimed that it was lawful for President
Obama to continue American military participation in the NATO-led air war in
Libya beyond a 60-day limit imposed by the War Powers Resolution on hostilities
that have not been authorized by Congress. The theory - that such a multilateral
air war was not the sort of "hostilities" envisioned by the law - was developed
by Mr. Koh.

That same month he delivered a speech  before the American Constitution Society,
a liberal legal group, in which he directly addressed critics who called him a
hypocrite, saying he honestly believed the arguments he was making:

Now sometimes people ask me, and they usually do it at a place like this at the
cocktail hour, "You know, isn't it hard to be a government lawyer, having to say
all those things you don't believe?" So my answer, and I say it to all of you: I
never say anything I don't believe. Why should I? I have tenure [laugher,
applause]. I think. [laughter] If I quit this job I go back to a job where I
have more job security, I work less hard, and I get paid a lot more. [laughter]
So I say that for this reason. If you hear me say something, you can be
absolutely sure that I believe it, and that's true whether I'm speaking about
the U.S. policy toward the International Criminal Court, the legality of the
administration's positions on drones, the lawfulness of the  military operation
against bin Laden, or the administration's position on war powers in Libya. If I
say it, I believe it and I intend to stand by it and to argue for it.

Mr. Koh also said in that speech that his role as a government lawyer,
advocating for an administration, was different from that of a professor who
speaks only his own views. He said he "fiercely" argued for his preferred
position inside the government, but once a decision was made he honestly
defended it.

During his tenure, Mr. Koh clashed several times with Mr. Johnson in particular
over such matters as the scope and limitations of the government's ability to
detain without trial people on the outer fringes of Al Qaeda, and its legal
authority to target low-level Islamist militants who were not part of Al Qaeda
and who were in places like Yemen and Somalia, far from any so-called hot
battlefield. In those battles Mr. Koh argued for greater restraint.

He also played an important role in negotiations over getting Chen Guangcheng, a
prominent dissident who had fled to the United States Embassy in Beijing, and in
getting a group of pro-democracy activists out of Egypt after authorities there
accused them of working for groups receiving illegal foreign funding and blocked
them from leaving the country.

Mr. Koh dealt with a range of other issues including territorial and navigation
rights in the Arctic and the South China Sea, international anticounterfeiting
measures, applying the laws of war to offensive cyber-operations, evaluating
whether the ouster of the president of Honduras in 2009 constituted an illegal
coup, and United States policy toward the International Criminal Court.

Mr. Koh is staying through the inauguration and then will return to teaching at
Yale Law School, where he formerly was the dean. Mary McLeod, a career State
Department lawyer, will serve as acting State Department legal adviser until the
Senate confirms a successor, although Mr. Koh is said to be retaining his
security clearance and will continue to handle special assignments and to
consult.

Mr. Koh is close to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, who is also
stepping down. He had formerly served as an assistant secretary of state for
human rights issues when her husband, Bill Clinton, was president. Mr. Koh's
pending departure was first reported by The Wall Street Journal and then The
Yale Daily News.

A previous version of this post misspelled the name of a career State Department
lawyer. Her name is Mary McLeod, not  Mary McCleod.


     ·    Giuliani Criticizes Obama on Handling of Benghazi Attack
     ·    Dorothy Rodham, Mother of Hillary Clinton, Dies at 92
     ·    Clinton Praises Rice, a Possible Successor
     ·    Obama Calls Rice 'Extraordinary,' as Another Republican Voices
          Concerns
     ·    Clinton to Remain as Secretary of State? 'Unlikely'


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 13, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

State Department Legal Adviser Stepping Down

BYLINE: By CHARLIE SAVAGE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 900 words


Harold Koh, the top lawyer in the State Department, will step down early next
year and return to teaching at Yale Law School, a department official said on
Wednesday. His impending departure is part of a major overhaul in the Obama
administration's national security legal policy team, including the announcement
last week that the Pentagon general counsel, Jeh C. Johnson, is resigning.

A prominent specialist in international law and human rights, Mr. Koh had been
an outspoken critic of Bush administration legal policies in the war on
terrorism, particularly its claim that harsh interrogation techniques were
lawful despite antitorture laws and treaties. As the State Department legal
adviser, Mr. Koh became a prominent defender of the legality of the Obama
administration's national security policies, including drone strikes and the
operation in which American commandos entered Pakistan and killed the Al Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden.

The more hawkish tone adopted by Mr. Koh in office led to some criticism both by
conservatives, who said his behavior exposed his previous critiques of Bush
administration officials as unfair and overly harsh, and by liberals, who saw
him as having compromised human rights principles.

But Mr. Koh defended his record, saying that the war against Al Qaeda did not
end when President Obama took office and that he was pushing to show the United
States could wage that war using lawful techniques and strategies and not
unlawful ones. He said his positions were consistent when considered in context.

In June 2011, the Obama administration claimed that it was lawful for President
Obama to continue American military participation in the NATO-led air war in
Libya beyond a 60-day limit imposed by the War Powers Resolution on hostilities
that have not been authorized by Congress. The theory - that such a multilateral
air war was not the sort of "hostilities" envisioned by the law - was developed
by Mr. Koh.

That same month he delivered a speech before the American Constitution Society,
a liberal legal group, in which he directly addressed critics who called him a
hypocrite, saying he honestly believed the arguments he was making:

Now sometimes people ask me, and they usually do it at a place like this at the
cocktail hour, "You know, isn't it hard to be a government lawyer, having to say
all those things you don't believe?" So my answer, and I say it to all of you: I
never say anything I don't believe. Why should I? I have tenure [laugher,
applause]. I think. [laughter] If I quit this job I go back to a job where I
have more job security, I work less hard, and I get paid a lot more. [laughter]
So I say that for this reason. If you hear me say something, you can be
absolutely sure that I believe it, and that's true whether I'm speaking about
the U.S. policy toward the International Criminal Court, the legality of the
administration's positions on drones, the lawfulness of the military operation
against bin Laden, or the administration's position on war powers in Libya. If I
say it, I believe it and I intend to stand by it and to argue for it.

Mr. Koh also said in that speech that his role as a government lawyer,
advocating for an administration, was different from that of a professor who
speaks only his own views. He said he "fiercely" argued for his preferred
position inside the government, but once a decision was made he honestly
defended it.

During his tenure, Mr. Koh clashed several times with Mr. Johnson in particular
over such matters as the scope and limitations of the government's ability to
detain without trial people on the outer fringes of Al Qaeda, and its legal
authority to target low-level Islamist militants who were not part of Al Qaeda
and who were in places like Yemen and Somalia, far from any so-called hot
battlefield. In those battles Mr. Koh argued for greater restraint.

He also played an important role in negotiations over getting Chen Guangcheng, a
prominent dissident who had fled to the United States Embassy in Beijing, and in
getting a group of pro-democracy activists out of Egypt after authorities there
accused them of working for groups receiving illegal foreign funding and blocked
them from leaving the country.

Mr. Koh dealt with a range of other issues including territorial and navigation
rights in the Arctic and the South China Sea, international anticounterfeiting
measures, applying the laws of war to offensive cyber-operations, evaluating
whether the ouster of the president of Honduras in 2009 constituted an illegal
coup, and United States policy toward the International Criminal Court.

Mr. Koh is staying through the inauguration and then will return to teaching at
Yale Law School, where he formerly was the dean. Mary McLeod, a career State
Department lawyer, will serve as acting State Department legal adviser until the
Senate confirms a successor, although Mr. Koh is said to be retaining his
security clearance and will continue to handle special assignments and to
consult.

Mr. Koh is close to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, who is also
stepping down. He had formerly served as an assistant secretary of state for
human rights issues when her husband, Bill Clinton, was president. Mr. Koh's
pending departure was first reported by The Wall Street Journal and then The
Yale Daily News.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/12/12/top-state-dept-lawyer-is-leaving/

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 17, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rape Case Unfolds On Web and Splits City

BYLINE: By JULIET MACUR and NATE SCHWEBER

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5595 words


STEUBENVILLE, Ohio

HOURS AFTER SUNSET, the cars pulled up, one after another, bringing dozens of
teenagers from several nearby high schools to an end-of-summer party in August
in a neighborhood here just off the main drag.

For some of the teenagers, it would be one last big night out before they left
this decaying steel town, bound for college.

For others, it was a way to cap off a summer of socializing before school
started in less than two weeks. For the lucky ones on the Steubenville High
School football team, it would be the start of another season of possible glory
as stars in this football-crazy county.

Some in the crowd, which would grow to close to 50 people, arrived with beer.
Those who did not were met by cases of it and a makeshift bar of vodka, rum and
whiskey, all for the taking, no identification needed. In a matter of no time,
many of the partygoers -- many of them were high school athletes -- were
imbibing from red plastic cups inside the home of a volunteer football coach at
Steubenville High at what would be the first of several parties that night.

''Huge party!!! Banger!!!!'' Trent Mays, a sophomore quarterback on
Steubenville's team, posted on Twitter, referring to one of the bashes that
evening.

By sunrise, though, some people in and around Steubenville had gotten word that
the night of fun on Aug. 11 might have taken a grim turn, and that members of
the Steubenville High football team might have been involved. Twitter posts,
videos and photographs circulated by some who attended the nightlong set of
parties suggested that an unconscious girl had been sexually assaulted over
several hours while others watched. She even might have been urinated on.

In one photograph posted on Instagram by a Steubenville High football player,
the girl, who was from across the Ohio River in Weirton, W.Va., is shown looking
unresponsive as two boys carry her by her wrists and ankles. Twitter users wrote
the words ''rape'' and ''drunk girl'' in their posts.

Rumors of a possible crime spread, and people, often with little reliable
information, quickly took sides. Some residents and others on social media
blamed the girl, saying she put the football team in a bad light and put herself
in a position to be violated. Others supported the girl, saying she was a victim
of what they believed was a hero-worshiping culture built around football
players who think they can do no wrong.

On Aug. 22, the possible crime made local news when the police came forward with
details: two standout Steubenville football players -- Mays, 16, from
Bloomingdale, Ohio, and Ma'lik Richmond, 16, from Steubenville -- were arrested
and later charged with raping a 16-year-old girl and kidnapping her by taking
her to several parties while she was too drunk to resist.

The case is not the first time a high school football team has been entangled in
accusations of sexual assault. But the situation in Steubenville has another
layer to it that separates it from many others: It is a sexual assault
accusation in the age of social media, when teenagers are capturing much of
their lives on their camera phones -- even repugnant, possibly criminal
behavior, as they did in Steubenville in August -- and then posting it on the
Web, like a graphic, public diary.

Within days of the possible sexual assault, an online personality who often
blogs about crime zeroed in on those public comments and photographs and
injected herself into the story, complicating it and igniting ire in the
community. She posted the information on her site and wrote online that the
police and town officials were giving the football players special treatment.

The city's police chief begged for witnesses to come forward, but received
little response. In time, the county prosecutor and the judge in charge of
handling crimes by juveniles recused themselves from the case because they had
ties to the football team.

''It's a very, very small community here,'' said Jefferson County Juvenile Judge
Samuel W. Kerr, who recused himself. His granddaughter dated one of the football
players initially linked to the incident. ''Everybody knows everybody.''

After more than two months in jail, they are under house arrest on rape charges,
awaiting a trial that has been set for Feb. 13. Mays, a star wrestler, also
faces a charge of disseminating nude photographs of a minor. The kidnapping
charges were dropped.

The parents of the boys, who declined requests for extended interviews, said
that the boys were innocent. The boys' lawyers assert that the boys have been
tried unfairly online, and vow they will be exonerated when all the facts are
known.

The case has entangled dozens of people in and out of this town.

Three Steubenville High School athletes became witnesses for the prosecution and
testified against Mays and Richmond, their friends, at a probable cause hearing
in October. The crime blogger and more than a dozen people who posted comments
on her Web site have been sued by a Steubenville football player and his parents
for defamation. The girl's mother, in several brief interviews last month, said
her family had received threats, so extra police have been patrolling her
neighborhood.

''The thing I found most disturbing about this is that there were other people
around when this was going on,'' Steubenville Police Chief William McCafferty
said of the events that unfolded. ''Nobody had the morals to say, 'Hey, stop it,
that isn't right.'

''If you could charge people for not being decent human beings, a lot of people
could have been charged that night.''

A Bright Spot in Steubenville

Steubenville is an industrial city in Appalachia -- locals love to note it is
hometown to the Rat Pack crooner Dean Martin, the porn actress Traci Lords and
the oddsmaker Jimmy Snyder, known as Jimmy the Greek. The city once was teeming
with so much gambling, prostitution and organized crime that Steubenville was
given the nickname Sin City. But now the downtown is a skeleton of its former
self: though the Steubenville visitors center sells life-size cutouts of Dean
Martin and ''Dino Lives!'' T-shirts, many stores are abandoned, boarded up long
ago.

The Grand Theater, once a lavish Art Deco movie house, last showed a film in
1979. Around the corner, Denmark's women's clothing store is now a graveyard for
discarded hangers and broken clothing racks. In the window of the store is a
dusty Woman's Home Companion magazine from 1948, just about the time
Steubenville began its long and painful turn for the worse.

The steel mills that used to employ thousands and draw people here have all but
ground to a halt, and the once-plentiful jobs in the coal mines are dwindling.
The lack of jobs scared off residents at such a frenzied pace that Steubenville
had by far the steepest decline in population of any metropolitan area in Ohio
from 1970 through 2000, according to a study by Ohio State University.

And among those who have stayed -- about 18,400 in Steubenville -- many are
struggling. The median household income is $33,188, about a third lower than the
national figure. More than one quarter of the residents are living below the
poverty level. Also, the police say the city's drug problems are growing, with
heroin addiction the latest vice. In recent decades, new residents arrived from
Chicago, bringing ''Chicago-style violence,'' like drive-by shootings in the
tough parts of town, said McCafferty, the police chief.

Despite all those components to this depressed city, a bright light remains for
the people here: the Steubenville Big Red football team.

The team recorded its first season in 1900 and quickly became a legend in Ohio
high school football. It has won nine state championships, including
back-to-back undefeated seasons in 2005 and 2006.

Some former players call it a highlight of their lives to play at Harding
Stadium, a gleaming shrine to football also called Death Valley. The stands seat
10,000, more than half the town's population, and the home side is packed every
game, sometimes so packed that it is standing room only. Tailgating in nearby
parking lots usually begins about 9 a.m. for a 7:30 p.m. game. Several years
ago, Halloween trick-or-treating was postponed because it fell on game day.

Inside the stadium, a big thrill for fans is seeing a sculpture of a rearing red
stallion called Man O'War shoot a six-foot flame from its mouth, marking each
time Big Red scores.

The team's Web site declares that Big Red is ''Keeping Steubenville on the
map.'' That is probably true.

''Everybody around here goes to games on Friday nights, and I mean everybody --
people come for miles,'' said Jim Flanagan, 48, who grew up in the area. ''It's
basically the small-town effect. People live and die based on Big Red because
they usually win and it makes everybody feel good about themselves when times
are tough.''

But emphatic pride over high school athletes, Flanagan said, has turned into
something that can feel ugly.

''The players are considered heroes, and that's pretty pathetic, because they've
been able to get away with things for years because of it,'' Flanagan said.
''Everyone just looks the other way.'' A Night Takes a Grim Turn

Just before 10 a.m. on Aug. 11, fans who are part of what is called the Big Red
Nation poured into Harding Stadium clad in the team's colors, red and black, to
see Big Red's second scrimmage of the season and to get a sense of how the team
would fare this year.

What they saw were two players who stood out from the rest: Mays and Richmond.

Mays, who hails from a nearby town and who went to Steubenville High because of
its successful football and wrestling programs, showed off his strong arm at
quarterback. Richmond, who the police say came from a troubled home and has
lived in Steubenville with guardians since he was 8, dominated as a quick and
tall wide receiver. He also was a star of the Big Red basketball and track
teams.

The two athletes gave hope to fans that Big Red might be headed back to the top.

Of Mays, one person at the time wrote on JJHuddle.com, a Web site for Ohio high
school sports, ''If he has the composure, could be very enjoyable to watch that
young man grow up with Ma'lik.'' Mays and Richmond helped Big Red prevail that
day in the scrimmage, before heading off to a night of parties.

Across the river, in a well-kept two-story colonial house in a solidly
middle-class West Virginia neighborhood, the 16-year-old girl told her parents
that she was going to a sleepover at a friend's house that night. She then
headed off to those parties, too.

She is not a Steubenville High student; she attended a smaller, religion-based
school, where she was an honor student and an athlete.

At the parties, the girl had so much to drink that she was unable to recall much
from that night, and nothing past midnight, the police said. The girl began
drinking early on, according to an account that the police pieced together from
witnesses, including two of the three Steubenville High athletes who testified
in court in October. By 10 or 10:30 that night, it was clear that the
dark-haired teenager was drunk because she was stumbling and slurring her words,
witnesses testified.

Some people at the party taunted her, chanted and cheered as a Steubenville High
baseball player dared bystanders to urinate on her, one witness testified.

About two hours later, the girl left the party with several Big Red football
players, including Mays and Richmond, witnesses said. They stayed only briefly
at a second party before leaving for their third party of the night. Two
witnesses testified that the girl needed help walking. One testified that she
was carried out of the house by Mays and Richmond while she ''was sleeping.''

She woke up long enough to vomit in the street, a witness said, and she remained
there alone for several minutes with her top off. Another witness said Mays and
Richmond were holding her hair back.

Afterward, they headed to the home of one football player who has now become a
witness for the prosecution. That player told the police that he was in the back
seat of his Volkswagen Jetta with Mays and the girl when Mays proceeded to flash
the girl's breasts and penetrate her with his fingers, while the player
videotaped it on his phone. The player, who shared the video with at least one
person, testified that he videotaped Mays and the girl ''because he was being
stupid, not making the right choices.'' He said he later deleted the recording.

The girl ''was just sitting there, not really doing anything,'' the player
testified. ''She was kind of talking, but I couldn't make out the words that she
was saying.''

At that third party, the girl could not walk on her own and vomited several
times before toppling onto her side, several witnesses testified. Mays then
tried to coerce the girl into giving him oral sex, but the girl was
unresponsive, according to the player who videotaped Mays and the girl.

The player said he did not try to stop it because ''at the time, no one really
saw it as being forceful.''

At one point, the girl was on the ground, naked, unmoving and silent, according
to two witnesses who testified. Mays, they said, had exposed himself while he
was right next to her.

Richmond was behind her, with his hands between her legs, penetrating her with
his fingers, a witness said.

''I tried to tell Trent to stop it,'' another athlete, who was Mays's best
friend, testified. ''You know, I told him, 'Just wait -- wait till she wakes up
if you're going to do any of this stuff. Don't do anything you're going to
regret.' ''

He said Mays answered: ''It's all right. Don't worry.''

That boy took a photograph of what Mays and Richmond were doing to the girl. He
explained in court how he wanted her to know what had happened to her, but he
deleted it from his phone, he testified, after showing it to several people.

The girl slept on a couch in the basement of that home that night, with Mays
alongside her before he took a spot on the floor.

When she awoke, she was unaware of what had happened to her, she has told her
parents and the police. But by then, the story of her night was already
unfolding on the Internet, on Twitter and via text messages. Compromising and
explicit photographs of her were posted and shared.

Within a day, a family member in town shared with the girl's parents more
disturbing visuals: a photograph posted on Instagram of their daughter who
looked passed out at a party and a YouTube video of a former Steubenville
baseball player talking about a rape. That former player, who graduated earlier
this year, also posted on Twitter, ''Song of the night is definitely Rape Me by
Nirvana,'' and ''Some people deserve to be peed on,'' which was reshared on
Twitter by several people, including Mays.

The parents then notified the police and took their daughter to a hospital. At
1:38 a.m. on Aug. 14, the girl's parents walked into the Steubenville police
station with a flash drive with photographs from online, Twitter posts and the
video on it. It was all the evidence the girl's parents had, leaving the police
with the task of filling in the details of what had happened that night. The
police said the case was challenging partly because too much time had passed
since the suspected rape. By then, the girl had taken at least one shower and
might have washed away evidence, said McCafferty, the police chief. He added
that it also was too late for toxicology tests to determine if she had been
drugged.

''My daughter learned about what had happened to her that night by reading the
story about it in the local newspaper,'' the girl's mother said.

''How would you like to go through that as a mother, seeing your daughter, who
is your entire world, treated like that?'' the mother said. ''It was devastating
for all of us.''

Mays and Richmond were arrested Aug. 22, about a week after the girl's parents
reported the suspected rape.

Taking Sides on Blogs

Alexandria Goddard, a 45-year-old Web analyst who once lived in Steubenville and
writes about national crime on a blog, heard about the case early on and rushed
to investigate it herself. She told The Cleveland Plain Dealer in September that
she did so because she had little faith that the authorities would do a thorough
job.

Before many of the partygoers could delete their posts, photographs or videos,
she took screen shots of them, posting them on her site, Prinniefied.com. On
Aug. 24, just after the arrests, she wrote on her site that it was ''a slam dunk
case'' because, she said, Mays and Richmond videotaped and photographed their
crime and then posted those images on the Web. Goddard pressed her case.

''What normal person would even consider that posting the brutal rape of a young
girl is something that should be shared with their peers?'' she wrote. ''Do they
think because they are Big Red players that the rules don't apply to them?''

She cited by name several current and former Steubenville athletes, accusing
them of having a criminal role in the suspected assault by failing to stop it
and then disseminating photographs of it. According to court documents, Goddard
responded to a comment that read, ''Students by day ...gang rape participants by
night'' by writing that the football coach should be ashamed of letting players
linked to the incident remain on the field. In another post, she added, ''Why
aren't more kids in jail. They all knew.''

Of the Big Red athletes who were with Mays and Richmond that night, she said:
''No, you are not stars. You are criminals who are walking around right now on
borrowed time.''

Anonymous commenters on her blog took aim at Steubenville High, its football
coaching staff and the local police for not disciplining more players or making
more arrests in connection with the rape accusation. On another site,
Change.org, a person started a petition demanding that the school and the coach
publicly apologize to the girl. The petition also asked that the Steubenville
schools superintendent admit that there was a ''rape culture and excessive
adulation of male athletes'' at Steubenville High.

In a day, 100 people signed the petition, and 169 signed before no more
signatures were accepted.

Around town, the discussion of what might have happened that night in August
raged, growing more heated by the day. The accusations on Goddard's blog, posted
by Goddard and others, sparked more debate. The local newspaper, The
Herald-Star, ran a letter to the editor from Joe Scalise, a Steubenville
resident, who criticized the blogger's site, saying it ''has lent itself to
character assassination and has begun to resemble a lynch mob.''

Even without much official public information about the night, some people in
town are skeptical of the police account, like Nate Hubbard, a Big Red volunteer
coach.

As he stood in the shadow of Harding Stadium, where he once dazzled the crowd
with his runs, Hubbard gave voice to some of the popular, if harsh, suspicions.

''The rape was just an excuse, I think,'' said the 27-year-old Hubbard, who is
No. 2 on the Big Red's career rushing list.

''What else are you going to tell your parents when you come home drunk like
that and after a night like that?'' said Hubbard, who is one of the team's 19
coaches. ''She had to make up something. Now people are trying to blow up our
football program because of it.''

There is no shortage of people who feel the opposite. They absolutely accept the
account of sexual assault, and are weary of what they call the protection and
indulgence afforded the football team. That said, more than a dozen people
interviewed last month who were critical of the football team and its protected
status, real or perceived, did not want their names used in connection with
comments about the team, for fear of retribution from Big Red football fans.

One man said he wanted to see the accused boys go to prison, but insisted he
remain anonymous because he did not want his house to be a target for vandalism.

Bill Miller, a painter who played for Big Red in the 1980s, said the coach was
to blame because he was too lenient with players regarding bad behavior off the
field.

''There's a set of rules that don't apply to everybody,'' he said of what he
called the favoritism regarding the players. ''This has been happening since the
early '80s; this is nothing new. It's disgusting. I can't stand it. The culture
is not what it should be. It's not clean.''

Others attacked Goddard, the crime blogger, for her commentary regarding what
she called the town's twisted football culture and its special treatment of
football players, including a player who is suing her for defamation. As part of
the legal action against her by the player and his family, the court has allowed
the family's lawyers to seek the identities of those people who disparaged the
player by name on the blog. The player has not been charged with any crime.

Goddard, who has not been located by the court so it can serve her with a copy
of the complaint, did not respond to an e-mailed request for comment. She
remains active on her blog.

Goddard's lawyers, Thomas G. Haren and Jeffrey M. Nye, said that their client
was a journalist whose work was protected by the First Amendment.

''This case strikes at the heart of the freedom of speech and of the press,''
they said in a statement. ''We intend to see those constitutional guarantees
vindicated at the end of the day.''

Seeking Evidence

Despite the seeming abundance of material online regarding the night of the
suspected rape and the number of teenagers who were at the parties that night,
the police still have had trouble establishing what anyone might regard as an
airtight case.

A medical examination at a hospital more than one day after the parties did not
reveal any evidence, like semen, that might have supported an accusation of
rape, the police said. The Steubenville police knocked on doors of the people
thought to be at the parties, but not many people were forthcoming with
information. In several instances, the police seized cellphones so they could
look for photographs or videos related to the case.

Eventually, 15 phones and 2 iPads were confiscated and analyzed by a cyber crime
expert at the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation. That expert could not
retrieve deleted photographs and videos on most of the phones.

In the end, the expert recovered two naked photographs of the girl. One
photograph showed the girl face down on the floor at one party, naked with her
arms tucked beneath her, according to testimony given at a hearing in October.
The other photograph was not described. Both photographs were found on Mays's
iPhone. No photograph or video showed anyone involved in a sexual act with the
girl.

Anonymous complaints and chatter on the Internet about a less than fully
aggressive investigation have perhaps not surprisingly proliferated.

It has left McCafferty, the police chief, fuming and frustrated.

For weeks after the girl's parents came forward, he again pleaded to the other
partygoers to come forward with information about the possible sexual assault.
Only one did, he said.

''Everybody on those Web sites kept saying stuff that wasn't true and saying,
why wasn't this person arrested, why aren't the police doing anything about
it,'' he said. ''Everybody wanted to incriminate more of the football players,
some because some of the other schools in the area are simply jealous of Big
Red.''

McCafferty, who has been the police chief for 11 years, is sensitive when it
comes to criticism of his police force. He took over in the wake of a United
States Department of Justice inquiry into the Steubenville Police Department's
patterns of false arrests and excessive force. And he now goes out of his way to
try to assure residents that they can trust the police department again.

He said it bothered him when he heard people say that Big Red players got away
with crimes in town. If crimes are being committed, he said, they are not being
reported. He said no one had ever given him a concrete example of players'
receiving special treatment.

In 23 years on the force, he said, he can only remember one player before Mays
and Richmond being arrested; that player was convicted of assault.

''It's always, 'They said players are getting away with things,' but when I ask
who 'they' is, no one can tell me,'' McCafferty said.

Standing by His Players

In this part of the football-obsessed Ohio Valley -- where at least several
houses in every neighborhood have a ''Roll Red Roll'' or a ''Big Red'' sign out
front -- everybody knows Coach Reno Saccoccia. He has coached two generations of
players at Big Red and has won 3 state titles and 85 percent of his games,
according to the team's Web site. The football team's field is named Reno Field.

This season, the coach, who is used to winning, had to do without Mays and
Richmond. But others who were at the parties and might have witnessed the
suspected assault continued to play on the team. Saccoccia, a 63-year-old who
brims with bravado, was the sole person in charge of determining whether any
players would be punished.

Saccoccia, pronounced SOCK-otch, told the principal and school superintendent
that the players who posted online photographs and comments about the girl the
night of the parties said they did not think they had done anything wrong.
Because of that, he said, he had no basis for benching those players.

The two players who testified at a hearing in early October to determine if
there was enough evidence to continue the case were eventually suspended from
the team. That came eight games into the 10-game regular season.

Approached in November to be interviewed about the case, Saccoccia said he did
not ''do the Internet,'' so he had not seen the comments and photographs posted
online from that night. When asked again about the players involved and why he
chose not to discipline them, he became agitated.

''You made me mad now,'' he said, throwing in several expletives as he walked
from the high school to his car.

Nearly nose to nose with a reporter, he growled: ''You're going to get yours.
And if you don't get yours, somebody close to you will.''

Shawn Crosier, the principal of Steubenville High, and Michael McVey, the
superintendent of Steubenville schools, said they entrusted Saccoccia with
determining whether any players should be disciplined for what they might have
done or saw the night of Aug. 11. Neither Crosier nor McVey spoke to any
students about the events of that summer night, they said, because they were
satisfied that Saccoccia would handle it.

In an interview last month, Crosier maintained that he was not aware of what
might have happened to the girl, even with all of the talk in the town, until
three Big Red athletes testified in early October. At the same time, he said
that he might have read the online petition that called for a public apology
from the players and the team. He said that if he had, he had not thought much
of it.

McVey said he was not aware of the team having any off-field issues before this
one.

''If this happened as a pattern, it would have set off an alarm,'' McVey said of
the possible sexual assault. ''But we think this was an isolated incident.''

Neither Mays nor Richmond had a record, the police said, and each had numerous
community members testify as character witnesses for them at the hearing in
which the judge determined they should be tried as juveniles, not as adults.

Saccoccia was one of those witnesses, as was Michael Haney, the school's varsity
basketball coach, who said Richmond was such a talented player that he ranked in
the top 100 high school players in the state.

Yet the football season went on without Mays and Richmond, two of the team's
stars. And Big Red's record reflected the gap in its roster.

The team finished the season 9-3 after losing in the second round of the
playoffs. It was the end of a disappointing year for the program and the fans
who expect so much from Big Red players.

The fans from a perennial rival, the Massillon Tigers, took advantage of the
team's legal troubles and taunted players.

In the Tigers' cheering section at the game against Steubenville was one fan who
painted on his chest the words, ''Rape Big Red.''

Players and Families Wait

Big Red's season ended in early November, and the daily conversation in town is
less and less about the suspected rape than it is about how the team will
perform next year.

But inside a courtroom at the county jail, less than two miles down a hill from
the football stadium, the debate over what happened to the girl that summer
night is still unfolding.

The hearings in the case are open to the public, but court documents regarding
the matter are sealed because the defendants are juveniles. Mays and Richmond
were released to their families or guardians last month, though they must wear
electronic monitoring devices and are allowed to leave home only to attend
school at the county jail or church. On school days, they head to classes at the
jail, wearing their new uniform: green sweat pants and tan shirts, which have
numbers on their left sleeves.

Last month, Mays's father, Brian, declined to be interviewed, saying, ''It'll
all work out.'' From the street outside his house, two shelves filled with
athletic trophies could be seen inside a second-story room.

Richmond's father, Nate, said his son was innocent. In September, he camped
outside the county jail next to a banner that read, ''Set my people free.''

''He didn't do anything,'' Richmond said.

Ma'lik Richmond now lives with his legal guardians, Jennifer and Greg Agresta,
in a middle-class neighborhood with neatly trimmed lawns. A basketball hoop sits
on the street in front of his house. Greg Agresta is a member of the school
board.

Richmond's grandmother, Mae, said the charges surprised her because Ma'lik had
been so focused on sports and school, with hopes of leaving Steubenville for a
better life and having a better life than his father, who has served time in
prison and been charged with many crimes, including manslaughter.

''Me and Coach Reno was talking, and he said Ma'lik was just in the wrong place
at the wrong time,'' she said.

Adam Nemann, Mays's lawyer, said the case was unusual because the police
collected no physical evidence or testimony from the girl who asserts she was
raped.

''The whole question is consent,'' he said. ''Was she conscious enough to give
consent or not? We think she was. She gave out the pass code to her phone after
the sexual assault was said to have occurred.''

Walter Madison, Richmond's lawyer, said his client was already at a marked
disadvantage because so many people discussed the incident online, through blogs
and on Twitter.

''It's an uphill battle because you've got social media going on and people
formulating opinions, people who weren't there and don't know what happened,''
he said. ''In a small community, it exponentially snowballs out of control. I
think the scales are a bit unbalanced.''

He said that online photographs and posts could ultimately be ''a gift'' for his
client's case because the girl, before that night in August, had posted
provocative comments and photographs on her Twitter page over time. He added
that those online posts demonstrated that she was sexually active and showed
that she was ''clearly engaged in at-risk behavior.''

The lawyers for the boys also said the three athletes who testified against
their clients had credibility issues. The lawyers said that the police had found
nude photographs of women on the phone of one of the witnesses, and that two
witnesses had admitted recording some aspect of the suspected assault. Those
alone could be crimes, the lawyers said, but the witnesses were given immunity
from prosecution. Their testimony, the lawyers suggested, might have been given
in a bid for leniency.

The special prosecutors on the case, Marianne Hemmeter and Jennifer Brumby of
the Ohio Attorney General's Crimes Against Children unit, declined to comment
because the investigation was open.

But in court, they have rejected the defense's claims. The girl, they have said,
was in no condition to give consent to sexual advances that night -- and the
teenagers there knew it, the prosecutors said.

At a hearing in early October, prosecutors told the judge in the case that the
defendants treated the girl ''like a toy'' and ''the bottom line is we don't
have to prove that she said 'no,' we just have to prove that when they're doing
things to her, she's not moving. She's not responsive, and the evidence is
consistent and clear.''

At a hearing last month, the girl's mother said her daughter remained distraught
and did not want to attend school. The girl's friends have ostracized her, and
parents have kept their children away from her, the mother said.

The girl does not sleep much, said the mother, who testified that she often
hears her daughter crying at night.

The mother said the obsession with high school football in Steubenville is
partly to blame. It shocked her that Saccoccia testified as a character witness
for the defendants last month, she said.

In the courtroom that day, she remembered thinking, how dare he?

''Just Coach Reno saying he would testify for those boys, saying he was so proud
of them, that speaks volumes,'' she said. ''All those football players are put
on a pedestal over there, and it's such a status symbol to play for Big Red, the
culture is so different over there.''

The mother added: ''I do feel like they've had preferential treatment, and it's
unreal, almost like we're part of a TV show. It's like a bad ''CSI'' episode.
What those boys did was disgusting, disgusting, and for people to stand up for
them, that's disgusting, too.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/17/sports/high-school-football-rape-case-unfolds-
online-and-divides-steubenville-ohio.html

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Football at Steubenville High School in Ohio is an everyday
topic. But rape charges against two players have some residents questioning the
culture of football in the community. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA GUNTER/ THE PLAIN
DEALER) (D1)
Steubenville, Ohio, is a place where ''everybody knows everybody,'' a judge
said. Work at steel mills and coal mines was once plentiful there. But a lack of
jobs has more residents leaving.
Some former players describe playing at Harding Stadium as the highlight of
their lives.
The Steubenville police chief,William McCafferty, is bothered when he hears
people say Big Red players get away with crimes. If crimes are being committed,
he said, they are not being reported. (D6)
Coach Reno Saccoccia said because he had not seen online postings about the
night in question, he had no basis for benching players. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF
SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Harding Stadium, also called Death Valley, can seat more than 10,000 -- that is
more than half the city's population. Tailgating starts in the mornings for
games at 7:30 p.m. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA GUNTER/ THE PLAIN DEALER) (D7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 21, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Police Dept. To Use Internet To Try to Stop Mass Shootings

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 280 words


Top intelligence officials in the New York Police Department met on Thursday to
examine ways to search the Internet to identify potential ''deranged'' gunmen
before they strike, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said.

''The techniques would include cyber-searches of language that mass-casualty
shooters have used in e-mails and Internet postings,'' Mr. Kelly said in a
statement. ''The goal would be to identify the shooter in cyberspace, engage him
there and intervene, possibly using an undercover to get close, and take him
into custody or otherwise disrupt his plans.''

The meeting came almost a week after a gunman killed 26 people, 20 of them
children, inside Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.

There are plans to send officers to Newtown and to scenes of other mass
shootings to collect information, Paul. J. Browne, the department's chief
spokesman, said.

Mr. Browne said the potential tactics included creating an algorithm that would
search online ''for terms used by active shooters in the past that may be an
indicator of future intentions.''

Mr. Kelly said the technique was similar to those being used to spot terrorists'
chatter online. The new searches would target ''apolitical or deranged killers
before they become active shooters,'' he said.

The meeting's participants included David Cohen, who leads the department's
intelligence division, and senior members of the department.

''Active shooters can cause multiple deaths in seconds, regardless of police
training or how deft the police response,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''For that reason,
the N.Y.P.D. is examining ways, through intelligence, to try to identify
potential active shooters before they strike.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/21/nyregion/police-dept-to-use-internet-to-try-to
-stop-shootings.html

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 24, 2012 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sneaky Apps That Track Cellphones

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 409 words


A perversion of smartphone technology called ''stalking apps'' -- precise,
secretive trackings of the movements of cellphone users -- is increasingly a
matter of national concern, particularly for domestic abuse victims. No less
threatening is the routine monitoring of children's locales and phone habits for
commercial purposes while parents are kept in the dark. Stealth apps even stoop
to cyber-leering through the now notorious app called Girls Around Me, which
allows men to search out women, unbeknown to them, by cross-matching GPS
technology with information and photo sites like Facebook.

With these abuses proliferating, the Senate Judiciary Committee this month took
a big step to protect the privacy of all cellphone users and close legal
loopholes that enable stalking apps. The committee approved a worthy measure
sponsored by Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, that for the first time
would require cellphone companies to obtain a user's permission to collect
location data and sell it or share it with third parties. It also would flatly
outlaw creation of stalking apps, applying criminal and civil penalties.

''Right now companies -- some legitimate, some sleazy -- are collecting your or
your child's location and selling it to ad companies or who knows who else,''
Mr. Franken told the committee. He described a constituent who was not aware
that her spouse had secretly installed an app on her phone to stalk her
movements -- and send her text threats along the way -- as she went to court for
a protection order. It takes mere seconds, the senator said, for an abuser to
slip a stalking app into another person's phone. The need to protect children
was echoed in a recent Federal Trade Commission study showing that some of the
most popular apps for children engage in commercial phone stalking, with no
notification to parents.

Current laws banning stalking and wiretapping lag behind modern communications,
with no provision barring companies from marketing a stalking app. One company
sells such an app for about $50, and advertised on its site: ''Suspect your
spouse is cheating? Don't break the bank by hiring a private investigator.''

The measure is opposed by software companies, which say they can police
themselves. This is highly unlikely considering the money to be made by this
lucrative and fast-moving technology. The Senate should approve the measure and
move it for House action with speed worthy of the Internet.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/24/opinion/sneaking-after-cellphone-users.html

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 26, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iran Suggests Attacks on Computer Systems Came From the U.S. and Israel

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 621 words


Iran reported a number of new cyberattacks on Tuesday, saying foreign enemy
hackers tried in recent months to disrupt computer systems at a power plant and
other industries in a strategically important southern coastal province as well
as at a Culture Ministry information center.

Accounts of the attacks in the official press did not specify who was
responsible, when they were carried out or how they were thwarted. But they
strongly suggested that the attacks had originated in the United States and
Israel, which have been engaged in a shadowy struggle of computer sabotage with
Iran in a broader dispute over whether Iran's nuclear energy program is for
peaceful or military use.

Iran has been on heightened alert against such sabotage since a computer worm
known as Stuxnet was used to attack its uranium enrichment centrifuges more than
two years ago, which American intelligence officials believe caused many of the
machines to spin out of control and self-destruct, slowing the Iranian program's
progress.

Stuxnet and other forms of computer malware have also been used in attacks on
Iran's oil industry and Science Ministry under a covert United States effort,
first revealed in January 2009, that was meant to subvert Iran's nuclear program
because of suspicions that the Iranians were using it to develop the ability to
make atomic bombs. Iran has repeatedly denied these suspicions.

The latest Iranian sabotage reports raised the possibility that the attacks had
been carried out in retaliation for others that crippled computers in the Saudi
Arabian oil industry and some financial institutions in the United States a few
months ago. American intelligence officials have said they believe that Iranian
specialists in cybersabotage were responsible for those attacks, which erased
thousands of Saudi files and temporarily prevented some American banking
customers from gaining access to their accounts.

Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta cited those attacks in an Oct. 11 speech in
which he warned of America's vulnerability to a coordinated computer warfare
attack, calling such a possibility a ''cyber-Pearl Harbor.''

The Iranian Students' News Agency said the country's Passive Defense
Organization, the military unit responsible for guarding against cyberattacks,
had battled a computer virus infection of an electric utility and other
unspecified manufacturing industries in southern Hormozgan Province, home to a
large oil refinery and container port in the provincial capital of Bandar Abbas.

The news agency quoted Ali Akbar Akhavan, the head of the Passive Defense
Organization's provincial branch, as saying that ''with timely measures and the
cooperation of skilled hackers in the province, the progress of this virus was
halted.'' It was unclear whether any Iranian targets had been damaged.

Iran's Fars News Agency said a cyberattack had also been made against the
information center of the Headquarters for Supporting and Protecting Works of
Art and Culture, a part of the Culture Ministry, and that the attack had been
''repelled by the headquarters' experts.''

The Fars account said the attack originated in Dallas and was routed to Iran via
Malaysia and Vietnam. It did not elaborate on the significance of that
information, but noted that a broad array of Iranian targets had recently come
under cyberattacks that were ''widely believed to be designed and staged by the
U.S. and Israel.''

News of the latest cyberattacks came as Western economic sanctions on Iran have
been tightening, while diplomatic negotiations aimed at resolving the nuclear
dispute have remained basically stalled since June. There are expectations that
a resumption of those negotiations will be announced soon, possibly next month.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/26/world/middleeast/iran-says-hackers-targeted-po
wer-plant-and-culture-ministry.html

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 244 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 26, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ever Independent, Lieberman Moves On, Calling Partisan Fighting a 'Cancer'

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1303 words


WASHINGTON -- There was Joseph I. Lieberman, in the midst of his extended
farewell tour of interviews, speeches and personal appearances (''This feels
like the Last Waltz of the Band,'' he said), talking about how much people have
hated him.

''I'm not saying I was always right,'' he said at his Senate office. ''I'll
leave that to God and history. But I believed I was doing what I thought was
right and people didn't just disagree with me. There was hatred. But I'm not
alone in that. You can take the last three presidents -- Clinton, Bush, Obama --
and people haven't just disagreed with them, they've hated them. And to me,
that's really terrible. That's a cancer that's eating at our politics.''

Like everything about Mr. Lieberman, the words and the context he chose to put
them in will surely be taken various ways. Principled? Self-important? Wise?
Deluded? But then Mr. Lieberman leaves the Senate a master at playing by his own
rules, with the praise and disdain that come with forging a path like few, if
any, in American politics. It has included: reliable Democrat, first Jewish
vice-presidential candidate, disastrously failed presidential candidate,
election to the Senate as an independent after losing in his Democratic primary,
a spot on the shortlist of possible Republican vice-presidential candidates,
independent Senate voice and power broker.

Now, as he prepares to leave the Senate after 24 years of representing
Connecticut, Mr. Lieberman might find himself in the least likely position of
all. His most unusual of careers has left him in the middle of perhaps the
central debate in American political life -- what is the proper role for
bipartisanship and how can it best be achieved?

As he said in his farewell remarks to the Senate on Dec. 12, he is convinced
that the greatest obstacle the nation faces in addressing its problems is ''the
partisan polarization of our politics which prevents us from making the
principled compromises on which progress in a democracy depends and which right
now prevents us from restoring our fiscal solvency as a nation.''

To his defenders, who are as likely to be Republicans as Democrats, Mr.
Lieberman has been a rare and admirable political figure who has risen above
party in a polarized time.

''I think he leaves the Senate being respected by Republicans and Democrats,''
said Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina Republican, who along with Senator John
McCain, a Republican, became one of Mr. Lieberman's closest friends in the
Senate. ''I think the Republican Party and the Democratic Party need to do some
self-evaluation if there's no place for Joe Lieberman in the Democratic Party
and there's no place for some of our folks.''

But Mr. Lieberman became estranged from much of the Democratic Party over his
enthusiastic support of the Iraq war. He then alienated more Democrats by
backing Mr. McCain for president in 2008, his decision to speak at the
Republican National Convention and his role in killing a so-called public option
in President Obama's health care bill.

And critics, including many former supporters in Connecticut, say Mr.
Lieberman's form of bipartisanship has been in part pique because of his
rejection by Democratic voters, in part egotistic grandstanding, in part a way
to curry favor with Republicans and corporate interests.

''He found a way to disguise opportunism as high-mindedness, and as much as
anyone is the architect of this myth of bipartisanship,'' said Bill Curry, a
former unsuccessful Democratic candidate for Connecticut governor who served
with Mr. Lieberman in the State Senate. ''I question the idea you can find the
vital center simply by splitting the difference between a Democratic Party that
has lost its way and a Republican Party drowning in extremism.''

Even amid the current meltdown in Washington and the consistent Republican
opposition to Mr. Obama, Mr. Lieberman insists on blaming both parties equally
in a way that some Democrats say works for him but ignores reality.

''The Republicans will say not only in the fiscal negotiations, but in general,
they were constantly bending and willing to compromise, and it's the Democrats'
fault,'' he said. ''But the truth is, they're both right. It's both their
fault.''

Mr. Lieberman, 70, was elected to the Connecticut State Senate in 1970 and
served there for 10 years, including the last six as majority leader. He was the
Connecticut attorney general from 1983 to 1988 before narrowly defeating Senator
Lowell P. Weicker Jr. in 1988, at least in part by portraying him as someone
estranged from his party and too much of an independent actor.

''For 18 years, my opponent has gotten away with saying he's a maverick,'' Mr.
Lieberman said in one of their debates. ''Well, it's about time the people
really understood what a maverick is. It means you're not ultimately accountable
to anybody. You don't even have to make commitments, even to the voters you
represent. You just do whatever suits you personally whenever you want to do
it.''

Since then, Mr. Lieberman has created an image as one of the most independent
figures in the Senate, reliably liberal on some issues -- the environment in
particular -- reliably hawkish on defense, and, critics say, an often
contradictory party of one on others.

That position helped him create a national profile, first in 1998 when he
excoriated President Bill Clinton's conduct in the Monica Lewinsky affair, then
when he ran for vice president in 2000, beginning what seemed to be a
quadrennial soap opera.

Of the vice-presidential run, he said he was still disappointed but
philosophical.

Of his presidential race in 2004, he said, his views on Iraq doomed his
campaign: ''It just wasn't meant to be,'' he said. ''I was selling something the
Democratic primary voters didn't want to buy.''

Of his support for Mr. McCain in 2008, he said that he did not regret speaking
at the Republican convention but that he now felt he erred by criticizing Mr.
Obama there. He said he would have accepted the vice-presidential nomination had
Mr. McCain offered it but was glad the offer never came.

''It's just as well I was saved from the distinction in American history of
having lost for vice president twice on two different tickets,'' he said.

Still, along with the critics in his party, there have been numerous expressions
of respect. Democrats, in particular, praised his role in attracting enough
Republican votes to ensure the repeal of the military's ''don't ask, don't
tell'' policy.

''We don't always agree on policy issues, but we do 90 percent of the time,''
Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, said on the floor. ''Regardless of the
few differences we have, I have never, ever doubted Joe Lieberman's principles
or his patriotism.''

Mr. Lieberman has been outspoken and sometimes confounding to the end: suddenly
changing his position to endorse term limits as he leaves the Senate, calling
for the abolition of the Electoral College, co-sponsoring a bill for statehood
for the District of Columbia, criticizing both the National Rifle Association
and a culture of violent video games and entertainment after the massacre in
Newtown, Conn.

Mr. Lieberman said his biggest regret in the Senate was being unable to pass
legislation to combat climate change. And, if many question whether he has the
answers on bipartisanship, few in Congress doubt that he is at least asking the
right questions.

''I will tell you that in the 24 years I've been here, the last two have been
the most partisan, least compromising and therefore the least productive,'' he
said.

He added: ''We are in a race on big issues: the national debt, climate change
and cyber security are three that come to mind. And the question is, are we
going to have bipartisan agreements to make them into just problems before they
actually become catastrophes?''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/26/us/politics/joseph-i-lieberman-moves-on-to-gre
ater-questions.html

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Joseph I. Lieberman represented Connecticut for 24
years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company
