
                               1 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 3, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wanted: 'Cyber Ninjas'

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; CYBERSECURITY; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 547 words


FOR a regional competition last spring, eight students from California State
Polytechnic University, Pomona, spent six months of Saturdays practicing how to
defend a typical business computer network from attacks. Then, over two grueling
days, they outscored teams from five other schools at blocking worms and other
efforts to disrupt their e-mail and Internet systems.

For the six seniors in the group, all in computer information systems, the
victory was even sweeter. Boeing, the giant aerospace and military company,
offered them jobs.

Boeing's decision to snap up all the graduates on the team shows how urgent the
demand for computer-security experts has become, and helps explain why colleges
are scrambling to add courses and specialized degrees in the once-exotic field.

In fact, as attacks on vital computer systems proliferate, surveys show a
serious shortage of talent to combat them. Banks, military contractors and
software companies, along with federal agencies, are looking for ''cyber
ninjas'' to fend off a sophisticated array of hackers, from criminals stealing
credit card numbers to potential military adversaries.

''There is a huge demand, and a lot more schools have created programs,'' says
Nasir Memon, a professor at the Polytechnic Institute of New York University in
Brooklyn. ''But to be honest, we're still not producing enough students.''

Mr. Memon's school created a master's degree in cybersecurity last fall. So did
Indiana University, whose security degree is in ''informatics,'' an academic
field in which students find new uses for information technology. Starting in
the fall, Georgia Tech will offer a master's degree in information security
online; the program is aimed at computer professionals who want to learn to deal
with computer threats. N.Y.U. Poly, whose master's program is also online,
prefers students with bachelor's degrees in computers, math, science or
engineering. But it will consider career changers who will take basic computer
classes. Carnegie Mellon in Pittsburgh; Purdue in West Lafayette, Ind.; and
George Mason in Fairfax, Va., are among other universities with master's
programs in cybersecurity.

Jeffrey M. Henbest, one of the Cal Poly students hired by Boeing, says
cybersecurity is seen at his school ''as the most technically demanding field,
kind of like the fighter pilot of the information technology industry.''

While perhaps just a few thousand jobs are available now, government officials
involved in cybersecurity expect the number to grow rapidly. (Professor Memon
says pay starts at $50,000 with a bachelor's, $60,000 to $80,000 with a
master's.)

One concern, says Dale W. Meyerrose, the vice president for cyberprograms at the
Harris Corporation, a military contractor, is the shortage of young Americans
interested in pursuing careers involving math and science.

But Barbara G. Fast, Boeing's vice president for cybersolutions, says that young
people's familiarity with posting and chatting, and the fascination with virtual
gaming, could make cybersecurity seem like fun. In puzzling out security
problems, she says, it can be hard to imagine how far a computer network extends
and who the intruders might be.

''It's a real, three-dimensional, visualization challenge that we have.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VIKTOR KOEN)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 4, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Defying Censors and Threats, Iranian Filmmakers Keep Focus on the Turmoil

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1405 words

DATELINE: CAIRO


Iran's government cannot silence the filmmakers.

It keeps trying. Films are censored. Directors are prohibited to leave the
country and prohibited to return home, forced to cancel projects and threatened
with punishment if their films are too probing or too critical of life in the
Islamic Republic.

But the films keep coming, and so do the filmmakers.

Bahman Ghobadi's latest work, ''No One Knows About Persian Cats,'' is banned in
Iran but is being passed around for free, offering a searing portrait of life
through the prism of a vibrant underground music scene. The movie has songs with
lyrics like these: ''This is Tehran, a city where everything you see entices
you, entices your soul till you realize that you are not human, just trash.''

The film took the Jury's Special Prize at the 2009 Cannes Film Festival, turning
the red carpet of an international film festival into a platform to draw
attention to the political crisis in Iran. Similar events occurred in Montreal,
Berlin, Nuremberg, Mumbai and London, where Iranian filmmakers -- by either
their presence or their government-forced absence -- have used their celebrity
to keep the public focused on the turmoil that has roiled Iran since the
presidential election in June, which opponents of the government have denounced
as fraudulent.

''People of my country are killed, imprisoned, tortured and raped just for their
votes,'' Mohsen Makhmalbaf, one of Iran's most renowned filmmakers, said after
he accepted the Freedom to Create prize in London last month. ''Every award I
receive means an opportunity for me to echo their voices to the world, asking
for democracy for Iran and peace for the world.''

Iran's government has been busy fighting on many fronts, struggling to enforce
order in the streets, restore unity within the ranks of the political and
religious elite, and maintain some degree of legitimacy at home and abroad.
Increasingly, that effort has failed as the government has used force, including
lethal repression, to try to beat down protests and frighten the opposition into
silence. Some of the most radical government supporters have begun calling for
executing those who challenge and defy the will of the leadership.

But the government is also moving against the opposition in less public ways,
working to sanitize the school curriculum from what it deems subversive ideas,
like the study of humanities, and to empower a new force of cyber-police to
patrol the Internet.

And there has been a special emphasis on trying to tame the movie industry,
which even before the Islamic government came to power had a long history as a
medium for expressing -- and exploring -- ideas considered taboo by
authoritarian governments and a conservative society. For decades, filmmakers
relied on allegory and symbolism to get around censors and provoke audiences to
think.

During the reign of the Shah, ''we went to see films not just to learn about
national cinema but to look for hidden references to tyranny and domination,''
said Hamid Dabashi, the Hagop Kevorkian professor of Iranian studies and
comparative literature at Columbia University, who has written extensively about
Iranian cinema. Professor Dabashi said that Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei, was well aware of the influence of film in a nation where art and
artists were esteemed in all corners of society.

''He remembers well how arts, literature and poetry were very much the modus
operandi of the 1970s, which led to the revolution,'' he said. ''It has always
had a tremendous influence and it has always been there.''

Ayatollah Khamenei and President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad have moved against the film
industry as part of what they have called a ''soft war'' against Western
influences in Iran. Javad Shamaghdari, the deputy responsible for film at the
Ministry of Culture and Guidance, announced last month that the president would
personally lead a new government body to supervise Iranian cinema.

''Today we see that the enemy is ambushing us culturally and increasing the
intensity of its attacks,'' Mr. Shamaghdari said, according to an official
Iranian news agency report. ''Our cinema must find its place, and this is the
responsibility of filmmakers to take on this role.''

The supreme leader held a meeting of film directors late last month, lecturing
them on how film was not really art but was a tool of political propaganda. He
said that the Oscars (like the Nobel Prizes) ''do not have any value and artists
should never work to make movies with the purpose of winning such prizes.''

The government's efforts have produced results at home, where films that explore
anything deemed contrary to the leadership's narrative have been banned. But it
has failed to quiet the filmmakers themselves. At the meeting with the supreme
leader, the award-winning director Majid Majidi complained that there ''is no
respect for human rights, and the government is so ideologically motivated our
hands are tied,'' said Jaleh Pirnazar, a lecturer at the Center for Middle East
Studies at the University of California at Berkeley.

The government was embarrassed when a group of directors boycotted a recent
documentary festival in Tehran because they said they could not show the truth.
A well-known director, Manijeh Hekmat, wrote an open letter to the Ministry of
Culture demanding that the government repay her for the money she had lost
because censors had refused to allow her to show her movie ''Sounds.''

The pressure at home has inspired many filmmakers to take their case abroad.
Jafar Panahi, who won the highest award at the Venice Film Festival in 2000 for
''The Circle,'' a darkly moving portrayal of the place of women in Iranian
society, was arrested for participating in a protest after the election. He
showed up at a film festival in Montreal this summer where he asked all of the
judges to wear green scarves, which they did.

He wore one, too.

Green is the symbol of the opposition movement in Iran, and the authorities did
not like what Mr. Panahi did and barred him from leaving the country for another
international festival, this time in India. That too, drew attention to the
opposition.

The Iranian government was further embarrassed last month when Narges Kalhor,
25, the daughter of Mr. Ahmadinejad's cultural adviser, showed a short film at
the Nuremberg Human Rights Film Festival in Germany, and then announced that she
was asking for political asylum.

But perhaps nobody has done as much to use his film career to promote the
support the opposition than Mr. Makhmalbaf, director of the critically acclaimed
''Kandahar.'' When he accepted his award in London, he dedicated it to the late
Grand Ayatollah Hossein Ali Montazeri, the spiritual leader of the opposition.

Mr. Makhmalbaf dedicated a lifetime achievement award he received in Nuremberg
to the cleric Mehdi Karroubi, a former presidential candidate who has charged
that prison authorities raped and sodomized young men and women arrested for
taking part in postelection protests.

In addition to his film credits, Mr. Makhmalbaf, like Mr. Karroubi, has a
compelling personal relationship with the Islamic government. As a young man, he
made films that served the leadership, only to grow disillusioned and then move
to France, where he now lives and works.

At home in Iran, not all of the directors have embraced the call to criticize.
Abbas Kiarostami, whose own poetic examinations of Iranian life have established
him as the elder statesman of Iranian cinema, criticized Mr. Ghobadi's decision
to make ''No One Knows About Persian Cats'' without government permission, and
then deciding to leave the country. That set off an unusual public debate over
the role of art in Iran, and whether it should have a social-political
component.

Mr. Kiarostami, whose ''Taste of Cherry'' won the Palme d'Or at the 1997 Cannes
Film Festival, mentored Mr. Ghobadi, so the critique was particularly stinging,
prompting Mr. Ghobadi to respond with an emotional public letter to his former
teacher.

''On what basis do you give yourself permission to ridicule the efforts of
filmmakers who stand with the oppressed people using unacceptable words and,
worse than that, speak with the same voice as religious dictators?'' Mr. Ghobadi
wrote.

Mr. Ghobadi's assistant said that he was traveling and not available to comment,
but that he planned to return, soon. To Berlin, not Iran.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A scene from ''No One Knows About Persian Cats,'' which is
banned in Iran, about the country's underground music scene.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YOU
TUBE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                            January 5, 2010 Tuesday

Hackers Attack Ahmadinejad's Web site

BYLINE: ROBERT MACKEY

LENGTH: 661 words



HIGHLIGHT: An information technology consultant in San Francisco writes that
"someone seems to have had their way with Ahmadinejad's web servers."


Updated | 10:10 a.m. On Monday night in San Francisco an information technology
consultant named Austin Heap reported on his blog that the official Web site of
Iran's president, Ahmadinejad.ir, had been attacked by hackers.

Mr. Heap, who has been active in the effort to provide Iranians with tools to
circumvent Internet censorship this year, wrote that "someone seems to have had
their way with Ahmadinejad's web servers." Although the Web site appears to be
down now, Mr. Heap wrote that, for several hours, people trying to access it
were redirected to a page which contained the following message:

Dear God, In 2009 you took my favorite singer - Michael Jackson, my favorite
actress - Farrah Fawcett, my favorite actor - Patrick Swayze, my favorite voice
- Neda.
Please, please, don't forget my favorite politician - Ahmadinejad and my
favorite dictator - Khamenei
in the year 2010. Thank you.

A screen shot of the Web page with that message is available on Mr. Heap's blog
(click on the first illustration there for an enlarged view of it).

In a later update, Mr. Heap wrote that the site was subsequently inaccessible,
and speculated that it was "either intentionally pulled or ... is simply being
overloaded since so many people are looking to grab a peek at the hack."

The apparent attack comes three weeks after a group calling itself the "Iranian
Cyber Army" launched an attack that briefly redirected users of Twitter to a
site that displayed a message that seemed to support Iran's government. That
message read, in part:

U.S.A. Think They Controlling And Managing Internet By Their Access, But They
Don't, We Control And Manage Internet By Our Power.

Mr. Heap founded the Censorship Research Center and explained on its Web site
that the group's technological activism was motivated by a desire to help
Iranians use the Web despite the efforts of Iran's government to prevent them
from doing so:

We believe everyone, everywhere should be able to freely communicate, and we
began work that would guarantee this right for the people of Iran.

The system we designed, "Haystack," provides completely uncensored access. There
are no more Facebook blocks, no more government warning pages when trying to
read BBC news-just unfiltered Internet. It's an improvement to the state of the
art in anti-censorship technology. It's a necessary one too: Iran's filtering is
quite advanced, and it's one of two nations to censor the Internet using
domestic hardware and software. (The other is China.) Imagine a postal service
that opens each piece of mail and uses machine learning algorithms to detect
subversive correspondence. That's Iranian digital censorship.

This kind of filtering is called "deep packet inspection." It allows the
government to block, read, and even change messages sent over the Internet,
including emails and tweets. Iran purchased equipment from Western companies
like Nokia for this censorship, and is rapidly deploying homegrown equivalents
over which it can exert more control. Iran's filtering capabilities allow it to
intercept and even change online communications - emails, voice calls, even
tweets.

Still, we were able to identify weaknesses in Iran's approach and develop
countermeasures.

On Tuesday, Iran's state-run Press TV reported that the country's intelligence
ministry has barred citizens from cooperating with a list of 60 European and
American foundations it blames for orchestrating the protests that followed last
June's disputed presidential election in Iran. The ministry also claimed that
media organizations like the BBC and Voice of America that have broadcast video
uploaded to the Web showing demonstrations back into Iran via satellite are
doing so as part of a plot to overthrow Iran's government.


     ·    Update on Latest Attack on Twitter
     ·    Twitter Attacked by 'Iranian Cyber Army'
     ·    Ahmadinejad Was Slapped by General, Leaked Cable Says
     ·    An Iranian Director's Impassioned Defense
     ·    Beirut Festival Pulled Film to Spare Ahmadinejad's Feelings


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 10, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Where Unsold Clothes Meet People in Need

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER.

E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 794 words


Good ideas have legs. One day in 1985, Suzanne Davis asked a friend, Larry
Phillips, the president of the Phillips-Van Heusen clothing line, if his company
had any excess inventory that could be used by homeless men. A few days later,
Mr. Phillips sent 100 boxes of windbreakers to a shelter on the Bowery.

Then he nudged friends, and 750 London Fog trench coats arrived, followed by
crates of Jockey underwear. ''All this merchandise they weren't going to sell,
so what were they going to do with it?'' Ms. Davis recalled.

A few years earlier, City Harvest had been created to rescue edible food that
was going to be destroyed; separately, the Food Bank for New York City was
established to collect and organize food for distribution.

Inspired by these projects, Ms. Davis, then director of the J.M. Kaplan Fund,
organized the New York Clothing Bank to recover unworn garments. It opened in
1986 in a city office on Church Street, and now occupies a 20,000-square-foot
warehouse in the Brooklyn Army Terminal. An executive from J. C. Penney helped
set up the inventory system. Retailers and manufacturers donate goods worth $10
million annually. With a paid staff of three, the bank gives clothing to 250 aid
groups, which help 80,000 people.

Stacked on the warehouse shelves last week were girls' uniform school blouses
wrapped in plastic, boys' coats still in bags, boxes of gloves, bundles of
women's sweaters. The retail sale tags had been stripped.

''Unintentionally, it is one of the city's best-kept secrets,'' said Mary
Lanning, the chairwoman of the Clothing Bank.

Vast quantities of unworn clothing are destroyed every day in the United States.
Last week, I wrote about a City University graduate student, Cynthia Magnus, who
had discovered that a branch of the clothing retailer H & M in Herald Square was
slashing new clothing that it could not sell, then discarding it in the trash. A
cyber-cyclone followed: tens of thousands of people commented on Twitter. H & M
said that it usually donated unsold clothes, and that the 34th Street store was
not following proper procedures. Hundreds of people sent me e-mail. Many said
that they worked at big retailers around the country where useable garments are
routinely destroyed.

The reasons are complex. No business wants to compete with its own garbage, or
risk having people show up at a store seeking refunds on clothes that were never
sold. ''That's why many retailers will damage unsold garments,'' said Luis
Jimenez, the director of the Clothing Bank, which is now operated for the city
by Peter Young Housing, Industries and Treatment.

Some businesses do not want their goods worn by poor people. Ed Foy, the founder
of eFashionSolutions.com, said that brands invest billions of dollars in their
images, using models and athletes, which makes them cautious about where donated
leftovers might end up. ''They want us to see that the people wearing their
brands are the people we aspire to be,'' said Mr. Foy, a board member of the
Clothing Bank. ''They want to know, 'Who's wearing the clothing and how can that
hurt my brand?' ''

From the outset, the Clothing Bank tried to address the business concerns, Mr.
Jimenez said. The warehouse is secure, lowering the chances that the donated
clothes would be stolen and resold; only not-for-profit groups receive the
distributions, so that, for example, no individual can collect a pallet full of
Dress Barn merchandise. Donations are tax-deductible. If a donor wants labels
removed, they are cut out by volunteers, including inmates on work release from
the Lincoln Correctional Facility in Harlem. ''Hard workers,'' Mr. Jimenez said.

The city stopped financing the bank last year, but Mr. Jimenez was able to get
the landlord -- also the city  --  to reduce the rent on the warehouse to
$80,000 a year from $120,000.

Manufacturers and retailers became far more careful with their donations.
Macy's, which had been making deliveries to the bank three or four times a year,
sent one. ''It was 55 boxes,'' Mr. Jimenez said, smiling. ''The Gap is very
nice, but they've been saying 'we don't have anything for you now.' ''

And much depends on personal contacts. The bank had been getting regular
shipments of diapers from Toys R Us, and expected one in September. ''When it
didn't come, we called our contact there, and got no reply,'' Mr. Jimenez said.
''Then in November we got a call  --  the gentleman had passed away suddenly,
and someone had just gotten into his voice mail. That same week, we got eight
pallets of diapers.''

Now retired, Ms. Davis, the founder of the Clothing Bank, said she was heartened
by the graduate student who disclosed the waste at H & M. Good ideas may have
legs. They also need people to run with them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: OFF THE RACK: At the Clothing Bank, donations have
declined.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times
                               (Nicholas Kristof)

                       January 12, 2010 Tuesday 23:45 EST

Google Refuses to Kowtow;
Nicholas Kristof

BYLINE: NICHOLAS KRISTOF

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 310 words



HIGHLIGHT: Google shows great backbone by halting censorship in China and
threatening to pull out of the country.


I'm quite amazed that Google is showing the guts to announce that it will no
longer censor within China (google.cn) and is prepared to pull out of China
altogether. Wow! Finally, a company shows some principles and backbone in this
area, after Microsoft Bing censored Chinese-language content worldwide (they
claim it was a bug) and Yahoo helped the Chinese government sent dissidents to
prison.

There are no perfect solutions for dealing with a repressive government, and I
made my own share of compromises when I lived for five years in China. I'm a big
believer in engagement as a whole, when foreign engagement amounts to a watchdog
and boosts civil society. But instead so many foreign companies have acted as
lapdogs and facilitated censorship and surveillance, while refusing to speak up
for the values they claim to be committed to.

The latest moves by President Hu Jintao, including the imprisonment of the great
writer Liu Xiaobo and the crackdown on lawyers and others, are so dispiriting.
The apparent cyber-attacks on gmail accounts by Chinese dissidents are one more
example, and also a reminder of China's emphasis on cyber-warfare. When Hu took
office, I had a measure of hope for him. Instead, he has been the worst Chinese
leader since Hua Guofeng ruled from 1976 to 1978.

I think that Google truly was nervous about the damage to its principles and
credibility from its China policy, but it may also be that Google thinks that if
it shows backbone and principles, it will be rewarded internationally in other
ways. Image matters. And a company with an improved image does better recruiting
staff and retaining them, and this move certainly makes Google stand out from
other technology companies that have been largely caving to China. I'm glad
Google is demonstrating that businesses can have a China policy more
sophisticated than just a kowtow.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (Nicholas Kristof)

                            January 12, 2010 Tuesday

Google Refuses to Kowtow

BYLINE: NICHOLAS KRISTOF

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 310 words



HIGHLIGHT: Google shows great backbone by halting censorship in China and
threatening to pull out of the country.


I'm quite amazed that Google is showing the guts to announce that it will no
longer censor within China (google.cn) and is prepared to pull out of China
altogether. Wow! Finally, a company shows some principles and backbone in this
area, after Microsoft Bing censored Chinese-language content worldwide (they
claim it was a bug) and Yahoo helped the Chinese government sent dissidents to
prison.

There are no perfect solutions for dealing with a repressive government, and I
made my own share of compromises when I lived for five years in China. I'm a big
believer in engagement as a whole, when foreign engagement amounts to a watchdog
and boosts civil society. But instead so many foreign companies have acted as
lapdogs and facilitated censorship and surveillance, while refusing to speak up
for the values they claim to be committed to.

The latest moves by President Hu Jintao, including the imprisonment of the great
writer Liu Xiaobo and the crackdown on lawyers and others, are so dispiriting.
The apparent cyber-attacks on gmail accounts by Chinese dissidents are one more
example, and also a reminder of China's emphasis on cyber-warfare. When Hu took
office, I had a measure of hope for him. Instead, he has been the worst Chinese
leader since Hua Guofeng ruled from 1976 to 1978.

I think that Google truly was nervous about the damage to its principles and
credibility from its China policy, but it may also be that Google thinks that if
it shows backbone and principles, it will be rewarded internationally in other
ways. Image matters. And a company with an improved image does better recruiting
staff and retaining them, and this move certainly makes Google stand out from
other technology companies that have been largely caving to China. I'm glad
Google is demonstrating that businesses can have a China policy more
sophisticated than just a kowtow.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 15, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Plenty of Good Seats Still Available

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR.

E-mail: sandor@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 811 words


The Jets are hot, but their fans know the heartbreak of high hopes. A losing
tradition has been the backdrop to the team's sales of personal seat licenses at
the Jets' and Giants' new stadium.

Fans have had to balance their passion with the sanity of spending thousands of
dollars, in a terrible economy, for the continued right to buy season tickets to
see a team that has rarely rewarded their devotion.

Now, as the Jets accelerate their marketing before the 82,500-seat stadium opens
next season, they seem like a legitimate team with a good future, perhaps even a
marketable one that does not have to rely on 40-year-old glory, a fan in a
firefighter's helmet or a 40-year-old arm that performs better in Minneapolis
than in New Jersey.

Who knew that whipping the Cincinnati Bengals two weeks in a row could do so
much for team psychology?

''Eight minutes after the Jets won on Saturday -- boom! -- they sent me an
invoice for A.F.C. championship game tickets,'' said Murray Maleh, a
season-ticket holder from Manhattan.

If the Jets and the Baltimore Ravens win this weekend, they will play in the
title game Jan. 24 at Giants Stadium.

Already, 10,000 tickets to that game have been sold to season-ticket holders,
according to the team.

It will not be difficult to sell out the stadium for a conference championship
game. More important to the Jets is selling out the new stadium, where
two-thirds of the seats (the upper deck is exempted) require buying personal
seat licenses for $4,000 to more than $30,000 each. An auction in late 2008 of
2,028 licenses to the Coaches Club seats behind the home bench did not create a
buying frenzy: 620 sold for an average of $26,000 each.

Only the Jets know how many licenses have been sold to their nearly captive
market.

And they refuse to say how many remain.

''Sales are going well,'' said Matthew Higgins, the Jets' executive vice
president for business operations. ''December was a record month.''

Winning six of the last seven games has helped sales. So does a slowly improving
economy and the chance to let buyers tour the nearly completed stadium, which is
ahead of schedule.

Higgins said that all of the seats in the Coaches Club, which contains the most
expensive seat licenses in the house, have been sold, at prices from $30,000 to
$80,000.

''We're committed to selling out the building before we open,'' he said.

The Giants are more forthcoming with numbers, perhaps because they are closer to
a sellout. The team says it has fewer than 1,500 seat licenses left, all in club
areas, including 300 for the most expensive behind their home bench.

The Jets have been selling their P.S.L.'s with an odd slogan, ''Opportunity Has
Never Knocked This Hard,'' which suggests that fans would have razed the old
stadium themselves simply to pay a lot more to sit in the new one. And they have
also tried to listen to their customers.

Last week Steve Cohen, a season-ticket holder from Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.,
received an e-mail survey that was sent to a certain subset of fans. It asked
him to designate prices for four different seat locations in the new stadium as
a bargain, fair or too expensive. ''It seems P.S.L. sales aren't going well, and
they were looking at what level they can make them move,'' he said. He said he
would pay $5,000 to $8,000 per license for the equivalent of his current
lower-bowl Giants Stadium seats. But, he added, ''If I've got to go upstairs,
I'm a TV watcher.''

The Jets say that asking fans what they would pay will not lead to reducing
prices on slow-moving seats but could help them develop promotions like
zero-percent financing for a year.

Thad Sheely, the Jets' executive vice president for stadium development, said,
''We're trying to isolate the extent to which the benefit will move purchasing
intent.''

Maleh answered a different survey in November. But, like the one Cohen received,
it disappeared from the user's control once it was sent in, a nifty form of
cyber self-destruction that kept parts of it from being reprinted here.

''It had tons of questions about the new stadium,'' Maleh said, and it asked him
for answers on subjects from tailgating to P.S.L.'s. Like others who cannot
afford licenses or are boycotting them on principle, Maleh bought four season
tickets in the new Meadowlands stadium's 27,000-seat upper tier, where P.S.L.'s
are not needed.

''It bothers me that it's all about money,'' Maleh said. ''In the off-season,
when they're making moves, like getting Bart Scott, or oooh, they got Bret
Favre, you know it's because they've got a new stadium.''

And, according to the team's latest commercial, it will be the place where
opportunity has never been so close, bold, stylish, delicious, memorable, vivid,
beautiful, loud and huge.

That's a lot of adjectives for Rex Ryan and a $1.6 billion stadium to schlep
around.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The final N.F.L. regular-season game at Giants Stadium on Jan.
3. The Jets and the Giants move to a new home next season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE
SEGAR/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 17, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Exile's Eye

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1613 words


TORONTO, Canada -- One day last June, on the quiet Tehran street where I lived,
I noticed a man in a white Peugeot across the street looking at me, straight in
the eye, as I started to drive out of my garage. ''There she is,'' he said, and
he rushed to start his own car.

I pulled onto the street and looked in the mirror. Behind me was a gray car,
already tailing me. Next to it rode two disheveled men on a motorcycle.

So, I said to myself. I'm under surveillance. They've sent a whole team.

I drove around the block and returned home. I called a lawyer. My driver went to
his office and fetched me papers to sign, so the lawyer could represent me if I
was arrested.

But I took no chances. I stayed inside my apartment building for three days.
Then I went straight to the airport.

It was time to leave Iran.

I am an Iranian, a journalist now living in exile like hundreds, perhaps
thousands, of others. We were driven out after the June elections that were
widely considered fraudulent, and the protests and repression that followed. Our
offense was that we covered them too thoroughly.

A daughter of a modern, middle-class family, I was raised to be ambitious and
independent. I grew up in Tehran, and studied English translation at the
university there. I worked as a stringer for Western media, then studied
political science at the University of Toronto from 1999 to 2001, and returned
home to report from Tehran for The New York Times.

During periods of turmoil, I learned to lie low and report what I could, through
a screen of warnings that some things -- demonstrators' slogans, even executions
that had been announced domestically -- were too sensitive to be reported
outside Iran. But I thought the Iranian government was learning to tolerate us.

All of that changed last June.

Faced with furious street protests by an inconsolable political opposition, the
government went to extraordinary lengths to suppress any news about the
aftermath of the election. Taking pictures of protests became a crime; reporters
working for foreign news media outlets were banned from leaving their offices.
Many friends and almost all of my sources were thrown in jail.

One day, the phone rang and a sympathetic hard-line source warned me I would be
shot by snipers if I was seen on the streets. Still, I kept going out to report.
Only after the surveillance team arrived, about 10 days later, did I and my
family decide to leave.

And yet, when we boarded the plane, two emotions were pulling me apart. I was
relieved at my narrow escape. But a large piece of me longed to stay. Tehran's
familiar maple-shaded streets were now convulsed in some of the largest and
bloodiest protests since the 1979 revolution; I wanted to tell the story, to
continue being part of Iran's fate. I was desolate at the thought of being cast
out, with my friends dispersed, my contacts unreachable.

More than anything, I feared falling into what Iranian journalists call ''the
exile syndrome'' -- my understanding of Iran would be frozen in the moment of
leaving, and I'd be unable to keep up with events on the ground. No doubt the
government expected the same for me and others.

As things worked out, we could not have been more wrong. Protest was not about
to die in Iran. Neither was news about it, nor our part in telling the story.
Three things have made all the difference: the global reach of the Internet; the
networking skills of exiled journalists and our sources; and the resourcefulness
of Iran's dissidents in sending information and images out.

When I reached Toronto (I had acquired dual citizenship there while a student),
I did feel alone and overwhelmed at first. I realized, for the first time, the
toll that the stresses of working in Tehran had been taking on me. I felt a bit
like an abused child who had not dared speak about the abuse while it was
occurring.

In my mind, I went over the times when sources who had been released from prison
told me that interrogators had shown them pictures of people outside my home --
a signal of how closely my life was being monitored. It had made me fear
anything odd happening in public, like the time a sloppily dressed man on a
scooter cut me off, flashing a pistol and handcuffs under the back of his shirt
as I drove near my home. He dismounted to yell at me. I locked myself in the
car. Then he disappeared. After that, I never again took my two toddlers to a
public park in Tehran, fearing they would learn too much about the dangers their
mother faced.

Soon after reaching Toronto, I went to New York to cover a hunger strike in
support of the Iranian opposition. I was stunned to see more than a dozen former
sources of mine -- onetime members of Parliament, activists and bloggers -- who
had gone into exile a few years before. Some were so well informed that they
seemed to have just come from a meeting in Tehran.

For me, that was like a new dawn: rather than being cut off, I had made contact
with another Iran -- a virtual one on the Internet, linking reformers abroad to
bloggers and demonstrators still inside the country, and to reporters and
sources outside. In fact, by following blogs and the cellphone videos seeping
out of Iran, in some ways I could report more productively than when I had to
fear and outwit the government.

For example, my contacts helped me find and interview a young man who had left
Iran after being in prison, where he said a guard had raped him. That interview
could not have happened in Iran. Last month, I could freely translate the harsh
slogans that protestors hurled about the supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei. There were palpably genuine videos on YouTube from places I
recognized, with crowds chanting slogans I knew  --   or new ones. The slogans
were now in fact fiercer, the leaders of the movement less timid, and at least
some of the demonstrators clearly angrier.

So I could report, free of government edicts, that the protests were entering a
new phase, even as I remembered a cardinal self-imposed rule for any reporting
from Iran: There is no way to predict where any movement might be heading, or
when it might be stopped.

There is an irony in all this; the years of authoritarian control had educated
much of Iran in the need for circumventing restrictions on the Internet, and now
I was seeing and hearing the results on my computer and television.

Last month, during and after the funeral of the reformist Grand Ayatollah
Hossain Ali Montazeri, one of the demonstrators' most useful tools was the
Bluetooth short-range radio signal that Americans use mainly to link a cellphone
to an earpiece, or a printer to a laptop. Long ago, Iranian dissidents
discovered that Bluetooth can as easily link cellphones to each other in a
crowd.

And that made ''Bluetooth'' a verb in Iran: a way to turn citizen reportage
instantly viral. A protester Bluetooths a video clip to others nearby, and they
do the same. Suddenly, if the authorities want to keep the image from escaping
the scene, they must confiscate hundreds or thousands of phones and cameras.

The authorities have tried to fight back against such techniques and the
Internet itself, but have fallen short. In November they announced that a new
police unit, the ''cyber-army,'' would sweep the Web of dissent. It blocked
Twitter feeds for a few hours in December, and an opposition Web site. But other
blogs and Web sites mushroomed faster than the government could keep up.

Perhaps the first leader to use the Internet against Iran's rulers was Ayatollah
Montazeri himself, a revolutionary in 1979 who turned critical of the government
and was dismissed as Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's heir in 1988. In 2000, while
under house arrest, he posted on the Internet a banned 600-page memoir revealing
that while in power, he had opposed the execution of some 3,000 political
detainees.

That changed his public image from an architect of  Iran's theocracy to a
human-rights champion, one reason that hundreds of thousands turned out for his
funeral on Dec. 21 despite government restrictions, making it a flashpoint
between the protesters and the government.

Five days after the funeral, images of members of the pro-government Basij
militia disrupting a speech by former President Mohammad Khatami, a reformist,
were posted on the Internet. At the same time, from Canada, I could speak over
the phone to people marching  to northern Tehran in support of Mr. Khatami. I
heard gunshots in the background and, the next day, I spoke to a doctor at a
hospital where protesters who had been shot were being treated.

On Dec. 30, the government staged a demonstration to counter those by the
opposition. Ayatollah Ahmad Alam Olhoda condemned the reformist protesters as
''followers of the path of Satan'' and praised the pro-government demonstrators
as  ''followers of the path of God.''

But that exhortation did not stand on its own in my mind. Against it played a
video captured three days earlier, on Dec. 27  on Karim-khan Street, in a
middle-class area of Tehran that I knew well. The video showed a man shooting
blindly into the crowd; I could hear protestors identify him as a member of the
Basij.

Then came a cry: ''Hamleh!'' --  ''Attack!'' And dozens of men and women rushed
menacingly toward the armed man, in an amazing turnaround. It seemed, to this
reporter, safe to conclude that fear had evaporated among many of those who
joined the opposition that day.

It is not clear what happened next, but the government has confirmed the deaths
of at least eight protesters in Tehran on Dec. 27. The opposition claims the
toll is higher. And, as I write, its voice is still being reported.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Upheaval: Nazila Fathi, left, covered the election and clashes
that followed it, center sequence. From exile, she reported on Ayatollah
Montazeri's funeral, top left
clashes Dec. 27, bottom right
and a progovernment rally Dec. 30, top. (PHOTOGRAPHS CLOCKWISE FROM TOP: ATTA
KENARE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
ASSOCIATED PRESS (SEQUENCE)
ASSOCIATED PRESS
HASAN SARBAKHSHIAN
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (WK1)
 September, 2009: Reporting in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY NAZILA FATHI)
(WK2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 17, 2010 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Chinese Site Criticizes Investor for Its Google Support

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA and MIGUEL HELFT

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 618 words


In an unusual move, the Alibaba Group of China on Saturday  criticized Yahoo,
one of its largest shareholders, for siding with Google after a cyber attack on
that company.

John Spelich, a spokesman for Alibaba, said executives at the company were angry
because Yahoo, which owns 40 percent of the Chinese Internet company, appeared
to follow Google in suggesting the Chinese government was behind the
cyberattacks.

Alibaba's statement reads: ''Alibaba Group has communicated to Yahoo! that
Yahoo's statement that it is 'aligned' with the position Google took last week
was reckless given the lack of facts in evidence. Alibaba doesn't share this
view.''

On Wednesday, Yahoo issued a statement supporting its Internet rival.

''We condemn any attempts to infiltrate company networks to obtain user
information,'' Yahoo said in its statement. ''We stand aligned with Google that
these kinds of attacks are deeply disturbing and strongly believe that the
violation of user privacy is something that we as Internet pioneers must all
oppose.''

Yahoo is one of the companies that was targeted in the attacks, according to
several people with knowledge of the situation. The company has declined to
confirm that it was  a victim.

The people with knowledge of the situation said that Google contacted Yahoo
about the attacks before it publicized them. Google executives were dismayed
that other companies were unwilling to publicly acknowledge the attacks, and
they were particularly frustrated by Yahoo's silence, one person said.

Tensions between Alibaba and Yahoo have surfaced in the last year. Carol Bartz,
the chief executive of Yahoo, has reportedly told Alibaba executives that Yahoo
was not happy about how Alibaba handled the Yahoo Internet portal and brand in
China. In September, Yahoo cashed out its investment in Alibaba.com, the
publicly traded e-commerce site which is partially owned by Alibaba Group.

Yahoo's statement on the attacks did not mention of the Chinese government
playing a role in the attacks. But Google's statement earlier this week
suggested the Chinese government may have orchestrated the attacks in order to
get hold of information stored in the e-mail accounts of Chinese dissidents or
human rights activists.

Because of those attacks Google has said it has grown increasingly worried about
Beijing's restrictions on its operations in China and has threatened to pull
out.

The statement was a stunning rebuke of the Chinese government and a rare
instance of a multinational corporation challenging the leadership in a country
that is becoming an increasingly important marketplace.

Alibaba called the Yahoo statement premature and 'reckless' because Google had
not released any proof to support its announcement. A spokesman for Yahoo, which
is based in Sunnyvale, Calif., could not be reached for comment.

Alibaba, one of China's best-known technology companies, operates a series of
popular Web sites, including Alibaba.com, Taobao.com and Yahoo China. The
company, which is based in Hangzhou, is led by Jack Ma, a former English teacher
who has transformed himself into one of the country's wealthiest and most
admired entrepreneurs.

Mr. Ma is a celebrity here because of his success in forcing Ebay to retreat
from the Chinese market, and taking over Yahoo's China operations after they
lost significant market share.

Yahoo paid Alibaba $1 billion and gave Alibaba control of Yahoo China in
exchange for a 40 percent stake in the Chinese company. Yahoo China continues to
struggle here, but Yahoo's investment in Alibaba has paid off. Alibaba.com, a
unit of Alibaba, went public in 2007 with a huge stock offering in Hong Kong and
is now valued at $12.5 billion.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               10 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 18, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Lock That Says 'Pick Me'

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1423 words


The recent computer attacks on the mighty Google left every corporate network in
the world looking a little less safe.

Google's confrontation with China -- over government censorship in general and
specific attacks on its systems -- is an exceptional case, of course, extending
to human rights and international politics as well as high-tech spying. But the
intrusion into Google's computers and related attacks from within China on some
30 other companies point to the rising sophistication of such assaults and the
vulnerability of even the best defenses, security experts say.

''The Google case shines a bright light on what can be done in terms of spying
and getting into corporate networks,'' said Edward M. Stroz, a former  high-tech
crime agent with the F.B.I. who now heads a computer security investigation firm
in New York.

Computer security is an ever-escalating competition between so-called black-hat
attackers and white-hat defenders. One of the attackers' main tools is malicious
software, known as malware, which has steadily evolved in recent years. Malware
was once mainly viruses and worms, digital pests that gummed up and sometimes
damaged personal computers and networks.

Malware today, however, is likely to be more subtle and selective, nesting
inside corporate networks. And it can be a tool for industrial espionage,
transmitting digital copies of trade secrets, customer lists, future plans and
contracts.

Corporations and government agencies spend billions of dollars a year on
specialized security software to detect and combat malware. Still, the black
hats seem to be gaining the upper hand.

In a survey of 443 companies and government agencies published last month, the
Computer Security Institute found that 64 percent reported malware infections,
up from 50 percent the previous year. The financial loss from security breaches
was $234,000 on average for each organization.

''Malware is a huge problem, and becoming a bigger one,'' said Robert
Richardson, director of the institute,  a research and training organization.
''And now the game is much more about getting a foothold in the network, for
spying.''

Security experts say employee awareness and training are a crucial defense.
Often, malware infections are a result of high-tech twists on old-fashioned
cons. One scam, for example, involves small U.S.B. flash drives, left in a
company parking lot, adorned with the company logo. Curious employees pick them
up, put them in their computers and open what looks like an innocuous document.
In fact, once run, it is software that collects passwords and other confidential
information on a user's computer and sends it to the attackers. More advanced
malware can allow an outsider to completely take over the PC and, from there,
explore a company's network.

With this approach, the hackers do not need to break through a company's network
defenses because a worker has unknowingly invited them inside.

Another approach, one used in the Google attacks, is a variation on so-called
phishing schemes, in which an e-mail message purporting to be from the
recipient's bank or another institution tricks the person into giving up
passwords. Scammers send such messages to thousands of people in hopes of
ensnaring a few. But with so-called spear-phishing, the bogus e-mail is sent to
a specific person and appears to come from a friend or colleague inside that
person's company, making it far more believable. Again, an attached file, once
opened, unleashes the spy software.

Other techniques for going inside companies involve exploiting weaknesses in
Web-site or network-routing software, using those openings as gateways for
malware.

To combat leaks of confidential information, network security software looks for
anomalies in network traffic -- large files and rapid rates of data
transmission, especially coming from corporate locations where confidential
information is housed.

''Fighting computer crime is a balance of technology and behavioral science,
understanding the human dimension of the threat,'' said Mr. Stroz, the former
F.B.I. agent and security investigator. ''There is no law in the books that will
ever throw a computer in prison.''

As cellphones become more powerful, they offer new terrain for malware to
exploit in new ways. Recently, security experts have started seeing malware that
surreptitiously switches on a cellphone's microphone and camera. ''It turns a
smartphone into a surveillance device,'' said Mark D. Rasch, a computer security
consultant in Bethesda, Md., who formerly prosecuted computer crime for the
Justice Department.

Hacked cellphones, Mr. Rasch said, can also provide vital corporate intelligence
because they can disclose their location. The whereabouts of a cellphone
belonging to an investment banker who is representing a company in merger talks,
he said, could provide telling clues to rival bidders, for example.

Security experts say the ideal approach is to carefully identify a corporation's
most valuable intellectual property and data, and place it on a separate
computer network not linked to the Internet, leaving a so-called air gap.

''Sometimes the cheapest and best security solution is to lock the door and
don't connect,'' said James P. Litchko, a former government security official
who is a manager at Cyber Security Professionals, a consulting firm.

Some companies go further, building ''Faraday cages'' to house their most
critical computers and data. These cages typically have a metal grid structure
built into the walls, so no electromagnetic or cellphone transmissions can come
in or out. Defense contractors, aerospace companies and some automakers have
built Faraday cages, named for the 19th-century English scientist Michael
Faraday, who  designed them to shield electrical devices from lightning and
other shocks.

But in the  Internet era, isolationism is often an impractical approach for many
companies. Sharing information and knowledge with industry partners and
customers is seen as the path to greater flexibility and efficiency. Work is
routinely done by far-flung project teams. Mobile professionals want vital
company data to be accessible wherever they are.

Most of that collaboration and communication is done over the Internet,
increasing the risk of outside attacks.  And the ubiquity of Internet access
inside companies has its own risks. In a case of alleged industrial theft that
became public recently, a software engineer at Goldman Sachs was accused last
year of stealing proprietary software used in high-speed trading, just before he
left for another firm. The engineer, who pleaded not guilty, had uploaded the
software to a server computer in Germany, prosecutors say.

The complexity of software code from different suppliers, as it intermingles in
corporate networks and across the Internet, also opens the door to security
weaknesses that malware writers exploit. One quip among computer security
experts is: ''The sum of the parts is a hole.''

But, security experts say, the problem goes well beyond different kinds of
software not playing well together. The software products themselves, they say,
are riddled with vulnerabilities -- thousands of such flaws are detected each
year across the industry. Several weaknesses, it seems,  including one in the
Microsoft Internet Explorer browser, were exploited in the recent attacks on
Google that were aimed at Chinese dissidents.

The long-term answer, some experts assert, lies in setting the software business
on a path to becoming a mature industry, with standards, defined
responsibilities and liability for security gaps, guided by forceful
self-regulation or by the government.

Just as the government eventually stepped in to mandate seat belts in cars and
safety standards for aircraft, says James A. Lewis, a computer security expert
at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, the time has come for
software.

Mr. Lewis, who advised the Obama administration about online security last
spring, recalled that he served on a White House advisory group on secure public
networks in 1996. At the time, he recommended a hands-off approach, assuming
that market incentives for the participants would deliver Internet security.

Today, Mr. Lewis says he was mistaken. ''It's a classic market failure -- the
market hasn't delivered security,'' he said. ''Our economy has become so
dependent on this fabulous technology -- the Internet -- but it's not safe. And
that's an issue we'll have to wrestle with.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Fighting computer crime is a balance of technology and
behavioral science,'' said Edward M. Stroz, a former agent with the F.B.I.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY EIRINI VOURLOUMIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) DRAWING (DRAWING
BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               11 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 22, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Clinton Makes Case for Internet Freedom as a Plank of American Foreign Policy

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Brian Knowlton contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 808 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Declaring that an attack on one nation's computer networks ''can be an attack on
all,'' Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton issued a warning on Thursday
that the United States would defend itself from cyberattacks, though she left
unclear the means of response.

In a sweeping, pointed address that dealt with the Internet as a force for both
liberation and repression, Mrs. Clinton said: ''Those who disrupt the free flow
of information in our society or any other pose a threat to our economy, our
government and our civil society. Countries or individuals that engage in cyber
-attacks should face consequences and international condemnation.''

Her speech was the first in which a senior American official had articulated a
vision for making Internet freedom a plank of American foreign policy. While the
details remained sketchy, her remarks could have far-reaching consequences,
given the confrontation between Google and the Chinese government over the
company's assertion that its networks had been subject to a sophisticated attack
that originated in mainland China.

Mrs. Clinton called for China to investigate Google's accusation and be open
about its findings. She said that the United States supported Google in publicly
defying the Chinese government's requirement that it censor the contents of its
Chinese-language search engine.

''Censorship should not be in any way accepted by any company from anywhere,''
Mrs. Clinton said. ''American companies need to take a principled stand. This
needs to be part of our national brand.''

This month Google announced that it was ''no longer willing to continue
censoring'' search results for its Chinese users, pointing to breaches of Gmail
accounts held by human rights activists in China. Several other companies had
also been targets of hacking, the company found. Google has avoided placing
direct blame on the government in Beijing, which has sought to describe the
situation as strictly a business dispute.

The Obama administration has been similarly cautious. Last week, a senior
administration official said the United States would issue a ''demarche'' -- a
diplomatic move often used to lodge a protest -- against China in the coming
days. An official said Thursday that the administration would hold off  to see
whether the Chinese responded to Mrs. Clinton's call for an explanation of the
Google allegations.

The administration's dealings with China are further complicated by the American
debt held by the Chinese government and issues like climate change, on which the
United States is seeking its cooperation. Though Mrs. Clinton said the
administration would air its differences with Beijing, she said it would be in
the context of a ''positive, cooperative, and comprehensive relationship'' -- a
clause added to her speech at the last minute.

Mrs. Clinton also identified Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Tunisia, Vietnam and
Uzbekistan as countries that constrain Internet freedom or persecute those who
use the Web to circulate unpopular ideas. She pointed to an Egyptian blogger,
Bassem Samir, who was in the audience at the Newseum in Washington for Mrs.
Clinton's speech and had been imprisoned by Egyptian authorities.

Human rights groups applauded the speech, though some questioned how the United
States would enforce the warnings.

Tom Malinowski, the Washington advocacy director for Human Rights Watch, said
the United States should treat China's forced censorship as an unfair trade
practice, which could be confronted through the World Trade Organization or
raised in future trade negotiations.

Still, Mr. Malinowski said: ''I really thought this was groundbreaking. She
showed no hesitation in naming countries, including U.S. allies, for suppressing
speech on the Internet. She made a very strong case for connecting Internet
freedom to core American national security interests.''

As secretary of state, Mrs. Clinton has elevated the role of the Internet and
digital technology in American diplomacy. She named Alec Ross, a technology
entrepreneur who advised the campaign of President Obama, as her senior adviser
for innovation.

Mr. Ross has assembled a team that is pursuing programs like  a social network
for young people in Pakistan and a service that lets people in Mexico file
electronic reports on drug-related activity.

Mrs. Clinton announced a new $15 million effort to help more young people, women
and citizens groups in other countries communicate on the Web. None of the
proposals she mentioned focused on China or Iran, and the financing is
relatively modest.

For Cameran Ashraf, 29, an Iranian-American information technology worker who
has helped Iranian protesters circumvent government filtering of their messages,
Mrs. Clinton's tone was enough. ''I didn't expect such strong, forceful
language,'' he said. ''I was beyond pleased.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               12 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 25, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

On Street Tracing Haiti's Pain, Survival Goes On

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG and GINGER THOMPSON; Damien Cave contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2088 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti


Avenue Poupelard in the center of this devastated city pulses with life and
reeks of death almost two weeks after the earthquake.

Before what Haitians call ''the event,'' it was a chaotically bustling street of
lottery kiosks and cybercafes, gated homes and shacks, churches and schools.

Now, a coffin maker spends the day hammering wood as fast as he can get it,
while the body of a 6-year-old boy decomposes in the ruins of a school. Hundreds
of displaced residents squat in the junked cars of a mechanic's lot as a lawyer,
writing briefs, camps under the bougainvillea of her uninhabitable villa. A
fiery pastor preaches outside the ruins of his church; street vendors hawk small
plastic bags of water; an AIDS clinic reopens briefly each day for patients who
survived the earthquake but ran out of essential pills.

And, bound in muslin like a mummy, a cadaver lies beneath a sign that screams
''S O S,'' deposited there by neighbors as if to underscore their cry for help
as they struggle to reconstitute some semblance of community and move forward.

''We are not blood relatives but we are all the dispossessed of Avenue
Poupelard,'' said Franc Danjou, gesturing at those around him in one encampment.
''We must pool our resources -- and get help! -- or in a year this community
will be dead.''

Over a quarter-mile stretch, Avenue Poupelard, a residential and commercial
strip in the area called Nazon, offers a panorama of life in the ruins of the
Haitian capital where a stricken heart still beats.

A complete damage assessment is impossible without tax and property records,
which are not available. But of 53 buildings examined on Avenue Poupelard, only
six appeared to be intact. Twenty-three are completely or partially collapsed.
And the remaining 24 show damage ranging from cracks to crumbled walls, with
daily aftershocks presenting a continuing threat.

Despite such widespread destruction -- and an incalculable number of deaths --
almost no one on Avenue Poupelard seems to let himself cry, not even the
children. Grief is still buried under shock, and there is a stoic determination
to face the future because, no matter how tenuous, it is far less frightening
than the immediate past. It is daunting to imagine the recovery that lies ahead.
But in this one pocket of the city, as elsewhere, life of a survivalist sort
goes on.

Some small businesses -- a barbershop here, a tiny food stand there -- are
stirring back to life. Political debate, a sign of normalcy, is resurfacing,
with many openly cursing President Rene Preval for making few forays into
hard-hit areas.

Food, water, shelter, sickness and death: these continue to be urgent problems
even as some help is finally arriving. For many on Avenue Poupelard, the trauma
of loss has created an almost existential vertigo. Nora Jean Phillipe, an office
worker who sat beside a tent with a box of Pop Tarts in her lap, was keenly,
almost obsessively, focused on one thing: excavating her family's birth
certificates from their destroyed house.

''Please understand,'' she said. ''I lost my home. I lost my son. Somehow, I
have to find a way to salvage our identity.''

Determined to Stay

The Legros family settled into their villa on Avenue Poupelard over a
half-century ago when the area was affluent and surrounded by farmland. As he
grew up, Michel Legros, 53, owner of a popular radio station, Radio Maximum,
watched the neighborhood grow denser and more socioeconomically mixed.

Late last week, Mr. Legros and his sister Gladys Legros, a lawyer, opened their
gates, ushering visitors onto the patio in the shadow of their elegant house,
which is still standing but badly damaged.

Mr. Legros is a well-known political activist. ''Politics sticks to him like a
disease,'' his sister said. His patio, shaded by palm and banana trees, used to
serve as a meeting place for the Democratic Convergence, a largely elite
political coalition opposed to former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, a
champion of the poor. Now the Legros family sleeps there alongside the many less
privileged, displaced neighbors they have invited in.

Most of his friends, Mr. Legros said, have abandoned the country, but he refuses
to go. ''If you hear there is one person left standing in Haiti,'' he said,
''you can be sure it's me.''

Despite his bravado, Mr. Legros, unlike many of his neighbors who have repressed
the horror of the earthquake itself, keeps reliving it.

After the earthquake struck, he said, he rushed downtown, where his cousins
owned a small hotel and found it a pile of heavy concrete slabs. After learning
that his cousins were buried inside, he saw an employee, whom he knew only as
Rudy, lodged in the rubble, crying for help. He ran to search for equipment to
help get Rudy out. But with Port-au-Prince wrecked from one end to the other,
Mr. Legros found that his political connections did not help -- not on the day
of the earthquake, or for the two days after that.

By the time Mr. Legros secured a bulldozer, Rudy was dead.

''I feel impotent, and that impotence bothers me a lot,'' he said. ''But what
bothers me even more, is that my country is impotent.

''My God,'' he added, ''what has happened to Haiti?''

Crossroads of Need

Avenue Poupelard crosses a major north-south thoroughfare, Avenue Martin Luther
King. At their intersection, a sign in English -- ''We need help. Food. Water.''
-- has arrows pointing both east and west.

To the immediate west lies the AIDS clinic opposite the car repair lot; to the
immediate east, the coffin maker -- who is charging his neighbors $125 per
plywood box, about a quarter of the average yearly income -- and a cybercafe
offering free phone calls to the United States. Among those thronging the PMS
Cyber Cafe late last week, one caller was recounting how a cousin had died at
the hospital: ''They cut off his leg,'' he said into the phone, ''so I don't
think he wanted to live after that.''

Across the street from the cafe last Thursday, a community center was converted
into a triage unit by American doctors, volunteers with a Catholic missionary
group who tended dozens of survivors with crush injuries and fractures. The
patients included Linda Saint Alain, 27, who had languished in pain with a
broken back on the patio of a family home since being dragged from its wreckage
during the quake.

The American doctors quickly determined that Ms. Saint Alain needed to be
transferred to a hospital, and helped her brother put her onto a flatbed. Before
leaving, the brother jumped down to hug Gaston Jeaneddy, a voodoo priest and
community leader who had arranged for the rescue team to visit the neighborhood.

''No one person can fix all of Haiti,'' said Mr. Jeaneddy, a short, muscular man
with the bark of a drill sergeant. ''Each has to fix his own piece.''

Earthquake injuries are not the only urgent medical problems on Avenue
Poupelard. The quake has left many thousands of Haitians who have H.I.V./AIDS
without the antiretroviral medication that they need to stay healthy. On
Thursday, scores of newly homeless Haitians managed to make their way to a
dermatology clinic on Avenue Poupelard, where a guard let them wait for
assistance on the wooden benches of the open-air waiting room.

The clinic, which used to focus on leprosy and now treats many AIDS patients, is
damaged but standing. Its staff members, many of them also homeless, have been
showing up for a couple of hours a day to dispense pills.

One patient, Yvose Descosse, 38, wore a turquoise flower in her hair, and
twisted her beaded necklace as she spoke in a soft sing-song. She had walked
three hours to the clinic from her tent city in the sprawling slum of Cite
Soleil. Having missed an appointment the day after the earthquake, she had run
out of pills and found herself racked by diarrhea and vomiting -- on the
streets, no less.

Further, she added, patting her very small belly, she was eight months pregnant
and the father of her baby had been killed during the earthquake.

''I needed to come to Poupelard, where they will help me,'' she said, covering
her face with her hands.

Seated near her, Claude Chevalier, 24, a medical student who has H.I.V., said
the earthquake had killed his mother, father and sister and left him completely
alone. ''Everyone in Haiti is in the same situation,'' he said, closing his eyes
briefly, then shrugging.

Not everyone can shrug. For some, the dispiriting reality inspires grim
thoughts. Florence Mabeau, a former Red Cross janitor, said she almost envies
her teenage daughter for lying unconscious at the General Hospital: ''I wish I
could sleep through this nightmare,'' she said.

Ms. Mabeau was squatting in the mechanic's yard opposite the dermatology clinic,
where about 300 people have taken shelter in junked cars. It is one of the
largest encampments in the neighborhood, with extended families crowding into
broken-down vans and painted jitneys. At night, they reserve the best car seats
-- where there are seats -- for the babies, and sleep in the open air.

Conditions are harsh. The people pool their pennies to buy small packets of
water and spaghetti, they have no running water or electrical generator and
diarrhea is rampant. And now, most have little patience for questions about
where they were when the earthquake struck. What's gone is gone, some say,
slapping their hands. But others cannot help but yearn for what they lost.

Huguette Joseph, 53, who shares a yellow Nissan bus with 10 children and
grandchildren, said she did not have much before the earthquake, living in a
leaky, one-room house. Still, she said, ''I had my own house. I had my own
kitchen. I had my own pots for cooking. I had shoes on my feet.''

Sermon Amid the Ruins

Before the earthquake battered the large Evangelie de la Grace Church, Pastor
Enso Sylvert said he routinely drew hundreds of worshipers who spilled out onto
the sidewalk for Sunday services. Now he has a gravel lot and a circle of
folding chairs, but during a morning service last Thursday, his faith was on
fire. He wore a salmon shirt, bounced on the balls of his feet and thrust his
Bible in the air, working a crowd of displaced residents into a good-spirited
frenzy.

''We call the president 'Onion,' '' he said in a chant, using a Creole insult.
''We call the ministers 'Onion.' We call the government 'Onion.' Our only hope
lies with God.''

For a couple of hours, the service enlivened the camp beside the church, a
ragtag assemblage of working-class and poor neighbors who once coexisted in the
various structures -- main house, cottage, shacks -- on an old villa property
with an empty, cracked swimming pool. Jean-Claude Gouboth, 36, a thin, serious
man in an Italian soccer shirt whose small store was crushed in the earthquake,
lived in the main house, now damaged.

That made him the de facto leader of the impromptu refugee camp, a post that he
did not appear to relish. Life was not easy before the earthquake, he said, with
three children to put through school and mounting debt to the bank underwriting
his business. But now his 3-year-old girl had been killed by the quake, his wife
and other children had fled to the countryside, and he was sleeping with the
neighbors in his rocky backyard.

''We are trying to stay on friendly terms, but sometimes there are disputes,''
he said, citing not a squabble over scant resources, but a theological debate
about exactly what God was trying to say when he shook Haiti to its core.

Jesumelle Gustave, 44, who lives in the rubble of the church, does not
participate in such esoteric conversation. She thanks God, she said, for leaving
$4 in her husband's pocket when the earthquake killed him, money that she has
needed to sustain her family of five, including a son with a broken back and an
amputated finger.

''How merciful is God!'' she said, as the little boys in the encampment kicked a
soccer ball onto Avenue Poupelard and across the street to a schoolyard where
some friends are living.

Two slim teenage girls ran past them in flip-flops, mattresses on their heads.
The school, its roof knocked off, has one wall chiseled away to reveal a
blackboard chalked with the chemistry homework assigned the night the earthquake
struck.

''We don't have school anymore in Haiti,'' Sophonie Daniel, 17, said. ''Can we
come to your country to study?''

Her friend Danuela Bayard, a 21-year-old marketing student, chimed in: ''We are
young, and we don't want to waste our time in life. This earthquake just
paralyzes our lives.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeaney Hypolite helped his son Jeanan, 23, walk back to their
temporary shelter on Thursday after Jeanan was treated at a clinic. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Rice, Beans and A Battery Charge: Rolienne Verrier, 42, opened a restaurant in a
rusty railroad car on Avenue Poupelard about a week after the quake. For the
first few days, she was giving food away. ''The people have nothing to eat,''
she said. But late last week, she posted a sign asking for about 50 cents per
plate of rice and beans and a free cellphone charge. When the quake struck, Ms.
Verrier lost both her home and the merchandise she used to sell as a street
vendor downtown.
Keeping Track Of Who Needs Help: The quake shook the front wall off the
two-story School of the United Hearts that served about 200 students from
kindergarten to high school. The parking lot has been turned into a camp with
tarps and bedsheets, and residents have begun keeping lists of everyone. ''We
want the government to know who is here and who needs help,'' said Alcin
Gabelise, 48, a former factory worker.
Taking Shelter in Junked Cars: About 300 people are living in junked cars left
in a mechanic's lot, as are Haitians across Port-au-Prince. Most of the people
did not know one another before. But they say they are bonded by the belief that
uniting is the only way they can survive. The men and older children search for
water, food and money.
A Special on Coffins: Louis Fils, a carpenter, has been running a special on
coffins. He is offering simple boxes for $125, about a quarter of what the
average Haitian earns in a year. Asked whether those prices weren't a little
high, Mr. Fils replied, ''I am giving a special price since there has been so
much suffering.''
Some Came Limping, Others Had to Be Carried: More than a week after the
collapse, a team of doctors arrived and turned a community center into a triage
unit. Soon there were throngs of people at the front gate. Among them was Linda
Saint Alain, 27, who had been lying immobile in a makeshift camp with a
fractured bone in her back. Jeanan Hypolite, tall and gangly, limped in with a
broken ankle on the shoulders of his small, but sturdy father, Jeaney.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE NEW YORK TIMES
 PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD) (A6) GRAPHICS: An Avenue of Devastation in
Port-au-Prince: A walk along a quarter-mile stretch of Avenue Poupelard in the
heart of Port-au-Prince provides a ground-level look at the destruction wrought
by the 7.0 magnitude earthquake. Almost half of the structures along the road
collapsed completely, and survivors are desperately struggling to cope.(Source:
Street image by Google)(A6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               13 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 26, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Digital Combat, U.S. Finds No Easy Deterrent

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF, DAVID E. SANGER and THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CYBERWAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2218 words


This article was reported by John Markoff,David E. Sanger and Thom Shanker, and
written byMr. Sanger.

WASHINGTON -- On a Monday morning earlier this month, top Pentagon leaders
gathered to simulate how they would respond to a sophisticated cyberattack aimed
at paralyzing the nation's power grids, its communications systems or its
financial networks.

The results were dispiriting. The enemy had all the advantages: stealth,
anonymity and unpredictability. No one could pinpoint the country from which the
attack came, so there was no effective way to deter further damage by
threatening retaliation. What's more, the military commanders noted that they
even lacked the legal authority to respond -- especially because it was never
clear if the attack was an act of vandalism, an attempt at commercial theft or a
state-sponsored effort to cripple the United States, perhaps as a prelude to a
conventional war.

What some participants in the simulation knew -- and others did not -- was that
a version of their nightmare had just played out in real life, not at the
Pentagon where they were meeting, but in the far less formal war rooms at Google
Inc. Computers at Google and more than 30 other companies had been penetrated,
and Google's software engineers quickly tracked the source of the attack to
seven servers in Taiwan, with footprints back to the Chinese mainland.

After that, the trail disappeared into a cloud of angry Chinese government
denials, and then an ugly exchange of accusations between Washington and
Beijing. That continued Monday, with Chinese assertions that critics were trying
to ''denigrate China'' and that the United States was pursuing ''hegemonic
domination'' in cyberspace.

These recent events demonstrate how quickly the nation's escalating cyberbattles
have outpaced the rush to find a deterrent, something equivalent to the
cold-war-era strategy of threatening nuclear retaliation.

So far, despite millions of dollars spent on studies, that quest has failed.
Last week, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton made the most comprehensive
effort yet to warn potential adversaries that cyberattacks would not be ignored,
drawing on the language of nuclear deterrence.

''States, terrorists and those who would act as their proxies must know that the
United States will protect our networks,'' she declared in a speech on Thursday
that drew an angry response from Beijing. ''Those who disrupt the free flow of
information in our society or any other pose a threat to our economy, our
government and our civil society.''

But Mrs. Clinton did not say how the United States would respond, beyond
suggesting that countries that knowingly permit cyberattacks to be launched from
their territories would suffer damage to their reputations, and could be frozen
out of the global economy.

There is, in fact, an intense debate inside and outside the government about
what the United States can credibly threaten. One alternative could be a
diplomatic demarche, or formal protest, like the one the State Department said
was forthcoming, but was still not delivered, in the Google case. Economic
retaliation and criminal prosecution are also possibilities.

Inside the National Security Agency, which secretly scours overseas computer
networks, officials have debated whether evidence of an imminent cyberattack on
the United States would justify a pre-emptive American cyberattack -- something
the president would have to authorize. In an extreme case, like evidence that an
adversary was about to launch an attack intended to shut down power stations
across America, some officials argue that the right response might be a military
strike.

''We are now in the phase that we found ourselves in during the early 1950s,
after the Soviets got the bomb,'' said Joseph Nye, a professor at the Kennedy
School at Harvard. ''It won't have the same shape as nuclear deterrence, but
what you heard Secretary Clinton doing was beginning to explain that we can
create some high costs for attackers.''

Fighting Shadows

When the Pentagon summoned its top regional commanders from around the globe for
meetings and a dinner with President Obama on Jan. 11, the war game prepared for
them had nothing to do with Afghanistan, Iraq or Yemen. Instead, it was the
simulated cyberattack -- a battle unlike any they had engaged in.

Participants in the war game emerged with a worrisome realization. Because the
Internet has blurred the line between military and civilian targets, an
adversary can cripple a country -- say, freeze its credit markets -- without
ever taking aim at a government installation or a military network, meaning that
the Defense Department's advanced capabilities may not be brought to bear short
of a presidential order.

''The fact of the matter,'' said one senior intelligence official, ''is that
unless Google had told us about the attack on it and other companies, we
probably never would have seen it. When you think about that, it's really
scary.''

William J. Lynn III, the deputy defense secretary, who oversaw the simulation,
said in an interview after the exercise that America's concepts for protecting
computer networks reminded him of one of defensive warfare's great failures, the
Maginot Line of pre-World War II France.

Mr. Lynn, one of the Pentagon's top strategists for computer network operations,
argues that the billions spent on defensive shields surrounding America's banks,
businesses and military installations provide a similarly illusory sense of
security.

''A fortress mentality will not work in cyber,'' he said. ''We cannot retreat
behind a Maginot Line of firewalls. We must also keep maneuvering. If we stand
still for a minute, our adversaries will overtake us.''

The Pentagon simulation and the nearly simultaneous real-world attacks on Google
and more than 30 other companies show that those firewalls are falling fast. But
if it is obvious that the government cannot afford to do nothing about such
breaches, it is also clear that the old principles of retaliation -- you bomb
Los Angeles, we'll destroy Moscow -- just do not translate.

''We are looking beyond just the pure military might as the solution to every
deterrence problem,'' said Gen. Kevin P. Chilton, in charge of the military's
Strategic Command, which defends military computer networks. ''There are other
elements of national power that can be brought to bear. You could deter a
country with some economic moves, for example.''

But first you would have to figure out who was behind the attack.

Even Google's engineers could not track, with absolute certainty, the attackers
who appeared to be trying to steal their source code and, perhaps, insert a
''Trojan horse'' -- a backdoor entryway to attack -- in Google's search engines.
Chinese officials have denied their government was involved, and said nothing
about American demands that it investigate. China's denials, American officials
say, are one reason that President Obama has said nothing in public about the
attacks -- a notable silence, given that he has made cybersecurity a central
part of national security strategy.

''You have to be quite careful about attributions and accusations,'' said a
senior administration official deeply involved in dealing with the Chinese
incident with Google. The official was authorized by the Obama administration to
talk about its strategy, with the condition that he would not be named.

''It's the nature of these attacks thatthe forensics are difficult,'' the
official added. ''The perpetrator can mask their involvement, or disguise it as
another country's.'' Those are known as ''false flag'' attacks, and American
officials worry about being fooled by a dissident group, or a criminal gang,
into retaliating against the wrong country.

Nonetheless, the White House said in a statement that ''deterrence has been a
fundamental part of the administration's cybersecurity efforts from the start,''
citing work in the past year to protect networks and ''international engagement
to influence the behavior of potential adversaries.''

Left unsaid is whether the Obama administration has decided whether it would
ever threaten retaliatory cyberattacks or military attacks after a major
cyberattack on American targets. The senior administration official provided by
the White House, asked about Mr. Obama's thinking on the issue, said: ''Like
most operational things like this, the less said, the better.'' But he added,
''there are authorities to deal with these attacks residing in many places, and
ultimately, of course, with the president.''

Others are less convinced. ''The U.S. is widely recognized to have pre-eminent
offensive cybercapabilities, but it obtains little or no deterrent effect from
this,'' said James A. Lewis, director of the Center for Strategic and
International Studies program on technology and public policy.

In its final years, the Bush administration started a highly classified effort,
led by Melissa Hathaway, to build the foundations of a national cyberdeterrence
strategy. ''We didn't even come close,'' she said in a recent interview. Her
hope had been to recreate Project Solarium, which President Dwight D. Eisenhower
began in the sunroom of the White House in 1953, to come up with new ways of
thinking about the nuclear threats then facing the country. ''There was a lot of
good work done, but it lacked the rigor of the original Solarium Project. They
didn't produce what you need to do decision making.''

Ms. Hathaway was asked to stay on to run Mr. Obama's early review. Yet when the
unclassified version of its report was published in the spring, there was little
mention of deterrence. She left the administration when she was not chosen as
the White House cybersecurity coordinator. After a delay of seven months, that
post is now filled: Howard A. Schmidt, a veteran computer specialist, reported
for work last week, just as the government was sorting through the lessons of
the Google attack and calculating its chances of halting a more serious one in
the future.

Government-Corporate Divide

In nuclear deterrence, both the Americans and the Soviets knew it was all or
nothing: the Cuban missile crisis was resolved out of fear of catastrophic
escalation. But in cyberattacks, the damage can range from the minor to the
catastrophic, from slowing computer searches to bringing down a country's
cellphone networks, neutralizing its spy satellites, or crashing its electrical
grid or its air traffic control systems. It is difficult to know if small
attacks could escalate into bigger ones.

So part of the problem is to calibrate a response to the severity of the attack.

The government has responded to the escalating cyberattacks by ordering up new
strategies and a new United States Cyber Command. The office of Defense
Secretary Robert M. Gates -- whose unclassified e-mail system was hacked in 2007
-- is developing a ''framework document'' that would describe the threat and
potential responses, and perhaps the beginnings of a deterrence strategy to
parallel the one used in the nuclear world.

The new Cyber Command, if approved by Congress, would be run by Lt. Gen. Keith
B. Alexander, head of the National Security Agency. Since the agency spies on
the computer systems of foreign governments and terrorist groups, General
Alexander would, in effect, be in charge of both finding and, if so ordered,
neutralizing cyberattacks in the making.

But many in the military, led by General Chilton of the Strategic Command and
Gen. James E. Cartwright, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, have
been urging the United States to think more broadly about ways to deter attacks
by threatening a country's economic well-being or its reputation.

Mrs. Clinton went down that road in her speech on Thursday, describing how a
country that cracked down on Internet freedom or harbored groups that conduct
cyberattacks could be ostracized. But though sanctions might work against a
small country, few companies are likely to shun a market the size of China, or
Russia, because they disapprove of how those governments control cyberspace or
use cyberweapons.

That is what makes the Google-China standoff so fascinating. Google broke the
silence that usually surrounds cyberattacks; most American banks or companies do
not want to admit their computer systems were pierced. Google has said it will
stop censoring searches conducted by Chinese, even if that means being thrown
out of China. The threat alone is an attempt at deterrence: Google's executives
are essentially betting that Beijing will back down, lift censorship of searches
and crack down on the torrent of cyberattacks that pour out of China every day.
If not, millions of young Chinese will be deprived of the Google search engine,
and be left to the ones controlled by the Chinese government.

An Obama administration official who has been dealing with the Chinese mused
recently, ''You could argue that Google came up with a potential deterrent for
the Chinese before we did.''

Cyberwar: Computers, indispensable in peace, are becoming ever more important in
political conflicts and open warfare. This article is part of a series examining
the growing use of computer power as a weapon. Previous articles: nytimes.com/
cyberwar.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AP PHOTO/NG HAN GUAN
ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
President Obama with Howard A. Schmidt, the White House cybersecurity
coordinator.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAWRENCE JACKSON/THE WHITE HOUSE)
Melissa Hathaway began work on cybersecurity under President George W. Bush and
continued it into the Obama administration.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)(A6) CHARTS: Mutually Assured Destruction 2.0: Many of the
cyberattacks of the past 10 years seem to have originated from China, though it
is difficult to pinpoint their sources conclusively. Counterattacks and
cyberoffensives by the United States remain highly classified. Below, a recent
history of cyberattacks on the United States and some strategic
countermeasures.: ATTACKS
 COUNTERMEASURES(A6)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               14 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 3, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Al Qaeda Intent on Attack, Senators Told

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 734 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


America's top intelligence official told lawmakers on Tuesday that Al Qaeda and
its affiliates had made it a high priority to attempt a large-scale attack on
American soil within the next six months.

The assessment by Dennis C. Blair, the director of national intelligence, was
much starker than his view last year, when he emphasized the considerable
progress in the campaign to debilitate Al Qaeda and said that the global
economic meltdown, rather than the prospect of a major terrorist attack, was the
''primary near-term security concern of the United States.''

At Tuesday's hearing, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California and
chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, asked Mr. Blair to assess the
possibility of an attempted attack in the United States in the next three to six
months.

He replied, ''The priority is certain, I would say'' -- a response that was
reaffirmed by the top officials of the C.I.A. and the F.B.I.

Citing a recent wave of terrorist plots, including the failed Dec. 25 attempt to
blow up an airliner as it approached Detroit, Mr. Blair and other intelligence
officials told a Senate panel that Al Qaeda had adjusted its tactics to more
effectively strike American targets domestically and abroad.

''The biggest threat is not so much that we face an attack like 9/11,'' said
Leon E. Panetta, the C.I.A. director. ''It is that Al Qaeda is adapting its
methods in ways that oftentimes make it difficult to detect.''

As the C.I.A. continues its drone attacks aimed at Qaeda operatives in
Pakistan, the officials also said that the network's splinter groups in Yemen
and Somalia were taking on more  importance.

But Mr. Blair began his annual threat testimony before Congress by saying that
the threat of a crippling attack on telecommunications and other computer
networks was growing, as an increasingly sophisticated group of enemies had
''severely threatened'' the sometimes fragile systems undergirding the country's
information infrastructure.

''Malicious cyberactivity is occurring on an unprecedented scale with
extraordinary sophistication,'' he told the committee.

His emphasis on the threat points up the growing concerns among American
intelligence officials about the potentially devastating results  of a
coordinated attack on the nation's technology apparatus, sometimes called a ''
cyber-Pearl Harbor.''

He said that the surge in cyberattacks, including the penetration of Google's
servers from inside China, was a ''wake-up call'' for those who dismissed the
threat of computer warfare. ''Sensitive information is stolen daily from both
government and private-sector networks, undermining confidence in our
information systems, and in the very information these systems were intended to
convey,'' Mr. Blair said.

In another departure from last year's testimony, Mr. Blair appeared alongside
other top intelligence officials, including the heads of the C.I.A., the F.B.I.
and the Defense Intelligence Agency. Last year, the intelligence director sat
alone before the committee, a partly symbolic gesture intended to demonstrate
the authority of the director, whose office has been criticized for commanding
little power over America's 16 intelligence agencies.

At times, the senators seemed more interested in debating one another than in
hearing testimony from witnesses. Midway through the hearing, partisan bickering
broke out about whether terrorist suspects ought to be tried in civilian courts
and whether the man charged as the Dec. 25 bomber should have been given Miranda
rights that could protect him against self-incrimination.

As  senators traded barbs, the intelligence officials stared stonily ahead or
shuffled their notes.

The intelligence chiefs also raised warnings about nuclear proliferation,
particularly focusing on Iran and North Korea.

Mr. Blair said that Iran ''has the scientific, technical and industrial capacity
to eventually produce nuclear weapons,'' and that the discovery of a secret
enrichment plant near Qum heightened suspicions about Iran's intentions to build
a nuclear bomb.

Still, he said that Tehran was following a ''cost-benefit approach'' to its
nuclear decision-making and that it remained unclear whether Iran's leadership
would make a political calculation to begin producing weapons-grade uranium,
allowing other nations  to ''influence'' that decision through diplomatic steps.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Intelligence officials appearing Tuesday before a Senate panel:
Leon E. Panetta, the C.I.A. director, second from left
Dennis C. Blair, the director of national intelligence, center
 and Robert S. Mueller III, the F.B.I. director, second from right. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               15 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 4, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Cameras For $300 Or Less

BYLINE: By DAVID POGUE.

E-mail:pogue@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STATE OF THE ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words


In 2001, I conducted a search for the best camera with a street price under
$300. I've repeated the experiment every year since.

Wow, have things changed.

Back in 2001, every camera on the market had an eyepiece viewfinder; today,
almost none do. Then, all $300 cameras ran on AA batteries; today, all use
rechargeables.

Then, you got a whopping 1.3 or 2.2 megapixels; now, 12 or 14 is standard. Then,
some cameras could actually zoom -- wow! -- up to 2X. Now, pocket cams with 10X
or 12X zooms aren't unusual.

It's time to ask the question once again: ''How much camera can $300 buy me?''

Below, reviews of nine answers to that question. Most are small, attractive,
competent little machines with 12 megapixels, 3-inch screens and hi-def video
capture.

All have image stabilization and face recognition, for sharper, better exposed
shots. The Panasonic, Fujifilm, Canon and Casio models have unusually wide-angle
lenses for capturing vistas -- but can also zoom in 10X or even 12X. (There's
usually some distortion at the corners at the widest view, but that's a small
price to pay for this kind of versatility.)

Still, small, cheap cameras saddle you with shutter lag (the delay after you
press the button), low-light compromises (blur or grainy ''noise''), and
blown-out highlights (bright areas of pure white, with no detail). If you want a
camera without those drawbacks, buy a bigger, more expensive
interchangeable-lens model.

And now, here are my notes on this year's contenders. CANON POWERSHOT SD980
($280 street). Sleek, squished-capsule shape. Canon's first touch screen. Drag a
finger or tap to flip through photos, magnify them, focus off-center. Tilt the
camera various ways to activate certain functions. Other highlights: a
wide-angle lens, O.K. picture quality, high-definition video. Quick circuitry;
minimal start-up time and shutter lag.

Real problem: the three-inch screen is shaped like a hi-def movie; when you're
shooting stills, you get black bars on either side, so the usable screen is much
smaller. Touch screens eat up battery; only 240 shots a charge.

CASIO EXILIM ZOOM EX-H10 ($262). Another quirky, breakout camera from Casio.
Best parts: wide-angle, 10X zoom, astonishing 1,000-shot battery -- three times
the norm.

Has 38 presets -- not just Sunset, Beach and Portrait, but all kinds of crazy
special effects. Multi-Motion Image places several copies of your moving subject
(ski jumper, skateboarder, whatever) against a single background. Dynamic Photo
mode is hard to use, but very cool: it cuts your subject out of one photo and
places it against the background of a different photo, a la green screen, for a
still composite photo or short movie.

Weak spot: Video -- no high-def, no optical zoom while filming, 10-minute clip
max.

FUJIFILM FINEPIX F70EXR ($197). Low light is always a small-camera bugaboo.
Cheap little sensors produce blur or grainy photos indoors or after sunset. But
F70EXR has the largest sensor of the batch (.5 inches), and in EXR mode, can
combine the light from two adjacent pixels on that sensor. Result: clearer, more
colorful low-light photo (at half resolution, 5 megapixels instead of 10).

Zooms quickly, though noisily, while shooting video; can't shoot hi-def. Over
all, wonderful, sharp pix. But camera takes time to learn.

KODAK EASYSHARE Z950 ($183). Kodak strikes again in its traditional niche:
design clarity. Important controls are on top -- and they light up. Price: $183,
a steal for a camera with 10X zoom, full manual controls and hi-def video.

Zooming while filming is another small-camera problem. On the Fuji, audio track
picks up zooming noise; on the Samsung, audio cuts out completely while zooming;
on the Panasonic, zooming is incredibly slow to avoid noise. But Kodak zooms
nice and fast -- and almost silently (though it blurs in and out of focus while
zooming).

Downsides: It's big, bulky and very slow. Pictures are only average. Have to
charge battery in the camera (so can't keep a spare charging).

NIKON COOLPIX S8000 ($299). Just released, so for near term, you'll pay list
price. Nicely thin, compact 10X zoomer. As with Sony, Samsung and others, it can
snap automatically when subject smiles. Like Casio and others, it can apply a
fake-looking smear to skin tones to minimize blotches and wrinkles.

Hi-def video with stereo sound and dedicated Movie button is a plus, but it
can't zoom. Amazing-looking screen. Photos generally excellent, except when the
autofocus misses.

OLYMPUS STYLUS 7000 ($184). Superlight, cheap 7X zoom. Panorama mode stitches
consecutive frames together automatically as you swing your arm. Illuminated
controls: nice. HDMI jack for showing photos in hi-def on a TV.

Lots of bad news, though: no hi-def video, no zooming while filming, horrific
shutter lag, no autofocus lamp for low light, a nonstandard U.S.B. cable to get
the photos off. And still using the nonstandard memory cards (XD or MicroSD)?
Get with it, Olympus!

PANASONIC LUMIX DMC-ZS3 ($244). The camera that wants to be a camcorder. 12X
zoom, usable during filming (which is pristine hi-def); stereo audio; dedicated
Start/Stop button for video. (Caution: Factory setting uses a format -- AVCHD
Lite -- that few video-editing programs can handle. Motion JPEG format is
available, but it's lower quality and has a 16-minute clip maximum.)

Homely software -- ALL CAPS MENUS, anyone? -- but clear. Terrific screen
(super-high-res, like the Nikon's).  Doesn't just recognize faces, but
recognizes particular faces, which you can name (''Uncle Stu''), but doesn't do
much with that information. Pictures are excellent, but screen doesn't brighten
up as necessary, as rivals do,  making it very hard to compose shots in low
light.

SAMSUNG DUALVIEW TL225 ($274). Crazy amount of tech in this one. Small,
secondary screen on the front. Nearly invisible in sunlight, but great for
self-portraits, for counting down to the self-timer snap, and even for holding
the attention of children (the camera can play a little cartoon on that screen).

Main screen is the biggest on the market, at 3.5 inches. Responsive touch
screen: draw an X for Delete, swipe across for Next Picture, tap to change
settings like flash. Tilt or shake the camera to activate playback functions,
too.

Detractions: Have to charge battery inside camera; have to transfer the photos
using bizarre nonstandard cable; movie audio cuts out completely, weirdly, while
you zoom; requires a cellphone memory card (MicroSD). Touch screen does a real
number on battery life (180 shots). Camera is too flash-happy.

But very good photos.

SONY CYBER-SHOT W290 ($180). Least expensive camera here, but few other virtues.
Buttons tiny and cramped. Have to zoom by holding down buttons, rather than
turning a ring around the shutter button. Shoots hi-def, but can't zoom while
filming. The first with an ''auto fire when subject smiles'' mode -- but a
dedicated shutter button on top just for that feature? Really? Also, the photos
are soft and fuzzy.

THE BOTTOM LINE As the ridiculous megapixel race winds down at last, camera
companies are now putting effort into differentiating their cameras -- and wow,
are there some weirdies here, like the two-screened Samsung, the green-screen
mode of the Casio and the would-be camcorder Panasonic.

And if you can choose only one? I have three favorites this year, for different
reasons. (That's the price we pay for differentiation.)

The Fujifilm F70EXR is superior in low light (and has that 10X zoom). The
Panasonic Lumix ZS3 takes great hi-def movies (12X zoom). (The Nikon S8000 is
extremely similar, but costs more.)

The Samsung DualView TL225 zooms only to 4.6X, but offers that huge touch screen
and the amazingly handy small front screen. (Honorable mention to the Kodak
Z950. It doesn't quite match the big boys' photo quality, but what you get for
$183 is amazing.)

Oh -- and for the price and pocketability, all three of this year's winners take
very good photos. That's always a nice feature to have in a camera.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Canon PowerShot SD980
Casio Exilim Zoom EX-H10
Fuji FinePix F70 EXR
Kodak EasyShare Z950
Nikon Coolpix S8000
Olympus Stylus 7000
Panasonic Lumix DMC-ZS3
Samsung DualView TL225
 Sony Cyber-Shot W290 (B10) DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               16 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 5, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sony Returns to a Profit And Raises Its Outlook

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 469 words


After several quarters of losses, Sonysaid Thursday that it had returned to
profit during the last three months of 2009 and raised its outlook, providing
the latest evidence of how the global economic recovery was filtering through to
corporate earnings.

The Japanese electronics and entertainment giant -- maker of the PlayStation
game console, Bravia TV and Cyber-shot digital cameras -- was buffeted by the
sharp global economic downturn last year and still expects a net loss for the
financial year that ends March 31.

But the full-year shortfall will now probably be 70 billion yen ($770 million),
Sony said Thursday, rather than the 95 billion yen it had projected last
October, when much of the world was still struggling to emerge from the economic
slowdown.

Results released recently for the three months through December from various
companies -- including Hitachi and Lenovo on Thursday -- have shown that
corporate earnings improved at the end of last year. The earnings news provides
more evidence that the global economy is now on a gradual path to recovery,
albeit a feeble and brittle one in Japan, the United States and Europe.

Sony, whose sheer size makes it a closely watched barometer for the consumer
electronics sector, has also closed several factories, eliminated thousands of
jobs and made deep cuts in capital spending and research and development
expenditures in a bid to reduce costs by 330 billion yen this year.

Earnings for the third quarter, Sony said in its announcement, ''significantly
exceeded expectations.'' Sony's net profit for the quarter was at 79.2 billion
yen, up from 10.4 billion yen a year earlier.

Operating profit improved to 146 billion yen, from a loss of 18 billion yen in
the same quarter a year earlier.

The consumer products and devices division, which includes products like LCD
televisions, camcorders and broadcasting equipment, did far better than analysts
had expected, with an operating income of 49.4 billion yen, compared with a loss
of 19.8 billion yen a year earlier.

At a briefing in Tokyo, Nobuyuki Oneda, Sony's chief financial officer, said
price pressures for TVs -- where the company faces fierce competition from other
manufacturers like Samsung -- had not been as bad as expected in December.

TV sales in January, he added, had been a little bit higher than expected, and
would probably be about the same or a little bit better than expected in
February and March.

A slightly weaker yen is also helping Japanese exporters like Sony. The company
said Thursday that it expected the Japanese currency to average about 90 yen a
dollar in the January-March quarter, the last of its financial year, unchanged
from its last projection in October. During the quarter that ended Dec. 31, the
average rate of the yen was 88.7 yen to the dollar.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A customer trying out a Sony laptop at a showroom in Tokyo. The
company had a strong quarter, helped by cost-cutting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIYOSHI
OTA/BLOOMBERG NEWS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               17 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 5, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Did Salinger Leave a Word For Posterity?

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN.

E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 731 words


With J. D. Salinger's death, many people have turned to the possibility that
unpublished works, perhaps a novel or two, will emerge from the shadows of his
long seclusion. Stephen Enniss  has his eye on something else.

Mr. Enniss presides over acquisitions at the Folger Shakespeare Library in
Washington. He used to be in charge of special collections at Emory University
in Atlanta. As a veteran archivist, he wonders if Salinger letters may turn up.

In New York for an academic symposium the other day, Mr. Enniss cited 14 letters
that Salinger wrote in the early 1970s to the writer Joyce Maynard, who had a
romance with Salinger when she was very young. Ms. Maynard caused a stir when
she auctioned the letters at Sotheby's in 1999. Peter Norton, the software
developer, bought them for $156,000. Then, in a bow to the man's desire for
privacy, he gave the letters back to Salinger.

''It's not clear if Salinger burned them, saved them, or what,'' Mr. Enniss
said.

More than a few writers, among them Charles Dickens, Thomas Hardy, Henry James
and Franz Kafka, torched their papers or left instructions to burn everything
post-death. ''We'll find out if there's a Salinger archive or not,'' Mr. Enniss
said.

Temperamental writers go with the territory for archivists, some of whom
discussed their lot in a conversation arranged by the Leon Levy Center for
Biography, part of the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. Mr.
Enniss was joined by Allan Goodrich, chief archivist of the John F. Kennedy
Presidential Library in Boston, and William L. Joyce, the head librarian for
special collections at Pennsylvania State University.

Archivists don't usually enjoy public acclaim, but they are indispensable to
anyone who delves into the lives of the great, the near-great and the
not-so-great. Librarians ''know how to keep the goods,'' said Nancy Milford, the
discussion's moderator. Experience has taught Ms. Milford that. She has written
biographies of Zelda Fitzgerald and Edna St. Vincent Millay, and is at work on
one of Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy.

Still, she recalled one celebrated writer's jaundiced view of people in her line
of work. This was from yet another Fitzgerald, F. Scott. ''Biography is the
falsest of the arts,'' he said. Mr. Joyce's assessment was far more generous.
''Biography, in my view, is one of the most difficult fields of scholarship,''
he said.

THE discussion took place before a small audience, about 35 people, including
some who were librarians and biographers themselves. They were treated to
intriguing stray details, like one about a famous photo of President Kennedy
feeding sugar cubes to a horse. Mr. Goodrich said that after Jacqueline Kennedy
Onassis died in 1994, the president's clothes were sent to the Kennedy Library.
Workers found sugar cubes in the pockets of a pair of pants.

The discussion turned mainly on the craft of archiving, not all of it likely to
appeal to a general audience. But for anyone who reads biographies, there is
bound to be interest in, and maybe concern about, what happens as paper yields
inexorably to pixels. Will we lose the richness of a subject's life that is
often found in yellowing letters, random notes and early scribblings?

Change is already taking place, said Mr. Enniss, who addressed this issue more
than the others in his talk and later in an interview. E-mail traffic, for
example, was part of the Salman Rushdie papers acquired by Emory, he said.

Mr. Enniss, for one, is upbeat about the cyber-potential for archivists. There
is ''a kind of unguardedness'' to e-mail that is not found in traditional
letters, he said. It has a spontaneity similar to that of a phone conversation,
he said. But phone conversations are lost (unless maybe the feds are listening
in). E-mail lingers.

''I think the full range of human experience takes place in the e-mail
environment,'' Mr. Enniss said.

An obvious problem with e-mail is that it routinely does not stay private. Its
viral potential may impel those who ''feel themselves the objects of public
scrutiny'' to be more guarded than ever, Mr. Enniss said. Obviously, that is no
blessing for biographers.

Then again, you never know. Who tried harder than Salinger to protect his
privacy? Yet Mr. Enniss said he was optimistic that Salinger material may become
available. At the least, he said, ''let's hope he didn't burn everything.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               18 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 19, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Malicious Software Said to Have Struck 2,500 Corporations

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 591 words


A malicious software program has infected the computers of more than 2,500
corporations around the world, according to NetWitness, a computer network
security firm.

The malicious program, or botnet, can commandeer the operating systems of both
residential and corporate computing systems via the Internet. Such botnets are
used by computer criminals for a range of illicit activities, including sending
e-mail spam and stealing digital documents and passwords from infected
computers. In many cases they install so-called keystroke loggers to capture
personal information.

The current infection is modest compared with some of the largest known botnets.
For example, a system known as Conficker, created in late 2008, infected as many
as 15 million computers at its peak and continues to contaminate more than seven
million systems globally.

Botnet attacks are not unusual. Currently Shadowserver, an organization that
tracks botnet activity, is monitoring 5,900 separate botnets.

Several computer security specialists also disputed the company's assertion that
the botnet was a novel discovery. This type of infection is well known to the
computer security research community and is routinely tracked by a monitoring
system that has identified more than 1,300 botnets of this design.

NetWitness said in a release that it had discovered the program last month while
the company was installing monitoring systems. The company named it the Kneber
botnet based on a username that linked the infected systems.

The purpose appears to be to gather login credentials to online financial
systems, social networking sites and e-mail systems, and then to transmit that
information to the system's controllers, the company said.

The company's investigation determined that the botnet had been able to
compromise both commercial and government systems, including 68,000 corporate
login credentials. It has also  gained access to e-mail systems, online banking
accounts, Facebook, Yahoo, Hotmail and other social network credentials, along
with more than 2,000 digital security certificates and a significant cache of
personal identity information.

''These large-scale compromises of enterprise networks have reached epidemic
levels,''  said Amit Yoran, chief executive of NetWitness and former director of
the National Cyber Security Division of the Department of Homeland Security.

''Cyber criminal elements, like the Kneber crew,  quietly and diligently target
and compromise thousands of government and commercial organizations across the
globe.''

The company, which is based in Herndon, Va., noted that the new botnet made
sophisticated use of a well-known Trojan Horse  --  a backdoor entryway to
attack  --  that the computer security community had previously identified as
ZeuS.

''Many security analysts tend to classify ZeuS solely as a Trojan that steals
banking information,'' said Alex Cox, the principal analyst at NetWitness
responsible for uncovering the Kneber botnet.

''But that viewpoint is naive. When we began to detect the correlation among
both the methodology used by the Kneber crew to attack victim machines and the
wide variety of data sets harvested, it became clear that security teams must
rethink their entire perspective on advanced threats such as ZeuS.''

Half of the machines infected with the Kneber botnet were also infected by an
earlier botnet known as Waledec, the company noted.

The existence of the botnet was first reported by The Wall Street Journal,
shortly before the company issued its news release.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               19 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 20, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Revisiting Nuclear Power: A Debate

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 512 words


To the Editor:

Re ''A Reasonable Bet on Nuclear Power'' (editorial, Feb. 18):

I was dumbstruck by your editorial supporting the building of new nuclear power
plants without ever mentioning the elephant in the room: nuclear waste.

I live eight miles from an earthquake-prone coastline, the home of Diablo
Canyon's two nuclear reactors and highly radioactive nuclear waste. This waste
is growing daily. There's no plan for its removal because there's nowhere to put
it.

It is irresponsible and fatuous to support new nukes when all of our energy
needs can be met by conservation and renewables. Leaving the ''poison fire'' for
our great-grandchildren to deal with is neither sustainable nor sensible.

Linda Seeley San Luis Obispo, Calif., Feb. 19, 2010

To the Editor:

It is true that right now is the time to encourage investment in new nuclear
plants, and that the loan guarantees are a necessity. Nuclear plants bring the
jobs we want, demanding skilled labor and large-scale, high-technology
construction. They have demonstrated over the last 20 years that they can be run
safely and efficiently.

The history of the 1970s and 1980s is that it was the government and the legal
system that bogged down nuclear construction and ran up the costs. They created
the skittish financial market for nuclear, and they need to help provide the
assurance that it will not happen again.

Neil B. Morley Los Angeles, Feb. 18, 2010

The writer is senior research scientist, Fusion Science and Technology Center,
University of California, Los Angeles.

To the Editor:

Uranium 235 is exhaustible; in fact, we have more coal than uranium. If breeder
reactors are used, their plutonium 239 requires no further concentration to
build ''dirty'' nuclear bombs.

Nuclear power is also dangerous because the temporary casks used for storing
fuel rods can be penetrated by regular weapons, and there are no other options,
as there are no permanent storage facilities anywhere in the world. An
additional risk is cyber-terrorism through the Internet, which has already been
attempted in Ohio.

On top of all this, renewable energy costs less than nuclear. Further
investments in a nuclear future take economic resources away from the conversion
to a clean and inexhaustible energy future.

President Obama's support of nuclear energy will also support his being a
one-term president.

Bela Liptak Stamford, Conn., Feb. 18, 2010

The writer is the editor of the Environmental Engineers' Handbook.

To the Editor:

Your support for President Obama's nuclear energy plans is one of the most
disappointing editorials I have ever read in your paper. I suspect that you were
able to support them only by closing your mind to at least one key question:
What will be done with the nuclear waste?

No one has come up with an answer for that in decades. Perhaps with your
enthusiasm for the president's plan you could volunteer your backyard as a
burying ground, but somehow I don't think you'd see that as reasonable.

Barry Rehfeld Editor, Zero Energy Intelligence.com New York, Feb. 18, 2010

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW HOLLISTER)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               20 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 20, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 730 words


9 P.M. (Showtime) THE READER (2008) Kate Winslet captured the Oscar as best
actress  for her portrayal of an illiterate Nazi prison guard on trial for war
crimes in this drama from Stephen Daldry, adapted by David Hare from a novel by
Bernhard Schlink. Ralph Fiennes also stars as the lawyer she seduced when he was
15 (played as a teenager by David Kross, above with Ms. Winslet). ''Although the
commercial imperatives that drive a movie like this one are understandable --
the novel was a best seller and an Oprah's Book Club selection, for starters --
you have to wonder who, exactly, wants or perhaps needs to see another movie
about the Holocaust that embalms its horrors with artfully spilled tears and
asks us to pity a death-camp guard,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York
Times. She added, ''But the film is neither about the Holocaust nor about those
Germans who grappled with its legacy: it's about making the audience feel good
about a historical catastrophe that grows fainter with each new tasteful
interpolation.''

10:30 A.M. (13) RELIGION & ETHICS NEWSWEEKLY As the needs of Haiti evolve from
emergency relief to long-term development, Bob Abernethy delves into the United
States foreign-aid program. Lucky Severson examines how churches should respond
to young people who are openly lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender.

NOON (13) RICHARD HEFFNER'S OPEN MIND John Sexton, the president of New York
University, offers his vision of a ''global network'' university.

8 P.M. (NBC) 2010 WINTER OLYMPIC GAMESApolo Ohno tries to chase down a medal in
the men's 1,000-meter short track to become the most decorated United States
Winter Olympian, surpassing Bonnie Blair. Other prime-time events include
bobsled and the women's super-G. The day's coverage begins at 9 a.m. with
women's curling on Universal, followed by men's curling and men's hockey at noon
on MSNBC; women's aerials, ski jumping and cross-country skiing at 1 p.m. on
NBC; women's curling at 5 on CNBC; men's hockey at 7:30 on MSNBC; men's curling
at 10 on CNBC; men's hockey at midnight on MSNBC; women's short track gold-medal
final and award ceremonies at midnight on NBC; and men's curling at 3 a.m. on
MSNBC.

8 P.M. (CNN) WE WERE WARNED: CYBER SHOCKWAVE Taped on Tuesday, this two-hour
program presents a national-security war game: an unrehearsed event that
simulated a real-time response by the White House situation room to a cyber
attack. The event was developed by the Bipartisan Policy Center; the scenario
was developed by Gen. Michael V. Hayden, a former director of the C.I.A., and
the chairmen of the 9/11 Commission, former Representative Lee H. Hamilton,
Democrat of Indiana, and former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, Republican of New Jersey.
Wolf Blitzer moderated a question-and-answer panel with participants before a
live audience.

9 P.M. (Starz) THE TAKING OF PELHAM 1 2 3 (2009) Tony Scott updates the 1974
mass-transit thriller about the hijacking of a local train on the Lexington
Avenue subway line. Denzel Washington, above, in an altered version of the
Walter Matthau role, plays a Metropolitan Transportation Authority stalwart who
has been demoted to dispatcher pending an investigation into accusations of
bribe taking. John Travolta, stepping into a part originally played by Robert
Shaw, is the diabolical leader of a mysterious criminal gang -- and the man at
the controls. And James Gandolfini is the mayor of a post-9/11 New York City.
''I left my Rudy Giuliani suit at home,'' he says. A. O. Scott, writing in The
New York Times, called the film ''canny'' and ''energetic,'' adding, ''Mr. Scott
and his cinematographer, Tobias Schliessler, compose a symphony of light and
darkness as the action moves from sunlit streets to fluorescent interiors to
dank, subterranean spaces.''

9 P.M. (13) GORILLAS IN THE MIST (1988) Sigourney Weaver channels the
anthropologist Dian Fossey, who embedded herself with mountain gorillas in
Africa, in an Oscar-nominated performance in this biopic from Michael Apted. The
''New Classics & Old Favorites'' programming block continues with ''Yeast''
(2008), directed by and starring Mary Bronstein as an oblivious young woman
struggling to navigate two toxic friendships.

11 P.M. (Fox) THE WANDA SYKES SHOW The elusive Sade sings tracks from her new
album, ''Soldier of Love,'' which hit No. 1 on the Billboard chart. KATHRYN
SHATTUCK

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               21 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 21, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Roots Rock and the Funk of the Firmament

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; PLAYLIST; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1096 words


Galactic

Onstage, Galactic is a New Orleans funk band that jams through marathon dance
medleys. On its albums, it's becoming something else: a studio outfit, still
funky, that merges hand-played, sampled and programmed tracks and that doubles
as a tour guide. ''Ya-Ka-May'' (Epitaph) is named after a Chinese-derived noodle
soup that the locals use for a hangover cure, and it traverses the city's music
in three-minute chunks featuring many luminaries, among them Allen Toussaint,
the Rebirth Brass Band, Trombone Shorty and Bo Dollis of the Wild Magnolias.
Longtime R&B figures get smart, brittle electronic makeovers -- notably Irma
Thomas, in real time and sampled, singing the soulful, bitter ''Heart of
Steel.'' The album also gives wider exposure to New Orleans bounce, the
booty-shaking hip-hop variation that arose in the 1990s, and its subset, called
sissy bounce, as performed with raunchy gusto by drag queens like Sissy Nobby
and Big Freedia and the transsexual Katey Red. Galactic's cyber-savvy New
Orleans funk remembers the past but stays hardheaded about the future.

Meaghan Smith

The Canadian songwriter Meaghan Smith shrugs off heartbreak, again and again, on
her debut album, ''The Cricket's Orchestra'' (Sire). Her songs are wry and
retro, with wordplay harking back to Tin Pan Alley's heyday: ''This stupid
heart, this foolish thing/Failed me from the start, keeps malfunctioning,'' she
coos in ''Heartbroken,'' as her airy voice belies the lyrics. She often uses
swing rhythms and arrangements that can sound as if they were recorded for
78-r.p.m. discs, with big-band horns or hazy strings. Now and then she tosses in
an anachronism -- turntable scratching, electronic twinkles -- to make clear
she's not nostalgic, only testing herself against past eras' craftsmanship. And
for every breakup she sings about, she's resilient; in ''Take Me Dancing,'' she
offers, ''Let's go make a final mistake/Mess me up for old times' sake.''

These New Puritans

Somber, arty and quintessentially British: that's ''Hidden'' (Domino) the second
album by These New Puritans. It sounds like Gang of Four and Timbaland emerging
from a conservatory together, although Jack Barnett, the band's main songwriter,
didn't learn music notation until he started making the album. Blunt, austere
percussion -- from a booming Japanese taiko drum to the metallic scrape of a
knife being sharpened -- is layered with neo-medieval wind consorts, modernist
dissonances, Minimalist vibraphone patterns and isolated electronics. The
lyrics, more often chanted than sung, cite Osiris and Sir Galahad and offer
thoughts like ''The paths are a labyrinth or even a trap'' or, more directly,
''This is a world attack, this is a sound attack, this is a mind attack.'' In
the end it's as much a puzzle as an attack: a fascinating, foreboding,
insistently rhythmic conundrum.

The Ruby Suns

All the loops and echoes cascading through the Ruby Suns' third album, ''Fight
Softly'' (Sub Pop) could easily induce vertigo. Ryan McPhun, who records as the
Ruby Suns, is New Zealand's answer to the New York band Yeasayer. He sings in a
supple tenor and sets up complex superstructures around sweetly sustained
melodies, and he draws on an international assortment of rhythms, particularly
African and Afro-Caribbean ones. ''Fight Softly'' is his plunge into the
synthetic, trading guitars and drums for rounded keyboard tones and programmed
rhythms, with enough layers to get lost in: vocal harmonies like the Beach Boys
multiplied through a prism; instrumental lines shimmering in stereo. Words tend
to be swallowed in the mix, but what floats through hints at memories and
self-searching: a carnival of introspection.

Danny Barnes

Playing the banjo puts roots in Danny Barnes' roots-rock, and so does a fondness
for country and blues structures in his songs, which cheerfully name-check
Southern towns. But his album ''Pizza Box'' (ATO) doesn't backdate itself. Mr.
Barnes, 47, tells contemporary tales that are wryly observant. ''With her hair
in a bun, her hand on her gun/We made love with the radio on,'' he sings in
''TSA,'' an Appalachian-flavored tune about romance with an airport guard, while
the lovelorn ''Broken Clock'' worries about credit-card debt. Some songs hint at
the Band, but Mr. Barnes also cranks up to feedback volume on the stomping
''Road.'' Behind his down-home magical realism is an underlying benevolence: In
''Overdue,'' he sings, ''I'm learning to forgive you baby/Would you forgive me
too?''

Field Music

Neatness counts for Field Music, the English band led by the brothers David and
Peter Brewis. They keep their songs transparent, with each instrument -- often
just a guitar in each channel, keyboard, bass and drums -- undistorted and
distinct, the better to hear the patterns they set up. ''No distractions, no
applause/Less is more,'' they sing. After solo projects for both brothers, the
regrouped Field Music remains concise but newly prolific on its third album,
''Field Music (Measure)'' (Memphis Industries), which is packed with 19 songs
and a closing instrumental (actually two, including a hidden track). Each one
diagrams a different push-and-pull in both the instrumental counterpoint --
which can be folky or funky, straightforwardly melodic or as gnarled as
progressive rock -- and in lyrics about the tensions between hopes and
realities, whether in politics, relationships or self-invention. There's not a
wasted note.

'Good God! Born Again Funk'

Jesus and the wah-wah pedal both are worshiped on ''Good God!  Born Again Funk''
(the Numero Group), compiling songs, mostly from tiny local labels around the
Midwest, from the late 1960s and 1970s. The messages are reverent, if slightly
morbid, looking forward to death's release from worldly cares in songs like the
Golden Echoes' ''Packing a Grip.'' They are delivered in voices just out of
church, backed by bands vamping through 1970s-style funk and soul, full of
buzzing clavinets and scrubbing rhythm guitar. Productions are unadorned, and
the songwriting can be skimpy, relying on enthusiastic repetition. But Brother
Samuel Cheatham sails skyward in the bluesy gospel standard ''Troubles of the
World,'' Jean McInnis of the Inspirational Gospel Singers pours staccato soul
into the Impressions song ''Same Thing It Took,'' and the Sacred Four (founded
in 1936, recording in 1975) strive to make paranoia reassuring in ''Somebody's
Watching You.'' Where else would you find a gospel song with a title to match
Ada Richards's ''I'm Drunk and Real High (in the Spirit  of God)''?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left, Galactic (from left, Ben Ellman, Jeff
Raines, Richard Vogel, Stanton Moore and Robert Mercurio)
the cover of the compilation ''Good God! Born Again Funk''
the roots-rocker Danny Barnes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TAYLOR CROTHERS
THE NUMERO GROUP
 SERGIO MOTTOLA)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               22 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 22, 2010 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Inquiry Puts China's Elite In New Light

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Bao Beibei and Chen Xiaoduan contributed research.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1058 words

DATELINE: SHANGHAI


With its sterling reputation and its scientific bent, Shanghai Jiaotong
University has the feel of an Ivy League institution.

The university has alliances with elite American ones like Duke and the
University of Michigan. And it is so rich in science and engineering talent that
Microsoft and Intel have moved into a research park directly adjacent to the
school.

But Jiaotong, whose sprawling campus here has more than 33,000 students, is
facing an unpleasant question: is it a base for sophisticated computer hackers?

Investigators looking into Web attacks on Google and dozens of other American
companies last year have traced the intrusions to computers at Jiaotong as well
as an obscure vocational school in eastern China, according to people briefed on
the case.

Security experts caution that it is hard to trace online attacks and that the
digital footprints may be a ''false flag,'' a kind of decoy intended to throw
investigators off track.

But those with knowledge of the investigation say there are reliable clues that
suggest the highly sophisticated attacks may have originated at Jiaotong and the
more obscure campus, Lanxiang Vocational School in Shandong Province, an
institution with ties to the Chinese military.

Last weekend, the two schools strongly denied any knowledge of the attacks,
which singled out corporate files and the e-mail accounts of human rights
activists.

A spokesman for Jiaotong told local news outlets that school officials were
''shocked and indignant'' to learn of the allegations. And a Lanxiang spokesman
called the reports preposterous.

But analysts say Jiaotong and Lanxiang are certain to come under close scrutiny.

Jiaotong is one of China's top universities, and one charged with helping
transform this country into a science and technology powerhouse.

The school has exchange programs with some of the world's leading universities.
Early this year, Duke said that with the help of Jiaotong, it would build its
own campus near Shanghai.

Michael J. Schoenfeld, a spokesman for Duke, said on Friday that the university
was troubled by the allegations.

''We're going to have to explore that with Shanghai Jiaotong and understand the
situation,'' he said. ''It's a very complex situation.''

One of Jiaotong's strongest departments is computer science, which has garnered
support from some of America's biggest technology companies, including Cisco
Systems. Microsoft has collaborated with Jiaotong on a laboratory for
intelligent computing and intelligent systems at the university.

Two weeks ago, Jiaotong students won an international computer programming
competition sponsored by I.B.M., known as the Battle of the Brains, beating out
Stanford and other elite institutions. It was the third time in the last decade
that Jiaotong students had taken the top prize.

Jiaotong is also home to the School of Information Security Engineering, which
specializes in Internet security. The school's dean and chief professor have
both worked on technology matters for the People's Liberation Army, according to
the school's Web site.

The school, which has received financing from a high-level government science
and technology project, code-named 863, has also regularly invited world-famous
hackers and Web security experts to lecture there.

The latest clues do not  answer the question of who was behind the attacks. But
it is likely to put added pressure on Beijing to investigate a case that has
prompted Google to threaten to pull out of China.

Beijing has not announced an investigation, but Web security experts emphasize
that the Chinese government would need to be involved to find the ultimate
perpetrators of the attacks.

''The U.S. would not be able to trace this'' back to the source, said O. Sami
Saydjari, the founder of the Cyber Defense Agency, a private Web security firm
based in Wisconsin. ''We cannot trace it beyond borders. We'd need the
cooperation of the Chinese.''

Xiao Qiang, an expert on Chinese Internet censorship and control, says Jiaotong
is studying not just Web security but also how to filter content that the
government may deem unhealthy.

''Computer security may sound neutral, but in China, it also includes content,
including content the government doesn't like and wants to get rid of,'' he
says.

Scott J. Henderson, the author of ''The Dark Visitor: Inside the World of
Chinese Hackers,'' said that in 2007, a prominent Chinese hacker with ties to
China's Ministry of Security also lectured at Jiaotong.

''He gave a lecture called 'Hacking in a Nutshell,' '' said Mr. Henderson, whose
research was partly financed by the American  military.

In a statement on Sunday, Microsoft said it could not comment on reports that
some hacking had been traced to Jiaotong.

But the statement also said: ''We condemn cyberattacks and industrial espionage
no matter who is ultimately responsible. We hope officials will conduct a full
investigation and cooperate fully with international authorities to get to the
bottom of this situation.''

Google and other companies that were victims of the attacks have declined to
comment.

Investigators are also looking into whether some of the intrusions originated at
Lanxiang Vocational School, in the city of Jinan.

Lanxiang, which has 30,000 students studying trades like cosmetology and
welding, was founded in 1984 by a former military officer on land donated by the
military, according to Jinan's propaganda department.

On its Web site, the school records visits to the campus by military officers
and boasts of sending ''a large batch of graduates to the army'' and says
''those graduates become the backbone of the army.''

Graduates of the school's computer science department are recruited by the local
military garrison each year, according to the school's dean, Mr. Shao, who would
give only his last name.

School officials also insist that Lanxiang students are not capable of
sophisticated hacking.

''It's impossible for our students to hack Google and other U.S. companies,''
Mr. Shao said in a telephone interview. ''They are just high school graduates
and not at an advanced level.''

Little information  is publicly available about the school's computer science
department. But the school says its computer laboratory is so enormous that it
was once listed in the Guinness World Records book.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 24, 2010



CORRECTION: An article on Monday about the scrutiny of two Chinese educational
institutions to which researchers have traced online attacks on American
companies misstated the location of Duke University's planned campus in China
and the date that plans for that campus were announced. The campus will be in
Kunshan, near Shanghai, not in Shanghai itself, and the plans were announced on
Jan. 22, not ''last year.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shanghai Jiaotong University students won a programming
competition this month, once again defeating colleges like Stanford. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY JILLIAN MURPHY) (B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               23 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 23, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The People We Pay to Look Over Our Shoulders

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1301 words


THE WATCHERS

The Rise of America's Surveillance State

By Shane Harris

Illustrated. 418 pages. Penguin Press. $27.95.

At this very moment analysts at the National Security Agency some 30 miles north
of the White House are monitoring countless flashpoints of data -- cellphone
calls to ''hot'' numbers, an e-mail message on a suspicious server, an oddly
worded tweet -- as they carom around the globe like pinballs in cyberspace.

The snippets of information could conceivably lead them to Anwar al-Awlaki, a
fugitive cleric in Yemen whose fiery sermons have inspired violent jihadists. Or
to the next would-be underwear bomber. Or, much more likely in the
needle-in-a-haystack world of cyber detection, it might lead to nothing at all
-- at least nothing of any consequence in determining Al Qaeda's next target.

This is the world of modern eavesdropping, or signals intelligence, as its
adherents call it, and for many years it operated in the shadows. ''The Puzzle
Palace,'' the 1983 best seller by James Bamford that remains the benchmark study
of the N.S.A.,  first pulled back the curtain to provide a glint of unwanted
sunlight on the place. And the years after the Sept. 11 attacks -- a period in
which the surveillance agencies'  muscular new role would lead to secret
wiretapping programs inside the United States, expansive  data-mining operations
and more -- gave rise to public scrutiny that made the place a veritable
greenhouse of exposure.

As each  operation has come to light, an anxious public has wanted to know
whether this powerful new surveillance model was undermining traditional notions
of privacy and civil liberties. Just whom is the government watching? And who is
watching the watchers? Nominally, the answer is all three branches of
government: a secret court that approves surveillance warrants, Congressional
oversight committees and the intelligence agencies themselves are supposed to be
policing the spy-catchers to guard against abuses.

But this rarely amounted to what lawmakers like to call ''vigorous oversight'';
in the Bush administration, in fact, the surveillance court and the oversight
committees were intentionally bypassed on the most sensitive programs. More
often, it has been left to outsiders -- journalists, authors, civil rights
advocates and privacy groups -- to keep tabs on the watchers and to bring public
scrutiny to once-secret programs. Indeed, it was outside scrutiny that brought
attention to many of those  at the heart of the debate, from Total Information
Awareness,  created after 9/11 to President George W. Bush's warrantless
wiretapping.

For the spymasters, this spotlight was decidedly unwelcome. ''The fact that
we're doing it this way,'' Mike McConnell, a director of intelligence in the
Bush administration, said a few years ago in the midst of the fierce public
debate over government surveillance powers, ''means that some Americans are
going to die.'' Mr. McConnell is  one of the recurring characters in ''The
Watchers: The Rise of America's Surveillance State'' by Shane Harris, but this
is not a book that Mr. McConnell is likely to rush out to buy. Mr. Harris, with
some success, does what Mr. McConnell and others in the intelligence world have
found so objectionable: he   watches the watchers.

While Mr. Harris's examination covers a fair amount of ground that has already
been well plowed, it uses smart technical analysis and crisp writing to put the
reader inside the room with the watchers  and to help better understand the
mind-set that gave rise to the modern surveillance state. ''We have never lived
in a time,'' Mr. Harris writes, ''when the government has had such remarkable
technological ability to watch its own citizens.''

The unlikely tour guide for this journey into the netherworld of surveillance
operations is John M. Poindexter, the retired Navy admiral and former national
security adviser who was the driving force behind the Total Information
Awareness program, which would become a potent symbol of government overreach
soon after 9/11. Mr. Harris, who writes about surveillance issues for National
Journal, interviewed Admiral Poindexter 14 times in researching his book, and
the insight into the intellectual framework that guided him provides one of the
strengths of the book.

Following ''15 years in the wilderness,'' after Admiral Poindexter's involvement
in the Iran-contra affair during the Reagan administration, Mr. Harris writes,
he  returned to government in 2002 as the point man in the effort to develop a
data-mining program at the Pentagon that could put together all the disparate
pieces of intelligence data -- communications, travel, finances and more -- to
''connect the dots'' and prevent another calamitous attack after 9/11. But soon
enough a public outcry over the research program led Congress to cut off
funding.

But the approach has outlived the controversy. As Mr. Harris first described in
detail in National Journal in 2006, the remnants of that effort  were simply
repackaged and parceled out to other agencies, principally the N.S.A.

At its best ''The Watchers'' provides an insightful glimpse into how Washington
works and how ideas are marketed and sold in the back rooms of power, whether
the product being peddled is widgets or a radical model for intelligence
gathering. Mr. Harris takes the reader along in 2002 as Admiral Poindexter goes
from office to office at the Pentagon and the White House, seeking allies for
his fledgling intelligence project, putting on PowerPoint presentations, finding
agencies willing to link their data to Total Information Awareness, navigating
potential legal pitfalls and hearing cautionary tales about previous ventures
into data mining, like the F.B.I.'s Carnivore e-mail program a few years
earlier.

''Learn from their example,'' Fran Townsend, a senior intelligence official,
tells Admiral Poindexter of the Carnivore debacle. ''Don't make the same
mistakes.''

Unfortunately, the book suffers at times from the same Achilles' heel that
plagued Admiral Poindexter: in picking his targets, Mr. Harris  -- like the
watchers themselves -- sometimes veers off the mark in determining where to look
and in separating the important from the trivial. He  spends too much time and
ink going down rabbit holes, examining in great detail operations like Able
Danger, a data-mining program at the Pentagon that became briefly notorious
because of the erroneous claim by a few military officials who worked on it that
it had been able to identify Mohammed Atta, the 9/11 hijacker, as a possible
threat before the attacks.

Even the examination of the Total Information Awareness program, as richly
detailed as it is, proves a bit of a red herring. Mr. Harris acknowledges that
Admiral Poindexter was seeking to do the type of data mining that the N.S.A. had
already been doing, and would continue to do, on a much broader scale. Yet
information about how the N.S.A. has been using is new data-mining tools -- a
difficult target, to be sure -- is in short supply.

Meanwhile, largely unanswered is a core question surrounding the new
surveillance model and the fancy data-mining algorithms that come with it. Does
this stuff really work? Can data-mining tools originally developed to find Las
Vegas card counters and cheats actually identify would-be terrorists? When the
question is addressed, the results are discouraging. Mr. Harris recounts one
test run by the N.S.A. of the tools that Admiral Poindexter had developed: ''The
T.I.A. tools crashed. They were simply incapable of processing so much
information in real time. Like balloons affixed to a fire hydrant, they burst.''

The watchers, it seems, have plenty to watch. The problem is that much of the
time, they may not know what they're looking at.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSEPH DEFEO)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               24 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 28, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Google Searches for a Foreign Policy

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 958 words


WASHINGTON -- When Google announced last week that it would shut its censored
online search service in China, it was doing more than standing up to a
repressive government: it was showing that, with the United States still
struggling to develop a foreign policy for the digital age, Internet companies
need to articulate their own foreign policies.

Google is hardly the first American company to stray into the State Department's
bailiwick. Since the bad old days of the United Fruit Company in Latin America,
powerful multinationals have conducted themselves like quasi-states, influencing
the foreign lands in which they operate by deciding whether to accommodate or
resist the unsavory practices of authorities there.

For Internet companies, that choice has been sharpened by the fact that the
World Wide Web is no longer just a force for freedom and diversity but also a
tool for repression. Governments use it to spy on dissidents, human rights
activists, and other troublesome elements.

This change happened so fast that it left the foreign policy establishment
gasping to catch up. It also exposed Washington's deep ambivalence about
information technology: while it champions the free flow of ideas in closed
societies like Iran, it fears being a target for cyber-attacks by hostile
governments and doesn't want to export technology that could be diverted into
military uses. Conflicted and confused, Foggy Bottom has little to offer Silicon
Valley by way of support or even guidance.

''What forces Google to have a foreign policy is that what they're exporting
isn't a product or a service, it's a freedom,'' said Clay Shirky, who teaches at
New York University and writes about the Internet's social effects. ''The
question is, 'Are they going to be United Fruit?' '' For Google, the sinister
side of China's cyberpolicy eventually came to outweigh the economic attraction
of China's market and the putative benefit of opening the Internet to a vast
audience.

If the folks at Google were diplomats instead of ''digirati,'' one might say
their view of the Internet had evolved from Woodrow Wilson's idealistic notion
that independent countries tend toward democracy to the realpolitik
understanding that their interests simply differ from your own. But seen another
way, the company's decision to stop censoring pushes it farther away from the
moral neutralism of United Fruit, showing that it is no longer willing to
collude with a restrictive system in pursuit of profits.

The choice was not easy. Since late 2006, when it entered China, Google argued
that a censored search service was better than no search service at all. But
after it discovered that its network had been hacked from inside China, and that
the Gmail accounts of human rights activists had been infiltrated, that tradeoff
no longer seemed defensible. This ''goes to the heart of a much larger global
debate about freedom of speech,'' Google's chief legal officer, David Drummond,
said in a post explaining the company's thinking.

As if on cue, the Obama administration made its first major statement on
Internet freedom. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said the Internet
could be a force for good or ill and encouraged governments to use it for good,
while urging American companies not to knuckle under to censorship. But she left
the work of navigating restrictions to the companies.

That navigation gets harder by the day, said Mark Palmer, a former United States
ambassador to Hungary who has started independent TV stations in Eastern Europe.
''There are more than 40 countries that restrict the Internet,'' he said. ''The
State Department and the Treasury Department have not come to grips with it.''

The Treasury did recently begin allowing firms to export free online services
like instant messaging, chat and photo sharing to Iran, Sudan, and Cuba. Having
watched the impetus that Twitter and Facebook gave to antigovernment protests in
Tehran, the administration wanted more of it. But the difficult-to-jam
high-speed satellite Internet service that Iran's dissidents also crave remains
unavailable because of sanctions intended to retard Iran's nuclear program.

The State Department is encouraging the development of technologies that enable
users to circumvent restrictions on the Internet. But advocates for some
startups said that the government had not allotted enough money or steered
support to the most promising ventures. And the United States lacks a uniform
policy for dealing with American companies that export software that governments
can use to filter the Internet.

Google's problems are not just with repressive regimes. Last month, an Italian
court convicted Mr. Drummond and two colleagues of breaking privacy laws after a
video of an autistic boy being bullied was posted on Google's network.

Google's showdown with Beijing, analysts said, is driven in part by its fear of
similar lawsuits from China. Google also wants the United States to treat
Internet censorship as a trade barrier that influences decisions on foreign aid.

Not all tech companies share Google's fervor. Microsoft remains in China,
running a government-censored search engine. Its founder, Bill Gates, said in
January that companies needed to decide if they are going to obey the rules of
the countries in which they operate, although Microsoft says that it, too,
pushes back.

Mr. Shirky says he sees a generational divide. ''It's no accident,'' he said,
''that Microsoft was founded during the cold war while Google was founded after
the cold war.'' While Microsoft has a mentality in which national sovereignty
still trumps ethical arguments, he said, Google is trying to balance the rights
of sovereignty against its own evolving set of values.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDY MARTIN)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               25 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Researchers Spy on Computer Spies, Tracing Data Theft to China

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF and DAVID BARBOZA; John Markoff reported from Toronto,
and David Barboza from Shanghai. Vikas Bajaj contributed reporting from Mumbai,
India.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1436 words


TORONTO -- Turning the tables on a China-based computer espionage gang, Canadian
and United States computer security researchers have monitored a spying
operation for the past eight months, observing while the intruders pilfered
classified and restricted documents from the highest levels of the Indian
Defense Ministry.

In a report issued Monday night, the researchers, based at the Munk School of
Global Affairs at the University of Toronto, provide a detailed account of how a
spy operation it called the Shadow Network systematically hacked into personal
computers in government offices on several continents.

The Toronto spy hunters not only learned what kinds of material had been stolen,
but were able to see some of the documents, including classified assessments
about security in several Indian states, and confidential embassy documents
about India's relationships in West Africa, Russia and the Middle East. The
intruders breached the systems of independent analysts, taking reports on
several Indian missile systems. They also obtained a year's worth of the Dalai
Lama's personal e-mail messages.

The intruders even stole documents related to the travel of NATO forces in
Afghanistan, illustrating that even though the Indian government was the primary
target of the attacks, one chink in computer security can leave many nations
exposed.

''It's not only that you're only secure as the weakest link in your network,''
said Rafal Rohozinski, a member of the Toronto team. ''But in an interconnected
world, you're only as secure as the weakest link in the global chain of
information.''

As recently as early March, the Indian communications minister, Sachin Pilot,
told reporters that government networks had been attacked by China, but that
''not one attempt has been successful.'' But on March 24, the Toronto
researchers said, they contacted intelligence officials in India and told them
of the spy ring they had been tracking. They requested and were given
instructions on how to dispose of the classified and restricted documents.

On Monday, Sitanshu Kar, a spokesman for the Indian Defense Ministry, said
officials were ''looking into'' the report, but had no official statement.

The attacks look like the work of a criminal gang based in Sichuan Province, but
as with all cyberattacks, it is easy to mask the true origin, the researchers
said. Given the sophistication of the intruders and the targets of the
operation, the researchers said, it is possible that the Chinese government
approved of the spying.

When asked about the new report on Monday, a propaganda official in Sichuan's
capital, Chengdu, said ''it's ridiculous'' to suggest that the Chinese
government might have played a role. ''The Chinese government considers hacking
a cancer to the whole society,'' said the official, Ye Lao. Tensions have risen
between China and the United States this year after a statement by Google in
January that it and dozens of other companies had been the victims of computer
intrusions coming from China.

The spy operation appears to be different from the Internet intruders identified
by Google and from a surveillance ring known as Ghostnet, also believed to be
operating from China, which the Canadian researchers identified in March of last
year. Ghostnet used computer servers based largely on the island of Hainan to
steal documents from the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader, and
governments and corporations in more than 103 countries.

The Ghostnet investigation led the researchers to this second Internet spy
operation, which is the subject of their new report, titled ''Shadows in the
Cloud: An investigation Into Cyberespionage 2.0.'' The new report shows that the
India-focused spy ring made extensive use of Internet services like Twitter,
Google Groups, Blogspot, blog.com, Baidu Blogs and Yahoo! Mail to automate the
control of computers once they had been infected.

The Canadian researchers cooperated in their investigation with a volunteer
group of security experts in the United States at the Shadowserver Foundation,
which focuses on Internet criminal activity.

''This would definitely rank in the sophisticated range,'' said Steven Adair, a
security research with the group. ''While we don't know exactly who's behind it,
we know they selected their targets with great care.''

By gaining access to the control servers used by the second cyber gang, the
researchers observed the theft of a wide range of material, including classified
documents from the Indian government and reports taken from Indian military
analysts and corporations, as well as documents from agencies of the United
Nations and other governments.

''We snuck around behind the backs of the attackers and picked their pockets,''
said Ronald J. Deibert, a political scientist who is director of the Citizen
Lab, a cybersecurity research group at the Munk School. ''I've not seen anything
remotely close to the depth and the sensitivity of the documents that we've
recovered.''

The researchers said the second spy ring was more sophisticated and difficult to
detect than the Ghostnet operation.

By examining a series of e-mail addresses, the investigators traced the attacks
to hackers who appeared to be based in Chengdu, which is home to a large
population from neighboring Tibet. Researchers believe that one hacker used the
code name ''lost33'' and that he may have been affiliated with the city's
prestigious University of Electronic Science and Technology. The university
publishes books on computer hacking and offers courses in ''network attack and
defense technology'' and ''information conflict technology,'' according to its
Web site.

The People's Liberation Army also operates a technical reconnaissance bureau in
the city, and helps finance the university's research on computer network
defense. A university spokesman could not be reached Monday because of a
national holiday.

The investigators linked the account of another hacker  to a Chengdu resident
whose name appeared to be Mr. Li. Reached by telephone on Monday, Mr. Li denied
taking part in computer hacking. Mr. Li, who declined to give his full name,
said he must have been confused with someone else. He said he knew little about
hacking. ''That is not me,'' he said. ''I'm a wine seller.''

The Canadian researchers stressed that while the new spy ring focused primarily
on India, there were clear international ramifications. Mr. Rohozinski noted
that civilians working for NATO and the reconstruction mission in Afghanistan
usually traveled through India and that Indian government computers that issued
visas had been compromised in both Kandahar and Kabul in Afghanistan.

''That is an operations security issue for both NATO and the International
Security Assistance Force,'' said Mr. Rohozinski, who is also chief executive of
the SecDev Group, a Canadian computer security consulting and research firm.

The report notes that documents the researchers recovered were found with
''Secret,'' ''Restricted'' and ''Confidential'' notices. ''These documents,''
the report says, ''contain sensitive information taken from a member of the
National Security Council Secretariat concerning secret assessments of India's
security situation in the states of Assam, Manipur, Nagaland and Tripura, as
well as concerning the Naxalites and Maoists,'' two opposition groups.

Other documents included personal information about a member of the Indian
Directorate General of Military Intelligence.

The researchers also found evidence that Indian Embassy computers in Kabul,
Moscow and Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and at the High Commission of India in
Abuja, Nigeria had been compromised.

Also compromised were computers used by the Indian Military Engineer Services in
Bengdubi, Calcutta, Bangalore and Jalandhar; the 21 Mountain Artillery Brigade
in Assam and three air force bases. Computers at two Indian military colleges
were also taken over by the spy ring.

Even after eight months of watching the spy ring, the Toronto researchers said
they could not determine exactly who was using the Chengdu computers to
infiltrate the Indian government.

''But an important question to be entertained is whether the P.R.C. will take
action to shut the Shadow Network down,'' the report says, referring to the
People's Republic of China. ''Doing so will help to address longstanding
concerns that malware ecosystems are actively cultivated, or at the very least
tolerated, by governments like the P.R.C. who stand to benefit from their
exploits though the black and gray markets for information and data.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Nart Villeneuve, Greg Walton and Ronald J. Deibert,
researchers who monitored a China-based computer spying ring. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
FRED LUM/THE GLOBE AND MAIL)(A9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               26 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama's New Nuclear Strategy Is Intended as a Message to Iran and North Korea

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 988 words


WASHINGTON -- At the heart of President Obama's new nuclear strategy lies a
central gamble: that an aging, oversize, increasingly outmoded nuclear arsenal
can be turned to the new purpose of adding leverage to the faltering effort to
force Iran and North Korea to rethink the value of their nuclear programs.

The 50-page ''Nuclear Posture Review'' released on Tuesday acknowledged outright
that ''the massive nuclear arsenal we inherited from the cold-war era'' is
''poorly suited to address the challenges posed by suicidal terrorist and
unfriendly regimes seeking nuclear weapons.''

Nonetheless, the new strategy aims to use the arsenal to do just that, despite
considerable skepticism that any new doctrine or set of White House
announcements is likely to change the calculus for North Korea or Iran.

Mr. Obama's new strategy makes just about every nonnuclear state immune from any
threat of nuclear retaliation by the United States. But it carves out an
exception for Iran and North Korea,  labeled ''outliers'' rather than the
Bush-era moniker of ''rogue states.'' The wording was chosen, Mr. Obama's senior
advisers said, to suggest they have a path back to international respectability
-- and to de-targeting by the United States.

Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates made the choice explicit. ''There is a
message for Iran and North Korea here,'' he told reporters on Tuesday.

Nonnuclear states that abide by the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty would not be
threatened with nuclear retaliation by the United States -- even if they
conducted conventional, biological or cyber attacks. But, he added, ''if you're
not going to play by the rules, if you're going to be a proliferator, then all
options are on the table in terms of how we deal with you.''

A number of analysts argued that by publicly painting a target on Iran and North
Korea the administration could, perhaps unwittingly, bolster hard-liners in
those countries, who have made the case that nuclear weapons are the only way to
ensure their safety against American plotting.

The opposite critique  came from two senior Republican Party national security
experts -- Senators John McCain and Jon Kyl, both of Arizona -- who contended
that the pressure was not direct enough.

''We believe that preventing nuclear terrorism and nuclear proliferation should
begin by directly confronting the two leading proliferators and supporters of
terrorism, Iran and North Korea,'' they wrote. ''The Obama administration's
policies, thus far, have failed to do that, and this failure has sent exactly
the wrong message to other would be proliferators and supporters of terrorism.''

To Mr. Obama and his aides, the ''outlier'' approach is all part of a broader
strategy of adding to the pressure on both countries. Over the past year, they
have aided the interception of North Korea's shipping. They have sought to
develop new  sanctions against the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps  and to
undermine its nuclear program with a program of covert action.

Robert S. Litwak,  vice president for programs at the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars, said that Mr. Obama had expanded an effort
begun by President George W. Bush  to globalize the effort to contain the
nuclear aims of both nations.

Under Mr. Obama's strategy, he said, ''It is the United States and the world
versus Iran, not just the United States versus Iran.'' (Mr. Bush's former aides
note that during their time in office, they pushed through four United Nations
Security Council resolutions against Tehran, though to little effect.)

The new strategy takes that effort one step further, warning both countries that
the United States could still use its nuclear arsenal to counter any effort to
sell or transfer the country's nuclear technology to terrorists.

''The United States will continue to hold accountable any state, terrorist group
or other nonstate actor that supports or enables terrorist efforts to obtain or
use weapons of mass destruction,'' Mr. Gates said on Tuesday, ''whether by
facilitating, financing, or providing expertise or safe haven for such
efforts.''

The problem Mr. Obama faces is that the Bush administration used virtually
identical language to warn North Korea soon after it conducted a nuclear test in
2006. The next year, however, North Korea was caught helping Syria build a
nuclear reactor.  Israel destroyed the site in a nighttime raid in  2007. But
North Korea paid little price for what is widely regarded as its most audacious
attempt at nuclear proliferation.

Mr. Obama, asked on Monday whether that episode harmed American credibility,
said, ''I don't think countries around the world are interested in testing our
credibility when it comes to these issues.

''The message we're sending here,'' he said, was that countries that ''actively
pursue a proliferation agenda'' would not be immune from any form of American
retaliation, including nuclear.

The reality is more complex. If a backpack nuclear bomb went off in Times Square
or on the Mall in Washington, the Pentagon and the Department of Energy would
race to find the nuclear DNA of the weapon -- so that the country that was the
source of the material could be punished. But the science of ''nuclear
attribution'' is still sketchy. And without certain attribution, it is hard to
seriously threaten retaliation.

The nuclear review also details a larger set of tools to shape the behavior of
Iran and North Korea. By reducing the size of America's own stockpiles, and
assuring nonnuclear states inside the nonproliferation treaty that they are
exempt from any nuclear attack, the administration hopes to bolster its
credentials to close huge loopholes in the treaty that both North Korea and Iran
have artfully exploited.

''We think we now have credibility Bush never did,'' one of Mr. Obama's aides
said, ''to tighten the noose. But it will be a very, very slow process.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               27 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 9, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama's Nuclear Modesty

BYLINE: By PETER D. FEAVER.

Peter D. Feaver, a professor of political science at Duke, was on the National
Security Council staff under Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1134 words

DATELINE: Durham, N.C.


PRESIDENT OBAMA'S new policy on the use of atomic weapons, called the Nuclear
Posture Review, has brought to the public eye a longstanding debate over what's
known as ''declaratory doctrine'': what the United States government is willing
to say publicly and in advance about the conditions under which it will use its
nuclear arsenal. A calm reading of the document shows that the changes in terms
of doctrine aren't nearly as epochal as the White House would have us believe or
its critics would have us fear.

The administration claims this new declaration will create strong incentives for
states to eschew nuclear weapons. Critics, many of them my fellow Republicans,
claim it substantially weakens America's deterrence against attacks with
non-nuclear weapons of mass destruction. My view is that the new policy buys a
trivial new incentive at the cost of a modest loss in deterrence. Reasonable
people can disagree as to whether the bargain is worth it, but it is a bargain
on the margins.

This is the key sentence from the posture review: ''The United States will not
use or threaten to use nuclear weapons against non-nuclear weapons states that
are party to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and in compliance with their
nuclear nonproliferation obligations.''

This apparently walks back from a Bush-era declaration that underscored the
possibility that the United States might use nuclear weapons if it suffered a
chemical or biological attack. Instead, the Obama administration is saying it
will respond to chemical or biological assaults only with ''a devastating
conventional military response.''

The administration's defenders have promoted this as a bold step in fulfilling
the president's commitment to reducing the role of nuclear weapons in national
security strategy. Critics see it as a reckless act of self-constraint. But
there is less here than meets the eye.

First, under the  declaration, America still threatens to use nuclear weapons
against nuclear states that are party to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty --
read: Russia and China -- if they hit us with a nuclear weapon or with a
chemical, biological or cyber-attack.

Second, the United States leaves open the possibility that it will use nuclear
weapons against ''non-state actors'' (think Al Qaeda) who seek weapons of mass
destruction. Since non-state actors reside within actual nations, this means
that our strike might hit the territory of those states offering a safe haven,
regardless of their status under the nonproliferation treaty.

Third, the new doctrine clearly implies that the United States reserves the
right to threaten to use nuclear weapons against states that are not party to
the nonproliferation treaty. And, of course, it explicitly states that the
no-nukes assurance does not apply to states that are in violation of the treaty,
a list that includes Iran, North Korea and Syria.

Crucially, since the new policy does not delineate what it means for states to
be ''in compliance'' with the nonproliferation treaty, the United States has a
major loophole. Presumably, the Obama administration will not take a potential
target's word on whether it is meeting the obligations -- after all, Iran claims
to be in compliance with the treaty, while the Nuclear Posture Review explicitly
notes that it is not.

Some worry that for the purposes of this doctrine the Obama administration would
be limited by the provisions of the nonproliferation treaty designating the
United Nations Security Council and the International Atomic Energy Agency as
the arbiters of who is in compliance. If so, that would seem to tie Washington's
hands. But the new doctrine, in fact, is coy on this point. I suspect the White
House intends to do what every previous administration has done: reserve the
right to determine for itself what constitutes compliance when making security
decisions.

Thus the most controversial part of the new policy boils down to this: we will
not threaten to use nuclear weapons against a state that launches a non-nuclear
attack against us unless we deem it to be in violation of Nuclear
Nonproliferation Treaty obligations.

And the Obama administration even gave itself an escape clause from that limited
rule. ''Given the catastrophic potential of biological weapons and the rapid
pace of bio-technology development,'' the new policy reads, ''the United States
reserves the right to make any adjustment in the assurance that may be warranted
by the evolution and proliferation of the biological weapons threat.''

It's a rather dense clause, but in explaining it, White House officials drew a
distinction between non-nuclear threats that they view as only ''crippling'' and
potential threats that might be ''devastating.'' They made clear that the
administration reserves the right to determine which sorts of attacks might
cross that line into ''devastating,'' and thus warrant a nuclear response.

So, is the entire declaratory doctrine a meaningless exercise in rhetoric? Not
entirely. For one, it does weaken our deterrence ability slightly. Deterrence
depends on an adversary fearing that we will respond in a devastating way to an
attack. Policy makers like to think of our nuclear deterrence strategy as an
''umbrella,'' one that includes scenarios that the adversary is certain will
engender our nuclear response, and others in which it believes that the chances
of retaliation are too high to risk.

If adversaries believe what is stated in the new Obama doctrine, the umbrella is
a bit smaller, with fewer scenarios in both the ''certain'' and the ''likely
enough'' categories. Thus, when it comes to strategic ambiguity, the critics
have a point. (Paradoxically, the more our adversaries buy into the
administration's spin that this is a drastic change, the stronger the critics'
point. If adversaries stick to a lawyerly reading of the text, the critique
loses force.)

In the final analysis,  what may be most important about the new doctrine is the
light it shines on the assumptions and strategic logic that motivate the
national security thinking of the Obama administration.  The administration
clearly believes that announcing new limits on our nuclear posture will be a
strong reason for rogue states to become compliant. This seems hopelessly
idealistic: we've given Iran and North Korea plenty of stronger incentives, with
no progress.

Nonetheless, all the loopholes the administration has built into the new
declaration seem a tacit acknowledgment that it understands that such idealism
is not a reliable guarantor of American national security. President Obama may
be willing to oversell his new doctrine for symbolic value, but a careful
reading of the policy shows that he is duly wary of selling out the national
security of the United States.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GEORGE BATES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               28 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hacked in Beijing

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1491 words


BEIJING -- The reality -- and my fears -- dawned only slowly.

For weeks, friends and colleagues complained I had not answered their e-mail
messages. I swore I had not received them.

My e-mail program began crashing almost daily. But only when all my contacts
disappeared for the second time did suspicion push me to act.

I dug deep inside my Yahoo settings, and I shuddered. Incoming messages had been
forwarding to an unfamiliar e-mail address, one presumably typed in by intruders
who had gained access to my account.

I'd been hacked.

That phrase has been popping up a lot lately on Web chats and at dinner parties
in China, where scores of foreign reporters have discovered intrusions into
their e-mail accounts.

But unlike malware that trawls for bank account passwords or phishing gambits
that peddle lonely and sexually adventurous Russian women, these cyberattacks
appear inspired by good old-fashioned espionage.

Recent probes by cyber-countersleuths at the University of Toronto have unmasked
electronic spy rings that have been pilfering documents and correspondence from
computers in 100 countries. A few patterns have been noted: many of the attacks
originated on computers located in China and the spymasters seemed to have a
fondness for the Indian Defense Ministry, Tibetan human rights advocates, the
Dalai Lama and foreign journalists who cover China and Taiwan.

Although the authors of the reports were careful not to blame the Chinese, a
subtext in their findings was not hard to discern: Someone in China -- maybe a
rogue individual or perhaps a government agency -- has been engaged in high-tech
surveillance and thievery against perceived enemies of the state.

If that is indeed happening, it would represent a new chapter in the long
history of Chinese attempts to manage the foreign journalists who live and work
here, who now number more than 400.

The monitoring and manipulation of foreign reporters -- the ability to keep them
and their sources on edge -- would have come a long way since the days when
thick-set men in ill-fitting blazers would trail correspondents to interviews,
and when unmistakable clicking noises during phone calls gave new meaning to the
expression ''party line.''

Perhaps most disturbing would be the anonymity of the attacks -- the prospect
that we and our sources will never know just what we are facing or whom to
blame.

Nart Villeneuve, a Canadian researcher who helped analyze the attacks, including
an infectious e-mail message designed to dupe the assistants of foreign
reporters in Beijing, cautioned there was not enough hard evidence to blame the
Chinese, or at least the Chinese government.

''The attackers tend to mask their location,'' said Mr. Villeneuve, who is the
chief researcher at SecDev.cyber, an Internet security company. ''On the other
hand, you have to wonder who has the time and interest to produce these kinds of
targeted attacks.''

Those of us who live and work in China might be forgiven for suspicions that
focus on our hosts, or at least on the legion of so-called patriotic hackers who
take umbrage at our coverage and use their computer skills accordingly. While
impossible to know for sure, it may have been these nationalistic lone wolves
who last week shut down the Web site of the Foreign Correspondents' Club of
China, the association that represents overseas journalists in China.

To be clear, the lot of the foreign journalist has greatly improved in recent
years. But there is an undeniably contentious edge to our relationship with
China, one rooted in history and a stubborn conviction held by many Chinese that
reporters here are spies with an ability to turn a phrase. (This point was
driven home recently by a friend's mother, who warned him to stay away from me
lest he be ensnared by my subterfuge.)

Even if we have scant evidence, most foreign journalists have come to assume our
phone conversations are monitored. We have learned to remove our cellphone SIM
cards when meeting dissidents. At the office, we often reflexively lower our
voices when discussing ''politically sensitive'' topics.

Is that just paranoia? Perhaps. But recent history provides plenty of examples
of government intrusion into the affairs of overseas journalists and their
employees. It was only in 2007 that Zhao Yan, a researcher in the Beijing bureau
of The New York Times, emerged from three years of detention after he was
convicted of fraud. The unrelated accusations that led to his arrest -- that he
had revealed state secrets -- were based on a Times article that correctly
predicted the impending retirement of a senior Chinese leader. The state secrets
charge, which was far more serious than fraud, eventually was dismissed, but not
before the prosecutors introduced documents that had come from a desk in the
Times office -- an indication that we were never truly alone.

Even now, Western news organizations complain when their employees are called in
for tea-drinking sessions with security personnel who ask about the stories they
are working on.

The antagonism and surveillance, by most accounts, have become less harsh and
blatant over the years. The nadir may have been in 1967, when one of the first
foreign reporters allowed into the country, Anthony Grey, a British
correspondent for Reuters, spent more than two years confined to a room of his
Beijing home. Accused of being a spy but never formally charged, his detention
was widely thought to be retaliation for the arrest of Chinese journalists in
Hong Kong, then a British colony. They had been detained during a protest, and
were released long before he was.

When the author and journalist Orville Schell arrived in 1975, in the waning
days of the Cultural Revolution, fear effectively deterred Chinese citizens from
having any meaningful interaction with foreigners, whose reputations had been
thoroughly maligned by a decade of extravagant anti-Western propaganda. Mr.
Schell said that the few times he wandered away from his minders, security
officers would find him and escort him back to his hotel.

On one occasion, after he managed to chat up a man tending an apple orchard in
Shanxi Province, Mr. Schell was pronounced sick and locked in his
accommodations, which at the time happened to be a cave. Even when he managed to
pose questions to pedestrians, his queries were often waved away or ignored.
''People were almost completely standoffish and unreceptive,'' he said. ''We
foreigners lived in a bubble.''

Restrictions and attitudes relaxed during the reforms of the 1980s but then
tightened up again after the student-led protests of 1989 ended in a violent
crackdown. Nicholas Kristof, then the Times Beijing correspondent along with his
wife, Sheryl WuDunn, recalls early morning jogs shadowed by a small caravan of
vehicles. ''Sometimes they weren't very subtle,'' he said. ''We had lists of all
the license plates of the cars that were following us.''

Although Mr. Kristof said they learned to evade some of the monitoring by
sneaking out of their building through a stairwell or speaking in code to
arrange interviews, he was devastated to find out that one of his closest
friends, a Chinese journalist, was actually working as a government spy. ''We
didn't really get used to it,'' he said of the surveillance. ''We were always
terrified that a Chinese friend would get into trouble and we had some close
calls.''

The Chinese government does not censor the dispatches of foreign correspondents,
but the authorities can express disapproval of a writer's work by withholding
visa renewals -- a not uncommon practice. In extreme cases, there is always the
option of expulsion, which is what happened to a Times bureau chief, John Burns,
after he was accused of illegally entering a military zone and taking pictures
in 1986.

Most journalists working in China today would agree that outward signs of
surveillance have decreased markedly. Some, however, say that the monitoring has
become more sophisticated and subtle, which brings us back to the recent rash of
hacking.

Because Yahoo will not discuss the nature of the incidents, it is unclear
exactly what happened. The company informed some victims that their accounts had
been breached, but declined to be more specific. Were their e-mail messages
read? Were their sources endangered? They do not know.

Even if poorly understood, the intrusions have left many reporters, including
myself, feeling unnerved. One reporter, a friend with many years of experience
in China, said she felt violated and angry after learning her e-mail account was
compromised. Even more frustrating, she said, was not knowing whom to blame.

''I worry about Chinese friends who may have written things they could come to
regret,'' she said, asking that her name and affiliation not be printed for fear
of drawing the attention of freelance hackers. ''I'd be more relieved if they
had just stolen my credit card information.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WEHTJE/PHOTODISC -- GETTY IMAGES, AND
STEPHEN SHAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (WK1
 WK7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               29 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thumbs Up!

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 137 words


To the Editor:

Thumbs up to Mr. Scott for his defense of the critical profession. Of course we
need critics, just as we need doctors, lawyers, professors -- all those whose
services are based upon specialized education and experience the rest of us
lack.

My friends and I use reviews to help us decide what to see. Good film and
theater reviews provide a context within which to approach the work  --
background of the creators, history of the art forms involved, other roles the
actors have done. Not least, critics give us clues to help decipher work that
may at first seem baffling.

The current cyber-environment privileges anybody's opinion, and advertisers and
political pollsters mine these for fun and profit.

Thank heavens for professional critics' informed and honest writing.

Suzanne F. Kistler

New York

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               30 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

General Nominated to Lead Cyberspace War Unit Sees Gaps in Laws

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 930 words


WASHINGTON -- The Army intelligence officer nominated to lead the Pentagon's new
command devoted to warfare in cyberspace has warned Congress that policy
directives and legal controls over digital combat are outdated and have failed
to keep pace with the military's technical capabilities.

The officer, Lt. Gen. Keith B. Alexander, wrote to members of the Senate Armed
Services Committee that computer network warfare was evolving so rapidly that
there was a ''mismatch between our technical capabilities to conduct operations
and the governing laws and policies.''

As he prepared for a confirmation hearing on Thursday as the first head of the
Cyber Command, he pledged that the White House and Pentagon were ''working hard
to resolve the mismatch.''

In a 32-page response to questions from senators, General Alexander sketched out
the broad battlefield envisioned for the computer warfare command and
acknowledged the kind of targets that his new headquarters could be ordered to
attack.

The target list included traditional battlefield prizes -- command-and-control
systems at military headquarters, air defense networks and weapons systems that
require computers to operate.

But he agreed with a question submitted by the Senate that asked whether the
target list would include civilian institutions and municipal infrastructure
that are essential to state sovereignty and stability, including power grids,
banks and financial networks, transportation and telecommunications.

General Alexander promised that the Cyber Command would be sensitive to the
ripple effects from this kind of warfare, and would honor the laws of war that
govern traditional combat in seeking to limit the impact on civilians.

''It is difficult for me to conceive of an instance where it would be
appropriate to attack a bank or a financial institution, unless perhaps it was
being used solely to support enemy military operations,'' he wrote. General
Alexander did not note it in his response, but the Bush administration
considered exactly that kind of network attack on Iraq's banking system before
the invasion of 2003, but rejected the idea, fearing an unintended impact on
global financial markets.

The confirmation hearing will be the public's first opportunity to hear General
Alexander describe the computer warfare command's proposed objectives and
responsibilities -- and what safeguards he will pledge to protect privacy in the
United States and to respect the interests of allies and neutral nations.

He is the first chief of the Pentagon's newest global combatant headquarters,
and the first whose sole mission is cyberspace.

If confirmed, General Alexander would receive a fourth star and be the first
career military intelligence officer to lead a global combatant command. He
would, in military jargon, be dual-hatted, a term to describe his role in charge
of the Cyber Command while continuing to lead the National Security Agency,
which specializes in electronic intelligence, including phone and computer
espionage.

The N.S.A.'s role in intercepting international calls to and from the United
States since the Sept. 11 attacks, first approved by secret orders from
President George W. Bush and largely continued by President Obama with the
blessing of Congress, generated intense contention -- and scrutiny by Congress
and the courts. Because the agency spies on the computer systems of foreign
governments and terrorist groups, General Alexander would, in effect, be put in
charge of both finding and, if need be, neutralizing cyberattacks in the making,
as well as defending military computer networks.

''If confirmed, I will operate within applicable laws, policies and
authorities,'' General Alexander wrote to the senators. ''I will also identify
any gaps in doctrine, policy and law that may prevent national objectives from
being fully realized or executed.''

The military is moving into uncharted territory as it seeks to defend national
interests and carry out offensive operations inside computer networks, he wrote,
with nations of the world not even agreeing on what constitutes a computer
attack or the appropriate response.

He wrote that there was no theory of deterrence to guide planning for
cyberwarfare similar to strategies that guided nuclear planning in the cold war,
and that it remained difficult to assess exactly who carried out an attack over
computer networks.

The new Cyber Command was announced last year, and the unusually long delay in
scheduling a confirmation hearing for its proposed leader is evidence of the
intense behind-the-scenes debate over the command's role, missions, authorities
and safeguards.

Another challenge highlighted by General Alexander is the role that the
military's Cyber Command would play on American soil, since it has far greater
capabilities than the Department of Homeland Security. By tradition and law, the
military only operates within the United States if ordered by the president. But
a computer network attack on targets in the United States could happen
instantaneously and with little warning.

General Alexander reiterated that a presidential order would be required for the
Defense Department and the Cyber Command to take the leading role in responding
to a computer network attack on American soil.

The world of computer network warfare remains highly secret, and many of General
Alexander's answers to the senators were excised from the 32 pages of responses,
and placed in a separate classified addendum.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               31 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rough Start for Big Name in Connecticut Race

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1582 words


HARTFORD -- Richard Blumenthal's campaign for the Senate was supposed to be a
glide. Nothing and no one could stop him.

As the Connecticut attorney general, Mr. Blumenthal, a Democrat, had been
sticking up for consumers and middle-class families for 20 years, with widely
embraced crusades against easily demonized foes: pedophiles, used-car dealers,
utility companies and, even here in the insurance capital of the world,
insurers.

No politician in the state had anything close to Mr. Blumenthal's popularity. So
when he jumped into the race to succeed Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrats
in Washington immediately crossed the seat off their list of ones to worry
about.

But signs of trouble have quickly emerged.

Mr. Blumenthal flopped in his first televised debate against an obscure primary
opponent, and he is ruling out any possibility of a rematch.

He appears almost incapable of offering concise answers to even the most
predictable questions, like why he is running for the Senate.

And his reliance on prosecutorial parlance and legal arcana has raised
unflattering comparisons to another attorney general in a Senate race who seemed
a sure winner only to lose in spectacular fashion. Some Democrats are calling
him ''Martha Coakley in pants,'' referring to the candidate who lost the
Massachusetts Senate election in January.

''He's getting into very much unscripted territory, which is not something he's
used to,'' said Peter G. Kelly, a Hartford lawyer and Democratic elder statesman
who once was the party's national finance chairman.

Mr. Kelly said years of one-sided news conferences had left the attorney general
unaccustomed to challenge.

''He's got to be able to take attacks, deal with them appropriately and hand
them back,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''He's not really been tested at that.''

Nationally, Democrats still express confidence about holding on to the seat, and
polls show that Mr. Blumenthal, 64, has a prohibitive lead against all comers.

But the Democrats admit to some nervousness, in part because of the Republican
he is most likely to confront next fall: the professional-wrestling impresario
Linda McMahon. She promises a campaign much like her brand of entertainment,
with blunt, in-your-face, emotional appeals and attacks.

And Ms. McMahon has vowed to spend as much as $50 million, about five times what
Mr. Blumenthal can muster.

Mr. Blumenthal's combat readiness has been questioned before. In 2005, Gov. M.
Jodi Rell's advisers let it be known that she would relish a challenge from the
attorney general, who they said had a ''glass jaw.''

Still, his halting style as he pursues the Senate seat is striking.

In an interview last week, Mr. Blumenthal took nearly 10 minutes to answer a
question about why, aside from personal ambition, he wanted to be a senator,
using much of that time to say why the job of attorney general had been a
''perfect fit'' for his skill set and passions. He eventually got across that he
hoped to advance in the Senate the causes he has pursued as attorney general by
changing federal law.

''But this is kind of a long-winded answer and not a terribly cogent one,'' he
acknowledged, unprompted.

His biggest blunder at the debate, on March 1, occurred when his opponent for
the Democratic nomination, Merrick Alpert, rhetorically asked Mr. Blumenthal how
many jobs his office's lawsuits had created. Mr. Blumenthal took the bait. ''Our
lawsuits, our legal actions, actually create jobs,'' he said, smiling earnestly.
''Because businesses actually welcome competition and a level playing field.''

Jobs are the biggest issue in Connecticut, as nearly everywhere else this
election cycle. But Connecticut is one of only two states -- the other is
Michigan -- where employment has fallen in the decades since Mr. Blumenthal took
office. His critics argue that his attacks on corporations have helped cement
the state's image as unfriendly to business.

And in January, a jury bolstered that argument, handing an $18 million verdict
to a woman who said Mr. Blumenthal had unfairly destroyed her business through
false accusations. (His office is seeking to have the verdict overturned.)

Scalded by the criticism of his early campaign performance, Mr. Blumenthal this
week announced the hiring of an experienced campaign manager, Mindy Myers, who
ran the Obama campaign in New Hampshire and served as chief of staff for Senator
Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island.

In the interview, Mr. Blumenthal acknowledged that he was rusty but said that he
would raise his game. ''I may not be perfect at the outset,'' he said, ''but I'm
certainly going to be tougher and smarter and better at each of these
challenges.''

He insisted that he had been tested before and had always come through. ''When I
first ran for attorney general, I figured, 'Harvard, Yale, United States
attorney, state legislator and all the credentials -- I'm there,' '' he said.
''And I had a lot of work to do. And I did it.''

Mr. Blumenthal could be forgiven for having been impressed with himself back
then. After Harvard, he worked for Daniel Patrick Moynihan at the White House
under President Richard M. Nixon. At 24, he made the front page of The New York
Times when he rejected Nixon's offer to have him lead Vista, the domestic
version of the Peace Corps, because he opposed Nixon's policies. Yale Law, a
Supreme Court clerkship and a job with Senator Abraham A. Ribicoff followed,
before the senator recommended him for United States attorney in 1977. He was
all of 31.

The race for attorney general in 1990, when Mr. Blumenthal was a state senator,
was indeed a close contest, in which he edged out a popular colleague, Jay B.
Levin.

But that was Mr. Blumenthal's last serious challenge, and nowadays there is a
bit of Rip Van Winkle to his return to the fray. ''When I started this job, the
Internet didn't exist,'' he said at one point in the interview last Thursday.
Later, he joked that his teenage daughter once asked him if he would be the
''eternal general.''

The most noticeable aspect of Mr. Blumenthal's campaigning is his caution. The
man who twice shrank from running for governor hedges, fences and revises when
queried on all manner of federal issues.

Asked if he would have voted in 2008 for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, he
dodged several times by saying he would have tried to amend it, then turned to
an aide and said, ''Have I taken a position on this?'' (Three hours later, he
sent word that he would have voted against it.)

Asked about President Obama's new policy taking a nuclear strike off the table
as a response in some cases to a biological, chemical or cyber attack, Mr.
Blumenthal first said he supported it, then said that his ''inclination'' was to
support the president but that ''I want to understand more about it.''

And in the debate, when asked about normalizing relations with Cuba, he said he
would consult Connecticut's ''Latino people, of Latino heritage, to learn what
our policy should be.''

Reminded of that, he said on Thursday: ''The honest answer is I hadn't thought
about it. And I was the first one to take the question. If he'd been the first
one to take the question, I would've had a different answer.''

Still, judging from a couple of days on the trail, Mr. Blumenthal retains a
reservoir of support that is less about star power than the accumulation of
favors banked and names remembered. The onetime varsity swimmer and Marine
reservist now has thinning hair and, at 5-foot-11 and a gaunt 155 pounds, wears
his dark suits like a wire hanger. When he enters a room, he does not turn
heads, but instead silently seeks out familiar faces, invariably finding many.

While some call him withdrawn, Mr. Blumenthal insists that he loves ''the people
part of politics.'' And it shows, both in his aides' inability to keep up with
his all-hours public schedule and in the streams of admirers who approach him at
events to thank him for legal or political help, or merely for showing up. ''I
may be somewhat cerebral, but I've spent 20 years at picnics, and fairs, and
penguin plunges, and road races,'' he said. ''I ain't aloof.''

In Trumbull on Thursday night, Mr. Blumenthal wrapped up a stump speech to a few
dozen Fairfield County supporters with his usual ''thank you, for all you do.''
And then the buttonholing began.

Fred Garrity Jr., the organizer of a motorcycle ride honoring 9/11 victims and
responders, promised to repay him for showing up 10 years in a row to the rally.
And Thomas C. McCarthy, the City Council president in Bridgeport, promised to
start knocking on doors for him, saying he was still indebted to Mr. Blumenthal
for his response in 2005 when several sex offenders moved into Mr. McCarthy's
district.

''The next day, there were moving vans at each of them, loading these people
up,'' Mr. McCarthy said. ''The next day!''

Bill Stanley, who covered the 1990 attorney general's race as a reporter and now
is a lobbyist, said Mr. Blumenthal had earned his own gratitude by showing up
every year to an obscure Sunday memorial in Norwich for Samuel Huntington, a
signer of the Declaration of Independence, that is organized by Mr. Stanley's
father.

''There's a lot of us he's done nice or good things for, who've been waiting for
20 years to pay him back,'' Mr. Stanley said. ''A lot of us wish he'd tried to
move up earlier in his career. We've been in a three-point stance wanting to
help the guy, and now the time is at hand.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Attorney General Richard Blumenthal with supporters at a forum
last week in Trumbull, Conn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)(A25)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               32 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2010 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

At Internet Conference, Signs of Agreement Appear Between U.S. and Russia

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1001 words


GARMISCH-PARTENKIRCHEN, Germany -- For the 140 computer network specialists, law
enforcement agents and diplomats from eight countries who met in this German ski
resort this week for a Russian-sponsored conference on Internet security, the
biggest challenge was finding a common ground to discuss their differences.

The barrier was not the variety of native languages but deep differences in how
governments view cyberspace, according to many of the specialists there.

That challenge was underscored by a sharp rift between the United States and
Russia. Americans speak about computer security and cyberwarfare; the Russians
have a different emphasis, describing cyberspace in a broader framework they
refer to as information security.

''The Russians have a dramatically different definition of information security
than we do; it's a broader notion, and they really mean state security,'' said
George Sadowsky, a United States representative to the Internet Corporation for
Assigned Names and Numbers, or Icann, the closest thing to a governing body for
the global network.

What has changed, however, is the Obama administration's decision this year to
begin actively discussing these differences with the Russians. While last year
only a single American academic computer security specialist attended the
conference, this year more than a dozen Americans attended, including
Christopher Painter, the second-ranking White House official on cybersecurity,
and Judith Strotz, the director of the State Department's Office of Cyber
Affairs.

The two nations, according to Russian officials, have agreed to renew bilateral
discussions that began last November in Washington.

''An international dialogue on cybergovernance, crime and security is really
long overdue,'' said Charles L. Barry, a research fellow at the National Defense
University. ''There's really only one network out there. We're all on it, and we
need to make it safe.''

Mr. Painter, speaking on Tuesday, said there had been significant improvement in
international law enforcement cooperation in recent years. To respond to
challenges in cyberspace, he said, strong laws, trained crime investigators and
efficient international cooperation are needed.

The United States has succeeded in creating a global 24-hour, seven-day network
of law enforcement agencies in 50 nations, which have agreed to collect and
share data in response to computer attacks and intrusions. While officials from
both nations said that law enforcement cooperation had improved, the Russians
have refused to sign the European cybercrime treaty, which the United States
strongly backs.

At the same time, for the past 13 years, the Russians have been trying to
interest the United States in a treaty in which nations would agree not to
develop offensive cyberweapons or to conduct attacks on computer networks. The
United States has repeatedly declined to enter into negotiations, arguing
instead that improved law enforcement cooperation among countries is all that is
necessary to combat cybercrime and cyberterrorism.

On Monday, Gen. Vladislav P. Sherstyuk, under secretary of the Russian Security
Council, criticized the treaty, saying that a provision effectively violated
Russia's sovereignty by permitting foreign law enforcement direct access to the
Russian Internet.

The general also restated Russian concerns about the absence of an international
treaty limiting military uses of the Internet. ''Cyberattacks are left out of
international military law,'' he said. ''Information technology can be used as a
tool to undermine national peace and security.''

The Americans have accused the Russians of turning a blind eye to cybercriminals
who have operated with relative impunity from Russia. In turn, the Russians have
criticized what they see as American ''hegemony'' over the Internet and
privately express concerns that the United States has retained a ''red button''
-- the power to shut off the Internet for specific countries.

Yet despite these differences, in Garmisch this year there were also signs of
agreement between Russians and Americans.

The conference, sponsored by Lomonosov Moscow State University, Icann and
several Russian companies, is the brainchild of General Sherstyuk. Several of
the conference attendees said the gathering, which is in its fourth year, was an
effort by General Sherstyuk to build international support for his work. He has
been the principal force behind Russian efforts to create a treaty limiting
cyberwarfare development.

Academic and government officials from other countries, including India and
China, attended this year. However, recent episodes like Google's claims in
January that it had suffered the theft of its software and intrusions on human
rights advocates from China, and a recent Canadian report about a Chinese
computer spying system focused on India, were not discussed.

During a panel discussion on computer crime, Col. Gen. Boris N. Miroshnikov, an
official with the Russian Interior Ministry, and Stewart A. Baker, a fellow at
the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, and the former
chief counsel for the National Security Council, agreed that the most important
step in combating Internet crime would be to do away with the anonymity that has
long been a central tenet of Internet culture.

''Anonymity is an invitation to criminals,'' General Miroshnikov said.

Mr. Baker agreed, saying, ''Anonymity is the fundamental problem we face in
cyberspace.''

This week, the Russians were optimistic that progress was being made in bridging
more of the cultural divide that has hindered international cooperation.

According to one Russian business executive who has attended all four Garmisch
events, the tenor of this meeting was markedly different from that of earlier
meetings  dominated by the Russians. ''In the past, the largest group was from
the F.S.B.,'' he said, referring to the Russian intelligence agency, ''who were
here for an annual vacation.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2010



CORRECTION: An article on Friday about a Russian-sponsored conference on
computer security misidentified the United States agency for which Stewart A.
Baker, a panelist at the conference, once served as chief counsel. Is the
National Security Agency, not the National Security Council.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               33 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Attacks on Military Computers Cited

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 217 words


WASHINGTON -- Computer networks essential to the Pentagon and military are
attacked by individual hackers, criminal groups and nations hundreds of
thousands of times every day, according to the officer nominated to lead a
cyberwarfare command.

The officer, Lt. Gen. Keith B. Alexander, said Thursday that one crucial reason
that Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates created a Cyber Command was ''the amount
of attacks that we're seeing coming into the Defense Department gateways every
day.''

Senator Carl Levin, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said
the new command ''warrants careful scrutiny,'' because ''capabilities to operate
in cyberspace have outpaced the development of policy, law and precedent.''

''This policy gap is especially concerning,'' he said, ''because cyberweapons
and cyberattacks potentially can be devastating, approaching weapons of mass
destruction in their effects.''

Lawmakers questioned General Alexander on the federal law and presidential
authorities governing military capabilities under the Cyber Command that might
be called on to operate on American soil in a crisis.

They urged that the new command coordinate closely with the Department of
Homeland Security and the military's Northern Command, responsible for defense
of United States territory.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               34 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 22, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Underwater Photography Made Easier

BYLINE: By DAVID POGUE.

E-mail: pogue@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STATE OF THE ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1280 words


When normal people hear that they're going to the Bahamas, they think: ''Bathing
suit!'' ''Sunscreen!'' ''Flip-flops!''

When a tech columnist hears that he's going to the Bahamas, he thinks:
''Underwater camera!''

Let's face it: Most people with cameras, even parents who overrecord every
instant of their children's lives, wind up with a huge hole in the photographic
record: all the wet times. Nothing at water parks, in the waves, in the pool, in
the rain, on sailboats or surfboards. And no wonder -- you'd ruin your camera or
camcorder.

There are waterproof digital cameras, of course. But until recently, they were
blatantly inferior to regular cameras; to keep the price down, the camera
companies used cheap components that produced bleary, washed-out photos.

Today, though, you can get a digital camera that looks, works and feels exactly
like a regular water-vulnerable camera -- no larger, harder to use or less
capable of recording video. And because most camcorders now record onto tiny
memory cards instead of tape, you can now buy compact, no-moving-parts
underwater camcorders, too.

Of course, you can buy a clear plastic underwater housing for your existing
camera. That's great if you're a descendant of Jacques Cousteau or you're on
assignment for National Geographic. But these things are enormous, they're fussy
to keep clean and lubricated, and they often cost more than the camera. For
normal people, a regular, everyday camera or camcorder that just happens to be
fine underwater makes a lot more sense.

When I learned that I would be swimming with the sharks in the Bahamas for a
Nova TV mini-series I'm hosting, I jumped at the chance to try out the latest in
consumer waterproof gadgets. I carried two cameras (Sony's Cyber-shot TX5 and
Panasonic's Lumix TS2) and two undersea camcorders (Panasonic's SDR-SW21 and
Sanyo's Xacti VPC-WH1. The guy at the airport X-ray machine thought I was some
kind of capture-the-moment lunatic.

Here's what I discovered.

SONY CYBER-SHOT TX5 ($350, 10 megapixels, 4X zoom). This gorgeous camera is so
tiny and thin, your brain tells you it couldn't possibly be waterproof. At
first, you'll hunt for a model number to make sure you got the right thing.

Two features contribute to the minimalist design. First, it has a nicely
responsive three-inch touch screen, so there are few physical buttons. Second,
you turn it on by sliding down a full-width lens cover on the front. It powers
up extremely fast; you'll virtually never miss a water-park moment waiting for
the camera to fire up.

The TX5 also does fairly well in low light, thanks to Sony's special sensor. It
also inherits Sony's much-adored Sweep Panorama mode. You whip the camera in an
arc around your body, and it quietly snaps several  consecutive photos, figures
out how to connect them, and spits out a finished 270-degree panorama
automatically. It's fantastic.

Alas, there are disappointments. In some shots, the TX5 produces the same soft,
washed-out look that was common to previous generations of waterproof cameras.
You can see this problem in the sample gallery that accompanies this article on
the Web.

More alarming, the camera exhibits some severe  edge distortion. People on the
edges of the photos almost look as if they're printed on stretched Silly Putty,
their heads puffing out bizarrely. It's kind of a shame, since the camera
otherwise offers so many truly amazing features.

PANASONIC LUMIX TS2 ($341, 14 megapixels, 4.6X zoom). This brushed-metal,
squared-off camera isn't the wisp of a thing that the Sony represents; instead,
it's quite substantial in its brushed-metal glory. That blocky design offers a
payoff, though; the Panasonic is waterproof down to 33 feet, versus 10 for the
Sony.

Both the Sony and the Panasonic are also supposed to be shockproof, dustproof
and freezeproof, too, thanks to reinforced glass and rubber gaskets. They take a
licking and keep on clicking.

Here again, the Panasonic shines; I brutally tossed it, kicked it and flipped it
25 times onto concrete; it still looked new. The Sony's sliding lens cover,
however, took some damage when I subjected it to the same admittedly
over-the-top treatment.

The photos look great -- maybe not Canon S90 great, especially in low light. But
they're above average for  pocket cameras, and because this camera is so rugged,
it may well last you a lot longer.

But the videos are what you'll really write home about.

Panasonic treats video as a first-class citizen on this camera; there's a
dedicated Record button right on the back. So to shoot video, you don't have to
switch modes or burrow into a menu (as you do on the Sony). It shoots 720p
hi-def video that, especially in good light (like the sunshine that will
probably accompany your waterlogged outings), looks fantastic. You can even use
the zoom while you're filming, which is a rarity in cameras.

SANYO XACTI VPC-WH1 ($310, 30X zoom, 3 pounds). Be warned: there's only one
thing that alarms  onlookers more than immersing a digital camera in water --
and that's immersing a camcorder.

But this one is designed for exactly that purpose. It's bright yellow (or bright
blue), so it's easy to spot in water. The controls are big and easily operated
with one thumb underwater (or on land).

A 16-gig SD card holds about four hours of best-quality video, and the battery
shoots nearly that long on a single charge.

Unfortunately, there are some serious drawbacks: the video is a little soft, the
stabilizer could be better and the camera's widest angle is extremely ''zoomed
in.''

PANASONIC SDR-SW21 ($224, 10X zoom, 0.5 pound). This bright orange, yellow, or
silver camcorder is far sleeker, smaller and lighter than the Sanyo; it's not
much more than a palmful. It's rugged, too, built for four-foot drops to
concrete. It comes with a foam handgrip floater so the thing won't sink.

In fact, the design is so great, it's almost not fair that it's such a loser of
a camcorder. It doesn't even capture hi-def footage: it films at 640 by 480
pixels, max, with the quality you'd expect from a cellphone in 2007. And the
battery conks out after less than an hour. Best to forget this one.

So how did my undersea gadgets fare on the shark dive? They were a bust. The
sharks hang out 45 feet down, on the sea floor. The companies aren't kidding
around with their depth ratings: at precisely 10 feet down, the Sony's buttons
stopped responding, and at exactly 33 feet, the Panasonic similarly clammed up.
(The camcorders' depth ratings are similar: 10 feet for the Sanyo, 6 for the
Panasonic.)

The undersea Nova cameraman later explained that the water pressure down there
winds up pushing all of the buttons simultaneously, which is why they stopped
working.

In the end, then, I didn't get any shark shots at all with these gadgets -- but
that was expecting too much, anyway. Using them for snorkeling, in pools and on
water slides was a joy. I wound up with photographic memories that most people
assume are unattainable on waterlogged outings.

Don't even bother with the camcorders. The video from the Panasonic TS2, a still
camera, easily trounces them -- and generally takes better photos than the
slimmer Sony.

In fact, you could even  be happy with the Panasonic TS2 as your everyday pocket
cam. The wide-angle lens lets you grab vistas in a single shot, the low-light
shots are decent  and the video quality is just awesome.

Above all, the waterproof/shockproof aspects don't cost you anything in size,
weight or features -- only a few extra dollars upfront. And the next time
someone mentions a trip to the Bahamas, you can safely think: ''Photos! Videos!
Drops to concrete!''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Lumix TS2 from Panasonic can take a brutal beating and
still work.
 Sony's Cyber-shot TX5 camera is thin and tiny, but still waterproof. (B10)
DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               35 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Attack Coming From Bytes, Not Bombs

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1450 words


Blackouts hit New York, Los Angeles, Washington and more than 100 other American
cities. Subways crash. Trains derail. Airplanes fall from the sky.

Gas pipelines explode. Chemical plants release clouds of toxic chlorine. Banks
lose all their data. Weather and communication satellites spin out of their
orbits. And the Pentagon's classified networks grind to a halt, blinding the
greatest military power in the world.

This might sound like a takeoff on the 2007 Bruce Willis ''Die Hard'' movie,  in
which a group of cyberterrorists attempts to stage what it calls a ''fire
sale'': a systematic shutdown of the nation's vital communication and utilities
infrastructure. According to the former counterterrorism czar Richard A. Clarke,
however, it's a scenario that could happen in real life  -- and it could all go
down in 15 minutes. While the United States has a first-rate cyberoffense
capacity, he says, its lack of a credible defense system, combined with the
country's heavy reliance on technology, makes it highly susceptible to a
devastating cyberattack.

''The United States is currently far more vulnerable to cyberwar than Russia or
China,'' he writes. ''The U.S. is more at risk from cyberwar than are minor
states like North Korea. We may even be at risk some day from nations or
nonstate actors lacking cyberwar capabilities, but who can hire teams of highly
capable hackers.''

Lest this sound like the augury of an alarmist, the reader might recall that Mr.
Clarke, counterterrorism chief  in both the Bill Clinton and George W. Bush
administrations, repeatedly warned his superiors about the need for an
aggressive plan to combat al Qaeda  --  with only a pallid response before 9/11.
He recounted this campaign in his controversial 2004 book, ''Against All
Enemies.''

Once again,  there is a lack of coordination between the various arms of the
military and various committees in Congress over how to handle a potential
attack. Once again, government agencies and private companies in charge of
civilian infrastructure are ill prepared to handle a possible disaster.

In these pages Mr. Clarke uses his insider's knowledge of national security
policy to create a harrowing  --  and persuasive  -- picture of the cyberthreat
the United States faces today. Mr. Clarke is hardly a lone wolf on the subject:
Mike McConnell, the former director of national intelligence, told a Senate
committee  in February that ''if we were in a cyberwar today, the United States
would lose.''

And last November, Steven Chabinsky,  deputy assistant director for the Federal
Bureau of Investigation's cyber division, noted that the F.B.I. was looking into
Qaeda sympathizers who want to develop their hacking skills and appear to want
to target the United States'  infrastructure.

Mr. Clarke  -- who wrote this book with Robert K. Knake, an international
affairs fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations  --  argues that because the
United States military relies so heavily upon databases and new technology,  it
is ''highly vulnerable to cyberattack.''  And while the newly established Cyber
Command, along with the Department of Homeland Security, is supposed to defend
the federal government,  he writes, ''the rest of us are on our own'':

''There is no federal agency that has the mission to defend the banking system,
the transportation networks  or the power grid from cyberattack.''  In fact, The
Wall Street Journal reported in April 2009 that the United States' electrical
grid had been penetrated by cyberspies (reportedly from China, Russia and other
countries), who left behind software that could be used to sabotage the system
in the future.

For more than a decade now, Mr. Clarke has been warning about ''an electronic
Pearl Harbor,''  and he is familiar with the frustrations of a political
bureaucracy. He notes that pressure from both the right and left over the
hot-button issues of regulation and privacy have made it difficult for the
government to get individual corporations (which control vital services like
electricity, Internet access and transportation) to improve their ability to
defend themselves against cyberattack.

Meanwhile, Mr. Clarke says, China has developed ''the ability to disconnect all
Chinese networks from the rest of the global Internet, something that would be
handy to have if you thought the U.S. was about to launch a cyberwar attack on
you.''  After the first gulf war, he explains, the Chinese ''began to downsize
their military''   --  which reportedly has about one-eighth of the Pentagon's
budget (before adding in the costs of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq)   --
and invest in new technologies, which they believed could give them an
asymmetric advantage over the United States, despite America's overwhelming
conventional arsenal.

As for North Korea, Mr. Clarke says, it employs an Olympics-like approach to
creating cyberwarriors, selecting ''elite students at the elementary-school
level to be groomed as future hackers.''   North Korea is suspected of being
behind the cyberattacks of July 2009 that took down the Web servers of the
Treasury, Secret Service, Federal Trade Commission and Transportation Department
and is thought to have  placed ''trapdoors'' -- code that allows hackers  future
access to a network --  on computer networks on at least two continents.

Trapdoors  are just one device that rival nation states and cyberterrorists can
use. There are also ''logic bombs'' (code that can set off malicious functions
when triggered),  Distributed Denial of Service (D.D.O.S.) attacks (in which a
site or server is flooded with more requests for data than it can process), and
foreign-manufactured software and hardware that might have been tampered with
before being shipped to the States.

The Defense Department, Mr. Clarke says, began to embrace the cost-saving idea
of using commercial off-the-shelf software (instead of applications custom-made
in-house) in the '90s, and it ''brought to the Pentagon all the same bugs and
vulnerabilities that exist on your own computer.'' He says, for instance,  that
in 1997, when the Windows system on a retrofitted ''smart ship'' called the
U.S.S. Yorktown crashed, ''the cruiser became a floating i-brick, dead in the
water.''

The United States' lack of an effective cyberdefense system, Mr. Clarke
ominously warns, ''will tempt opponents to attack in a period of tensions,''
and it could also tempt America to take pre-emptive action or escalate a
cyberconflict very rapidly if attacked.  Were such a war to start, it could
easily jump international boundaries, causing cascades of collateral damage to
unspool around the world.

How best to address this alarming situation? Mr. Clarke reports that a 2009
meeting of some 30 cyberspace ''old hands''  -- former government officials,
current bureaucrats, chief security officers of major corporations, academics
and senior information technology company officials   --  came to the conclusion
that critical infrastructure should be separated from ''the open-to-anyone''
Internet.  They also came out in favor of more government involvement in cyber
research and development and a heightened emphasis on building ''resilience''
into systems so as to enable recovery, post-attack.

In addition to these suggestions, Mr. Clarke adds some fairly common-sense  --
but not so easily achieved  --  recommendations of his own. He argues that
America needs to ''harden the important networks that a nation-state attacker
would target''  by putting automated scanning systems in place to look for
malware.  Also, it needs to make sure   that the Pentagon enhances the security
of its own networks; and    to work toward  cyberarms-control agreements with
other nations.

''The reality is that a major cyberattack from another nation is likely to
originate in the U.S.,'' Mr. Clarke says, noting that logic bombs and trapdoors
are quite likely already in place, ''so we will not be able to see it coming and
block it with the systems we have now or those that are planned. Yes, we may be
able to respond in kind, but our nation will still be devastated by a massive
cyberattack on civilian infrastructure that smacks down power grids for weeks,
halts trains, grounds aircraft, explodes pipelines and sets fire to
refineries.''

And should America then decide to cross the line from cyberwarfare to
conventional warfare, he says near the end of this chilling book, the highly
advanced technology in our military arsenal ''may suddenly not work.''

Cyber War: The Next Threat to National Security and What to Do About It By
Richard A. Clarke and Robert K. Knake 290 pages. Ecco/HarperCollins Publishers.
$25.99.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 Richard A. Clarke (PHOTOGRAPH BY BAQI KOPELMAN)(C6)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               36 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Antisocial Networking?

BYLINE: By HILARY STOUT

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1688 words


''HEY, you're a dork,'' said the girl to the boy with a smile. ''Just wanted you
to know.''

''Thanks!'' said the boy.

''Just kidding,'' said the girl with another smile. ''You're only slightly
dorky, but other than that, you're pretty normal -- sometimes.''

They both laughed.

''See you tomorrow,'' said the boy.

''O.K., see you,'' said the girl.

It was a pretty typical pre-teen exchange, one familiar through the generations.
Except this one had a distinctly 2010 twist. It was conducted on Facebook. The
smiles were colons with brackets. The laughs were typed ha ha's. ''O.K.'' was
just ''K'' and ''See you'' was rendered as ''c ya.''

Children used to actually talk to their friends. Those hours spent on the family
princess phone or hanging out with pals in the neighborhood after school
vanished long ago. But now, even chatting on cellphones or via e-mail (through
which you can at least converse in paragraphs) is passe. For today's teenagers
and preteens, the give and take of friendship seems to be conducted increasingly
in the abbreviated snatches of cellphone texts and instant messages, or through
the very public forum of Facebook walls and MySpace bulletins. (Andy Wilson, the
11-year-old boy involved in the banter above, has 418 Facebook friends.)

Last week, the Pew Research Center found that half of American teenagers --
defined in the study as ages 12 through 17 -- send 50 or more text messages a
day and that one third send more than 100 a day. Two thirds of the texters
surveyed by the center's Internet and American Life Project said they were more
likely to use their cellphones to text friends than to call them. Fifty-four
percent said they text their friends once a day, but only 33 percent said they
talk to their friends face-to-face on a daily basis. The findings came just a
few months after the Kaiser Family Foundation reported that Americans between
the ages of 8 and 18 spend on average 7 1/2 hours a day using some sort of
electronic device, from smart phones to MP3 players to computers -- a number
that startled many adults, even those who keep their BlackBerrys within arm's
reach during most waking hours.

To date, much of the concern over all this use of technology has been focused on
the implications for kids' intellectual development. Worry about the social
repercussions has centered on the darker side of online interactions, like cyber
-bullying or texting sexually explicit messages. But psychologists and other
experts are starting to take a look at a less-sensational but potentially more
profound phenomenon: whether technology may be changing the very nature of kids'
friendships.

''In general, the worries over cyber-bullying and sexting have overshadowed a
look into the really nuanced things about the way technology is affecting the
closeness properties of friendship,'' said Jeffrey G. Parker, an associate
professor of psychology at the University of Alabama, who has been studying
children's friendships since the 1980s. ''We're only beginning to look at those
subtle changes.''

The question on researchers' minds is whether all that texting, instant
messaging and online social networking allows children to become more connected
and supportive of their friends -- or whether the quality of their interactions
is being diminished without the intimacy and emotional give and take of regular,
extended face-to-face time.

It is far too soon to know the answer. Writing in The Future of Children, a
journal produced through a collaboration between the Brookings Institution and
the Woodrow Wilson Center at Princeton University, Kaveri Subrahmanyam and
Patricia M. Greenfield, psychologists at California State University, Los
Angeles, and U.C.L.A. respectively, noted: ''Initial qualitative evidence is
that the ease of electronic communication may be making teens less interested in
face-to-face communication with their friends. More research is needed to see
how widespread this phenomenon is and what it does to the emotional quality of a
relationship.''

But the question is important, people who study relationships believe, because
close childhood friendships help kids build trust in people outside their
families and consequently help lay the groundwork for healthy adult
relationships. ''These good, close relationships -- we can't allow them to wilt
away. They are essential to allowing kids to develop poise and allowing kids to
play with their emotions, express emotions, all the functions of support that go
with adult relationships,'' Professor Parker said.

''These are things that we talk about all the time,'' said Lori Evans, a
psychologist at the New York University Child Study Center. ''We don't yet have
a huge body of research to confirm what we clinically think is going on.''

What she and many others who work with children see are exchanges that are more
superficial and more public than in the past. ''When we were younger we would be
on the phone for hours at a time with one person,'' said Ms. Evans. Today
instant messages are often group chats. And, she said, ''Facebook is not a
conversation.''

One of the concerns is that, unlike their parents -- many of whom recall having
intense childhood relationships with a bosom buddy with whom they would spend
all their time and tell all their secrets -- today's youths may be missing out
on experiences that help them develop empathy, understand emotional nuances and
read social cues like facial expressions and body language. With children's
technical obsessions starting at ever-younger ages -- even kindergartners will
play side by side on laptops during play dates -- their brains may eventually be
rewired and those skills will fade further, some researchers believe.

Gary Small, a neuroscientist and professor of psychiatry at U.C.L.A. and an
author of ''iBrain: Surviving the Technological Alteration of the Modern Mind,''
believes that so-called ''digital natives,'' a term for the generation that has
grown up using computers, are already having a harder time reading social cues.
''Even though young digital natives are very good with the tech skills, they are
weak with the face-to-face human contact skills,'' he said.

Others who study friendships argue that technology is bringing children closer
than ever. Elizabeth Hartley-Brewer, author of a book published last year called
''Making Friends: A Guide to Understanding and Nurturing Your Child's
Friendships,'' believes that technology allows them to be connected to their
friends around the clock. ''I think it's possible to say that the electronic
media is helping kids to be in touch much more and for longer.''

And some parents agree. Beth Cafferty, a high school Spanish teacher in
Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., estimates that her 15-year-old daughter sends hundreds
of texts each day. ''I actually think they're closer because they're more in
contact with each other -- anything that comes to my mind, I'm going to text you
right away,'' she said.

But Laura Shumaker, a mother of three sons in the Bay Area suburbs, noticed
recently that her 17-year-old son, John, ''was keeping up with friends so much
on Facebook that he has become more withdrawn and skittish about face-to-face
interactions.''

Recently when he mentioned that it was a friend's birthday, she recalled, ''I
said 'Great, are you going to give him a call and wish him Happy Birthday?' He
said, 'No, I'm going to put it on his wall' '' -- the bulletin board on Facebook
where friends can post messages that others can see. Ms. Shumaker said she has
since begun encouraging her son to get involved in more group activities after
school and was pleased that he joined a singing group recently.

To some children, technology is merely a facilitator for an active social life.
On a recent Friday, Hannah Kliot, a 15-year-old ninth grader in Manhattan, who
had at last count 1,150 Facebook friends, sent a bunch of texts after school to
make plans to meet some friends later at a party. The next day she played in two
softball games, texting between innings and games about plans to go to a concert
the next weekend.

Hannah says she relies on texting to make plans and to pass along things that
she thinks are funny or interesting. But she also uses it to check up on friends
who may be upset about something -- and in those cases she will follow up with a
real conversation. ''I definitely have conversations but I think the new form of
actually talking to someone is video chat because you're actually seeing them,''
she said. ''I've definitely done phone calls at one time or another but it is
considered, maybe, old school.''

Hannah's mother, Joana Vicente, who has been known to text her children from her
bed after 11 p.m. telling them to get offline, is sometimes amazed by the way
Hannah and her 14-year-old brother, Anton, communicate. ''Sometime they'll have
five conversations going at once'' through instant messaging, texts or video
chats, she said. ''My daughter, with the speed of lightning, just goes from one
to the other. I think 'My God, that is a conversation?' ''

Some researchers believe that the impersonal nature of texting and online
communication may make it easier for shy kids to connect with others. Robert
Wilson is the father of Andy Wilson, the 11-year-old sixth grader from Atlanta
who was good-naturedly teased over Facebook. (Mr. Wilson quoted from the
exchange to illustrate the general ''goofy'' and innocuous nature of most of his
son's Facebook interactions.) Andy is very athletic and social, but his brother,
Evan, who is 14, is more shy and introverted. After watching Andy connect with
so many different people on Facebook, Mr. Wilson suggested that Evan sign up and
give it a try. The other day he was pleased to find Evan chatting through
Facebook with a girl from his former school.

''I'm thinking Facebook has for the most part been beneficial to my sons,'' Mr.
Wilson said. ''For Evan, the No. 1 reason is it's helping him come out of his
shell and develop social skills that he wasn't learning because he's so shy. I
couldn't just push him out of the house and say 'Find someone.'''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FACE TO FACEBOOK: Andy Wilson, 11, left, and his brother Evan,
14, go on Facebook in their treehouse in Atlanta. Left, John Shumaker, 17, on
Facebook at his home in Lafayette, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK LESSER FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES
 PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST10) GRAPHIC (GRAPHIC BY MARGARET
RIEGEL)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               37 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 3, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stolen Facebook Accounts for Sale

BYLINE: By RIVA RICHMOND

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 775 words


Researchers at VeriSign's iDefense division tracking the digital underworld say
bogus and stolen accounts on the Facebook are now on sale in high volume on the
black market.

During several weeks in February, iDefense tracked an effort to sell log-in data
for 1.5 million Facebook accounts on several online criminal marketplaces,
including one called Carder.su.

That  hacker, who used the screen name ''kirllos'' and appears to deal only in
Facebook accounts, offered to sell bundles of 1,000 accounts with 10 or fewer
friends for $25 and with more than 10 friends for $45, says Rick Howard,
iDefense's director of cyber intelligence.

The case points to a significant expansion in the illicit market for social
networking accounts from Eastern Europe  to the United States, he said.

Criminals steal log-in data for Facebook accounts, typically with ''phishing''
techniques that tricks users into disclosing their passwords or with malware
that logs keystrokes. They then use the accounts to send spam, distribute
malicious programs and run identity and other fraud.

Facebook says it believes that the  hacker's claims to control large numbers  of
Facebook accounts are bogus. The  company attempted to purchase accounts as part
of its investigation into the  incident, said a spokesman, Barry  Schnitt.
However, ''the hacker was unable to produce anything for our buyer,''  he said.

Facebook's investigators also discovered that ''kirllos'' has a reputation
''for wild claims,'' he said.

''We would expect iDefense or anyone  presenting themselves as a security expert
to do this kind of verification (or any  verification) rather than just reading
a  forum post and accepting the claims as fact and publicizing them,'' Mr.
Schnitt  said in an e-mail message.

IDefense could not be immediately  reached for comment on the legitimacy  of the
hacker's offer. However, it previously said that it did not purchase any of  the
accounts as part of its study because that would violate its corporate policy.

Criminals  steal log-in data for Facebook accounts, typically with ''phishing''
techniques   that tricks users into disclosing their passwords or with malware
that logs keystrokes. They then use the accounts to send spam, distribute
malicious programs and run identity and other fraud.

Facebook accounts are attractive because of the higher level of trust on the
site than exists in the broader Internet. People are required to use their real
names and tend to connect primarily with people they know.

As a result, they are more likely to believe a fraudulent message or click on a
dubious link on a friend's wall or an e-mail message. Moreover, the accounts
allow criminals to mine profiles of victims and their friends for personal
information like birth dates, addresses, phone numbers, mothers' maiden names,
pets' names and other tidbits that can be used in identity theft.

Last summer, Eileen Sheldon's Facebook account was hacked and used to send
messages to about 20 friends claiming she was stranded in  Britain without a
passport and needed money. Ms. Sheldon, who lives in California, had recently
been living in London, and one friend, believing the ruse, wired about $100 to
the thieves.

Other friends smelled a fraud and warned Ms. Sheldon, who quickly reported the
problem to Facebook.  She does not know how her password was stolen.

While the accounts that were compromised and offered for sale could be
legitimate ones like Ms. Sheldon's, they  most likely also included bogus
accounts,  Mr. Howard said. IDefense did not see  the accounts themselves, but
the inclusion of many accounts with small numbers of friends suggests the seller
could  have created fake accounts, perhaps using an automated tool, and sent out
blind  friend requests.

Many users are eager to amass friends and accept friend requests from people
they do not know, even though Facebook discourages it.

Facebook says it has sophisticated systems to defeat fake accounts, including
tools for flagging them when they are created so they can be investigated. This
allows Facebook to ''disable them before the bad guys get very far,'' a
spokesman, Simon Axten, said.

Facebook also monitors for unusual activity that is associated with fake
accounts, like many friend requests in a short period of time and high rates of
friend requests that are ignored. It also investigates reports of suspicious
users .

The relatively low asking prices for the Facebook accounts points to the fact
that Facebook accounts do not translate into instant profit. ''The people that
buy these things are going to have to do more work to make money,'' Mr. Axten
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Zuckerberg, a founder of the social-networking site.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KIMBERLY WHITE/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               38 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Red Sox Nation Grumbles Like an Entitled Empire

BYLINE: By DAVID MARGOLICK.

David Margolick is a contributing editor at Newsweek.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; CHEERING SECTION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 777 words


The Red Sox are off to a troubled start, and barely a sixth of the way into the
season, the Web sites and comment boards in Boston are warning of a long and
miserable summer. But to any longtime Sox fan -- born before, say, 1990 -- it
just ain't so. To us, this year promises to be a cathartic trip down memory lane
and, maybe, a return to tradition, and sanity.

Check out the online fury that follows every Sox loss these days: the perfervid
denunciations of ''Big Floppy,'' David Ortiz (D.H. stands for ''doesn't hit''),
and Terry ''Francoma'' and ''Nancy'' Drew and Marco ''Scatterthrow''; the
wilting attacks on General Manager Theo Epstein (better known these days as
''Boy Genius''); the indignant vows to give up and watch the Bruins or wait for
the Patriots (training camp is only 10 weeks away).

Like anyone else, Sox fans love it when their team wins. But perhaps more than
anyone else, at least some of us old-time fans may actually love it more when
they lose. After their World Series victories in 2004 and 2007, we whiners
thought we had been silenced, at least for the next 85 years or so, lest we seem
greedy or ungrateful. But enough time has passed, and enough foul-ups have
occurred, for the moratorium to end. Now we can relive old grievances and amass
new ones.

So after a sweep last weekend by the lowly Baltimore Orioles (4-2 versus the Red
Sox; 4-19 against everyone else), it was open season on the Sox, and it was sort
of exhilarating. (In our dystopian universe, a sweep this week of the struggling
Los Angeles Angels offers only a temporary respite.) Attacking the Red Sox,
savoring their foibles and failures, wallowing in anger and despair, is part of
pulling for them. It lets us feel picked upon and sorry for ourselves and
betrayed. And smug: how better to feel competent yourself than to assail the
incompetence of others?

Still, there is something disquieting about some of the current complaints. To
veteran Red Sox fans, winning has never been the order of things. No one would
ever call Fenway Park the Home of Champions. There is no such thing as
''RedSoxography.'' Even had someone improbably composed a song called ''Boston,
Boston,'' the team would not have a swaggering Sinatra belting it out five
seconds after every last out. We all know Yankee fans feel entitled: how dare
you lose? How dare you do this to me? Red Sox fans, by contrast, often expect
the worst, and when it comes, we revel in saying, ''I knew it!''

But as the current cyber-stonings on the Red Sox message boards attest, creeping
Yankeeosis has spread to Red Sox Nation. There is the same petulance, the same
arrogance, the same intolerance for imperfection, the same obnoxious impatience.
This year's sorry team will not only miss the wild card, the posters warn, but
finish in fourth place! Unless Josh Beckett gets his act together, and Adrian
Beltre stops booting the ball, and Manny Delcarmen stops blowing late leads, and
Daisuke Matsuzaka is sent back to Japan, these Sox could win -- gasp! -- only 85
games.

Pardon me, but 85 victories means 77 losses. That is eight games above .500. For
my entire childhood, that would have been nirvana. But modern Red Sox fans, with
no sense of the team's history, have paid the ostensibly hated Yankees the
sincerest form of flattery and become an evil, entitled empire themselves. Just
change the caps, and these spoiled complainers would be right at home in the
Bronx.

Why must the Red Sox pamper their overly indulged fans by signing up expensive,
mediocre free agents? Or keep aging veterans past their prime instead of risking
a bad year or two through replenishment? Or hastily plug holes through desperate
and ill-considered maneuvers -- like coming up with a catcher who, it turns out,
can't catch? How much better, and more satisfying, to build yourself a team, as
Tampa Bay has done. Yankees fans would never put up with it, we know. But must
we be the same?

Let the Red Sox clean house. Let them trade away some of their aging talent and
bring up a few kids from Pawtucket. And yes, let them sink under .500 for a
time. It's not so bad to stink. For teams outside the Bronx, it is part of the
cycle of sports. It builds character. It's fun: scrappiness is happiness. It can
even be relaxing: lowered expectations are less easily dashed.

This season we real Red Sox fans, the ones old enough to remember Tom Yawkey and
Pinky Higgins and Pumpsie Green, will once more turn off our televisions in
disgust in the fifth inning, only to sneak a peak in the ninth -- when we will
get steamed up all over again. But high dudgeon is, after all, a high. What's
more satisfying than martyrdom?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some Boston fans are calling for the release of David Ortiz,
whose slugging helped to deliver two World Series titles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WINSLOW
TOWNSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               39 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Four Nerds and a Cry to Arms Against Facebook

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER.

E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 827 words


How angry is the world at Facebook for devouring every morsel of personal
information we are willing to feed it?

A few months back, four geeky college students, living on pizza in a computer
lab downtown on Mercer Street, decided to build a social network that wouldn't
force people to surrender their privacy to a big business. It would take three
or four months to write the code, and they would need a few thousand dollars
each to live on.

They gave themselves 39 days to raise $10,000, using an online site,
Kickstarter, that helps creative people find support.

It turned out that just about all they had to do was whisper their plans.

''We were shocked,'' said one of the four, Dan Grippi, 21. ''For some strange
reason, everyone just agreed with this whole privacy thing.''

They announced their project on April 24. They reached their $10,000 goal in 12
days, and the money continues to come in: as of Tuesday afternoon, they had
raised $23,676 from 739 backers. ''Maybe 2 or 3 percent of the money is from
people we know,'' said Max Salzberg, 22.

Working with Mr. Salzberg and Mr. Grippi are Raphael Sofaer, 19, and Ilya
Zhitomirskiy, 20 --   ''four talented young nerds,'' Mr. Salzberg says -- all of
whom met at New York University's Courant Institute. They have called their
project Diaspora* and intend to distribute the software free, and to make the
code openly available so that other programmers can build on it. As they
describe it, the Diaspora* software will let users set up their own personal
servers, called seeds, create their own hubs and fully control the information
they share. Mr. Sofaer says that centralized networks like Facebook are not
necessary. ''In our real lives, we talk to each other,'' he said. ''We don't
need to hand our messages to a hub. What Facebook gives you as a user isn't all
that hard to do. All the little games, the little walls, the little chat, aren't
really rare things. The technology already exists.''

The terms of the bargain people make with social networks -- you swap personal
information for convenient access to their sites --  have been shifting, with
the companies that operate the networks collecting ever more information about
their users. That information can be sold to marketers. Some younger people are
becoming more cautious about what they post. ''When you give up that data,
you're giving it up forever,'' Mr. Salzberg said. ''The value they give us is
negligible in the scale of what they are doing, and what we are giving up is all
of our privacy.''

The Diaspora* group was inspired to begin their project after hearing a talk by
Eben Moglen, a law professor at Columbia University, who described the
centralized social networks as ''spying for free,'' Mr. Salzberg said.

The four students met in a computer room at N.Y.U., and have spent nearly every
waking minute there for months. They understand the appeal of social networks.

''Certainly, as nerds, we have nowhere else to go,'' Mr. Salzberg said. ''We're
big nerds.''

''My social life has definitely collapsed in favor of maintaining a decent GPA
and doing this,'' Mr. Sofaer said.

A teacher and digital media researcher at N.Y.U., Finn Brunton, said that their
project -- which does not involve giant rounds of venture capital financing
before anyone writes a line of code -- reflected ''a return of the classic geek
means of production: pizza and ramen and guys sleeping under the desks because
it is something that it is really exciting and challenging.''

And the demand for a social network that gives users control is strong, Mr.
Brunton said. ''Everyone I talk to about this says, 'Oh my God, I've been
waiting for someone to do something like that.' ''

There have been at least two other attempts at decentralized networks, Mr.
Brunton said, but he thought the Diaspora* group had  a firmer plan. Its  quick
success in raising money, he said, showed the discontent over the state of
privacy on the social sites. ''We will have to see how widely this will be
adopted by the non-nerds,'' Mr. Brunton said. ''But I don't know a single person
in the geek demographic who is not freaked out'' by large social networks and
cyber warehouses of information.

The Diaspora* crew has no doubts about the sprawling strengths and attractions
of existing social networks, having gotten more than 2,000 followers of
''joindiaspora'' on Twitter in just a few weeks.

''So many people think it needs to exist,'' Mr. Salzberg said. ''We're making it
because we want to use it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 14, 2010, Friday



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
The About New York column on Wednesday, about four students at New York
University who are trying to create a new social network, referred incorrectly
to Finn Brunton, who said their plan was a ''return of the classic geek means of
production.'' He is a teacher and researcher at N.Y.U., but he has not taught
these four students.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ilya Zhitomirskiy, 20, far left
Dan Grippi, 21
Max Salzberg, 22
 and Raphael Sofaer, 19, all students at N.Y.U., are trying to reinvent social
networking online.  (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               40 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Choosing Sides

BYLINE: By KEVIN BAKER.

Kevin Baker is a co-author, with Danijel Zezelj, of the graphic novel ''Luna
Park.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CHILDREN'S BOOKS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 815 words


CENTER FIELD

By Robert Lipsyte

280 pp. HarperTeen/ HarperCollins Publishers. $16.99. (Ages 12 and up)

Robert Lipsyte's superb young adult novel ''Center Field'' makes you wonder if
it's possible to be neglected and smothered at the same time. Mike Semak, the
hero, is basically home alone. His parents, at once overly solicitous and
absent, fret over every detail of his high school career while spending all
their time at their new flooring store. A passing altercation in a hallway with
another student draws threats of lawsuits and criminal charges. Mike's baseball
team, and apparently much of his school, Ridgedale High, is run by Coach Cody, a
mysterious former Army Ranger hired as dean of discipline because ''there had
been gang violence and drug dealing in nearby New Jersey towns. The school board
was afraid it would spread to Ridgedale.''

Cody responded by starting a network of student snitches and instituting ''zero
tolerance policies. He searched kids, busted into lockers, shut down the school
newspaper when it complained.'' This brought more threats of lawsuits, but
nothing came of it after Cody found a pistol on a student.

The theme of rigid control and de facto neglect is a constant in ''Center
Field.'' Mike, a high school junior, and his friends seem to be raising
themselves. They scrounge their own meals, or microwave dinners left by ever
busy parents. They drive themselves most places, arrange their own crowded
schedules. Their virginity seems long gone; sex is not even that big a deal. No
adult is ever present at their parties. Or perhaps these kids are already the
adults, as in one subtle aside when our hero sounds like nothing so much as a
middle-aged suburban homeowner, preparing for a get-together: '' 'C'mon, Ry,'
said Mike, pulling on Ryan's arm. 'We got to bring up the booze.' ''

In this, as in so much else, Lipsyte is pitch-perfect. A former sports reporter
and columnist for The New York Times and the author of seven previous young
adult novels, Lipsyte expertly conveys the banality of Mike's prematurely
grown-up world once the party starts: ''He let the music wash over him, mostly
Lil Potz and Pug Brown being horn-dogs and Kallie D. singing about doing a girl
and a guy the same night and not seeing the difference. He didn't much like the
music, but after a couple of beers it didn't bother him.''

It's a moment, free of theatrics, that makes you want to weep for these
jaded-sounding kids. And yet Mike and his friends are not drug addicts or
budding juvenile delinquents. They act responsibly enough, have deep interests
in school and the greater world around them; they are likable and engaged in
traditional high school pastimes, from baton-twirling to saving the planet.

Mike's own world revolves around following his favorite major-league player,
Billy Budd -- the rather vacuous star center fielder for the Yankees, whose
public relations machine churns out endless electronic advice for ''young
ballers'' -- and Mike's quest to become the varsity center fielder, a goal he's
been working toward ''all his life.''

He loves everything about center field, right down to the John Fogerty tune of
that name, ''the greatest song ever written'' (amen). Mike describes playing it
as ''being on top of the world. . . . It's open and clean, no foul lines or
crazy angles or base runners, just you and the ball.''

Yet he is about to encounter all sorts of foul lines and crazy angles. A new
student from the Dominican Republic, who may or may not be an illegal immigrant,
arrives at Ridgedale High, challenging Mike for the coveted position (and
trailing intimations of hardship and self-sufficiency that even the most
prematurely adult student in the Jersey suburbs can only guess at). Then there's
Mike's forced interaction with the ''pukes'' (nerds) from the Cyber Club,  an
enigmatic new love interest and Coach Cody's attempt to ensnare him in one his
intrigues.

Mike not only has to figure out what he wants and where his loyalties lie, but
he must also articulate these things to himself and others. He must decide whom
he can rely on and if there's more to life than Billy Budd's aphorisms.

The reference to Melville's novel seems a stretch too far even for Joe DiMaggio,
and everything gets wrapped up perhaps a tad too neatly. But along the way,
Lipsyte's storytelling is riveting, his characters are complex and nuanced, and
the suburban ambience he recreates is spot-on. With its neglected teenagers, its
distracted and overworked adults and its scheming, self-serving authority
figures who excuse their every transgression in the name of ''security,'' the
suburb of Ridgedale could be a metaphor for America in the 21st century.

That might be reading too much into it. But to paraphrase Fogerty, beat the drum
and hold the phone; Robert Lipsyte could be center field on any team of young
adult writers I could name.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               41 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 28, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Judge and the Child Porn Law

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 735 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Defiant Judge Takes On Child Pornography Law'' (front page, May 22):

While I agree with Judge Jack B. Weinstein about ending mandatory sentencing and
giving discretion back to judges, there are fundamental ways in which we
disagree about the users of child pornography.

First, he does not believe that those who view images of child sexual abuse are
a threat to children. But of course they are! If they did not provide a market
for such images, then children would not be abused to produce them in the first
place.

According to the Justice Department, an estimated one million children in the
United States are abused yearly in the production of child pornography, a $3
billion business annually.

Second, Judge Weinstein says prison will harm only the child pornography viewer
and not protect society since he is not a risk to actually act out against
children. Research is inconclusive about this link, but according to a study by
the Mayo Clinic at least 30 percent of viewers of child pornography are known to
have also molested a child. Since we know child molesting to be a hidden crime,
we can safely assume the correlation to be much higher.

I wish I had an answer for Judge Weinstein's plea that we treat rather than
imprison this type of pedophile, the viewer of child pornography. But there are
no known acceptable and effective treatments. And until we have such a cure, and
since this is a crime, then jail is the place where they belong.

Kathryn Conroy New York, May 22, 2010

The writer is a clinical social worker and executive director of Hedge Funds
Care, Preventing and Treating Child Abuse.

To the Editor:

Distasteful as even the idea of child pornography is, there is a flaw in the
reasoning behind mandatory sentencing for possession of such items. To the
extent that imprisonment is intended to protect the public from danger,
sentencing for possession of child pornography without knowing whether the
individual either has actually abused, or is likely to abuse, children fails to
meet that standard.

For some, if not most, collectors, child pornography films are a relatively
harmless way of dealing with feelings of sexual attraction to minors. Such
individuals would not think of actually touching a child inappropriately.

For others, however, the viewing is a step on the way to actually performing the
acts they view. To imprison the former group is a waste of taxpayer money; for
the latter group, imprisonment is essential, and sentencing laws should be based
not on a fixed time period but on the likelihood of repeating the abuse upon
release.

To distinguish between those who will and those who will not move on to abuse of
children, the court should request assessment by mental health professionals.
Such assessment is also needed for the decision whether to release the prisoner.

Ingeborg Oppenheimer Yonkers, May 22, 2010

The writer is a clinical social worker.

To the Editor:

Studies by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children show that more
than half of defendants charged with possession of child pornography molested or
attempted to molest children. This correlation belies Judge Jack B. Weinstein's
opinion that those who view child pornography present no threat to children.

He also ignores Supreme Court precedent  that stressed the harm possessors pose
to children. These harms include the shame suffered by children who know their
images are being circulated, the use of such images to seduce other children and
the perpetuation of the market for child pornography. More fundamentally, a
child has a right of dignity and privacy that is violated whenever a person
views images of that child being sexually abused.

Thus, it is not the lack of harm that should underlie concern about the
sentences mandated by the current child pornography laws. What is problematic is
that these laws, originally enacted to address the market for child pornography
in the physical world, make seemingly arbitrary distinctions in the cyber world.
For example, transporting and receiving child pornography have mandatory
five-year minimums, while possession has no minimum. One act on the computer can
violate all three laws.

Separate charges and multiple sentences may be unfair and should be questioned;
the harm to children should not.

Audrey Rogers White Plains, May 23, 2010

The writer is a professor of law at Pace Law School.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KATHERINE STREETER)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               42 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 4, 2010 Friday
                                National Edition

Public Financing Supports Growth of Online Charter Schools

BYLINE: By CAROL POGASH.

cpogash@baycitizen.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1314 words


Laura Drews has converted a corner of her San Jose dining room into a public
school. Every weekday, she guides her first-, fifth- and eighth-grade children
through their class assignments, delivered through textbooks and desktop
computers.

The Drews' unorthodox education is paid for by taxpayers, but created and
operated by a for-profit company based in Virginia. The California Virtual
Academy at San Mateo is part of an expanding network of virtual public schools,
including 10 in the Bay Area, that provide much of the instruction online with
the help of a parent.

The schools are a manifestation of the charter school movement, which gives
parents and students more choice in public education. Proponents say the virtual
schools give students the intimacy of home schooling while maintaining the
structure of a public school. Nationally, there are an estimated 200,000
full-time virtual charter school students, said Susan Patrick, chief executive
of the International Association for K-12 Online Learning.

Behind the blue screen, however, is a host of unanswered questions about a
system that seemingly requires little overhead. There are no libraries,
cafeterias, playgrounds, coaches, janitors, nurses, buses or bus drivers -- but
can cost taxpayers per student as much as or more than traditional public
schools.

This year, the San Mateo virtual school attended by the Drews children is
expected to receive $5,105 per student in state and federal money -- $375 more
per student than what children in their authorizing school district of Jefferson
Elementary in Daly City are expected to receive, said the district.

The school, California Virtual Academy at San Mateo, is a creation of K12
Incorporated, a publicly traded corporation started in 2000 by Ron Packard, an
economist and engineer, and Bill Bennett, the secretary of education under
President Ronald Reagan. Initial financing came from Knowledge Universe, a
creation of the financier Michael Milken. Mr. Milken, who served time in prison
in the early 1990s for securities violations, has bought or started dozens of
for-profit education companies, including day care centers.

K12 operates virtual schools in 25 states and abroad. It lends students
computers, printers, software and books and pays a part of their Internet
connection costs. K12 materials include print as well as interactive learning.

K12 signs 3-year-to-10-year management contracts with its charter public schools
to provide virtual education. These contracts, according to the company's annual
report, ''provide the basis for a recurring revenue stream as students progress
through successive grades.'' The company protects its ''intellectual property''
by having teachers and students sign confidentiality agreements, according to
information filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

''A virtual education is expensive,'' said Katrina Abston, the head of schools
for CAVA, and a K12 employee.

The nine K12 California schools share the cost of a 10,000-square-foot office
and storage space in Simi Valley. ''There's back-end support and computers and
the type of curriculum we use is expensive,'' Ms. Abston said. ''They make sure
we're cutting edge.''

More than half the San Mateo virtual academy's budget last year was owed to K12,
including $642,304 for management fees to oversee the 900 students in their
homes and $2.7 million for instructional materials and technology.

Diane Ravitch, a leading educational historian who until recently favored
charter schools, is strongly critical of the virtual charter system. Ms. Ravitch
said the system eliminated ''brick and mortar schools and it bypasses the
unions,'' mainly for the benefit of for-profit companies.

Twenty percent of California's 872 charter schools now conduct some or all of
their classes online. CAVA has 11,000 students in California; 900 are students
at CAVA San Mateo, where enrollment is growing at a rate of 20 percent per year,
according to K12.

The CAVA curriculum gives ''an adult a script on how to teach a student,'' Mrs.
Drews said. She said she consulted with elementary teachers only about her
children's compositions. K12 offers ''mastery-based curriculum,'' with
assessment tests that must be passed before a student can move to the next
lesson, though at the elementary level those decisions are left to the parents.

High school students can talk to their teachers in voluntary weekly online
conferences -- but not in person, since their teachers are scattered across the
state. They communicate through e-mail and through K12's Web sites, messaging
and internal e-mail system.

Elementary school students learn at their own pace and are graded by their
parents. They meet their teachers for a half-hour or longer, three or four times
a year at a library or church.

CAVA schools rely on the honor system because, short of fingerprint or facial
recognition, there is no way to be sure who is tapping at the keyboard. Students
in physical education classes -- a class that is required by the state -- are
graded in part on self-reporting of regular exercise.

K12 reports that its students test ''near state averages,'' according to
documents filed with the S.E.C. Last year, at CAVA's San Mateo school, 57
percent of students achieved proficiency or above in English; 33 percent were
proficient or advanced in math. Nearly 30 percent of the high school students
drop out, which is higher than the state average of 24 percent.

Many parents, especially those with younger children, have expressed
satisfaction with the curriculum.

''CAVA is beautiful,'' said Leigh Austin-Schmidt, whose sixth and seventh
graders attend school at their home in Pleasanton. ''There's a wonderful section
on teacher tips, how to prepare for a lesson if I didn't know something.''

The San Mateo school attracts families dissatisfied with their public school and
seeking a more independent learning environment, flexible hours or more support
for students.

Linda Brown said her ninth-grade son, who is in special education, ''is doing
way better than he would have in public school.'' But she added that for her
fifth-grade daughter, ''the social aspect is the thing we miss the most.''

On their own, San Jose parents have organized and take turns teaching weekly
art, music and science programs at a local church.

Oversight for California public charter schools falls to the authorizing
districts. Although the Jefferson Elementary School district reviews CAVA's
curriculum and its budget, it lacks the manpower to verify the records.

''We have to take their word for it,'' said Enrique Navas, assistant
superintendent of business services at the district. ''It's a paper review.''

Despite the fact that K12 plans to open more schools in the state, Ms. Abston,
CAVA's head of school, said all nine California schools operated at a loss.

''K12 provides CAVA a full, turn-key education solution, a complete
comprehensive education at a cost less than the average total cost of a student
in traditional public schools,'' Jeff Kwitowski, K12's vice president for public
relations, said in an e-mail message. He added that online public schools
received about 30 percent less in total financing than traditional schools.

Luis Huerta, an associate professor of education at Teachers College, Columbia
University and a nationally recognized scholar on charter schools and school
finance who has researched virtual charters for 14 years, disputed that, saying
of Mr. Kwitowski, ''he is unequivocally incorrect.''

''Nationally, cyber charters on average receive the equivalent amount of funding
as traditional schools,'' Professor Huerta said.

He added that there was minimal overhead and minimal accountability.

If virtual charter school costs are lower, Professor Huerta said, ''then where
is the money going?''

''It doesn't add up,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Katie Brown, 11, and her mother, Linda, follow California
Virtual Academy's online science curriculum at their home in San Jose.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               43 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                              June 4, 2010 Friday

Student Challenge Favorite | Life Online

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1047 words



HIGHLIGHT: We&#8217;ve invited students to tell us weekly what interested them
most in The Times and why. We&#8217;ll choose a &#8220;favorite&#8221;
regularly, and this is our first.


Man, was it hard to choose.

Though we got a smallish number of entries, every entry we got was interesting
and noteworthy. As often happens here on The Learning Network, your writing
caused us to ramble on uninvited to other Times employees who sit near us -
about how great "kids today" are, what a shame it is that young adults are
routinely characterized as being too apathetic and narcissistic to care about
current events, how surprised we are by your offbeat choices, etc.

Or, as Jennifer put it when congratulating us on our Challenge (which she called
"sassy" and "subversive"):

As [teenagers] learn to recognize that all is not always well in the world, the
most powerful tool we can be given is the ability to channel our observations
into critically-planned action rather than angrily critical static. It is
frustrating to feel disenfranchised in one's own world. Our only productive
means of regaining power are through the mind. Youth can do it; reading can
help.

Jennifer: yes, exactly.  We hope many more of you channel your observations into
comments like this for our Student Challenge every week this summer. And if you
haven't entered this week, please do so here.

Meanwhile, we did finally choose a "favorite." But because for days we had a
hard time narrowing it down from six front-runners, we'd like to call out some
of those too.

Three of you chose Matt Gross's "Frugal Europe, On Foot" and wrote lively notes
about why. Megan summed it up best: "His story is more than a travel piece, but
a lesson in goodwill as well."

We loved that many of you wrote about political and social issues, from the
roles of women to violent video games to global warming.  At the risk of
sounding like college-admissions personnel, we found that we particularly liked
when you made personal connections to the topics to explain your passion for
them.

Diego, for instance, wrote about his anger at those who have questioned Elena
Kagan's sexual preference: "I'm 23 years-old and have a four-month-old daughter.
I really hope that when she turns 23 she won't be reading justifications of an
individual's intimate preference in the Times."

Spenser wrote about his disillusionment with President Obama and his
administration: "Since before the Democratic primaries, I was an enthusiastic
intern for Obama's campaign in Nevada, but every day I grow more discouraged and
feel more betrayed..."

And Yunus wrote about how "being of Indian descent" and observing slums
first-hand made the work of Nicholas Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn particularly
resonant for him.

Two of you chose an article about pretzel-making, though Krystalle worried up
front that her pick was "shallow and highly unthought-provoking compared to the
many articles I read and the comments already posted here."

We wrote her back to reassure her that what she wrote was far from shallow, and,
actually, if we had to award a second prize this week, it would probably go to
her. The article made her muse "It has always made me sad when I see Americans
eating Taco Bell or such food and calling it 'Mexican' when it is, in fact,
Texan, [so] reading about real pretzels and even finding out how to make some
was a simple, wonderful highlight of my day amid studying for exams."

Finally, our favorite:  Kristen D. She used an article about Facebook as a
jumping-off point, but then she deftly took us through her own online history,
from teen chat rooms on AOL at age 12 to MySpace and now Twitter. "It's only a
matter of time until my migration begins again, who's coming with me?" she
writes. She also managed to make her post exactly 400 words: we were impressed.

We leave you with the full text of what Kristen wrote, and encourage you to come
back every week and bring your friends.

Kristen D:

Earlier today I tweeted "Rivals Seize on Troubles of Facebook-hmmm what will
everyone do??" accompanied by the link for Wortham's article
http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/24/technology/24social.html about Facebook rivals
sprouting from every-other IP address. To the articles point it's only natural
occurrence that emerging technology will one day engulf and outshine the eminent
success of Facebook. Naturally, people want to capitalize on the success
Facebook is realizing; however, all this fretting is unnecessary. The phrase
that reruns in my mind when I or someone else tweets, pings, blogs, writes (or
rants) about Facebook is "this too shall pass". It's my Mom's beloved saying;
it's especially true for the history of social networks.

At 12 I had parental monitors while I started chatting in Teen Chatrooms on AOL.
I was completely addicted to these rooms; these Chatrooms were my first Social
Networks. Shortly after I moved onto LiveJournal.com most of my life at 13 and
14 was clearly documented in poetic, status updates which updated my friends of
immensely shallow and highly sensitive high school gossip. LiveJournal was part
of my pulse, in fact, had my heart beat noticeably irregular at any given
moment, I am positive it would have been part of my update. Somewhere along the
line I got over it. I had moved on, matured, made MySpace.com -my space. MySpace
lasted a few years, it transferred from High School to College then from college
to a work relo to Mexico. Then it happened, at some point between transitions
into Graduate School- MySpace got lost in cyber space. I genuinely cannot even
remember my password. I had moved onto High5.com and Facebook.com. Now, you will
find a more frequent account of my daily thoughts on Twitter.com and so, the
process continues.

I'm not completely sure if it's technological evolution or boredom, I think it
may be a hybrid of both. To me it's silly to even worry about how we will
reconnect with all of our contacts on Facebook - it's survival of the fittest.
Those whom are technologically savvy enough to keep up with my moves will
transfer friendship; those who don't will have to hope I link them to connect on
my new network. It's only a matter of time until my migration begins again,
who's coming with me?


     ·    Student Challenge Favorite | Deployment to Afghanistan
     ·    Student Challenge Favorite | A Teacher From Eritrea
     ·    Student Challenge Favorite | Music and Protest
     ·    Student Challenge Favorite | Obama and the Oil Spill
     ·    Student Challenge Favorite | Kindergarten Redshirts


LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               44 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 5, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spain Wins Cyber Cup

BYLINE: By JACK BELL

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 549 words


A goal by David Villa in the 61st minute proved to be the game-winner as Spain
won its first World Cup title, defeating Brazil in the final of the 2010
tournament in South Africa.

Before fans get caught up in any irrational exuberance, hear this -- the match
was part of a sophisticated computer simulation using EA Sports's 2010 FIFA
World Cup South Africa video game, which went on sale on April 27. The
simulation, on an Xbox 360 system, played the entire 32-team, 64-game tournament
that will not begin, for real, until June 11, when the hosts face Mexico in
Johannesburg. The 90-minute match took the computer game only 15 minutes to
play. (Games can also be played online.)

''The game is a real-world representation,'' Matt Prior, the producer of the
game, said in a telephone interview. ''We have a massive group of data
collectors in each area of the world and those guys, all fanatics, collect
player attributes like speed, strength and tackling, over 40 attributes for each
player, and we feed all that data into the computer.''

The realistic simulation, which in addition to the 32 teams in South Africa
includes data on 199 national teams, is a close cousin of the FIFA 10 (and the
forthcoming FIFA 11) video game franchise that saw more than two billion games
played online last year throughout the world. Both are available for Xbox, Wii
and Sony PlayStation consoles.

Some tournament highlights: South Africa became the only World Cup host not to
advance past the first round; the United States lost to England, 2-1, in its
first match, but then beat Slovenia and Algeria to advance to the knockout round
(where it lost to Germany in a penalty kick shootout); only two African teams
advanced past the first round, but both were eliminated, Cameroon by Italy, 2-1,
and Nigeria by France, 2-1; England beat Australia, 3-1, in the Round of 16,
defeated France, 2-1, in the quarterfinals, but was ousted by Brazil in the
semifinals in, what else, a shootout.

Prior said the game's developers have fine-tuned the program and added several
features that make the game more realistic.

The game now takes account of matches played at altitude (a concern in South
Africa), which effects players' stamina and the physics of the ball. Using a
feature called Dynamic DNA, video game players during the real World Cup will
benefit from tournament statistics that can be downloaded and incorporated into
the program on the fly. Players can even go back to qualifying matches and, for
example, jump to the point in the France-Ireland playoff match when Thierry
Henry was about to handle the ball and change the result, not to mention
history.

''We constantly get calls from real players who play the game to suss out the
opposition,'' Prior said. ''In England, all the big stars play it and they want
tips and often criticize the way they are portrayed in the game.''

In the final, Brazil takes a 1-0 lead in the 30th minute on a goal by Felipe
Melo. Twelve minutes later, Villa, the tournament's leading scorer with seven
goals, ties the match, and then tallies the eventual game winner in the 61st
minute from a cross by Andres Iniesta. Cesc Fabregas adds an insurance goal in
the 88th minute for Spain.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               45 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 6, 2010 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Protest Music Stirs Fires of Iranian Discontent

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1194 words


Parisa remembers the precise moment she heard her first song by Shahin Najafi,
an Iranian rapper living in exile in Germany, on her illegal satellite
television in the small city of Karadj, west of Tehran.

''His words cut through me like a knife,'' she said.

Parisa, a 24-year-old university student, stayed up long after midnight one
night, when the Internet connection was faster, and spent six hours downloading
Mr. Najafi's songs to share with her friends.

Since Iranian authorities have cracked down on the demonstrations that rocked
the country after a disputed election a year ago this month, a flood of protest
music has rushed in to comfort and inspire the opposition. If anything, as the
street protests have been silenced, the music has grown louder and angrier.

The government has tried all manner of methods to mute what has become known as
''resistance music.'' They have blocked  Web sites used to  download songs and
shut down social networking sites, which were also used by the opposition to
organize protests and distribute videos of government and paramilitary violence.

In April, a shadowy pro-government group that calls itself ''the cyber army''
shut down Mr. Najafi's Web site. The group, which hacked Iranian Twitter in
December, left a message saying the site had been ''conquered by anonymous
soldiers of Imam Zaman,'' a reference to the Shiite messiah.

In late December, the authorities detained Shahram Nazeri, a prominent Persian
classical musician who had recorded the song ''We Are Not Dirt or Dust,'' a tart
response to the words President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad used to characterize the
antigovernment protesters. The government briefly took his passport, detained
him and intimidated him; he has not released anything since.

But clamping down on music in the digital age is like squeezing a wet sponge.

Protest songs are downloaded on the Internet, sold in the black market or shared
via Bluetooth, a wireless technology Iranians have adapted to share files on
cellphones, bypassing the Internet altogether. Fans have also made dozens of
homemade videos, setting montages of protest images to music and posting them
online.

Parisa first heard Mr. Najafi's song on Pars TV, an opposition satellite channel
beamed out of Los Angeles. And, despite being blocked by the government since
last summer, Mr. Najafi's Web site can still be found by computer-savvy Iranians
with the help of circumvention software.

''Music has become a tool for resisting the regime,'' said Abbas Milani, a
historian and director of Iranian studies at Stanford University. ''Music has
never been as extensive and diverse as it is today.''

The music of dissent spreads virally, so there are no Billboard or Nielsen
SoundScan charts to quantify its popularity. But the anecdotal evidence is
persuasive.

An opposition Web site has posted about 100 protest songs recorded since the
election. About two dozen of them honor Neda Agha-Soltan, the 26-year-old
teacher shot at a protest in Tehran in June who became an icon of the opposition
after her last moments were captured on a video that has since been widely
circulated.

Street vendors in Tehran sell bootleg CDs and MP3s at traffic lights for $2 or
$3. Protest music plays on stereos at parties and from cars on the streets,
Tehran residents say. Music blasting from car speakers at a stoplight has become
one of the more public ways still available to signal to others that the spirit
of struggle still lives.

The music can just as easily turn up in quiet and unexpected places. Niki, 25,
who like others quoted in this article withheld her family name for fear of
retribution, said she walked into a bookstore in downtown Tehran and found the
salesman, a man in his 60s, weeping behind the counter while listening to a new
song by Mohammad Reza Shajarian called ''Brother, Drop Your Gun.'' After more
than 70 protesters were killed by government and paramilitary forces during the
postelection demonstrations, according to the opposition, the song, based on an
old poem, was a melancholic plea to the soldiers to end the violence.

''I had seen people at protests carrying banners with those words 'brother drop
your gun,' '' Niki said, ''but this scene was much more emotional.''

The government's success in repressing dissent may help explain the increasingly
angry tone the music has taken and the popularity of artists like Mr. Najafi,
who tap that anger.

If Mohsen Namjoo, the folk troubadour whose poetic lyrics and tuneful melodies
appeal to older listeners, is, as he has been called, the Persian Bob Dylan, Mr.
Najafi may be the Rage Against the Islamic Revolutionary Machine, whose harsh
lyrics and hip-hop beats have captivated Iranian youth.

His verses, according to e-mail messages he has received from former prisoners,
have been scrawled on prison walls and hummed behind bars. His bitter ode to
repression, ''Our Doggy Life,'' has become something of an anthem to a
generation:

Shut your mouth; accept the condition; this is the tradition of the Prophet;
accept it; man or woman, there is no difference, die; this is our doggy life.

As Mr. Najafi sees it, anger is an honest response to the beatings, killings and
executions the government has meted out to dissidents.

''The anger in my music comes from deep within me,'' he said in a telephone
interview from his home in Cologne, Germany. ''I am a man who is always shouting
sadly and angrily.''

A native of the Caspian city of Bandar Anzali, Mr. Najafi bought his first
guitar when he was 18, and by 25 he  had been thrown out of Iran for a song he
wrote satirizing clerics. Although Iran's ban on pop music, condemned by the
revolution as un-Islamic, was softened in 2000, during the reform era of
President Mohammad Khatami, only apolitical music was tolerated.

Mr. Najafi's satirical ''I Have a Beard'' crossed the line, and a three-year
jail sentence and 100 lashes await him if he returns. Like other Iranian artists
in exile, his heart is bisected by borders: his life is in Germany, where he has
artistic freedom, but his homeland will always be Iran. Helplessly watching the
events of last summer from about 2,500 miles away affected him deeply.

''I still belong to my country and feel their pain,'' he said. ''Distance has no
meaning with Internet. We are a generation that was always suppressed and
humiliated which makes you sad and angry.''

The government-sponsored violence enraged other artists, too. Even the
Dylanesque Mr. Namjoo adopted more strident language in his last album, going so
far as to ridicule the supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, as the
''supreme position of superiority.''

Although his lyrics are more metaphorical than Mr. Najafi's, they, too, are
angry, a response, Mr. Namjoo said, to the fear and repression he grew up with
in Iran.

''People are considered brave in Iran because whatever they do, from riding a
motorcycle in the chaotic traffic of Tehran, to staging protests against the
government, is risky,'' he said. ''You have to constantly live with fear.''

Today, Mr. Namjoo lives in Palo Alto, Calif. But the fear, he said, never goes
away.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mohammad Reza Shajarian, center, with  his daughter Mojghan and Majid
Derakhshani, in Fairfax, Va., in May. One of Mr. Shajarian's songs  is a plea
for soldiers  to end violence against Iran's protesters. Iran has tried to block
the music of  Shahin Najafi, left, who lives in exile in Germany.   PHOTOGRAPHS
BY HASAN SARBAKHSHIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               46 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 7, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Music Stirs The Embers Of Protest In Iran

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1217 words


Parisa remembers the precise moment she heard her first song by Shahin Najafi,
an Iranian rapper living in exile in Germany, on her illegal satellite
television in the small city of Karadj, west of Tehran.

''His words cut through me like a knife,'' she said.

Parisa, a 24-year-old university student, stayed up long after midnight one
night, when the Internet connection was faster, and spent six hours downloading
Mr. Najafi's songs.

Since the Iranian authorities have cracked down on the demonstrations that
rocked the country after a disputed election a year ago, a flood of protest
music has rushed in to comfort and inspire the opposition. If anything, as the
street protests have been silenced, the music has grown louder and angrier.

The government has tried all manner of methods to mute what has become known as
''resistance music.'' It has blocked  Web sites used to  download songs and shut
down social networking sites, which the opposition  also used  to organize
protests and distribute videos of government and paramilitary violence.

In April, a shadowy pro-government group that calls itself ''the cyber army''
shut down Mr. Najafi's Web site. The group, which hacked Iranian Twitter in
December, left a message saying the site had been ''conquered by anonymous
soldiers of Imam Zaman,'' a reference to the Shiite messiah.

In late December, the authorities detained Shahram Nazeri, a prominent Persian
classical musician who had recorded the song ''We Are Not Dirt or Dust,'' a tart
response to the words President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad used to characterize the
antigovernment protesters. The government briefly took his passport, detained
and intimidated him; he has not released anything since.

But clamping down on music in the digital age is like squeezing a wet sponge.
Protest songs are downloaded on the Internet, sold in the black market or shared
via Bluetooth, a wireless technology that Iranians have adapted to share files
on cellphones, bypassing the Internet altogether. Fans have also made dozens of
homemade videos, setting montages of protest images to music and posting them
online.

Parisa first heard Mr. Najafi's song on Pars TV, an opposition satellite channel
beamed out of Los Angeles. And, despite being blocked by the government since
last summer, Mr. Najafi's Web site can still be found by computer-savvy Iranians
with the help of circumvention software.

''Music has become a tool for resisting the regime,'' said Abbas Milani, the
director of Iranian studies at Stanford University. ''Music has never been as
extensive and diverse as it is today.''

The music of dissent spreads virally, so there are no Billboard or Nielsen
SoundScan charts to quantify its popularity. But the anecdotal evidence is
persuasive.

An opposition Web site has posted about 100 protest songs recorded since the
election. About two dozen of them honor Neda Agha-Soltan, the 26-year-old
teacher shot at a protest in Tehran in June who became an icon of the opposition
after her last moments were captured on a video that has since been widely
circulated.

Street vendors in Tehran sell bootleg CDs and MP3s at traffic lights for $2 or
$3. Protest music plays on stereos at parties and from cars on the streets,
Tehran residents say. Music blasting from car speakers at a stoplight has become
one of the more public ways still available to signal to others that the spirit
of struggle still lives.

The music can just as easily turn up in quiet and unexpected places. Niki, 25,
who, like others quoted in this article, withheld her family name for fear of
retribution, said that  at a bookstore in downtown Tehran she found the
salesman, a man in his 60s, weeping  while listening to a new song by Mohammad
Reza Shajarian called ''Brother, Drop Your Gun.'' After more than 70 protesters
were killed by government and paramilitary forces during the postelection
demonstrations, according to the opposition, the song, based on an old poem, was
a melancholic plea to the soldiers to end the violence.

''I had seen people at protests carrying banners with those words, 'Brother,
drop your gun,' '' Niki said, ''but this scene was much more emotional.''

The government's success in repressing dissent may help explain the increasingly
angry tone the music has taken and the popularity of artists like Mr. Najafi,
who tap that anger.

If Mohsen Namjoo, the folk troubadour whose poetic lyrics and tuneful melodies
appeal to older listeners, is, as he has been called, the Persian Bob Dylan, Mr.
Najafi may be the Rage Against the Islamic Revolutionary Machine, whose harsh
lyrics and hip-hop beats have captivated Iranian youth.

His verses, according to e-mail messages he has received from former prisoners,
have been scrawled on prison walls and hummed behind bars. His bitter ode to
repression, ''Our Doggy Life,'' has become something of an anthem to a
generation:

Shut your mouth; accept the condition; this is the tradition of the Prophet;
accept it; man or woman, there is no difference, die; this is our doggy life.

As Mr. Najafi sees it, anger is an honest response to the beatings, killings and
executions the government has meted out to dissidents.

''The anger in my music comes from deep within me,'' he said in a telephone
interview from his home in Cologne, Germany. ''I am a man who is always shouting
sadly and angrily.''

A native of the Caspian city of Bandar Anzali, Mr. Najafi bought his first
guitar when he was 18, and by 25 he  had been thrown out of Iran for a song he
wrote satirizing clerics. Although Iran's ban on pop music, condemned by the
revolution as un-Islamic, was softened in 2000, during the reform era of
President Mohammad Khatami, only apolitical music was tolerated.

Mr. Najafi's satirical ''I Have a Beard'' crossed the line, and a three-year
prison sentence and 100 lashes await him if he returns. Like other Iranian
artists in exile, his heart is bisected by borders: his life is in Germany,
where he has artistic freedom, but his homeland will always be Iran.

Helplessly watching the events of last summer from about 2,500 miles away
affected him deeply.

''I still belong to my country and feel their pain,'' he said. ''Distance has no
meaning with Internet. We are a generation that was always suppressed and
humiliated, which makes you sad and angry.''

The government-sponsored violence enraged other artists, too. In a song about
last June's election, Arash Sobhani, of  the rock band Kiosk, calls the clerics
who supervised the elections ''dinosaurs'' and says, ''Compassion under the blow
of batons; we all saw your justice.''

Even the Dylanesque Mr. Namjoo adopted more strident language in his last album,
going so far as to ridicule the supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei, as the ''supreme position of superiority.''

Although his lyrics are more metaphorical than Mr. Najafi's, they, too, are
angry.

''People are considered brave in Iran because whatever they do --  from riding a
motorcycle in the chaotic traffic of Tehran to staging protests against the
government --  is risky,'' he said. ''You have to constantly live with fear.''

Today, Mr. Namjoo lives in Palo Alto, Calif. But the fear, he said, never goes
away.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left: Shahin Najafi, left, playing at Georgetown University in
December. Bottom, left to right: Shahram Nazeri, who recorded the protest song
''We Are Not Dirt or Dust''
Mohammad Reza Shajarian (center) who wrote a song pleading for soldiers to stop
shooting at protesters
the rock singer Arash Sobhani, who calls clerics ''dinosaurs.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
HASAN SARBAKHSHIAN
 BOTTOM LEFT, HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               47 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 11, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Op Out of Ohio

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART IN
REVIEW; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 289 words


Op Art never gets old. ''Op Out of Ohio'' presents about 30 eye-dazzling optical
works from the '60s by five painters who did time as students or teachers at
Oberlin College or the Cleveland Institute of Art. All were also included in
''The Responsive Eye,'' the landmark 1965 exhibition of perceptual abstraction
at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, and went on to exhibit internationally.
Richard Anuszkiewicz and Julian Stanczak remain the best known. The others --
Ernst Benkert, Francis Hewitt and Ed Mieczkowski  -- formed a collaborative
called ''Anonima.'' Working in studios side by side, they investigated problems
in perception and design with quasi-scientific zeal.

Unsympathetic critics thought Op Art's catchy play with illusions was not to be
taken seriously. But the best works here,  from 1959 to 1970, have a stirring,
numinous vibe. In Mr. Anuszkiewicz's symmetrical composition of gridded blue and
green dots on a bright red field, the pulsating image seems to lift off the
canvas and hover in dematerialized psychic space. Mr. Stanczak's painting of
parallel verticals and curvy horizontals in deep purple and olive green projects
a quietly hypnotic rhythm. Mr. Ernst's all black and white, diamond-patterned
mandala, ''Black and White Op-Tickler,'' seems to bulge outward to alarming,
hallucinatory effect, while a pixilated, blue and yellow design of blurry,
nested diamonds by Mr. Mieczkowski appears as if backlit by mystical light. Like
other works in the exhibition, Mr. Hewitt's painting of electrically colored
horizontal lines on a dark gray background offers a prophetic glimpse of today's
cyber-psychedelic sublime. KEN JOHNSON

D. Wigmore Fine Art

730 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street

Through July 9

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ed Mieczkowski's ''Blue Bloc'' (1967), top, and Ernst Benkert's
''Black and White Op-Tickler'' (1964) are among the works in the ''Op Out of
Ohio'' exhibition at D. Wigmore Fine Art.  (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM D. WIGMORE FINE
ART)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               48 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 13, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Clashes and Protests Reported on Anniversary of Iranian Election

BYLINE: By WILL YONG and MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Will Yong reported from Tehran, and
Michael Slackman from Cairo.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 483 words


TEHRAN -- The first anniversary of Iran's disputed presidential election passed
largely without violence on Saturday, as protesters generally stayed off the
streets amid a heavy presence of the riot police.

There were reports of sporadic clashes between the police and protesters around
the city, including a large group of students at Tehran University.
Demonstrators also showed up along many parts of Enghelab, or Revolution,
Street, one of Tehran's longest thoroughfares, and a small group of protesters
gathered on Jomhouri Avenue near the Hafez Bridge.

Reports of arrests varied. Deputy Police Chief Ahmad-Reza Radan said ''only a
small number'' of people were taken into custody in Tehran. But the Human Rights
Activist News Agency said that at least 200 people were arrested, with many
loaded into vans and taken away.

Police and security officials made clear in the days leading up to the
anniversary of the disputed election that they would not tolerate any protests.
The warnings prompted Mir Hussein Moussavi and Mehdi Karroubi, leaders of the
opposition Green Movement, to cancel plans for a demonstration on Saturday.

But on Friday, Mr. Moussavi made clear that the desire to press for more
political and social freedoms was not extinguished.

''We need to spread awareness; this is what they fear,'' Mr. Moussavi said in
what he called a cyber-news conference.

One year ago Saturday, Iranians took to the streets by the tens of thousands
when the government announced that Mahmoud Ahmadinejad had won re-election in a
landslide, defeating Mr. Moussavi, the main reform candidate. The government
relied on a severe crackdown to quell the unrest, a campaign that continued this
year, with reports that activists at Tabriz University had been arrested and
taken to an undisclosed location.

In Tehran, witnesses reported a heavy police presence, according to Iranian Web
sites.

One confrontation between police and protesters occurred under the Hafez Bridge
about 2:30 p.m. when riot police tried to arrest an older woman who had started
shouting antigovernment slogans. The reports on Iranian Web sites said that
several hundred people rushed to the scene and forced the police to retreat
without taking the woman away.

There were also reports that the government had cut off text messaging on
cellphones, undermining the opposition's primary method of organizing, and
slowed the internet to limit the ability to communicate with the outside world.

But some opposition supporters said they had a duty to at least try to go out.
''We are a wave for which our complacency is our nonexistence,'' a schoolteacher
said to a friend as he headed to the street.

After dark, rooftop chants of ''God is great'' echoed across the city, mimicking
what had been a symbol of defiance to the shah. On Saturday, it was a direct,
yet safely anonymous challenge to Iran's current leadership.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               49 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 28, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

POISONED WEB; Online Bullies Pull Schools Into the Fray

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4625 words


The girl's parents, wild with outrage and fear, showed the principal the text
messages: a dozen shocking, sexually explicit threats, sent to their daughter
the previous Saturday night from the cellphone of a 12-year-old boy. Both
children were sixth graders at Benjamin Franklin Middle School in Ridgewood,
N.J.

Punish him, insisted the parents.

''I said, 'This occurred out of school, on a weekend,' '' recalled the
principal, Tony Orsini. ''We can't discipline him.''

Had they contacted the boy's family, he asked.

Too awkward, they replied. The fathers coach sports together.

What about the police, Mr. Orsini asked.

A criminal investigation would be protracted, the parents had decided, its
outcome uncertain. They wanted immediate action.

They pleaded: ''Help us.''

Schools these days are confronted with complex questions on whether and how to
deal with cyberbullying, an imprecise label for online activities ranging from
barrages of teasing texts to sexually harassing group sites. The extent of the
phenomenon is hard to quantify. But one 2010 study by the Cyberbullying Research
Center, an organization founded by two criminologist who defined bullying as
''willful and repeated harm'' inflicted through phones and computers, said one
in five middle-school students had been affected.

Affronted by cyberspace's escalation of adolescent viciousness, many parents are
looking to schools for justice, protection, even revenge. But many educators
feel unprepared or unwilling to be prosecutors and judges.

Often, school district discipline codes say little about educators' authority
over student cellphones, home computers and off-campus speech. Reluctant to
assert an authority they are not sure they have, educators can appear
indifferent to parents frantic with worry, alarmed by recent adolescent suicides
linked to bullying.

Whether resolving such conflicts should be the responsibility of the family, the
police or the schools remains an open question, evolving along with definitions
of cyberbullying itself.

Nonetheless, administrators who decide they should help their cornered students
often face daunting pragmatic and legal constraints.

''I have parents who thank me for getting involved,'' said Mike Rafferty, the
middle school principal in Old Saybrook, Conn., ''and parents who say, 'It
didn't happen on school property, stay out of my life.' ''

According to the Anti-Defamation League, although 44 states have bullying
statutes, fewer than half offer guidance about whether schools may intervene in
bullying involving ''electronic communication,'' which almost always occurs
outside of school and most severely on weekends, when children have more free
time to socialize online.

A few states say that school conduct codes must explicitly prohibit off-campus
cyberbullying; others imply it; still others explicitly exclude it. Some states
say that local districts should develop cyberbullying prevention programs but
the states did not address the question of discipline.

Judges are flummoxed, too, as they wrestle with new questions about protections
on student speech and school searches. Can a student be suspended for posting a
video on YouTube that cruelly demeans another student? Can a principal search a
cellphone, much like a locker or a backpack?

It's unclear. These issues have begun their slow climb through state and federal
courts, but so far, rulings have been contradictory, and much is still to be
determined.

The Cyberdetectives

Benjamin Franklin Middle School conveys an earnest sweetness associated with an
earlier era. Its 700 students attend classes in a low-slung building from the
mid-'50s, complete with a bomb shelter and generous, shaded playing fields.

During cafeteria lunch duty, a guidance counselor runs a foosball tournament,
attracting a throng of laughing, shouting boys. This year's school musical:
''Guys and Dolls.''

For all its charms, Benjamin Franklin, a sixth-through-eighth-grade school in a
wealthy New Jersey suburb, also lives bluntly in the present. A sixth-grade girl
dashes to class, wearing a turquoise T-shirt with bold sequined letters:
''Texting Is My Favorite Subject.'' The seventh-grade guidance counselor says
she can spend up to three-fourths of her time mediating conflicts that began
online or through text messages.

In April, the burden of resolving these disputes had become so onerous that the
principal, Mr. Orsini, sent an exasperated e-mail message to parents that made
national news:

''There is absolutely NO reason for any middle school student to be part of a
social networking site,'' he wrote. If children were attacked through sites or
texting, he added, ''IMMEDIATELY GO TO THE POLICE!'' That was not the response
that the parents of the girl who had received the foul messages had wanted to
hear.

Mr. Orsini sighed, relenting. After all, the texts were angry and obscene, the
parents horrified, the girl badly rattled.

''We can certainly talk to the boy,'' the principal said.

Investigating a complaint can be like stumbling into a sinkhole. Over the next
few days, an assistant principal, Greg Wu; Mr. Orsini; a guidance counselor; a
social worker and an elementary school principal were pulled into this one:

The sixth graders had ''dated'' for a week, before the girl broke it off. The
texts she received that Saturday night were successively more sneering, graphic
and intimidating.

But the exchanges shown to Mr. Orsini were incomplete. Before handing her phone
to her parents, the girl erased her replies.

The boy claimed he was innocent, telling Mr. Wu he had lost his cellphone that
Saturday. ''Yeah, right,'' said Mr. Wu.

The boy insisted he had dropped it while riding his bicycle that April afternoon
with his brother and his brother's friend, both fifth graders.

By Wednesday, the girl's father called Mr. Orsini. ''How is this boy still in
school, near my daughter? Why can't you suspend him?''

The boy was a poor student in language arts classes, yet the text messages were
reasonably grammatical. Mr. Wu dictated a basic sentence for the boy to write
down. It was riddled with errors.

Next, an elementary school principal interviewed the fifth-grade boys
separately.

By Thursday, Mr. Orsini telephoned the girl's parents with his unsettling
conclusion:

The boy had never sent the texts. The lost phone had been found by someone else
and used to send the messages. Who wrote them? A reference or two might suggest
another sixth grader.

The identity would remain unknown.

Mr. Orsini told the girl's shaken parents that, aside from offering her
counseling, the school, which had already devoted 10 hours to the episode, could
do no more. ''They were still in so much pain,'' Mr. Orsini said. ''They wanted
us to keep investigating.''

Middle School Misery

Meredith Wearley, Benjamin Franklin's seventh-grade guidance counselor, was
overwhelmed this spring by dramas created on the Web: The text spats that zapped
new best friendships; secrets told in confidence, then broadcast on Facebook;
bullied girls and boys, retaliating online.

''In seventh grade, the girls are trying to figure out where they fit in,'' Mrs.
Wearley said. ''They have found friends but they keep regrouping. And the
technology makes it harder for them to understand what's a real friendship.''

Because students prefer to use their phones for texting rather than talking,
Mrs. Wearley added, they often miss cues about tone of voice. Misunderstandings
proliferate: a crass joke can read as a withering attack; did that text have a
buried subtext?

The girls come into her office, depressed, weeping, astonished, betrayed.

''A girl will get mad because her friend was friends with another girl,'' Mrs.
Wearley said.

They show Mrs. Wearley reams of texts, the nastiness accelerating precipitously.
''I've had to bring down five girls to my office to sort things out,'' she said.
''It's middle school.''

Recently, between classes, several eighth-grade girls from Benjamin Franklin
reflected about their cyberdramas:

''We had so many fights in seventh grade,'' one girl said. ''None of them were
face-to-face. We were too afraid. Besides, it's easier to say 'sorry' over a
text.''

Another concurred. ''It's easier to fight online, because you feel more brave
and in control,'' she said. ''On Facebook, you can be as mean as you want.''

Studies show that online harassment can begin in fourth grade. By high school,
students inclined to be cruel in cyberspace are more technologically
sophisticated, more capable of hiding their prints. But that is also when older
students may be more resilient:

''By high school, youths are developing more self-confidence, engaged in
extracurricular activities and focusing on the future,'' said Sameer Hinduja, a
professor at Florida Atlantic University and an author of ''Bullying Beyond the
Schoolyard.''

''Their identity and self-worth come from external things that don't revolve
around social relationships.''

But during middle school, he said, ''Peer perception largely dictates their
self-worth.'' With their erupting skin and morphing bodies, many seventh-grade
students have a hard enough time just walking through the school doors. When
dozens of kids vote online, which is not uncommon, about whether a student is
fat or stupid or gay, the impact can be devastating.

While research shows that traditional at-school bullying is far more pervasive
than cyberbullying, each type of hostility can now blur and bleed into the
other. Jeff Taylor, principal of Frank Lloyd Wright Intermediate School in West
Allis, Wis., wades into cyber-related conflicts at school several times each
week.

Recently, a seventh-grade girl held a weekend birthday party and her jealous
former friend showed up. By Tuesday night, the uninvited guest had insulted the
birthday girl's dress on Facebook, calling it and the girl's mother cheap. The
remarks were particularly wounding, because the birthday girl's family is not
well-off.

By Wednesday, Mr. Taylor said, ''There were rumblings about it in the cafeteria.
When kids start posturing and switching lunch tables, you can tell.'' He and an
assistant tried to calm them.

But the posturing continued online. A confrontation at school was planned, and
the details were texted. On Friday, during the four minutes between
seventh-grade lunch and the next period, 20 girls showed up in a hallway and
began shrieking.

At least four adults pulled the girls apart and talked them down.

''We must have spent five or six hours on this, throughout the week,'' Mr.
Taylor said. ''We got to the bottom of that pain and rejection. I don't consider
it a waste of time. But at 3:03 those buses were pulling out and you know that
as soon as the girls got home, they'd be blasting away about it on Facebook.''

Though resolving cyberwars can be slippery and time-consuming, some schools
would like students to report them at the outset, before they intensify. But
experts on adolescence note that teenagers are loath to tell adults much of
anything.

Some students think they can handle the ridicule themselves. Or are just too
embarrassed to speak up. Others fear that parents will overreact.

If the child is texting at school or has a Facebook page without permission,
''and now they're being bullied on it,'' said Parry Aftab, executive director of
WiredSafety.org, ''they can't admit it to parents. The parents will take away
the technology and the kids are afraid of that. Or the parents will underreact.
They'll say: 'Why read it? Just turn it off!' ''

The most threatening impediment to coming forward can be the cyberbully's
revenge. Graffiti on a cyberwall can't be blacked out with a Sharpie.

Mindful of risks to students who report bullies, some school districts have
created anonymous tip sites. At Benjamin Franklin, the staff has many ways to
give students cover.

''When girls ask their friends, 'What were you doing in the guidance counselor's
office?' '' Mrs. Wearley said, ''I tell them, just say 'Mrs. Wearley was fixing
my schedule.' ''

The Legal Battles

Tony Orsini, the Ridgewood principal, learned about a devastating Facebook group
last November, two months after it started.

''I had a 45-year-old father crying in my office,'' Mr. Orsini said. ''He kept
asking, 'Why would someone do this to my son?' ''

A Facebook page had sprung up about the man's son, who was new in town. The
comments included ethnic slurs, snickers about his sexuality and an excruciating
nickname. In short order, nearly 50 children piled on, many of them readily
identifiable.  ''Kids deal with meanness all the time and many can handle it,''
said Mr. Orsini, 38, a father of two children. ''But it never lasts as long as
it does now, online.''

The boy could not escape the nickname. At soccer and basketball games around
town, opposing players he'd never met would hoot: ''Oh, you're that kid.''

The boy began missing school. He became ill. After weeks, he reluctantly told
his parents.

''We don't always get to address these problems until the damage is done,'' Mr.
Orsini said.

Because the comments had been made online and off-campus, Mr. Orsini believed
that his ability to intervene was limited.

Rulings in a handful of related cases around the country give mixed signals.

A few families have successfully sued schools for failing to protect their
children from bullies. But when the Beverly Vista School in Beverly Hills,
Calif., disciplined Evan S. Cohen's eighth-grade daughter for cyberbullying, he
took on the school district.

After school one day in May 2008, Mr. Cohen's daughter, known in court papers as
J. C., videotaped friends at a cafe, egging them on as they laughed and made
mean-spirited, sexual comments about another eighth-grade girl, C. C., calling
her ''ugly,'' ''spoiled,'' a ''brat'' and a ''slut.''

J. C. posted the video on YouTube. The next day, the school suspended her for
two days.

''What incensed me,'' said Mr. Cohen, a music industry lawyer in Los Angeles,
''was that these people were going to suspend my daughter for something that
happened outside of school.'' On behalf of his daughter, he sued.

Last November,  Judge Stephen V. Wilson of Federal District Court found that the
off-campus video could be linked to the school: J. C. told perhaps 10 students
about it; the humiliated C. C. and her mother showed it to school officials;
educators watched it and investigated.

But the legal test, he wrote in his 57-page decision, was whether J. C.'s video
had caused the school ''substantial'' disruption. Judge Wilson ruled in favor of
the young videographer, because the disruption was only minimal: administrators
dealt with the matter quietly and before lunch recess.

This legal test comes from a 1969 Supreme Court case, Tinker v. Des Moines
Independent Community School District, in which a school suspended students for
wearing black armbands to protest the Vietnam War.

The court overturned the suspension, but crafted a balance between a school's
authority and a student's freedom of expression. When a student's speech
interferes substantially with the school's educational mission, a school can
impose discipline.

The district had to pay J. C.'s costs and lawyers' fees: $107,150.80.

Judge Wilson also threw in an aside that summarizes the conundrum that is
adolescent development, acceptable civility and school authority.

The good intentions of the school notwithstanding, he wrote, it cannot
discipline a student for speech, ''simply because young persons are
unpredictable or immature, or because, in general, teenagers are emotionally
fragile and may often fight over hurtful comments.''

The lesson Mr. Cohen hopes his daughter learns from the case is about the limits
on governmental intrusion. ''A girl came to school who was upset by something
she saw on the Internet,'' Mr. Cohen said in a telephone interview, ''and these
people had in their mind that they were going to do something about it. The
school doesn't have that kind of power. It's up to the parents to discipline
their child.''

He did chastise his daughter, saying, ''That wasn't a nice thing to do.''

He describes her video as ''relentlessly juvenile,'' but not an example of
cyberbullying, which he said he did   not condone. His daughter offered to
remove it from YouTube. But Mr. Cohen keeps it posted, he said, ''as a public
service'' so viewers can see ''what kids get suspended for in Beverly Hills.''

The J. C. decision has ignited debate. Nancy Willard, an Oregon lawyer who
consults with schools, said that the judge could have applied another, rarely
cited prong of the Tinker standard: whether the student's hurtful speech
collided with ''the rights of other students to be secure.''

The Supreme Court has not yet addressed online student speech. Lower-court
judges in some districts have sided with schools that have disciplined students
for posting threatening videos about educators from their home computers.

In two recent cases, students were suspended for posting parodies of their
principals. Each case reached the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. But
one three-judge panel sided with a school for disciplining a student whose site
suggested the principal was a pedophile; another panel sided with its case's
student, whose site suggested the principal used steroids and smoked marijuana.
To resolve the contradictory rulings, both cases were re-argued earlier this
month before 14 judges on the Third Circuit, whose jurisdiction includes New
Jersey, Delaware, Pennsylvania and the United States Virgin Islands.

Nationwide, principals have responded to students who demean others online in
dramatically different ways.

In January, 28 Seattle middle school students who wrote noxious comments on
Facebook about one student received suspensions. The school also held assemblies
about digital citizenship.

But when the mother of a seventh-grade boy in Fairfax County, Va., who requested
anonymity to protect her son's identity, sent his principal the savage e-mail
messages and Facebook jeers that six boys posted about her son, the principal
wrote back that although the material was unacceptable, ''From a school
perspective this is outside the scope of our authority and not something we can
monitor or issue consequences for.''

Many principals hesitate to act because school discipline codes or state laws do
not define cyberbullying. But Bernard James, an education law scholar at
Pepperdine University, said that administrators interpreted statutes too
narrowly:

''Educators are empowered to maintain safe schools,'' Professor James said.
''The timidity of educators in this context of emerging technology is working to
the advantage of bullies.''

Whether suspension is appropriate is also under discussion. Elizabeth Englander,
a psychology professor at Bridgewater State College in Massachusetts and founder
of the Massachusetts Aggression Reduction Center, believes that automatic
discipline for cyberbullies is wrong-headed.

''We tend to think that if there's no discipline, there's no reaction,'' she
said. ''But discipline should never be the only thing we consider in these
cases. There are many things we can do with children first to guide and teach
them about behavior and expectations.''

Tony Orsini wanted to help his middle school student who was being teased
mercilessly on Facebook. But he believed he had to catch the bullies at school.

He alerted teachers. At lunch, they spotted the three ringleaders as they forced
the boy from their table.

''I called them into my office,'' Mr. Orsini said, ''and talked to them strongly
about the lunchroom incident. Then I lied. I said I heard that the cops were
looking at a Facebook group they had posted.

''It came down the next day.''

He rubbed his face in his hands. ''All we are doing is reacting,'' he said. ''We
can't seem to get ahead of the curve.''

Gathering Evidence

Administrators who investigate students tangled in online disputes often resort
to a deft juggle of artfulness, technology and law.

First challenge: getting students to come clean.

Mr.  Wu, the assistant principal at Benjamin Franklin, is a former household
handyman and English teacher with a fondness for scraps, gadgets and
imagination. Hence his lie detector:

It's really an ancient tuner, connected to a helmet labeled ''The
Anti-Prevaricator'' -- the inner webbing from a football helmet refurbished by
Mr. Wu, who glued on bells and a keypad from an old telephone.

When students balk or obfuscate, Mr. Wu may suggest they don the
Anti-Prevaricator. They answer questions; sparks flash from the tuner.

When sixth graders realize the joke, Mr. Wu said, ''they start laughing with
relief and we talk about the importance of telling the truth.''

He continues his cyberinvestigations the old-fashioned way, with conversations,
confrontations, cajoling and copious handwritten notes.

But the second challenge is gathering the evidence itself: looking at material
typed on personal cellphones or online accounts.

School officials have both greater and lesser investigative authority than the
police have over students. Certainly they cannot use lie detectors. But though
police officers need probable cause and a warrant to search a student's locker
or backpack, school administrators need only ''reasonable suspicion'' that a
school rule has been violated.

The police also need probable cause and a warrant to search social networking
sites and cellphones. School officials are uncertain what they need.

''I can't look into Facebook accounts,'' said Jeff Taylor, the middle school
principal from West Allis, Wis. If students or parents want him to see something
online, ''they have to show it to me or bring me a printout.''

But Deb Socia, the principal at Lilla G. Frederick Pilot Middle School in
Dorchester, Mass., takes a no-nonsense approach. The school gives each student a
laptop to work on. But the students' expectation of privacy is greatly
diminished.

''I regularly scan every computer in the building,'' Ms. Socia said. ''They know
I'm watching. They're using the cameras on their laptops to check their hair and
I send them a message and say: 'You look great! Now go back to work.' It's a
powerful way to teach kids: 'I'm paying attention, you need to do what's right.'
''

Administrators are skittish about searching cellphones because of the increase
in sexting, in which students have sent compromising photos of themselves.
Principals fear being caught up in child pornography investigations. In these
situations, they generally turn over cellphones to the police.

''The question of searching a cellphone is a gray area,'' said Mary Ann McAdam,
an assistant principal at Governor Livingston High School in Berkeley Heights,
N.J. ''We only do it when a student says, 'so-and-so sent threatening messages.'
Even then, they look through their phones and find it for us. If I felt there
might be something on a cellphone, I'd invite parents to go through it with
me.''

Legal experts disagree on this issue. Professor James argues that cellphones are
like backpacks: if the search's purpose is reasonably related to a school
infraction, like cheating, the principal's search is legal. Others believe that
cellphones belong in another category, protected by electronic communication
privacy laws.

While a cellphone search may yield an incriminating text, it may not point to
the author.

Last year, an eighth-grade girl at Benjamin Franklin vowed on Facebook that her
boyfriend would beat up another eighth grader, a girl she had been bullying
throughout middle school. Mr. Orsini called the police.

Mr. Orsini ordered the girls to have no contact at school. Nonetheless, the
bullied girl received veiled texted threats at school, sent from a phone owned
by a friend of the bully.

''Everyone knows who did it,'' said Mr. Orsini, looking miserable. ''But I
couldn't prove who really sent them. So I had to punish the girl whose phone was
used. The bully was a masterful manipulator. Her friend took the hit for her.''

By now, the targeted girl had become more self-confident. She was furious that
the bully escaped punishment. When the bully began picking on a second, weaker
girl, she grew further incensed.

One bristling morning, the two girls came to blows, which the bully sorely came
to regret. Although teachers quickly broke up the fight, word of the outcome
spread more swiftly:

''All the kids chanted the victim's name,'' Mr. Orsini said, ''in triumph in the
lunchroom.''

The Cybersages

What a difference a few years can make in the life of a tween.

Earlier this month, a proud posse of Benjamin Franklin eighth-grade girls strode
into homerooms of sixth graders: inches taller than the 12-year-olds, skin
calmer, they radiated a commanding exuberance as they tossed their long, glossy
manes. They wanted to offer advice about social networking sites and
cyberbullying.

''How many of you have discussed Mr. Orsini's letter with your parents?'' asked
Annie Thurston, one of the eighth graders, referring to his admonitions about
online activity.

Slumped in their desks, at least a dozen students in one class glumly hoisted
their hands.

In April, a parent alerted Mr. Orsini about Formspring, a site on which comments
can be sent anonymously to mailboxes, and posted at the mailbox owner's
discretion. Many adults seem confounded at why girls, in particular, would
choose to post the leering, scabrous queries; some teenagers say they do so in
order to toss back hard-shelled, tough-girl retorts.

The principal found the names of some Benjamin Franklin students on Formspring.
As Mr. Orsini later recounted the experience, he couldn't bring himself to utter
even a sanitized version of the obscene posts he had read. His face reddened,
tears filling his eyes.

''How does a 13-year-old girl recover her sexual self-esteem after reading that
garbage?'' he whispered.

It prompted his e-mail message to parents, in which he wrote that no middle
school student needed to be on social networking sites. Many parents agreed. But
others said that schools and families should work harder to teach students
digital responsibility.

These eighth-grade girls thought Mr. Orsini was right: younger students
shouldn't be on Facebook.

They grilled the sixth graders, almost all of whom said they had cellphones.

Do your parents read your texts, they asked.

Only a smattering of palms.

''My mom keeps threatening to get software so she can monitor them,'' one boy
said, shrugging his shoulders. ''But she never gets around to it.''

What impact did Mr. Orsini's letter have?

''I lied to my parents,'' another boy said. ''I told them I deactivated my
Facebook page. But in two days, I started it again.''

The girls looked solemn.

''If you're under 13, you shouldn't even be on Facebook,'' said Maeve Cannon,
14. ''We think you guys can handle it but you're still really young. It's not
that necessary, you know. We just want you to be safe.''

The sixth graders were rapt.

''The Internet is a scary place,'' said Sabrina Spatz, an eighth grader. ''It
can really hurt you. Our parents didn't grow up with it so they don't really
understand it that well.''

So if any of the sixth graders were cyberbullied, the older girls said, ''Just
come talk to us.''

Then they hesitated. They were, after all, about to graduate.

''You can tell Mr. Wu, he's awesome!'' said Maeve, bubbling over. ''Tell your
guidance counselor or a teacher.'' The other girls nodded eagerly.

''Yeah, go to the school,'' Emily Cerrina chimed in.

''The school will make it stop,'' she said, ''immediately!''

Poisoned Web: This is the first in a series of articles on  online bullying.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Students at Benjamin Franklin Middle School are old hands at
text messaging, but not all of the words are friendly. (A1)
TONY ORSINI, principal of Benjamin Franklin Middle School in Ridgewood, N.J.
A student at Benjamin Franklin Middle School in Ridgewood, N.J., showing off the
clear message on one of her favorite shirts. (A12)
MAEVE CANNON, standing at left, a 14-year-old eighth grader who was in a group
advising younger students on avoiding bullying.
 Assistant Principal Greg Wu with his Anti-Prevaricator, a fake lie detector
that he jokingly uses when he senses students are fibbing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               50 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 29, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

10 People Arrested Inside U.S. As Deep-Cover Russian Agents

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE and CHARLIE SAVAGE; Reporting was contributed by Benjamin
Weiser, Nate Schweber, Kenneth Chang, Andy Newman and Colin Moynihan from New
York; Mark Mazzetti and Yeganeh June Torbati from Washington; and Abby Goodnough
from Boston.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1384 words


WASHINGTON -- They had lived for more than a decade in American cities and
suburbs from Seattle to New York, where they seemed to be ordinary couples
working ordinary jobs, chatting to the neighbors about schools and apologizing
for noisy teenagers.

But on Monday, federal prosecutors accused 11 people of being part of a Russian
espionage ring, living under false names and deep cover in a patient scheme to
penetrate what one coded message called American ''policy making circles.''

An F.B.I. investigation that began at least seven years ago culminated with the
arrest on Sunday of 10 people in Yonkers, Boston and northern Virginia. The
documents detailed what the authorities called the ''Illegals Program,'' an
ambitious, long-term effort by the S.V.R., the successor to the Soviet K.G.B.,
to plant Russian spies in the United States to gather information and recruit
more agents.

The alleged agents were directed to gather information on nuclear weapons,
American policy toward Iran, C.I.A. leadership, Congressional politics and many
other topics, prosecutors say. The Russian spies made contact with a former
high-ranking American national security official and a nuclear weapons
researcher, among others. But the charges did not include espionage, and it was
unclear what secrets the suspected spy ring -- which included five couples --
actually managed to collect.

After years of F.B.I. surveillance, investigators decided to make the arrests
last weekend, just after an upbeat visit to President Obama by the Russian
president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, said one administration official. Mr. Obama was
not happy about the timing, but investigators feared some of their targets might
flee, the official said.

Criminal complaints filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan on Monday read
like an old-fashioned cold war thriller: Spies swapping identical orange bags as
they brushed past one another in a train station stairway. An identity borrowed
from a dead Canadian, forged passports, messages sent by shortwave burst
transmission or in invisible ink. A money cache buried for years in a field in
upstate New York.

But the network of so-called illegals -- spies operating under false names
outside of diplomatic cover -- also used cyber-age technology, according to the
charges. They embedded coded texts in ordinary-looking images posted on the
Internet, and they communicated by having two agents with laptops containing
special software pass casually as messages flashed between them.

Neighbors in Montclair, N.J., of the couple who called themselves Richard and
Cynthia Murphy were flabbergasted when a team of F.B.I. agents turned up Sunday
night and led the couple away in handcuffs. One person who lives nearby called
them ''suburbia personified,'' saying that they had asked people for advice
about the local schools. Others worried about the Murphys' elementary-age
daughters.

Jessie Gugig, 15, said she could not believe the charges, especially against
Mrs. Murphy. ''They couldn't have been spies,'' she said jokingly. ''Look what
she did with the hydrangeas.''

Experts on Russian intelligence expressed astonishment at the scale, longevity
and dedication of the program. They noted that Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian
prime minister and former president and spy chief, had worked to restore the
prestige and funding of Russian espionage after the collapse of the Soviet Union
and the dark image of the K.G.B.

''The magnitude, and the fact that so many illegals were involved, was a shock
to me,'' said Oleg D. Kalugin, a former K.G.B. general who was a Soviet spy in
the United States in the 1960s and 1970s under ''legal'' cover as a diplomat and
Radio Moscow correspondent. ''It's a return to the old days, but even in the
worst years of the cold war, I think there were no more than 10 illegals in the
U.S., probably fewer.''

Mr. Kalugin, now an American citizen living outside Washington, said he was
impressed with the F.B.I.'s penetration of the spy ring. The criminal complaints
are packed with vivid details gathered in years of covert surveillance --
including monitoring phones and e-mail, placing secret microphones in the
alleged Russian agents' homes, and numerous surreptitious searches.

The authorities also tracked one set of agents based in Yonkers on trips to an
unidentified South American country, where they were videotaped receiving bags
of cash and passing messages written in invisible ink to Russian handlers in a
public park, according to the charges.

Prosecutors said the ''Illegals Program'' extended to other countries around the
world. Using fraudulent documents, the charges said, the spies would ''assume
identities as citizens or legal residents of the countries to which they are
deployed, including the United States.

Illegals will sometimes pursue degrees at target-country universities, obtain
employment, and join relevant professional associations'' to deepen false
identities.

One message from bosses in Moscow, in awkward English, gave the most revealing
account of the agents' assignment. ''You were sent to USA for long-term service
trip,'' it said. ''Your education, bank accounts, car, house etc. -- all these
serve one goal: fulfill your main mission, i.e. to search and develop ties in
policymaking circles and send intels [intelligence reports] to C[enter].''

It was not clear what the intelligence reports were about, though one agent was
described as meeting an American government employee working in a nuclear
program. The defendants were charged with conspiracy, not to commit espionage,
but to fail to register as agents of a foreign government, which carries a
maximum sentence of 5 years in prison; 9 were also charged with conspiracy to
commit money laundering, which carries a maximum penalty of 20 years. They are
not accused of obtaining classified materials.

There were also hints that Russian spy bosses feared their agents, ordered to go
native in prosperous America, might be losing track of their official purpose.
Agents in Boston submitted an expense report with such vague items as ''trip to
meeting'' for $1,125 and ''education,'' $3,600.

In Montclair, when the Murphys wanted to buy a house under their names, ''Moscow
Center,'' or ''C.,'' the S.V.R. headquarters, objected.

''We are under an impression that C. views our ownership of the house as a
deviation from the original purpose of our mission here,'' the New Jersey couple
wrote in a coded message. ''From our perspective purchase of the house was
solely a natural progression of our prolonged stay here. It was a convenient way
to solving the housing issue, plus 'to do as the Romans do' in a society that
values home ownership.''

Much of the ring's activity -- and the F.B.I. investigators' surveillance --
took place in and around New York. The alleged agents were spotted in a
bookstore in Lower Manhattan, a bench near the entrance to Central Park and a
restaurant in Sunnyside, Queens.

Secret exchanges were made at busy locations like the Long Island Rail Road's
station in Forest Hills, where F.B.I. watchers in 2004 spotted one defendant who
is not in custody, Christopher R. Metsos, the charging papers say.

The arrests made a splash in neighborhoods around the country, as F.B.I. teams
spent all Sunday night hunting through houses and cars, shining flashlights and
carting away evidence.

In Cambridge, Mass., the couple known as Donald Heathfield and Tracey Foley, who
appeared to be in their 40s and had two teenage sons, lived in an apartment
building on a residential street where some Harvard professors and students
live.

''She was very courteous; she was very nice,'' Montse Monne-Corbero, who lives
next door, said of Ms. Foley. The sons shoveled snow for her in the winter, Ms.
Monne-Corbero said, but they also had ''very loud'' parties.

Lila Hexner, who lives in the building next door, said Ms. Foley told her she
was in the real estate business. ''She said they were from Canada,'' Ms. Hexner
said.

Another of those charged, Mikhail Semenko, was a stylish man in his late 20s who
drove a Mercedes S-500, said Tatyana Day, who lives across the street from him
in Arlington, Va. He had a brunette girlfriend and the young couple spoke to one
another in Russian and ''kept to themselves,'' Ms. Day said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MONTCLAIR, N.J.: Neighbors of Richard and Cynthia Murphy were
surprised at their arrest at their home Sunday night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL
BARRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
ARLINGTON, VA.: Two suspects, Michael Zottoli and Patricia Mills, were arrested
at the high-rise complex where they lived. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ
MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
YONKERS: Vicky Pelaez and Juan Lazaro, who lived on Clifton Avenue, appeared in
federal court in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BARRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 CAMBRIDGE, MASS.: Donald Heathfield and Tracey Foley lived on a street where
some Harvard professors and students live. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES
KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               51 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 4, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Taking the Mystery Out of Web Anonymity

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 974 words


THE Obama Administration is trying to fix the Internet's dog problem.

The problem, as depicted in Peter Steiner's legendary 1993 New Yorker cartoon,
is that on the Internet nobody knows you're a dog. And thus the enduring
conundrum over who can be trusted in cyberspace.

The Internet affords anonymity to its users -- a boon to privacy and freedom of
speech. But that very anonymity is also behind the explosion of cybercrime that
has swept across the Web.

Can privacy be preserved while bringing a semblance of safety and security to a
world that seems increasingly lawless?

Last month, Howard Schmidt, the nation's cyberczar, offered the Obama
administration's proposal to make the Web a safer place -- a ''voluntary trusted
identity'' system that would be the high-tech equivalent of a physical key, a
fingerprint and a photo ID card, all rolled into one. The system might use a
smart identity card, or a digital credential linked to a specific computer, and
would authenticate users at a range of online services.

The idea is to create a federation of private online identity systems. Users
could select which system to join, and only registered users whose identities
have been authenticated could navigate those systems. The approach contrasts
with one that would require a government-issued Internet driver's license.
(Civil liberties groups oppose a government system, fearful that it could lead
to national identity cards.)

Google and Microsoft are among companies that already have these ''single
sign-on'' systems that make it possible for users to log in just once but use
many different services.

In effect, the approach would create a ''walled garden'' in cyberspace, with
(virtually) safe neighborhoods and bright (cyber) streetlights to establish a
sense of a trusted community.

Mr. Schmidt described it as a ''voluntary ecosystem'' in which ''individuals and
organizations can complete online transactions with confidence, trusting the
identities of each other and the identities of the infrastructure that the
transaction runs on.''

Still, the administration's plan has divided privacy rights activists. Some
applaud the approach; others are apprehensive. ''It seems clear,'' Lauren
Weinstein, the editor of Privacy Journal, wrote ''that such a scheme is a
pre-emptive push toward what would eventually be a mandated Internet 'driver's
license' mentality.''

The plan has also been greeted with skepticism by some computer security
experts, who worry that the ''voluntary ecosystem'' envisioned by Mr. Schmidt
would still leave much of the Internet vulnerable. They argue that all Internet
users should be forced to register and identify themselves, in the same way that
drivers must be licensed to drive on public roads.

''The privacy standards the administration wants to adopt will make the system
both unwieldy and less effective and not good for security,'' said Stewart
Baker, a former chief counsel of the National Security Agency who favors
government-issued Internet driver's licenses.

But Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information
Center, a privacy rights group, said such criticism was unfair. He said the
Obama administration had created a policy framework that will make it possible
for private industry to improve privacy and security technologies.

Some members of the Internet's technical community say that the Web-of-trust
approach is too little, too late to solve the Internet's security problems. The
problem is no longer just about cyberspace stalkers, thieves and con artists,
but about the trustworthiness of the very fabric of the network itself.

''We're now seeing attacks on the Internet's plumbing,'' said Rodney Joffe,
senior technologist at Neustar, an Internet infrastructure firm. ''If you get
control of the plumbing there are lots of things you can do because the plumbing
was never designed for a world where there is a lack of trust.''

The essential plumbing components are the routers, which direct traffic on
computer networks. Operators of these routers -- mostly private companies --
share instructions with each other on how to direct that traffic. They trust the
information is accurate. But at least three times this year, a substantial
fraction of the global network's messages were mis-routed through China,
potentially opening millions of users to spying or tampering. Chinese Internet
engineers say the misroutings were mistakes; other engineers are not so sure.

''If our web of trust is corrupted or penetrated or broken, I don't quite know
what to do about that,'' said Vinton Cerf, a Google vice president and one of
the designers of the Internet. ''That's one of the nightmares that I worry
about.''

He is pushing efforts to create standards that would secure the Internet's
plumbing, though those may take longer than a decade to be put in place
globally. As for making the network more secure for users, he said he was
optimistic and that he saw a relatively straightforward -- though not exactly
inexpensive -- way to make the network more secure.

In the future, he envisions a card that each of us will carry, perhaps equipped
with a fingerprint reader, that will in effect be a one-time password system. It
will digitally hold all of our different personalities: who we are at work,
while playing on-line games, banking and using our smart phones and make it
possible for others to be sure we are who we say we are.

But Mr. Joffe said he worried that the time for such systems might already have
run out.

''Imagine what would happen if people lost trust in using the Internet: what
would that do to our economy?'' Mr. Joffe asked. ''You would have to go down to
your local bank branch and you'd join 5,000 other people waiting to do their
banking. That infrastructure has gone away and the banks can't cope with it
anymore.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHON ROSEN)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               52 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                              July 6, 2010 Tuesday

The Wars in Afghanistan and Iraq: Teaching Resources and Essential Questions

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1881 words



HIGHLIGHT: Lesson plans from 2001 to the present about the wars in Afghanistan
and Iraq, along with selected "essential questions" about the wars, terrorism,
U.S. involvement in nation-building, the role of soldiers and the geopolitics of
the Middle East.


The Learning Network has been publishing regular lesson plans about the wars in
Afghanistan and Iraq since each began.

You can find all of these lessons categorized and dated below, along with links
to related Times Topics pages and resources. Click any category below to go to
that topic directly:

War, Terror, U.S. Foreign Policy | Afghanistan History, Culture, Literature |
The War in Afghanistan | The Course of the Iraq War | Debate About the Iraq War
| Iraq and Democracy | Historical Parallels to Iraq | Iraq and the Media | The
Soldiers | Times Topics and Resources

But with the recent replacement of Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal as commander of
American forces in Afghanistan and the ensuing discussion about the course of
the war, we thought we would revisit some of our old lesson plans to see how
many of the questions we asked in 2001, 2002, 2003 and later are still relevant
today.

So below you'll find a list of the big, or "essential" questions we posed in the
past about the wars, and about terrorism, U.S. involvement in nation-building,
the role of soldiers, and the geopolitics of the Middle East.

You might share the list with your students and ask:

     ·    How many of these questions are still being asked about the wars in
          Iraq and Afghanistan today?


     ·    How many could you apply to other conflicts, countries, times and
          places?


Essential Questions From War-Focused Lessons, 2001-3 and 2006


-What is terrorism?
-How does terrorism differ from planned acts of military aggression?
-Should the U.S. take other countries' perspectives into account before taking
any military action?
-How do you think the U.S. and other countries should work toward preventing
terrorists from attacking again?


-What are the elements that make a nation a nation?
-What do you believe is the role of the United States on an international scale?

-If you could reverse United States policy anywhere internationally, what would
you do, and why?
-What do you think fuels anti-American sentiment?
-Can the United States play a global role without fueling anti-American
sentiment? If so, how?


-Are civilian casualties the inevitable outcome of war?
-Is the accidental killing of civilians in a military campaign morally
equivalent to the deliberate killing of civilians in a terrorist attack?


-Is Iraq a stronger nation than it was three years ago?
-Do the benefits of ousting Saddam Hussein outweigh the drawbacks?
-Should the situation in Iraq continue to receive international aid and support?

-Is the world is safer now than it was three years ago?
-How do military officials determine if military plans are going well or not?
-Can democracy be imposed on another country?
-How can groups of people with different beliefs and goals live together as a
nation?

Lesson Plans and Learning Network Resources

Lessons on War, Terrorism and U.S. Foreign Policy in General

Killing for a Cause
Researching the Motivations Behind a Variety of Terrorist Attacks to Suggest an
International Response (1/17/2001)

Terror on Trial
Examining the Motivations, Goals and Actions of Countries Against Whose
"State-Sponsored Terrorism" the United States State Department has Issued
Sanctions. (5/2/2001)

At What Cost?
Exploring the Civilian Costs of War and the Concept of "Moral Equivalence."
(12/10/2001)

Freedom Fighters
Understanding the Different Branches and Special Units of the United States
Military.(2/25/2002)

Part-Time Protectors
Researching the Roles of the Reserve Armed Forces in a Variety of United States
Military Conflicts (1/27/2003)

Somewhere in the Middle
Creating and Annotating Maps of the Middle East(8/16/2006)

A Fresh Start?
Discussing the Implications of a Resignation at the Department of Defense
(11/9/2006)

New Directions for Diplomacy
Comparing President-Elect Obama's Foreign Policy Vision to the Bush Doctrine
(12/5/2008)

The Torture Question
Researching the Recent History of Torture in the U.S. to Debate the Issue
(4/27/2009)

War Games
Learning about Cyber Warfare to Design War Games (5/13/2009)

Terrorism Today
Investigating Al Qaeda's Presence Around the World (1/5/2010)

Lessons On Afghanistan History, Culture and Literature

Afghan I Stand
Presenting a "Teach-In" on Afghanistan (10/3/2001)

Alliance or Compliance?
Examining the Relationships Between and Among Powers Inside and Outside
Afghanistan (10/24/2001)

Kabul's Troubles
Investigating a Century of Political Change in Afghanistan (11/14/2001)

Setting the Stage from the Page
Illustrating a Chapter in "The Kite Runner" (10/5/2007)

Lessons On the War in Afghanistan

Drawing on Terror
Assessing Editorial Cartoons for Insight into the September 11 Attacks.
(9/18/2001)

Heeding Advice
Examining Various Foreign Perspectives on the Bush Administration's Plans for
Military Action.(9/19/2001)

Consider the Source
Comparing News Reporting From Around the World on Coverage of the Taliban
Regime.(9/26/2001)

The Object Is Objectivity
Discussing How Journalists Maintain an Objective Perspective in Times of War.
(10/9/2001)

Spreading the Word
Analyzing the Use of Propaganda in the War Against Terrorism (10/17/2001)

Under Construction
Understanding the Concept of "Nation Building" (10/22/2001)

The Tug of War
Writing Letters From Multiple Perspectives in the War on Terrorism (1/9/2002)

Forceful Persuasion
Determine one's level of support for American military and diplomatic actions
(4/29/2002)

Strategy Shift
Sequencing Events in the War in Afghanistan On a Timeline  (3/30/2009)

Guns, Butter or Both? Debating Troops vs. Development in Afghanistan
Debating a Proposal to Build More Schools in Afghanistan Over Sending Troops
(11/3/2009)

Resources:Considering Obama's Afghanistan Plan (12/1/2009)

Lessons On Iraq:The Course of the War, 2003-Present

Weathering the War
Exploring How Weather and Topography Have Shaped Military Operations (3/26/2003)

Missions Accomplished?
Examining How Close (or Far) Coalition Forces Are from Achieving Their Goals
(4/11/2003)

The Captive's Audience
Analyzing the Capture of Deposed Iraqi Leader Saddam Hussein (12/15/2003)

Iraq In-Depth
Exploring the Ups and Downs During Three Years of War in Iraq (4/20/2006)

Abuse of Power
Examining and Reacting to the Abuse of Iraqi Prisoners in American Custody
(5/6/2004)

Taking Stock of Iraq
Learning About and Teaching Important Information on Iraq's Transition
(6/28/2004)

Justice for Whom?
Assessing the Reasons to Bring Saddam Hussein to Trial (7/5/2004)

War Fair
Examining Controversies of International Humanitarian Law (10/22/2004)

Fire Fight
Examining New Developments in the Iraq War (11/10/2004)

Same News, Different Stories
Evaluating Breaking News of Al-Zarqawi's Death (6/9/2006)

The Voice of a New Generation
Examining Iraqi Youth Perspectives (3/5/2008)

Take Five
Reflecting on Five Years of War in Iraq (3/19/2008)

Lessons On Iraq:Debate About the War, 2002-Present

Forceful Persuasion
Exploring United States Interventions in the Middle East (4/29/2002)

War Games
Exploring the Potential of United States Military Action Against Iraq
(8/28/2002)

To Inspect or Not to Inspect, That Is the Question
Exploring the Points of View of Those Involved in the Decision Whether to Allow
U.N. Inspectors into Iraq (11/13/2002)

And Then What Happened, Inspector?
Developing Interactive Scenarios about the United Nations Inspections in Iraq
(12/4/2002)

"Role" Call
Enacting a Meeting of the United Nations Security Council (1/29/2003)

Europe's Last Resort
Understanding the European Union's Position on the Use of Force in Iraq
(2/19/2003)

Acts of Defiance?
Contemplating War in Iraq (3/19/2003)

War Stories
Exploring Feelings About Invading Iraq Through Creative Writing (3/21/2003)

For Whom Does the Bell Toll?
Gauging Public Opinion about Death During War (4/9/2003)

The Aftermath of War
Debating the Pros and Cons of U.S. Policy in Iraq (10/29/2003)

Weighing the War
Debating For and Against the War in Iraq (9/22/2004)

Exit to the Left
Exploring Community Reactions to the Iraq War (9/18/2006)

Instability in Iraq
Analyzing the Debate on the Future of United States Involvement in Iraq
(12/6/2006)

Lessons On Iraq and Democracy

By the People, For the People
Examining Key Elements of Democracy as the System Is Introduced in Iraq
(6/23/2003)

Ambivalent Council
Assessing the Iraqi Interim Constitution's Purpose and Viability (3/10/2004)

Operation Iraqi Democracy
Exploring International Models of Government (6/29/2004)

Intimidation of a Nation
Analyzing Threats to the Scheduled Elections in Iraq (12/22/2004)

And Now, the News from Iraq
Researching the Iraqi Election to Create a Television News Hour (1/31/2005)

A Good Government Is Hard to Build
Understanding Issues in Iraq's Government-Building Through a Student Simulation
(3/30/2005)

Lessons On Historical Parallels to Iraq

The Tug of War
Exploring the Rationale Behind Potential Future Military Strikes in the War
Against Terrorism (1/9/2002)

Drums of War
Exploring How Politics Shapes American War Policy (9/23/2002)

Recurring Nightmares
Exploring How Historical Events Repeat Themselves (10/14/2002)

Inspection Gadgets
Exploring the Evolution of Weapons Technology (11/14/2002)

Diplomatic Duties
Examining the Development of American Foreign Policy (3/17/2003)

Intervene or Interfere?
Exploring Forty Years of United States Intervention in Foreign Affairs
(4/7/2003)

Changing of the Guard
Examining the Role of the United States in Democratic Transitions Around the
World (4/28/2003)

Dictating the Future
Learning from the History of Overthrown Governments to Assess the Future of Iraq
(5/26/2004)

Happy Ending?
Exploring the Endings and Consequences of Major Conflicts in Modern World
History (12/16/2005)

A Tale of Two Wars
Comparing and Contrasting Vietnam and Iraq (10/30/2006)

Lessons On Iraq and the Media

Pitching Patriotism
Exploring Marketing Strategies During Wartime (3/27/2003)

Strong Convictions
Learning to Write Persuasive Editorials about Current News (7/24/2003)

That's News to Me
Examining the Escalating Violence in Iraq through Reporting (4/14/2004)

Reporter's Notebook
Imagining the Life of a War Correspondent in Iraq (4/22/2004)

All the News That's Fit to Blog
Gathering First-Hand News Accounts through Web Logs (5/27/2004)

Lessons On the Soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan

Veterans' Voyages
Gathering First-Hand Reports of a Soldier's Experience Far from Home (3/5/2003)

Soldiers' Stories
Reflecting on the Lives of Soldiers and Their Families (10/27/2005)

Serving Memory
Commemorating American Soldiers Who Have Lost Their Lives in Iraq (1/3/2007)

Welcome Home
Interviewing Veterans to Help Create Need-Based Programs (5/25/2007)

The Impact of Images
Commemorating the seventh anniversary of the Iraq war with photos of fallen
soldiers' bedrooms (3/26/2010)

Other Related Learning Network Features:

Student Crossword: The Geography of the Middle East

Student Opinion Question: Do You Agree With Obama's Decision to Relieve
McChrystal?

The Decade That Was: 50 Fill-Ins

Found Poem Favorite | 'Our Heroes Are Hurt'

Related NYTimes.com Topics Pages and Resources


Times Topics: Afghanistan

Times Topics: Iraq
Times Topics: Al Qaeda

Times Topics: Taliban

Interactive Feature: Faces of the Dead

At War Blog:Notes from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq and other areas of conflict
in the post-9/11 era.


     ·    Walter Reed Closes as a Wounded Times Photographer Covers the Ceremony
     ·    Poetry Pairing | April 21, 2011
     ·    Do You Agree With Obama's Decision to Relieve McChrystal?
     ·    What Are the Right and Wrong Ways to Commemorate 9/11?
     ·    Teaching 9/11 | Responding to Crisis With Students


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               53 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Dot Earth)

                              July 6, 2010 Tuesday

Was the East Anglia Incident a Crime? Yes.

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1361 words



HIGHLIGHT: Nearly eight months after thousands of e-mail messages and files of
climate scientists were scattered around the Web, authorities have still not
labeled the release a crime.


July 18, 2012, 7:05 p.m. | Updated
Today saw the publication of the Independent Climate Change Email Review, the
last of three inquiries into issues raised by the unauthorized release of
thousands of files and e-mail messages from the climatic research unit of the
University of East Anglia in Britain.

The incident is better known as "Climategate" among the community fighting
restrictions on greenhouse gases or insisting that the collection of messages
and files undermines the case for human-driven global warming. (See the end of
this post for my views on that point.)

The new review, paid for by the university but conducted by an independent
panel, will look at a host of questions raised by the contents of the disclosed
material, as well as the unit's approach to Freedom of Information laws and the
like. But it will not get at one question that has remained unanswered through
nearly eight months. Was a crime committed?

The university, from the start, said its view was that it was the victim of a
criminal act. A British government agency that investigated the university's
handling of requests under Britain's Freedom of Information laws concluded that
laws had been broken, but that was an issue completely unrelated to the question
of who released the files -- and whether the perpetrator(s) acted from within
the climate center or without, inside the bounds of the law or in what amounts
to a cybercrime.

All the while, the Norfolk Constabulary, which has jurisdiction on police
matters at the university (in the city of Norwich), has been mum on the hacking
or release -- as is the tradition in British criminal investigations. I asked
Tuesday morning for an update on the case and Jonathan Dack, a spokesman,
forwarded a reply you can read below, along with comments on the status of the
criminal case from several of the scientists whose communications were
prominently featured in the batch of released material.

From the Norfolk police:

Norfolk Constabulary continues its investigations into the alleged criminal
offences in relation to the data breach at the University of East Anglia. During
the enquiry officers have been working with various specialist organizations.
The U.E.A. also continues to co-operate with our enquiries. However, this is a
major investigation which involves detailed enquiries which are still being
followed up. It would be inappropriate for us to comment any further at this
stage.

[July 18, 6:59 p.m. | Updated | The Norfolk Police concluded on July 18, 2012,
that the release of University of East Anglia climate files and e-mail exchanges
was not an inside job:

...While no criminal proceedings will be instigated, the investigation has
concluded that the data breach was the result of a 'sophisticated and carefully
orchestrated attack on the CRU's data files, carried out remotely via the
internet'.]

In a group e-mail message on Monday, I asked half a dozen scientists featured
prominently in the climate files two questions:

1) Have you been interviewed by British or other criminal investigators?

2) Do you feel frustrated by the lack of evident police action (which is
distinct from what may be occurring behind the scenes)?

Here are the responses so far:

Thomas Wigley, National Center for Atmospheric Research --

Yes, I have been in touch with the Norwich police. They contacted me and asked a
bunch of questions. So there IS awareness that the hacking was a crime. But ...
who did it? What can anyone do if there are no clues?

Second, by now the cops should have figured out that this *was* a crime. They
investigated the "in house" aspect at length as far as I can see, and have had
plenty of time to figure out whether this "deliberate leak" option was supported
by any evidence. So ... no comment on this is pretty deplorable. One problem is
that this crime is way outside their areas of expertise. They needed expert
advice on hacking. Whether they sought this I do not know, but my contacts with
them give me no evidence that they did...

Kevin Trenberth, National Center for Atmospheric Research --

1) No I have not been interviewed by the police or [anyone] other than
reporters.

2) Yes it is frustrating. It is bothersome to me that all the fuss occurred over
material that was illegally obtained and noone went after those who really
committed crimes, including those who misused and abused the material.

Whether it was a crime or whether it was a hack that took advantage of
sloppiness at U.E.A., the way the material has been used and abused is indeed
troubling and unprincipled in many cases. Where are the ethical considerations?

Benjamin Santer of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory was the most
concise:

The answers to your questions are 1) No; and 2) Yes.

Stephen H. Schneider, Stanford University --

I have spoken to authorities, once initiated by them--Norfolk Constabulary --
and several times here by me. The latter with one exception were not really
interested--the hate mails were saying I should be executed for treason, but
they didn't threaten to do it themselves so police were uninterested.... The
interested party here was State Department security, whom I notified when a
neo-nazi site listed me and Santer and Todd Stern, among others with Jewish
sounding last names, to a "climate murderers" list, pictures and all.... And
when I sent all my hate emails to Norfolk some months back at their request,
they bounced back with a spam filter saying "too many expletives"! Pretty funny.
I had to resend to a private address. I have heard nothing, like Tom, in months
from them after a few hours of phone conversations. I think the department was
security and terrorism, not white collar crimes, so maybe they keep this stuff
close to the vest?? No idea. Local police here, totally uninterested.

Gavin Schmidt, Goddard Institute for Space Studies and a founding editor and
writer at Realclimate.org --

I was interviewed by Norwich police back in December and I sent them log files
of the RC hack (which very clearly was criminal under both U.S. and U.K. law).
[]

As you correctly note, U.K. police work is not performed in the media spotlight
as it is here (to their credit in my opinion), but of course one would have
hoped for a little more progress. At this point, it is probably clear that there
isn't any obvious route back to the culprit(s), and so my guess is that we
aren't going to find out unless they decide to break cover in some way (possibly
as a result of their disappointment in the inquiries????) []. I have no other
information.

I asked Schmidt whether a criminal investigation was ever conducted into the
Real Climate hack. Here's his reply:

It would have been up to us to report it, and I didn't think it was worth it -
If you recall, we were kind of busy. ;)

I think it's unfortunate that the Real Climate team did not press this case if
the law in the United States is as clear-cut as Schmidt asserted. But, in his
defense, he clearly did have vast challenges on his plate then, fending off
heaps of unwarranted attacks and now dealing with a mountain of Freedom of
Information requests (not to mention his ongoing research into climate change).

Questions of criminal charges aside for the moment, the repercussions of this
incident largely remain what they were when :

One lesson is that anyone hoping to up-end decades of research pointing to a
growing human influence on the climate by challenging a single batch of studies
(in this case efforts to chart past temperatures using indirect clues like tree
rings) is almost surely on a fool's errand. Another is that scientists, even
when under relentless pressure, need to conduct their work scrupulously,
carefully and openly and understand that transparency is inevitable in the
digital era. A third is that scientists in highly specialized fields would do
well to reach out for added statistical expertise when trying to test broader
implications of their work.

I'll be writing more in the morning, of course.


     ·    Realclimate on the Climate Hack
     ·    Your Dot: On Science and 'Cyber-Terrorism'
     ·    The 'Revkin' Collection in the Climate E-mail Release
     ·    The East Anglia Climate Snatch - Not (Yet) a 'Crime'
     ·    Reviewing the Bidding on the Climate Files


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               54 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 11, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

They Grow Up So Quickly, Don't They?

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1674 words


THE title of Lisa Cholodenko's wonderful new film, ''The Kids Are All Right,''
quotes an ancient youth-culture anthem by the Who: a song released before the
parents of many of today's teenagers were born. At least for members of my
generation (to stick with the Who's back catalog for a moment) the phrase's
original defiance has given way to anxious, fingers-crossed hopefulness. In the
context of Ms. Cholodenko's movie -- a comedy of domestic manners and
misunderstandings set amid the liberal-minded American middle class -- ''The
Kids Are All Right'' is a statement shadowed by an implicit question: Aren't
they?

Sure they are. Right? They have cellphones and pizza money just in case we're
late getting home. They have access to healthy food, good schools and cool
stuff. But of course we can't help worrying, as every aging generation has since
the invention of modern adolescence back when our grandparents were young.

Kids these days! They spend all their time playing video games or texting and
sexting and cyber-bullying instead of reading and going to movies. And when they
do go to the movies, it's to see the dumb action blockbusters and slasher
pictures that are ruining the experience for everybody else. Instead of going
steady, they ''hook up.'' What kind of music are they listening to? What kind of
jobs are they going to be able to find? Where did we go wrong?

Maybe we didn't. There is a chance that Ms. Cholodenko and Stuart Blumberg, who
together wrote the screenplay for ''The Kids Are All Right,'' meant the title to
be sincere and reassuring, though without entirely letting the parents off the
hook. Maybe the implication is that the younger set is doing better than their
solipsistic, dysfunctional elders. Or maybe that's a bit harsh.

But it does seem that the difficult relations between parents and
semi-independent, no-longer-cute-and-precocious offspring have caught the eye of
filmmakers lately. Of course clueless, hapless or antagonistic mothers and
fathers have been a staple of cinema at least since Jim Backus stood in his
apron and endured James Dean's histrionic whining in ''Rebel Without a Cause.''
(Sorry, but that's how it looks to me now.) But alongside these more familiar
intergenerational patterns -- and at a time when the childishness of grown men
and the childlessness of grown women are the twin axioms of mainstream
big-screen comedy -- there is also a quieter sense of rapprochement and mutual
sympathy.

The parents in ''The Kids Are All Right'' are Nic and Jules, a lesbian couple
played by Annette Bening and Julianne Moore, who have never been more enchanting
or seemed less like movie stars. With their Volvo and lovely-but-not-fancy
house, Nic and Jules are a picture of middle-class contentment, their
complacency lightly mocked and their frustrations treated with affectionate
empathy by the filmmakers. They seem like good parents, and in the end their two
children might agree.

Those children -- Joni, who is 18 and about to leave home for college, and her
15-year-old brother, Laser -- certainly lead complicated lives, but the problems
that keep the movie veering from farce to melodrama and back again do not
primarily belong to them. Joni, a stellar student and dutiful daughter (played
by Mia Wasikowska  of ''Alice in Wonderland''), is put off by the way her best
friend, Sasha, ''sexualizes everything'' and is also attracted to Jai, a cute,
nerdy buddy who does not seem to reciprocate her romantic interest. Laser, under
the sway of an obnoxious and anti-social friend named Clay, seems to be tumbling
into the male identity crisis that often begins in high school and concludes, if
we're lucky, sometime before retirement.

His moms think Laser, played with the right measure of mischief and diffidence
by Josh Hutcherson, might be gay, a possibility they handle with the earnest,
nonjudgmental concern that their straight counterparts might bring. But the
questions Laser has about sex, love and biology are at once more basic and more
elusive than the relatively simple matter of whether he likes girls or boys. Her
brother's desire to know where he came from -- and perhaps also to find some
connection with an adult male -- leads Joni to contact the anonymous sperm donor
who is at least technically their father and who is played by a scruffy and
appealing Mark Ruffalo. Jules and Nic, respecting Laser and Joni's curiosity
about this almost mythical character, find the ground of their own relationship
shifting in uncomfortable ways.

''The Kids Are All Right'' is, to a large extent, about the unstable, comical
and sometimes appalling parental triangle that emerges among the three adults.
This article, however, is about the children, whose real-life counterparts are
probably less likely than their parents to flock to a wry independent movie
whose marquee stars are, at least to adolescents, unspeakably old. But the
teenagers who do tag along may wonder why Mom and Dad (or Dad and Dad, or Mom
and Mom, or just Mom or just Dad) are crying at the end, when Joni, as we always
knew she would, steps out of the nest and into her own story.

Of course many more children will already have asked themselves the same
question about ''Toy Story 3.'' The pathos in that film is rich and various, but
as they did in ''Up,'' the clever heartstring pullers at Pixar have zeroed in on
a phase of the life cycle not generally associated with children's
entertainment. In ''Up'' the handkerchief moment came early on, as the long,
loving marriage of Carl and Ellie Fredricksen was chronicled in a montage that
located the film's emotional heart simultaneously in boyhood and senescence. In
''Toy Story 3'' the equivalent moment comes near the end, when Andy's mother, an
unsung stalwart of the franchise voiced by Laurie Metcalf, looks around his
empty room and wonders where the time went.

It's a touching moment, evoking the universal heartbreak of parenthood, but the
movie does not stop there. It follows Andy, not all the way to college, but to a
stop on the way, the house of a little girl named Bonnie who will inherit Buzz,
Woody and all the other toys who have guided Andy through childhood. He does not
just drop off the box, but stops to introduce Bonnie and her current toys to the
new arrivals.

The two children, one in the first flush of her juvenile imaginative power, the
other in the twilight of his, spend what might be many hours or just a few
minutes spinning out new adventures. The tenderness of this little scene is
breathtaking, because it finishes the ''Toy Story'' cycle in an unexpected and
entirely convincing way, by showing that Andy, a kind and creative young man,
was worthy of the devotion of his toys, and that his decency was indeed the
product of that devotion.

Andy, ready to put away childish things, is able to acknowledge what they have
done for him. And of course his story has really been theirs all along, in that
we know much more about life among the inanimate objects in his room than we do
about his interactions with his sister, mother, teachers and friends. But we do
know, from the haunting example of Sid, the toy-abuser next door from the first
''Toy Story,'' that not every child is Andy. Some even grow up to be like Cyrus,
the stay-at-home man-child played by Jonah Hill in the recent movie of that
name.

''Cyrus,'' written and directed by Jay and Mark Duplass, sometimes uses its
title character's situation to harvest queasy laughs. At other moments the
filmmakers draw out more unsettling, even gothic implications in an Oedipal
triangle involving Cyrus; his sweet-natured single mother, Molly (played by
Marisa Tomei); and her new boyfriend, John (John C.  Reilly). But as off-kilter
as this predicament is, and as icky as the filmmakers sometimes dare to be, the
resolution is curiously sweet and affirmative. After much anguish and acting
out, Cyrus grows up and moves on, helped by the older man who is both his role
model and his rival for Molly's love.

The family -- as if there were only one kind, ideally or in practice -- has been
the subject of culture-war skirmishing for a very long time. Depending on your
perspective, the movies have been agents of wantonness and amorality or
upholders of old-fashioned, even outmoded values. Both conclusions are
warranted: there has always been lots of sex in movies, and lots of
traditionalism as well. And everyone understands that reality is different.

But reality nonetheless finds interesting reflections on screen, where even
apparently simple stories can be full of ambiguity and contradiction. Take the
''Twilight'' series, which for all its widely publicized pro-abstinence themes
and its nostalgically Victorian sexual morality envisions some fairly radical
twists on family life. Bella Swan's parents are conventionally divorced, loving,
lonely people who mostly hover around the margins of her life.

The alternative to this fractured family is not so much eternal commitment to
the vampire Edward Cullen as membership in one of two sprawling nonnuclear
groups: the undead Cullen clan, who are not blood relations in the usual sense,
and Jacob's werewolf tribe. Both of these kinship networks offer a way of life
that seems emotionally richer -- if also more dangerous -- than small-town
existence. And while there is a bit of suspense about which group Bella will
join, there never seems to be any question of her settling down into the
nonsupernatural humdrum that lies in store for most of her peers.

Bella is different, special, and the great paradox of American life is that
everyone else believes they are too. Or at least our children, who labor under
intense and contradictory pressures from which the end of adolescence offers at
least partial escape. Not that their parents will stop worrying. But there are
movies that can offer us at least a measure of comfort. Like Charlie Swan and
Nic and Jules and Andy's mom and Cyrus's, we try our best and mess things up
anyway. And the kids are all right. They can't help it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In ''Toy Story 3'' Andy's mother has as much of a transition to
make as her son, who is heading to college and away from the collection of
playthings he has grown up with. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIXAR ANIMATION STUDIOS/WALT
DISNEY PICTURES)
The family in current screen guises, from top: Bella (Kristen Stewart) may live
with her dad (Billy Burke) in ''The Twilight Saga: Eclipse,'' but supernatural
surrogates vie for her
in ''Cyrus,'' from left, Marisa Tomei is mother to Jonah Hill, who competes with
John C. Reilly for her affections (Catherine Keener is on the sidelines)
from left, Josh Hutcherson, Julianne Moore, Annette Bening and Mia Wasikowska in
''The Kids Are All Right.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIMBERLEY FRENCH/SUMMIT
ENTERTAINMENT
CHUCK ZLOTNICK/FOX SEARCHLIGHT PICTURES
 SUZANNE TENNER/FOCUS FEATURES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               55 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 25, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Little Too Much Mystery

BYLINE: By PHILIP GALANES

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; SOCIAL Q'S; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 740 words


I recently started dating this guy. After our first encounter, I Googled him. A
few online profiles listed him as married. He doesn't wear a ring, and I've been
to his apartment, where there was no sign of a wife. I sense he's divorced. I'd
like him to tell me about his marital status on his own, but I don't want to
wait too long. Should I wait? Was Googling him O.K.? My female friends say it's
normal, but the men tell me I'm crazy.

C.A.

The whole point of the Internet -- which we could probably confirm with its
inventor, Al Gore -- is to check out folks we're interested in dating. (Well,
that and free porn.) So, Google away! Who would your male friends prefer you
cyber-search: dudes you're not interested in?

But I'm more concerned with your dating skills. What have you been talking about
on these dates, if not siblings and past relationships? Those were the one-two
punches in my getting-to-know-you arsenal.

Go ahead and ask: ''Tell me about the women in your life. Any good skeletons in
your closet?'' Then return the favor. Trust me, it's useful information. And
unless you happen to be The Amazing Kreskin, your ''sense'' that he's divorced
will be cold comfort to you when you discover that his wife and children have
merely decamped to the Hamptons for the summer.

Hint, Hint

My partner and I are fastidious about remembering people's birthdays, but we
know many people are not. As his 85th birthday approached, I e-mailed several
friends, unbeknown to him, to remind them and say how happy he would be to
receive their greetings. About a dozen of these people never responded. I feel
that I can't call them friends anymore. Was I expecting too much?

Anonymous, New York City

Ah, to be 85 again!

I'm sorry your pals let you down, Anonymous. But life has a way of encroaching
on our best-laid plans. Some may have meant to write, but got distracted; others
(like me) forget to do anything that's not transcribed onto a to-do list. Some
of our best friends are simply not ''birthday people,'' though they possess many
other sterling qualities -- like listening to us when we're down in the dumps or
complimenting our skinny jeans.

You are the best person to decide whether these folks are your friends, but it's
a little shortsighted to use ''remembers birthdays'' as the only criterion.
(Kudos on that reminder note, by the way; your partner is lucky to have hooked
up with someone so thoughtful.)

And Who Broke the Dish?

My boyfriend and I had five friends over for dinner. We made a fabulous meal,
used our best china and exquisite Georg Jensen silver. The next day, we noticed
that a silver teaspoon was missing. We've looked everywhere. I have a feeling
one of the guests stole it. Should I send them a thank-you-for-coming card and
add: ''A teaspoon is missing, and we miss it''?

Lee, Copenhagen

It's like that old expression: Some friends are silver, and others -- well, just
steal it!

You should not send a note about the missing teaspoon, nor should you post
''Wanted'' posters of your guests at the post office -- if they do that with
criminals in Denmark, too.

Things get lost, and sometimes they turn up again. (Thievery, on the other hand,
is much rarer.) If the spoon fell into one of your guest's bags or pockets, by
accident, they'll let you know. And if they stole it, what on earth would a note
accomplish? Try searching eBay, instead. It's loaded with Jensen spoons.

Don't Get Comfortable

My husband and I live in a two-bedroom apartment. One of my friends, who is
known as frugal, says that she ''doesn't believe in air-conditioning.'' When a
heat wave hit, she asked if she could sleep in our apartment, which has
air-conditioning. I want to help, but shouldn't she find a more practical
solution? I don't want a guest all summer.

Pamela

Your friend's philosophy is intriguing. If we stopped believing in aging, do you
think our crows' feet might disappear?

Take pity on your pal precisely once. In the morning, over complimentary
Continental breakfast, remind her that you are not running a hotel. Say: ''We're
always here for you in an emergency, but not so much for predictable weather
patterns. If air-conditioning is out, maybe you should stock up on some fans or
large blocks of ice?''

Even mensches set limits.

For help with an awkward social situation, send queries to socialq@nytimes.com,
or Social Q's, The New York Times Style Department, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York,
N.Y. 10018. Please include a daytime phone number.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               56 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Online Betting Barred by U.S. Gets 2nd Look

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1193 words


WASHINGTON -- With pressure mounting on the federal government to find new
revenues, Congress is considering legalizing, and taxing, an activity it banned
just four years ago: Internet gambling.

On Wednesday, the House Financial Services Committee approved a bill that would
effectively legalize online poker and other nonsports betting, overturning a
2006 federal ban that critics say merely drove Web-based casinos offshore.

The bill would direct the Treasury Department to license and regulate Internet
gambling operations, while a companion measure, pending before another
committee, would allow the Internal Revenue Service to tax such businesses.
Winnings by individuals would also be taxed, as regular gambling winnings are
now. The taxes could yield as much as $42 billion for the government over 10
years, supporters said.

The two measures -- which are backed by banks and credit unions but have divided
casinos and American Indian tribes -- are far from becoming law. A bill to
legalize online poker sponsored by Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New
Jersey, has not yet had a hearing. The Congressional timetable has little spare
room before the midterm elections, and the Obama administration has not taken a
position.

But the vote suggests a willingness by Congress to look for unconventional ways
of plugging holes in the budget and comes as struggling states have also been
looking to extract revenue from the gambling industry, which took a hit as
consumers cut back on travel and entertainment during the recession but
continues to reap billions of dollars in annual profits. The committee vote
Wednesday was 41 to 22, with seven Republicans joining most Democrats on the
panel in favor of the measure.

Last year, Colorado expanded casino hours, raised maximum-bet limits and
permitted roulette and craps, while Missouri eliminated a $500 loss limit at
riverboat casinos. Delaware and Pennsylvania have weighed proposals to allow the
conversion of slots parlors into full-service casinos, making further inroads
into the eroding Atlantic City gambling industry.

Opponents, who only four years ago, when Congress was controlled by the
Republicans, secured a law that banned the use of credit and debit cards to pay
online casinos, said they were aghast. ''People sometimes resort to drastic
things when they are strapped for cash,'' said Representative Robert W.
Goodlatte, Republican of Virginia, who called the new proposals
''unfathomable.''

Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who leads the Financial
Services Committee, has been the legislation's champion.

''Some adults will spend their money foolishly, but it is not the purpose of the
federal government to prevent them legally from doing it,'' Mr. Frank said.

The committee's top Republican, Representative Spencer Bachus of Alabama, noting
the passage of far-reaching changes in financial regulation this month, said
that ''after all the talk last year about shutting down casinos on Wall
Street,'' he was incredulous that members would vote to ''open casinos in every
home and every bedroom and every dorm room, and on every iPhone, every
BlackBerry, every laptop.''

Mr. Bachus said lobbyists had spent ''tens of millions'' to overturn the 2006
law. ''They've had quite a bit of success in turning votes,'' he said.

Supporters of legalization said fiscal considerations played a role in their
thinking. ''I was looking for the money,'' Representative Jim McDermott,
Democrat of Washington, said in an interview. He sponsored the companion measure
to allow taxation of Internet gambling; he wants to dedicate the money to
education.

Representative Brad Sherman, Democrat of California, said in an interview that
the money was an attractive source of financing for other programs. ''We will
not pass an Internet gaming bill,'' Mr. Sherman predicted. ''We will pass a bill
to do something very important, funded by Internet gaming.''

He added, ''Forty-two billion dollars over 10 years has an effect.''

The legal status of online gambling has long been murky. The Justice Department
asserts that the Wire Act of 1961 prohibits it, but prosecutors have largely
left individual gamblers alone.

To crack down on the activity, a 2006 law -- inserted at the last minute into an
unrelated bill in one of Congress's last actions before Democrats took control
-- banned financial institutions from transmitting payments to and from gambling
operators.

In the same year, the authorities arrested David Carruthers, a British
online-gambling executive, as he changed flights at a Texas airport. He was
sentenced to 33 months in prison for racketeering. Last year, the authorities
ordered four banks to freeze the accounts of online payment processors that owed
money to some 27,000 people who had used offshore poker sites.

But the enforcement actions have barely put a dent in the industry, experts say.
Gamblers have used online payment processors, phone-based deposits and prepaid
credit cards to circumvent the ban. By some estimates, American online gambling
exceeds $6 billion a year.

''Today, any American with a broadband connection and a checking account can
engage in any form of Internet gambling from any state,'' Annie Duke, a
professional poker player, testified in May on behalf of the Poker Players
Alliance, which hired a former Republican senator from New York, Alfonse M.
D'Amato, to lobby for the bill.

Michael Brodsky, executive chairman of YouBet.com, an online site for parimutuel
horse racing, said, ''As with Prohibition, illegal online gambling is thriving
as an underground economy.''

Banks and credit unions said the 2006 law was poorly drafted -- so much so that
the Obama administration delayed, to June 1 of this year, the deadline for banks
to comply with the law, to address concerns about its enforceability.

In 1999, the National Gambling Impact Study Commission urged the prohibition of
Internet gambling. Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. has said he would not
support efforts to legalize online gambling, a view shared by most state
attorneys general.

''Because Internet gambling is essentially borderless activity, from a
money-laundering and terrorism-financing perspective, it creates a regulatory
and enforcement quagmire,'' said James F. Dowling, a former special agent with
the Internal Revenue Service.

And Mr. Bachus released a November letter from the F.B.I. in which Shawn Henry,
the assistant director of the cyber division, said it would be difficult for
companies to verify the age and location of their customers.

The bill contains measures intended to protect minors and combat compulsive
addiction. It would allow states and Indian tribes to ''opt out,'' so players
from those states and reservations would not be able to make online bets. But
those governments would have a potentially lucrative incentive to allow the
activity since they could then collect taxes from Internet casinos.

Before voting, the committee approved amendments to delegate enforcement duties
to states and tribes, continue a ban on betting on sporting events, ban
marketing aimed at children, and prohibit companies that violated the 2006 ban
from obtaining licenses.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Congress banned Internet gambling in 2006, but is rethinking its
stand. Supporters say the shift could yield billions in taxes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
TOBY MELVILLE/REUTERS) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               57 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Longing for No Nostalgia

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; ON THE RUNWAY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 428 words


The July issue Vogue tried to tap into the mood of the hour with ''Magnificent
Obsession,'' a fashion feature styled as a 1950s Technicolor melodrama, one
replete with period-like headbands, swing skirts and skinny men's ties. Vogue
followed up in its current issue with ''Classic Revival, a spread that showed
off the sort of tightly structured handbags Grace Kelly favored in ''Rear
Window.''

The bland expressions, hyper-fastidious grooming and starchy frocks of the
models were vividly in keeping with tirelessly calculated efforts by the fashion
community to resurrect the decorum, apparent tidiness - and subterranean
naughtiness - of Cheever country in the early 1960s.

Harpers Bazaar scrambled on board the nostalgia train with a July editorial that
portrayed the actress Katherine Heigl trussed in snug snug-fitting dirndl
dresses, the setting a flagstone patio that conjured the manicured environs of
Darien, Conn. W chimed in with ''Sweet and Vicious,'' featuring models tricked
out as buxom debs, some with an evident wild streak. And a recent Louis Vuitton
ad campaign highlighted pony-tailed young women wearing tight-waisted frocks
straight out of the Eisenhower era.

Such reverent nods to the American mid-century are outgrowths of course of the
current ''Mad Men'' mania, as designers and marketers including Prada and Banana
Republic attempt to hitch their fortunes to those of Don Draper and his
highball-swilling cohort in the AMC hit television series set in the 1960s.

They are, their admirers insist, steeped in irony, riffs on the same idyllic -
or subversive - themes that colored Douglas Sirk's movies and, decades later,
films like ''American Beauty,'' and ''Revolutionary Road.''

Lately though, such revivals seem shopworn - not to say mindlessly literal.
Where after all is the irony in pushing replicas of grandma's twin sets,
camelhair coats and crinolines on a generation bred on loose-fitting t-shirts,
denim and cyber-world tints?

Such interpretations amount to little more than ''mimicry,'' said Zane Mackin, a
graduate student at Columbia University whom I was talking to the other evening.
Sure, they're nostalgic, Mr. Mackin said, as he flipped through the August W -
but more than a little out of touch. Mr. Mackin is a rabid fan of period films
like ''Chariots of Fire,'' with its Edwardian tennis sweaters and collegiana.
''From a fashion perspective, that movie was great,'' Mr. Mackin said. ''But I
would never wear those clothes. I'd be a cartoon.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICIA WALL/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               58 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 15, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nonfiction Chronicle

BYLINE: By MICK SUSSMAN.

Mick Sussman produces the home page for NYTimes.com.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1091 words


CYBER WAR The Next Threat to National Security and What to Do About It. By
Richard A. Clarke and Robert K. Knake. Ecco/HarperCollins, $25.99. Clarke, who
caused a sensation by blasting the Bush administration for failing to heed his
warnings when he was counterterrorism czar before 9/11, identifies with the
prophet Cassandra. But his own doomsaying takes a bureaucratic form: demands for
budgetary and political resources.

In his 2004 best seller, ''Against All Enemies,'' he demonstrated a gift for
dramatic narrative. Now a consultant and academic, he has turned his attention
to a new worry, and in ''Cyber War,'' written with Robert K. Knake of the
Council on Foreign Relations, he succeeds in rousing fear. Computer sabotage has
already begun to figure prominently in military encounters, the authors say.
During the 2008 war between Georgia and Russia, Georgia's Internet connections
were jammed; Clarke and Knake also believe that Israel disabled Syria's air
defenses during its 2007 bombing of a suspected nuclear site. These attacks only
hint at the potential of cyberwar, which ''could devastate a modern nation,''
the authors write. In a cyberwar with a restrictive society like China, they
say, America would be disadvantaged by the very asset that has empowered its
digital economy: an advanced information-technology infrastructure. The authors'
priority is to ensure the security of three essential networks: the backbone of
the Internet; the electric grid; and the Pentagon's systems. But since two
powerful interest groups -- defenders of the Internet's open architecture and
opponents of government regulation -- stand in the way of their agenda, this
latest prophecy, despite its merits, may well be disregarded too.

THE IRONY OF MANIFEST DESTINY The Tragedy of America's Foreign Policy. By
William Pfaff. Walker, $25. Modern history's most destructive upheavals, from
the French Revolution to Stalinism, Pfaff says, were incited by a ''secular
utopianism'' that the Enlightenment substituted for religious beliefs. He argues
that a variant of this malignant fantasy has now overtaken the American foreign
policy establishment. Pfaff, a former columnist for The International Herald
Tribune, writes that America has increasingly committed itself to a
hyper-Wilsonian view, embodied in its assertions, without evidence, that a
steady development of international ''cooperative institutions'' under American
leadership is improving ''the moral (and political) nature of humans.'' To
Pfaff, only this national myth can fully explain the war on terror, which he
calls a ''parody of the cold war,'' fought against ''a few thousand Muslim
mujahedeen.'' A threat that ''good police work'' could have contained, he
suggests, was instead built up to justify a militarized intensification of the
''universal democracy'' project. Pfaff's call for a ''noninterventionist
alternative'' should not be dismissed lightly. But by treating his opponents'
views as fundamentally deluded, he fails to do them justice. There are reasons
other than imperial hubris to question Pfaff's suggestion of an equivalence
between aggressive democracy promotion and Nazi and Soviet aggrandizement.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT'S HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES His Own Words, Selected and
Arranged by Daniel Ruddy. Smithsonian/HarperCollins, $27.99. ''I claim to be a
historian,'' Theodore Roosevelt said, and it was not the idle boast of a
politician moonlighting on a vanity project. Confidently in command of his
subject matter, Roosevelt is a lucid and bracingly opinionated writer -- he
calls Jefferson ''perhaps the most incapable executive that ever filled the
presidential chair.'' Edmund Morris, who provides a foreword to this book, wrote
in his biography that Roosevelt's ''Naval War of 1812'' and ''Winning of the
West'' ''are considered definitive by serious historians.'' The concept behind
this book, edited by Ruddy, a marketing consultant and Roosevelt aficionado,
sounds promising. Ruddy has arranged quotations from Roosevelt's books, letters
and speeches chronologically by theme (George Washington, the Civil War, and so
forth) to create ''Theodore Roosevelt's History of the United States.'' The
resulting text is repetitive and lacks narrative or analytical momentum; it
feels like a series of disjointed quotations (source notes at the back of the
book indicate how the selections were stitched together). Nonetheless, the
format is useful for showing how Roosevelt consciously grounded his assertive
nationalism in a political tradition stretching from Hamilton through Lincoln.
Roosevelt's bedrock principle was that democratic liberty is best served,
counterintuitively, by a strong government. States' rights ''doctrinaires'' like
Jefferson, ''who are fiercest in declaiming in favor of freedom, are in reality
its worst foes,'' he writes, since ''license'' eventually degenerates into
''one-man power.''

NOT FOR PROFIT Why Democracy Needs the Humanities. By Martha C. Nussbaum.
Princeton University, $22.95. The trend in education at all levels and around
the world, Nussbaum fears, is toward rote instruction in ''applied skills suited
to profit-making'' and away from cultivation of ''the ability to think
critically'' and ''to imagine sympathetically the predicament of another
person.'' Nussbaum, a professor at the University of Chicago, brings to this
perennial debate an impassioned urgency (''The future of the world's democracies
hangs in the balance'') and broad erudition. She draws on developmental
psychology to present a model for teaching children how ''narcissism,
helplessness, shame'' and ''disgust'' interfere with compassion. Surveying
Socrates, Rousseau, Dewey, Rabindranath Tagore and others, she investigates the
key insight of progressive pedagogy through the ages, that ''student passivity''
is not ''good for citizenship or for life.'' Nussbaum's defense of this worthy
cause is deeply learned, but she only glancingly engages with the arguments for
standardized testing of basic skills, a considerable lapse in a work dedicated
to promoting understanding of the Other. She sets up straw-man antagonists,
unidentified diabolical educators who would foster ''moral obtuseness'' to make
students into better capitalist automatons. And Nussbaum never wrestles with the
conflict between her goals of nurturing open debate and instilling a
''normative'' value system, nor with the complications of teaching values in a
polarized political environment. Conservatives would undoubtedly fight Nussbaum
over which norms to instill.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BRUCE DAVIDSON: OUTSIDE INSIDE: 938 total pp. in three volumes.
Steidl. $195. Davidson chose the black and white photographs for this
retrospective of his work from 1954 to 2009, images that show a deep concern for
society's margins. Above, from the series ''The Brooklyn Gang,'' 1959.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE DAVIDSON/MAGNUM PHOTOS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               59 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 15, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Residential Sales Around the Region

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1459 words


MANHATTAN

Hudson Heights . . . . . . . . $342,500 900 West 190th Street, Cabrini Terrace r
1 f 1 h 0 o 5 weeks 730-sq.-ft. co-op in a postwar building; Hudson River view,
24-hr. doormen, dining alcove w/window, h/w floors; maintenance $729, 42% tax
deductible; listed at $375,000. Broker: Simone Song Properties.

Murray Hill . . . . . . . . . . . . $431,500 7 East 35th Street, The Antoinette
r 1 f 1 h 0 o 16 weeks 800-sq.-ft. duplex co-op in a postwar building; 24-hr.
doormen, renovated kitchen and marble bath, living-room fireplace, 4 closets,
c/a; maintenance $1,060, 44% tax deductible; listed at $449,000. Broker:
Halstead Property.

Gramercy Park Area . . . . . $900,000* 205 E. 22nd St., Gramercy Park Habitat r
1 f 1 h 0 o 11 weeks 900-sq.-ft. condo in a renovated loft building; 24-hr.
doormen, renovated kitchen and bath, 12-ft. ceilings, fireplace; common charge
$648; taxes $5,676; listed at $899,000 (multiple bids). Brokers: Sotheby's; Citi
Habitats.

y Upper West Side . . . . . $4 million 118 West 79th Street r 2 f 2 h 0 o 13
weeks 2,200-sq.-ft. penthouse co-op in a prewar building; 24-hr. doormen,
fireplace, c/a, terrace; maintenance $3,031, 40% tax deductible; listed at $3.95
million (multiple bids). Brokers: Corcoran Group; Prudential Douglas Elliman.

FOUR BOROUGHS

Mott Haven . . . . . . . . . . . . $225,000 947 Avenue St. John, Bronx r 1 f 1 h
0 o 24 weeks 730-sq.-ft. condo in a renovated prewar building; kitchen window,
high ceilings, h/w floors, 2 exposures, laundry room in building; common charge
$318; taxes $622; listed at $240,000. Brokers: City Connections; A&amo;W
Properties.

Sunnyside . . . . . . . . . . . . $425,000 71 Sunnyside Terrace, Staten Island r
3 f 1 h 1 o 5 weeks 45-year-old brick and wood raised ranch; dining area, eat-in
kitchen, family room, c/a, h/w floors, 1-car garage, 40- by-95-ft. lot; taxes
$3,286; listed at $439,000. Broker: Coldwell Banker De Simone.

Bayside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $800,000 217-03 49th Avenue, Queens r 4 f 3
h 1 o 22 weeks 75-year-old brick and stone Tudor; raised dining room, sunken
living room w/beamed ceilings, family room, 2 fireplaces, stained glass,
34-by-105-ft. lot; taxes $5,306; listed at $929,000. Broker: Bryce Rea
Associates.

y Prospect Park South $1.25 million 1511 Albemarle Road, Brooklyn r 8 f 2 h 2 o
3 weeks 90-year-old wood Romanesque Revival; kitchen island, butler's pantry,
family room, library, 4 fireplaces, study, original wood coffered ceilings,
66-by-130-ft. lot; taxes $8,694; listed at $1.25 million. Broker: Mary Kay
Gallagher.

LONG ISLAND

Coram . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $317,000 11 Calico Tree Lane r 4 f 2 h 1 o 7
weeks 36-year-old colonial; brick and vinyl siding, dining room, renovated
eat-in kitchen, h/w floors, full basement, 1-car garage, 1/3-acre lot; taxes
$7,872; listed at $319,000. Brokers: Coldwell Banker Residential; Majestic
Manors.

y Bellport . . . . . . . . . . . . $470,000 102 Bellhaven Road r 3 f 2 h 1 o 112
weeks 24-year-old wood contemporary, glassenclosed porch, family room,
fireplace, office, central vacuum, deck, 100-by 463-ft. lot; taxes $9,736;
listed at $499,990. Brokers: Prudential Douglas Elliman; Coldwell Banker
Residential.

Manhasset . . . . . . . . . . . . $772,500 214 Nassau Avenue r 3 f 1 h 1 o 3
weeks 72-year-old brick Cape Cod; bay window in dining room, renovated kitchen,
fireplace, den, h/w floors, c/a, 1-car garage, 67-by-100-ft. lot; taxes $9,114;
listed at $800,000. Brokers: Cyber Smart; Coldwell Banker Residential.

Oyster Bay Cove . . . . . $1.55 million 27 Palatine Court r 5 f 3 h 2 o 3 weeks
33-year-old cedar ranch; eat-in kitchen, living-room fireplace, study, c/a,
maid's room, finished basement, pool, 2-car garage, 2-acre lot; taxes $31,718;
listed at $1.75 million. Broker: Coldwell Banker Residential.

WESTCHESTER/PUTNAM

Croton-on-Hudson . . . . . . $296,000 6 Van Wyck Street, Westchester r 3 f 1 h 0
o 17 weeks 110-year-old Victorian; aluminum siding, side porch, bay window in
dining room, eat-in kitchen, h/w floors, full basement, 0.08-acre lot; taxes
$7,410; listed at $320,000. Prudential River Towns.

Garrison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $640,000 31 Old West Point Road, Putnam r 4
f 2 h 1 o 60 weeks 26-year-old wood contemporary; family room w/fireplace,
cathedral ceilings, sunroom w/pellet stove, reading room, mirrored exercise
room, 3-acre lot; taxes $17,460; listed at $690,000. Broker: Houlihan Lawrence.

New Rochelle . . . . . . . . . . $756,000 20 Northwood Circle, Westchester r 4 f
2 h 1 o 34 weeks 29-year-old brick and wood colonial; family room w/stone
fireplace, full basement, new roof and heating system, rear porch, 0.46-acre
lot; taxes $20,988; listed at $889,000. Brokers: Century 21 Marciano; Houlihan
Lawrence.

y Pleasantville . . . . . $1.225 million 49 Ashland Avenue, Westchester r 4 f 3
h 2 o 10 weeks 86-year-old colonial; renovated baths and kitchen, family room, 2
fireplaces, 2 bonus rooms, c/a, 3-car garage, 0.69- acre lot; estimated taxes
$26,000; listed at $1.25 million. Brokers Prudential Holmes & Kennedy; Weichert.

ROCKLAND/ORANGE

Cornwall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $310,000 201 Willow Avenue, Orange r 4 f 2
h 1 o 4 weeks 33-year-old high ranch; vinyl siding, kitchen island,
stainless-steel appliances, family room, basement, deck, garage, 0.23-acre lot;
taxes $8,600; listed at $319,000. Brokers: Keller Williams; Better Homes and
Gardens Rand.

Goshen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $412,500 22 Breezeway Lane, Orange r 4 f 2 h
1 o 20 weeks 10-year-old colonial; vinyl siding, front porch, breakfast room,
family room, den, fireplace, h/w floors, 2-car garage, 1.2-acre lot; taxes
$11,750; listed at $429,000. Brokers: Weichert; Better Homes and Gardens Rand.

y West Nyack . . . . . . . . . $700,000 3 Hana Court, Rockland r 5 f 3 h 1 o 5
weeks 11-year-old colonial; vinyl siding, 2-story entry, family room w/vaulted
ceiling and fireplace, screened room, 0.52-acre lot; taxes $15,406; listed at
$749,000. Brokers: Better Homes and Gardens Rand; Coldwell Banker Residential.

Pearl River . . . . . . . . . $1.15 million 55 Kinsley Grove, Rockland r 4 f 3 h
2 o 45 weeks 20-year-old cedar farmhouse; Lake Tappan view, front porch,
library, family room, 2 fireplaces, basement gym, heated pool, 3-car garage,
3.53-acre lot; taxes $31,300; listed at $1.35 million. Broker: Better Homes and
Gardens Rand.

NEW JERSEY

y Middletown . . . . . . . . . . $330,000 55 Morris Avenue, Monmouth County r 3
f 1 h 1 o 2 weeks 14-year-old colonial; 2-story entry, breakfast bar, family
room w/fireplace, 1-car garage, 61-by-167-ft. lot; taxes $5,751; listed at
$339,000. Brokers: Gloria Nilson GMAC; Weichert.

Cranford . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $509,000 30 Springfield Avenue r 3 f 2 h 1
o 2 weeks 2,000-sq.-ft. 30-year-old town-house condo; dining room, family room,
fireplace, c/a, 2-car garage; common charge $300; taxes $8,662; listed at
$509,000. Brokers: Prudential New Jersey Properties; Marc Kelley.

Montclair . . . . . . . . . . . . . $825,000 10 Sutherland Road r 7 f 3 h 1 o 6
weeks 93-year-old stucco Tudor; butler's pantry, beamed ceilings, 3-season room,
patio, full basement, pool, 2-car garage, 151-by-197-ft. lot; taxes $23,458;
listed at $850,000. Brokers: Prudential New Jersey Properties; Keller Williams.

Tenafly . . . . . . . . . . . . $1.46 million 55 Farview Road r 5 f 5 h 1 o 33
weeks 45-year-old cedar ranch; renovated eatin kitchen, family room, billiards
room and gym in basement, 2-car garage, pool, tennis court, 1.35-acre lot; taxes
$40,770; listed at $1.675 million. Broker: Coldwell Banker Residential.

CONNECTICUT

Shelton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $325,000 11 Fairoaks Drive r 3 f 1 h 0 o
26 weeks 45-year-old wood ranch; granite counters, fireplace, finished basement,
2-car garage, 1.01-acre lot; taxes $4,094; listed at $349,900. Brokers:
Prudential Connecticut; Century 21 Home- Services Richter.

y Newtown . . . . . . . . . . . $530,200 1 Poor House Road r 3 f 3 h 0 o 32
weeks 320-year-old wood Cape Cod; dining area, eat-in kitchen, 5 fireplaces,
den, original h/w floors, new mechanicals, c/a, 2-car garage, barn, pool, 5-acre
lot; taxes $9,923; listed at $579,900. Brokers: Linnell; Prudential Connecticut.

Wilton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $790,000 22 Antler Lane r 3 f 3 h 1 o 7
weeks 28-year-old wood Cape Cod; family room, 2 fireplaces, den, h/w floors,
playroom in basement, c/a, pool, 2-car garage, 2.37-acre lot; taxes $11,313;
listed at $815,000. Brokers: Prudential Connecticut; Coldwell Banker Westport.

Greenwich . . . . . . . . . $2.475 million 63 Burning Tree Road r 6 f 6 h 1 o 10
weeks 47-year-old wood colonial on Fyre Lake; dock, family room, library, 2
master bedroom suites, balcony, 2-car garage, 2.1- acre lot; taxes $15,092;
listed at $2.695 million. Brokers: Sotheby's; William Raveis.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               60 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 23, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Scrutiny For Chinese Telecom Bid

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Binyamin Appelbaum contributed reporting from
Washington, and John Markoff from San Francisco.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words


SHANGHAI -- Warning about a potential threat to national security, eight
Republican lawmakers have asked the Obama administration to scrutinize a bid by
one of the biggest corporations in China to supply telecommunications equipment
to Sprint Nextel in the United States.

In a letter sent last week to top administration officials, including Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and the director of national intelligence, Lt.
Gen. James R. Clapper Jr., the senators expressed concern over claims that the
company had sold equipment to the regime of Saddam Hussein and had a close
business relationship with the Islamic Revolutionary Guard in Iran.

The senators also said the company, Huawei Inc., had close ties to the People's
Liberation Army in China.

''Sprint Nextel supplies important equipment to the U.S. military and law
enforcement agencies, and it offers a broad array of devices, systems, software
and services to the private sector,'' wrote the group of senators, including Jon
Kyl of Arizona, Christopher S. Bond of Missouri and Susan Collins of Maine. ''We
are concerned that Huawei's position as a supplier of Sprint Nextel could create
substantial risk for U.S. companies and possibly undermine U.S. national
security.''

A campaign to block Huawei's bid to sell equipment in the United States would
almost certainly aggravate American-Chinese trade relations and intensify a
longstanding debate over whether big Chinese companies will be allowed to invest
in sensitive industries in the United States.

Several Chinese companies, including Huawei, have repeatedly been discouraged or
blocked in recent years from doing business with American companies because of
national security concerns, decisions that have angered Chinese officials and
business leaders.

A Treasury spokeswoman, Natalie Wyeth, said the department had received the
letter and was reviewing it. Ms. Wyeth said the government welcomed foreign
investment in general, including from China. ''Foreign investment creates
significant economic benefits for American workers, including millions of
well-paying jobs,'' she said.

The letter, dated Aug. 18, drew sharp responses from both the Chinese government
and Huawei. Wang Baodong, a spokesman for the Chinese Embassy in Washington,
issued a statement saying Huawei was a private company that simply wanted to do
business in the United States.

''We hope that some people in the U.S. will take a rational approach toward
these normal commercial activities rather than do anything to stand in the way
by abusing national security concerns,'' Mr. Wang said in the statement.

Huawei, which is based in Shenzhen in Southern China, issued its own statement
late Friday saying that the Chinese government and military had no control over
the company.

Huawei also defended itself against past charges that it had infringed on the
intellectual property rights of American companies.

''Huawei is disappointed to learn that old mischaracterizations about the
company still linger,'' Ross Gan, a company spokesman, said in the statement.

Under American law, an interagency panel called the Committee on Foreign
Investments can block foreign companies from acquiring or investing in
companies.

In this case, the senators, in their letter, asked the Obama administration and
national security agencies to fully investigate Huawei and assess the risks
posed by allowing it to sell equipment to Sprint Nextel.

In raising their concerns, the senators cited media reports; a press release
from the Chinese embassy in Iran; a report by the Iraq Survey Group, a committee
set up after the fall of Iraq; and several other documents.

The senators wrote that Huawei's presence in Iran, ''especially with military
industries, suggests that under U.S. sanctions on Iran, Huawei should be
prohibited from doing business with the U.S. government.''

The letter also highlighted the firm's ''reported relationship'' with the
People's Liberation Army, citing what it called ''China's well-documented focus
on developing cyber warfare capabilities.''

It concluded with a series of questions in which the senators asked whether the
Treasury Department was currently negotiating a deal to allow Huawei to acquire
or invest in American companies, and whether Huawei's potential control over a
company involved with sensitive government contracts would ''present a national
security threat for technology leakage or enhanced espionage against the United
States.''

A spokesman for Sprint Nextel, one of the largest mobile phone operators in the
United States, declined to comment late last week. Efforts to reach several of
the senators for elaboration on the letter were unsuccessful.

Although Huawei is not well known in the United States, it is already one of the
biggest telecom equipment suppliers worldwide, with major operations in China,
Europe and Africa and revenue last year of over $20 billion

The company is now eager to enter the American telecom equipment market. But
that move has been slowed by nagging questions about the company's history --
whether it has sold equipment to countries like Iraq and Iran; received
financing from the Chinese government; or stolen technology from global
companies.

The company was founded in the 1980s by Ren Zhengfei, a former officer in the
People's Liberation Army. Some analysts say the Chinese government has helped
Huawei win contracts in Africa and other developing nations and often helped
finance government purchases of Huawei equipment.

Cisco Systems sued Huawei in 2003, saying that the company had illegally copied
its software and infringed on several patents. The companies settled the case
out of court.

Last month, Motorola sued Huawei in the United States, accusing it of plotting
to steal trade secrets with the help of a group of former Motorola employees.
Huawei insists the case has no merit and said it planned to fight it in court.

Huawei did not say what Sprint Nextel contract it was bidding on. But Huawei has
had trouble entering the United States market.

In 2008, Huawei dropped a bid to take over the 3Com Corporation after the
federal government began investigating whether the acquisition would pose
national security risks. And earlier this year, Huawei lost bids to buy the
assets of the software maker 2Wire and Motorola's wireless equipment unit,
according to Bloomberg News. Bloomberg said Huawei lost both bids despite
offering more than the winning bidders because the sellers doubted Huawei could
win federal approval.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               61 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 26, 2010 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Military Computer Attack Confirmed

BYLINE: By BRIAN KNOWLTON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 622 words


WASHINGTON -- A top Pentagon official has confirmed a previously classified
incident that he describes as ''the most significant breach of U.S. military
computers ever,'' a 2008 episode in which a foreign intelligence agent used a
flash drive to infect computers, including those used by the Central Command in
overseeing combat zones in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Plugging the cigarette-lighter-sized flash drive into an American military
laptop at a base in the Middle East amounted to ''a digital beachhead, from
which data could be transferred to servers under foreign control,'' according to
William J. Lynn 3d, deputy secretary of defense, writing in the latest issue of
the journal Foreign Affairs.

''It was a network administrator's worst fear: a rogue program operating
silently, poised to deliver operational plans into the hands of an unknown
adversary,'' Mr. Lynn wrote.

The incident was first reported in November 2008 by the Danger Room blog of
Wired magazine, and then in greater detail by The Los Angeles Times, which said
that the matter was sufficiently grave that President George W. Bush was briefed
on it. The newspaper mentioned suspicions of Russian involvement.

But Mr. Lynn's article was the first official confirmation. He also put a name
-- Operation Buckshot Yankee -- to the Pentagon operation to counter the attack,
and said that the episode ''marked a turning point in U.S. cyber-defense
strategy.'' In an early step, the Defense Department banned the use of portable
flash drives with its computers, though it later modified the ban.

Mr. Lynn described the extraordinary difficulty of protecting military digital
communications over a web of 15,000 networks and 7 million computing devices in
dozens of countries against farflung adversaries who, with modest means and a
reasonable degree of ingenuity, can inflict outsized damage. Traditional notions
of deterrence do not apply.

''A dozen determined computer programmers can, if they find a vulnerability to
exploit, threaten the United States's global logistics network, steal its
operational plans, blind its intelligence capabilities or hinder its ability to
deliver weapons on target,'' he wrote.

Security officials also face the problem of counterfeit hardware that may have
remotely operated ''kill switches'' or ''back doors'' built in to allow
manipulation from afar, as well as the problem of software with rogue code meant
to cause sudden malfunctions.

Against the array of threats, Mr. Lynn said, the National Security Agency had
pioneered systems -- ''part sensor, part sentry, part sharpshooter'' -- that are
meant to automatically counter intrusions in real time.

His article appeared intended partly to raise awareness of the threat to United
States cybersecurity -- ''the frequency and sophistication of intrusions into
U.S. military networks have increased exponentially,'' he wrote -- and partly to
make the case for a larger Pentagon role in cyberdefense.

Various efforts at cyberdefense by the military have been drawn under a single
organization, the U.S. Cyber Command, which began operations in late May at Fort
Meade, Maryland, under a four-star general, Keith B. Alexander.

But under proposed legislation, the Department of Homeland Security would take
the leading role in the defense of civilian systems.

Though the Cyber Command has greater capabilities, the military operates within
the United States only if ordered to do so by the president.

Another concern is whether the Pentagon, or government in general, has the
nimbleness for such work. Mr. Lynn acknowledged that ''it takes the Pentagon 81
months to make a new computer system operational after it is first funded.'' By
contrast, he noted, ''the iPhone was developed in 24 months.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               62 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 12, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Full Serving Of Crime Fighters And Comedies

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE NEW SEASON TELEVISION;
Pg. 27

LENGTH: 4496 words


CORRECTION APPENDED

All dates are subject to change. Check local listings for PBS and syndicated
programs.

SEPTEMBER

ID INVESTIGATES: WHY IS BIN LADEN ALIVE? Admit it, you were wondering the same
thing. (Investigation Discovery, Sunday.)

2010 MTV VIDEO MUSIC AWARDS The awards have become an annual exercise in waiting
for the mildly shocking viral-video moments; Chelsea Handler will preside over
this year's edition at the Nokia Theater in Los Angeles. Usher, Eminem, Kanye
West, Justin Bieber, Paramore et al. (MTV, Sunday.)

MARTHA STEWART SHOW Ms. Stewart's takeover of the Hallmark Channel's daytime
schedule begins at 10 a.m. with her own show, which leaves syndication for a new
home on cable. Following her will be the Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia shows
''Whatever With Alexis and Jennifer,'' at 11 a.m., and ''Mad Hungry With Lucinda
Scala Quinn,'' at noon. (Hallmark, weekdays beginning Monday.)

WORLD OF JENKS Andrew Jenks, whose film ''Andrew Jenks, Room 335'' appeared on
HBO when he was 21, gets his own series, a collection of documentary profiles,
at 24. (MTV, Mondays beginning this week.)

THE NATE BERKUS SHOW Mr. Berkus, a Chicago-based interior decorator, is the
latest Oprah Winfrey protege to land his own daytime show. It's syndicated, but
if it succeeds it seems likely to find a home on Ms. Winfrey's OWN network next
year. (Syndicated, weekdays beginning Monday.)

SEXTUPLETS TAKE NEW YORK Hedging its bet on Kate Gosselin, TLC will offer this
new reality series about six 22-month-old Latino siblings -- four brothers and
two sisters -- growing up in Queens. (TLC, Tuesdays beginning this week.)

TOP CHEF JUST DESSERTS The cooking-competition franchise moves away from sultry
Asian hostesses in this sweet-tooth spin-off, which will be hosted by the ''Top
Chef'' judge Gail Simmons. The pastry chef Johnny Iuzzini takes the Tom
Colicchio spot as head judge. (Bravo, Wednesdays beginning this week.)

SURVIVOR: NICARAGUA The Sandinista government may not be particularly friendly
to the United States, but it welcomed the 21st season of ''Survivor'' and the
free publicity for the nascent tourism-real estate boomtown of San Juan del Sur.
The winner's $1 million prize would go a long way there. (CBS, Wednesdays
beginning this week.)

OUTLAWJimmy Smits brings his considerable charisma to the role of Cyrus Garza, a
Supreme Court justice whose conscience demands that he quit and return to
private practice. NBC describes the character as a playboy and a gambler, making
you wonder how he survived the confirmation process. (NBC, Wednesday and Friday
this week, continues on Fridays.)

MA'S ROADHOUSE A workplace reality show set at Strokers Dallas, a 2.5-acre
motorcycle shop, bar and grill, and focusing on the owner's 71-year-old mother,
who's being positioned as a red-state Betty White. (TruTV, Wednesdays beginning
this week.)

THE FENCERory Kennedy (''Ghosts of Abu Ghraib'') examines the effectiveness of
the 700-mile border fence between the United States and Mexico in this
documentary, which had its premiere this year at the Sundance Film Festival.
(HBO, Thursday.)

SYM-BIONIC TITAN Genndy Tartakovsky (''Dexter's Laboratory,'' ''Samurai Jack'')
created this new cartoon about three alien teenagers stuck on earth and
attending an Illinois high school. (Cartoon Network, Fridays beginning this
week.)

FRED: THE MOVIE Originally intended as a theatrical film, this adaptation of the
teenage auteur Lucas Cruikshank's ''Fred Figglehorn'' Web videos will make its
debut on television. (Nickelodeon, Saturday.)

BOARDWALK EMPIRE This prestige project, HBO's big gun for the fall, has an
evocative setting (Atlantic City during Prohibition), a ''Sopranos'' writer
(Terence Winter), a big-name director for its pilot (Martin Scorsese, no less)
and a fine lead actor (Steve Buscemi). Will that be enough? (HBO, Sundays
beginning Sept. 19.)

HORSE SENSE AND SOLDIERS Three Iraq veterans are treated for post-traumatic
stress with the help of wild horses. (Military Channel, Sept. 19.)

MIKE & MOLLY Cable has introduced wide-bodied characters in dramas like ''Drop
Dead Diva'' and ''Huge.'' Now a broadcast network joins in, casting Billy
Gardell -- several sizes larger than Kevin James was in ''King of Queens'' --
and Melissa McCarthy as a couple who encounter each other at Overeaters
Anonymous. Call it meeting glute. (CBS, Mondays beginning Sept. 20.)

HAWAII FIVE-O This souped-up remake of 1960s-'70s cop series is the most
high-profile new network show of the fall, which means it will take the most
abuse if it doesn't succeed right away. In the Jack Lord role, Alex O'Loughlin
(''Moonlight,'' ''Three Rivers'') will try to break the single-season curse.
Daniel Dae Kim and Grace Park give this the highest hot-Asian quotient among the
new shows, edging out ''Nikita'' and its star, Maggie Q. (CBS, Mondays beginning
Sept. 20.)

LONE STAR Fox jumps on the multiple-wives bandwagon (''Big Love,'' ''Sister
Wives''), though in this case the wives don't know about each other. James Wolk
plays a young Texas con man mated to an oil-heiress in Houston and a homebody in
Midland. The impressive cast includes Jon Voight, David Keith and Adrianne
Palicki. (Fox, Mondays beginning Sept. 20.) THE EVENT ''FlashForward'' didn't
kill the big-cast, big-conspiracy, season-spanning mystery, but there will be
even more pressure for quick ratings success this time around. Jason Ritter
stars as the man who stumbles onto mind-boggling secrets; Blair Underwood plays
the Cuban-American president. (NBC, Monday nights beginning Sept. 20.)

CHASENBC Universal doubles down on shows about blond United States Marshals.
''Chase'' and its star, Kelli Giddish, will have to work hard to be as good as
''In Plain Sight'' and Mary McCormack on USA. While ''In Plain Sight'' focuses
on protecting witnesses, ''Chase'' will be about hunting down fugitives, in
keeping with the priorities of its production company, Jerry Bruckheimer
Television. (NBC, Mondays beginning Sept. 20.)

DETROIT 1-8-7Michael Imperioli leads this ensemble drama about a Detroit
homicide unit, which was considered the hottest new drama coming out of the
network upfront presentations, at least until it was announced in July that the
pilot would be reworked to remove the original mock-documentary framework. (ABC,
Tuesdays beginning Sept. 21.)

THE HOUSE OF STEINBRENNER The much-honored Barbara Kopple (''Harlan County
U.S.A.,'' ''Shut Up and Sing'') made this film about the construction of the new
Yankee Stadium, and the transfer of power within the Yankees organization from
George M. Steinbrenner to his sons, for ESPN's ''30 for 30'' documentary series.
(ESPN, Sept. 21.)

RAISING HOPE A new sitcom with a tricky premise -- a 23-year-old who lives with
his parents brings home the baby he didn't know he had -- but a promising cast
that includes Martha Plimpton, Cloris Leachman and Garret Dillahunt. A newcomer,
Lucas Neff, plays the slacker whose girlfriend can't help with the baby because
she's on death row. If it sounds a little like ''My Name Is Earl,'' that might
be because Greg Garcia created both shows. (Fox, Tuesdays beginning Sept. 21.)

RUNNING WILDE Mitch Hurwitz and Will Arnett, who worked together on ''Arrested
Development,'' reunite as creators (along with Jim Vallely) of this new sitcom
about a playboy in love with the housekeeper's daughter. In this ''Sabrina''
set-up, Mr. Arnett and Keri Russell take the William Holden and Audrey Hepburn
parts, respectively. (Fox, Tuesdays beginning Sept. 21.)

BETTER WITH YOU No relation to ABC's recently canceled ''Better Off Ted,'' this
is a relationship comedy featuring a married couple and their two unmarried but
in-love daughters. The show's creator, Shana Goldberg-Meehan, was a writer and
producer on ''Friends.'' (ABC, Wednesdays beginning Sept. 22.)

COUGAR TOWNJennifer Aniston will appear on the second-season premiere of this
Courteney Cox sitcom, because that's what friends are for. Ms. Aniston will play
a therapist. (ABC, Sept. 22.)

THE WHOLE TRUTH Employing the latest ''Law & Order''-style structural gimmick,
this legal drama will present cases by switching between the points of view of
prosecution and defense. To answer the obvious question that this raises: yes,
every week we'll be seeing the same prosecution and defense teams. Maura Tierney
and Rob Morrow star; the producers' pedigrees include the ''CSI'' series, ''Law
& Order'' and ''Without a Trace.'' (ABC, Wednesdays beginning Sept. 22.)

THE DEFENDERS After eight seasons -- eight seasons! -- of ''According to Jim,''
Jim Belushi goes back to work in this drama about a pair of Las Vegas lawyers;
his partner is played by Jerry O'Connell. The premise, based on an actual pair
of lawyers, was shopped as a reality series before being turned into fiction.
(CBS, Wednesdays beginning Sept. 22.)

PAIR OF KINGS Two Disney Channel veterans, Mitchel Musso (''Hannah Montana'')
and Doc Shaw (''The Suite Life on Deck''), play teenage brothers summoned from
Chicago to take their place as rulers of an island kingdom. (Disney XD,
Wednesdays beginning Sept. 22.)

UNDERCOVERS ''Mr. and Mrs. Smith'' meets ''Top Chef.'' Two improbably
good-looking agents (Gugu Mbatha-Raw and Boris Kodjoe) have left the spy game
for the high-end catering business, but when a C.I.A. bigwig (Gerald McRaney)
drops by the kitchen to ask for their help ... well, you know the rest. J. J.
Abrams directed the pilot, something he's done twice before, on ''Alias'' and
''Lost.'' (NBC, Wednesdays beginning Sept. 22.)

LIVE FROM LINCOLN CENTER A new season begins with the New York Philharmonic's
opening night gala, which features Alan Gilbert conducting the American premiere
of Wynton Marsalis's ''Swing Symphony.'' (PBS, Wednesdays beginning Sept. 22.)
MY GENERATION Will a mock-documentary format make this show about former high
school classmates more successful than the sitcom ''The Class'' (2006) or the
murder mystery ''The Reunion'' (2005)? Jaime King and Kelli Garner are the
best-known members of a low-profile cast. (ABC, Thursdays beginning Sept. 23.)

THE BIG BANG THEORY One of television's most popular sitcoms moves to Thursday
night for its fourth season as CBS takes on NBC's comedy lineup in the 8 p.m.
hour. (CBS, Thursdays beginning Sept. 23.)

$#*! MY DAD SAYS A lot of questions here: How do you make a prime-time comedy
out of a one-joke Twitter feed? How will people say the title? (O.K., we know
the answer to that, we just can't print it here.) Most important: how bad a sign
was it that Jonathan Sadowski replaced Ryan Devlin in the role of the Twittering
son (opposite William Shatner as the crotchety father) in July? (CBS, Thursdays
beginning Sept. 23.)

OUTSOURCED A manager for an American novelties company is sent to India to run
the call center. In a practical but nevertheless amusing circumstance, given the
title, all of the primary Indian roles appear to have been cast with American,
Canadian and British actors. (NBC, Thursdays beginning Sept. 23.)

FISH HOOKS Like ''Sym-Bionic Titan'' on Cartoon Network, this new animated
series is about three high school friends, except that instead of aliens they're
pet fish. (Disney Channel, Fridays beginning Sept. 24.)

BLUE BLOODSTom Selleck as a New York police commissioner whose two sons are cops
and whose daughter is an assistant district attorney. (CBS, Fridays beginning
Sept. 24.)

SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE The 35th season begins, host to be determined. Coming up on
Oct. 9: Jane Lynch of ''Glee.'' (NBC, Saturdays beginning Sept. 25.)

SHARKTOPUS If ''Dinoshark'' and ''Dinocroc vs. Supergator'' didn't satisfy your
hunger for mutant-animal rampages and cheesy special effects, Syfy is back with
another ungodly creation. Eric Roberts plays the scientist who breeds the
weaponized hybrid (it can be controlled electronically), but the important name
is the one after ''producer'': Roger Corman. (Syfy, Sept. 25.)

60 MINUTES Just for the record, this is the newsmagazine's 43rd season,
currently the longest continuous run in prime time. (CBS, Sunday nights
beginning Sept. 26.)

BORED TO DEATH This minimalist Brooklyn metacomedy, created by the writer
Jonathan Ames and starring Jason Schwartzman as Jonathan Ames, writer and
semi-professional detective, returns for a second season. (HBO, Sundays
beginning Sept. 26.)

STICKS, STONES AND CYBER SLAMS: A NEW BREED OF BULLY Teenage victims of cyber
-bullying discuss their experiences on this installment of ''Nick News With
Linda Ellerbee.'' (Nickelodeon, Sept. 26.)NATURE The natural history show's 29th
season begins with ''Cuba: Accidental Eden,'' an examination of how the island
nation's isolation has helped preserve its biodiversity and how changing times
-- and especially the end of the United States trade embargo -- could threaten
it. (PBS, Sundays beginning Sept. 26.)

DEXTER Michael C. Hall's serial killer with a heart of gold returns for a fifth
season. Julia Stiles takes over as primary guest star, the role that recently
resulted in an Emmy for John Lithgow. (Showtime, Sundays beginning Sept. 26.)

SISTER WIVES The first ''plural wife family'' to get a reality show numbers
three sister wives -- Janelle, 40; Meri, 39; and Christine, 37 -- but husband
Kody wants to add a younger fourth wife. Will he get his way? And more
important, is the money they're being paid by TLC worth the risk of going to
jail? (TLC, Sundays beginning Sept. 26.)

TEENAGE PAPARAZZO The actor Adrian Grenier made this documentary about a
14-year-old would-be celebrity photographer. (HBO, Sept. 27.)

WHEN WORLDS COLLIDE The journalist and author Ruben Martinez is host of this
documentary that traces the roots of Latino culture to the effects that the
cultures of the old and new worlds had on each other in the century after
Columbus's arrival. (PBS, Sept. 27.)

NO ORDINARY FAMILY If you can wrap your head around the notion of Michael
Chiklis, the murderous cop from ''The Shield,'' and Julie Benz, the abused wife
from ''Dexter,'' as an all-American married couple, then you can probably accept
the idea that they and their children survive a plane crash in the Amazon and
develop superpowers. (ABC, Tuesdays beginning Sept. 28.)

INTO THE WIND Steve Nash, the Phoenix Suns point guard and a two-time winner of
the National Basketball Association's most valuable player award, directed this
documentary about a fellow Canadian's attempt to run across Canada despite
having lost a leg to bone cancer. (ESPN, Sept. 28.)

THE TENTH INNINGKen Burns's ''Baseball'' made a lot of grown-ups teary back in
1994. This new two-part, four-and-a-half-hour documentary covers developments in
the sport since then, including home-run madness, steroids and the lifting of a
curse in Boston. (PBS, Sept. 28 and 29.)

STARGATE UNIVERSE One of last season's better, if bleaker, new shows returns,
with its cast of soldiers and civilians still trapped aboard a runaway alien
spaceship and Robert Carlyle still starring as the only marginally sympathetic
protagonist. (Syfy, Tuesdays beginning Sept. 28.)

LAW & ORDER: LOS ANGELES The New York-based franchise opens for business in Los
Angeles -- can a Dodgers joke be far behind? -- with Skeet Ulrich and Corey
Stoll as the police who investigate crime and the high-powered duo of Alfred
Molina and Terrence Howard as the district attorneys who prosecute the
offenders. When they're not sitting by the pool. (NBC, Wednesdays beginning
Sept. 29.)

OCTOBER

TEACH: TONY DANZA Boxer, actor, song and dance man -- schoolteacher? Before
''Taxi,'' Mr. Danza got his degree in education; this reality series was filmed
over the last year as he taught 10th-grade English full time in a Philadelphia
public high school. (A&E, Fridays beginning Oct. 1.)

THE INCREASINGLY POOR DECISIONS OF TODD MARGARET The cult comedian David Cross
(''Arrested Development,'' ''The Show'') created, wrote and stars in this
six-episode farce about a less than honest office temp. (IFC, Fridays beginning
Oct. 1.)

WWE FRIDAY NIGHT SMACKDOWN Your Friday-night professional wrestling fix hasn't
been canceled -- it's just moving to Syfy, its fourth network in 12 years,
following UPN, CW and MyNetworkTV. (Syfy, Fridays beginning Oct. 1.)

FARM AIDJohn Mellencamp, Neil Young, Willie Nelson, Dave Matthews, Kenny
Chesney, Norah Jones and many more are scheduled to perform at the 25th edition
of the benefit concert, broadcast live from Milwaukee. (DirecTV, Oct. 2.)

T.U.F.F. PUPPY Butch Hartman (''The Fairly OddParents'') created this new
animated series about a dumb dog who becomes a crime-fighting hero.
(Nickelodeon, Saturdays beginning Oct. 2.)

PLANET SHEEN This ''Adventures of Jimmy Neutron'' spin-off follows a character
from that show as he crash lands his rocket on a strange planet. (Nickelodeon,
Saturdays beginning Oct. 2.)

IRT: DEADLIEST ROADS The echo of ''Deadliest Catch'' in the title of this ''Ice
Road Truckers'' spin-off is allowed, since all three shows are made by Original
Productions, the kings of high-risk reality television. ''IRT'' takes drivers
from ''Ice Road Truckers'' and transports them to India, where they can practice
their skills in the Himalayas. (History Channel, Sundays beginning Oct. 3.)LIES
IN PLAIN SIGHTRosie Perez stars in a television movie as a woman investigating
her blind cousin's suicide. Lifetime Movie Network, Oct. 3.

WALLANDER IIKenneth Branagh returns as the dour Swedish detective Kurt Wallander
in a second series of adaptations of Henning Mankell's mystery novels. (PBS,
Sundays beginning Oct. 3.)

PARKER SPITZER Shades of Shana Alexander and James Kilpatrick, except that this
time the woman is the conservative and the man was forced out of public office
by a sex scandal. CNN devotes a prime 8 p.m. spot to this current-affairs show
hosted by the columnist Kathleen Parker and the former New York governor Eliot
Spitzer, who will go head to head with Bill O'Reilly on Fox News and Keith
Olbermann on MSNBC. Will Jane Curtin and Dan Aykroyd come back to parody them on
''Saturday Night Live''? (CNN, weekdays beginning Oct. 4.)

A LETTER TO ELIA Martin Scorsese's documentary about the life and work of one of
his major influences, the great director Elia Kazan (''On the Waterfront,'' ''A
Streetcar Named Desire''), will be shown as part of ''American Masters'' after
playing at the Venice, Telluride and New York film festivals. (PBS, Oct. 4.)

UNDERBELLY: THE GOLDEN MILE A second season of this vivid Australian drama
series based on actual gangsters and cops is set in Sydney in the late 1980s.
(DirecTV, Tuesdays beginning Oct. 5.)HOUSE OF GLAM Apparently ''The Rachel Zoe
Project'' on Bravo has done well enough that there's room for a second reality
series about celebrity stylists. This one focuses on the New York-based B. Lynn
Group. (Oxygen, Oct. 5.)

STEVEN SEAGAL: LAWMAN Last season's most improbable success story is back for
Season 2. (A&E, Wednesdays beginning Oct. 6.)

MICHAEL FEINSTEIN'S AMERICAN SONGBOOK Mr. Feinstein, the singer, scholar and
Dame Edna foil, takes his mission of preserving classic American songwriting to
television in a mini-series that combines history, performance and footage of
the host digging through storage lockers and attics. (PBS, Oct. 6, 13 and 20.)

GIGANTIC This new drama about the teenage children of Hollywood heavyweights
goes to the source: the cast includes Meryl Streep's daughter Grace Gummer and
Joe Mantegna's daughter Gia Mantegna. (TeenNick, Fridays beginning Oct. 8.)

THE MINIMALIST Mark Bittman presents recipes and tips in a show based on his New
York Times column of the same title. (Cooking Channel, Sundays beginning Oct.
10.)

HARDCOVER MYSTERIES Writers including David Baldacci, Harlan Coben, Sara
Paretsky and Lisa Scottoline discuss the real cases on which they based their
novels. (Investigation Discovery, Mondays beginning Oct. 11.)

GOD IN AMERICA PBS takes on a large and timely topic in this three-night,
six-hour miniseries, a co-production of ''American Experience'' and
''Frontline.'' (PBS, Oct. 11-13.)

NICK SWARDSON'S PRETEND TIME Mr. Swardson, the comedian and ''Reno 911!''
regular, gets his own sketch comedy series. (Comedy Central, Tuesdays beginning
Oct. 12.)

THE VANILLA ICE PROJECT Robert Van Winkle, a. k. a. Vanilla Ice, attempts a
career renovation in this new reality series that highlights his post-pop-star
avocation: home improvement. (DIY, Thursdays beginning Oct. 14.)

MONICA & DAVID Alexandra Codina's film, the winner of the Tribeca Film
Festival's best documentary feature award this year, is about a married couple
who both have Down syndrome. (HBO, Oct. 14.)

30 ROCK The show exhibits its ''Saturday Night Live'' DNA by doing a live
episode. But the sitcom does the variety show one better: it will perform the
episode twice, at 8:30 p.m. Eastern time and again at 8:30 p.m. Pacific time.
(NBC, Oct. 14.)

LUTHER Idris Elba, who mesmerized American audiences as the drug dealer Stringer
Bell in ''The Wire,'' gets to play the good guy -- and use his real accent -- in
this British series about a tortured-genius detective. (BBC America, Sundays
beginning Oct. 17.)

TOWER PREP The Prisoner goes to high school: Drew Van Acker stars as a teenager
who wakes up at a strange prep school and can't leave in this live-action
series. (Cartoon Network, Tuesdays beginning Oct. 19.)

NOVA The science show begins a new season with ''Building the Great
Cathedrals,'' in which engineers, architects and computer historians work to
decipher medieval building methods so that they can be used to help save the
Gothic cathedrals now. (PBS, Tuesdays beginning Oct. 19.)

NIGHT OF TOO MANY STARS Subtitled ''An Overbooked Concert for Autism
Education,'' this live comedy show will be hosted by Jon Stewart and is
scheduled to include Stephen Colbert, Steve Carell, Jimmy Fallon, Tina Fey,
Ricky Gervais, John Oliver, Chris Rock and Sarah Silverman. (Comedy Central,
Oct. 21.)

DEAN OF INVENTIONDean Kamen, inventor of, among other things, the Segway,
travels around the world seeking out ''emerging technologies.'' (Planet Green,
Fridays beginning Oct. 22.)

SHERLOCK The ''Masterpiece Mystery!'' season closes with this new Sherlock
Holmes series, set in contemporary London and starring Benedict Cumberbatch as
Holmes. (PBS, Oct. 24 and 31 and Nov. 7.)

DEAD SET Zombies surround the Big Brother house, but the reality-show
contestants have no way of knowing they're there, in this British mini-series.
(IFC, Oct. 25-29.)

BIDDER RIVALS Yet another tchotchke reality show, in the vein of ''Antiques
Roadshow,'' ''Pawn Stars,'' ''American Pickers'' et al. This one follows the
owner of a Southern auction house as he hunts down collectibles. (Discovery,
Tuesdays beginning Oct. 26.)

STEVE BARTMAN: CATCHING HELLAlex Gibney, the Oscar-winning director of ''Taxi to
the Dark Side,'' tackles a lighter subject (unless you're Steve Bartman) in this
''30 for 30'' documentary about the Chicago Cubs fan who tried to catch a foul
ball and ended up being blamed for the team's failure to reach the World Series.
(ESPN, Oct. 26.)

FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS The best television show that you're probably not watching
returns for its fifth, and final, season. (DirecTV, Wednesdays beginning Oct.
27.)

THE WALKING DEAD Part George A. Romero, part ''The Road,'' this new zombie
series -- AMC's fourth original drama, after ''Mad Men,'' ''Breaking Bad'' and
''Rubicon'' -- was created by Frank Darabont (''The Green Mile,'' ''The Mist'').
(AMC, Sundays beginning Oct. 31.)

NOVEMBER

MOGULS AND MOVIE STARS: A HISTORY OF HOLLYWOOD Christopher Plummer narrates this
seven-part history of the American film business, from the beginning through the
1960s. (Turner Classic Movies, Mondays beginning Nov. 1.)

MARION JONES: PRESS PAUSEJohn Singleton (''Boyz n the Hood,'' ''Shaft'')
profiles the Olympic sprinter and fallen hero Marion Jones in this ''30 for 30''
documentary. (ESPN, Nov. 2.)

CIRCUS It's probably the closest you'll get to running away: this six-hour
mini-series goes on the road and behind the scenes with the New York-based Big
Apple Circus. (PBS, Nov. 3, 10 and 17.)

HOLLYWOOD TREASURE More tchotchke hunting, this time of the show-business and
pop-culture variety. (Syfy, Thursdays beginning Nov. 4.)

DOWNSIZED Or, ''With Nine You Get Foreclosure Papers.'' In this reality series,
a large blended family copes with the new hard times; its strategies include
growing food and making clothes. (WE, Saturdays beginning Nov. 6.)

GREAT MIGRATIONS In a clear challenge to David Attenborough's hegemony over
lushly photographed, buzz-generating, DVD-moving nature series (''The Blue
Planet'' and ''Planet Earth'' on the Discovery Channel), National Geographic
offers this three-years-in-the-making, seven-hour high-definition mini-series.
Alec Baldwin narrates tales of animal journeys. (National Geographic Channel,
beginning Nov. 7.)

CONAN Mr. O'Brien, folk hero and talk-show host, begins his new 11 p.m. show,
bumping George Lopez to midnight. (TBS, weekdays beginning Nov. 8.)

AUCTION HUNTERS Absolutely the last tchotchke reality show that will be included
here. This one sounds promising, actually: it's about a pair of prospectors who
bid, nearly sight unseen, on the contents of abandoned storage units. Think of
it as ''Antiques Horror Show.'' (Spike, Tuesdays beginning Nov. 9.)

WARTORN: 1861-2010James Gandolfini, an executive producer of ''Alive Day
Memories: Home From Iraq,'' took the same role in Jon Alpert and Ellen
Goosenberg Kent's documentary about the history of post-traumatic stress in the
American military. (HBO, Nov. 11.)

GOLD RUSH A group of modern 49ers head to Alaska to strike it rich in this
nonfiction series. (Discovery, Fridays beginning Nov. 12.)

SARAH PALIN'S ALASKA Salmon fishing, glacier hiking and other outdoorsy
activities with the former governor. (TLC, Sundays beginning Nov. 14.)

GLORY DAZE It's an hour-long show, but TBS, in defiance of television
convention, is labeling it a comedy. Kelly Blatz heads the cast of this college
comedy set in Wisconsin in the 1980s. (TBS, Tuesdays beginning Nov. 16.)

GET OUT ALIVE A reversal on National Geographic's ''Locked Up Abroad,'' this
series features the stories of people who managed to escape from Somali pirates,
South American drug dealers, the Taliban and other modern bogeymen. (Discovery,
Mondays beginning Nov. 22.)

LENNONYC This installment of ''American Masters'' recalls the years John Lennon
and Yoko Ono spent living and working in New York City. (PBS, Nov. 22.)

NOVEMBER CHRISTMAS John Corbett, Sam Elliott, Sarah Paulson and Karen Allen star
in a Hallmark Hall of Fame movie about making Christmas come early for a gravely
ill girl. (CBS, Nov. 28.)

WILD JUSTICE Another new show from Original Productions (the ''Deadliest Catch''
people), this one focuses on the dangerous lives of game wardens. (National
Geographic Channel, Sundays beginning Nov. 28.)

Correction: September 19, 2010, Sunday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A television
entry in the listings last Sunday misstated the given name of one of the stars
of ''Law & Order: Los Angeles.'' He is Corey Stoll, not Casey.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: Ted Danson, left, and Jason
Schwartzman in ''Bored to Death''
Gugu Mbatha-Raw in ''Undercovers''
a scene from ''Hawaii Five-0''
and Billy Gardell and Melissa McCarthy in ''Mike and Molly.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
BARRY WETCHER/HBO
CHRIS HASTON/NBC
MARIO PEREZ/CBS
MONTY BRINTON/CBS)
Alfred Molina and Regina Hall as district attorneys in a scene from ''Law &
Order: Los Angeles.'' Skeet Ulrich, Casey Stoll and Terrance Howard also star in
the new series on NBC. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEAN HENDLER/NBC) (AR27)
Top, Kenneth Branagh as the Swedish detective Kurt Wallander in the second
season of ''Wallander,'' on PBS. Above, Sarah Palin in her in-laws' kitchen in
''Sarah Palin's Alaska,'' on TLC. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PBS
 GILLES MINGASSON/DISCOVERY CHANNEL) (AR28)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               63 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 12, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Full Serving Of Crime Fighters And Comedies

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE NEW SEASON TELEVISION;
Pg. 27

LENGTH: 4496 words


CORRECTION APPENDED

All dates are subject to change. Check local listings for PBS and syndicated
programs.

SEPTEMBER

ID INVESTIGATES: WHY IS BIN LADEN ALIVE? Admit it, you were wondering the same
thing. (Investigation Discovery, Sunday.)

2010 MTV VIDEO MUSIC AWARDS The awards have become an annual exercise in waiting
for the mildly shocking viral-video moments; Chelsea Handler will preside over
this year's edition at the Nokia Theater in Los Angeles. Usher, Eminem, Kanye
West, Justin Bieber, Paramore et al. (MTV, Sunday.)

MARTHA STEWART SHOW Ms. Stewart's takeover of the Hallmark Channel's daytime
schedule begins at 10 a.m. with her own show, which leaves syndication for a new
home on cable. Following her will be the Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia shows
''Whatever With Alexis and Jennifer,'' at 11 a.m., and ''Mad Hungry With Lucinda
Scala Quinn,'' at noon. (Hallmark, weekdays beginning Monday.)

WORLD OF JENKS Andrew Jenks, whose film ''Andrew Jenks, Room 335'' appeared on
HBO when he was 21, gets his own series, a collection of documentary profiles,
at 24. (MTV, Mondays beginning this week.)

THE NATE BERKUS SHOW Mr. Berkus, a Chicago-based interior decorator, is the
latest Oprah Winfrey protege to land his own daytime show. It's syndicated, but
if it succeeds it seems likely to find a home on Ms. Winfrey's OWN network next
year. (Syndicated, weekdays beginning Monday.)

SEXTUPLETS TAKE NEW YORK Hedging its bet on Kate Gosselin, TLC will offer this
new reality series about six 22-month-old Latino siblings -- four brothers and
two sisters -- growing up in Queens. (TLC, Tuesdays beginning this week.)

TOP CHEF JUST DESSERTS The cooking-competition franchise moves away from sultry
Asian hostesses in this sweet-tooth spin-off, which will be hosted by the ''Top
Chef'' judge Gail Simmons. The pastry chef Johnny Iuzzini takes the Tom
Colicchio spot as head judge. (Bravo, Wednesdays beginning this week.)

SURVIVOR: NICARAGUA The Sandinista government may not be particularly friendly
to the United States, but it welcomed the 21st season of ''Survivor'' and the
free publicity for the nascent tourism-real estate boomtown of San Juan del Sur.
The winner's $1 million prize would go a long way there. (CBS, Wednesdays
beginning this week.)

OUTLAWJimmy Smits brings his considerable charisma to the role of Cyrus Garza, a
Supreme Court justice whose conscience demands that he quit and return to
private practice. NBC describes the character as a playboy and a gambler, making
you wonder how he survived the confirmation process. (NBC, Wednesday and Friday
this week, continues on Fridays.)

MA'S ROADHOUSE A workplace reality show set at Strokers Dallas, a 2.5-acre
motorcycle shop, bar and grill, and focusing on the owner's 71-year-old mother,
who's being positioned as a red-state Betty White. (TruTV, Wednesdays beginning
this week.)

THE FENCERory Kennedy (''Ghosts of Abu Ghraib'') examines the effectiveness of
the 700-mile border fence between the United States and Mexico in this
documentary, which had its premiere this year at the Sundance Film Festival.
(HBO, Thursday.)

SYM-BIONIC TITAN Genndy Tartakovsky (''Dexter's Laboratory,'' ''Samurai Jack'')
created this new cartoon about three alien teenagers stuck on earth and
attending an Illinois high school. (Cartoon Network, Fridays beginning this
week.)

FRED: THE MOVIE Originally intended as a theatrical film, this adaptation of the
teenage auteur Lucas Cruikshank's ''Fred Figglehorn'' Web videos will make its
debut on television. (Nickelodeon, Saturday.)

BOARDWALK EMPIRE This prestige project, HBO's big gun for the fall, has an
evocative setting (Atlantic City during Prohibition), a ''Sopranos'' writer
(Terence Winter), a big-name director for its pilot (Martin Scorsese, no less)
and a fine lead actor (Steve Buscemi). Will that be enough? (HBO, Sundays
beginning Sept. 19.)

HORSE SENSE AND SOLDIERS Three Iraq veterans are treated for post-traumatic
stress with the help of wild horses. (Military Channel, Sept. 19.)

MIKE & MOLLY Cable has introduced wide-bodied characters in dramas like ''Drop
Dead Diva'' and ''Huge.'' Now a broadcast network joins in, casting Billy
Gardell -- several sizes larger than Kevin James was in ''King of Queens'' --
and Melissa McCarthy as a couple who encounter each other at Overeaters
Anonymous. Call it meeting glute. (CBS, Mondays beginning Sept. 20.)

HAWAII FIVE-O This souped-up remake of 1960s-'70s cop series is the most
high-profile new network show of the fall, which means it will take the most
abuse if it doesn't succeed right away. In the Jack Lord role, Alex O'Loughlin
(''Moonlight,'' ''Three Rivers'') will try to break the single-season curse.
Daniel Dae Kim and Grace Park give this the highest hot-Asian quotient among the
new shows, edging out ''Nikita'' and its star, Maggie Q. (CBS, Mondays beginning
Sept. 20.)

LONE STAR Fox jumps on the multiple-wives bandwagon (''Big Love,'' ''Sister
Wives''), though in this case the wives don't know about each other. James Wolk
plays a young Texas con man mated to an oil-heiress in Houston and a homebody in
Midland. The impressive cast includes Jon Voight, David Keith and Adrianne
Palicki. (Fox, Mondays beginning Sept. 20.) THE EVENT ''FlashForward'' didn't
kill the big-cast, big-conspiracy, season-spanning mystery, but there will be
even more pressure for quick ratings success this time around. Jason Ritter
stars as the man who stumbles onto mind-boggling secrets; Blair Underwood plays
the Cuban-American president. (NBC, Monday nights beginning Sept. 20.)

CHASENBC Universal doubles down on shows about blond United States Marshals.
''Chase'' and its star, Kelli Giddish, will have to work hard to be as good as
''In Plain Sight'' and Mary McCormack on USA. While ''In Plain Sight'' focuses
on protecting witnesses, ''Chase'' will be about hunting down fugitives, in
keeping with the priorities of its production company, Jerry Bruckheimer
Television. (NBC, Mondays beginning Sept. 20.)

DETROIT 1-8-7Michael Imperioli leads this ensemble drama about a Detroit
homicide unit, which was considered the hottest new drama coming out of the
network upfront presentations, at least until it was announced in July that the
pilot would be reworked to remove the original mock-documentary framework. (ABC,
Tuesdays beginning Sept. 21.)

THE HOUSE OF STEINBRENNER The much-honored Barbara Kopple (''Harlan County
U.S.A.,'' ''Shut Up and Sing'') made this film about the construction of the new
Yankee Stadium, and the transfer of power within the Yankees organization from
George M. Steinbrenner to his sons, for ESPN's ''30 for 30'' documentary series.
(ESPN, Sept. 21.)

RAISING HOPE A new sitcom with a tricky premise -- a 23-year-old who lives with
his parents brings home the baby he didn't know he had -- but a promising cast
that includes Martha Plimpton, Cloris Leachman and Garret Dillahunt. A newcomer,
Lucas Neff, plays the slacker whose girlfriend can't help with the baby because
she's on death row. If it sounds a little like ''My Name Is Earl,'' that might
be because Greg Garcia created both shows. (Fox, Tuesdays beginning Sept. 21.)

RUNNING WILDE Mitch Hurwitz and Will Arnett, who worked together on ''Arrested
Development,'' reunite as creators (along with Jim Vallely) of this new sitcom
about a playboy in love with the housekeeper's daughter. In this ''Sabrina''
set-up, Mr. Arnett and Keri Russell take the William Holden and Audrey Hepburn
parts, respectively. (Fox, Tuesdays beginning Sept. 21.)

BETTER WITH YOU No relation to ABC's recently canceled ''Better Off Ted,'' this
is a relationship comedy featuring a married couple and their two unmarried but
in-love daughters. The show's creator, Shana Goldberg-Meehan, was a writer and
producer on ''Friends.'' (ABC, Wednesdays beginning Sept. 22.)

COUGAR TOWNJennifer Aniston will appear on the second-season premiere of this
Courteney Cox sitcom, because that's what friends are for. Ms. Aniston will play
a therapist. (ABC, Sept. 22.)

THE WHOLE TRUTH Employing the latest ''Law & Order''-style structural gimmick,
this legal drama will present cases by switching between the points of view of
prosecution and defense. To answer the obvious question that this raises: yes,
every week we'll be seeing the same prosecution and defense teams. Maura Tierney
and Rob Morrow star; the producers' pedigrees include the ''CSI'' series, ''Law
& Order'' and ''Without a Trace.'' (ABC, Wednesdays beginning Sept. 22.)

THE DEFENDERS After eight seasons -- eight seasons! -- of ''According to Jim,''
Jim Belushi goes back to work in this drama about a pair of Las Vegas lawyers;
his partner is played by Jerry O'Connell. The premise, based on an actual pair
of lawyers, was shopped as a reality series before being turned into fiction.
(CBS, Wednesdays beginning Sept. 22.)

PAIR OF KINGS Two Disney Channel veterans, Mitchel Musso (''Hannah Montana'')
and Doc Shaw (''The Suite Life on Deck''), play teenage brothers summoned from
Chicago to take their place as rulers of an island kingdom. (Disney XD,
Wednesdays beginning Sept. 22.)

UNDERCOVERS ''Mr. and Mrs. Smith'' meets ''Top Chef.'' Two improbably
good-looking agents (Gugu Mbatha-Raw and Boris Kodjoe) have left the spy game
for the high-end catering business, but when a C.I.A. bigwig (Gerald McRaney)
drops by the kitchen to ask for their help ... well, you know the rest. J. J.
Abrams directed the pilot, something he's done twice before, on ''Alias'' and
''Lost.'' (NBC, Wednesdays beginning Sept. 22.)

LIVE FROM LINCOLN CENTER A new season begins with the New York Philharmonic's
opening night gala, which features Alan Gilbert conducting the American premiere
of Wynton Marsalis's ''Swing Symphony.'' (PBS, Wednesdays beginning Sept. 22.)
MY GENERATION Will a mock-documentary format make this show about former high
school classmates more successful than the sitcom ''The Class'' (2006) or the
murder mystery ''The Reunion'' (2005)? Jaime King and Kelli Garner are the
best-known members of a low-profile cast. (ABC, Thursdays beginning Sept. 23.)

THE BIG BANG THEORY One of television's most popular sitcoms moves to Thursday
night for its fourth season as CBS takes on NBC's comedy lineup in the 8 p.m.
hour. (CBS, Thursdays beginning Sept. 23.)

$#*! MY DAD SAYS A lot of questions here: How do you make a prime-time comedy
out of a one-joke Twitter feed? How will people say the title? (O.K., we know
the answer to that, we just can't print it here.) Most important: how bad a sign
was it that Jonathan Sadowski replaced Ryan Devlin in the role of the Twittering
son (opposite William Shatner as the crotchety father) in July? (CBS, Thursdays
beginning Sept. 23.)

OUTSOURCED A manager for an American novelties company is sent to India to run
the call center. In a practical but nevertheless amusing circumstance, given the
title, all of the primary Indian roles appear to have been cast with American,
Canadian and British actors. (NBC, Thursdays beginning Sept. 23.)

FISH HOOKS Like ''Sym-Bionic Titan'' on Cartoon Network, this new animated
series is about three high school friends, except that instead of aliens they're
pet fish. (Disney Channel, Fridays beginning Sept. 24.)

BLUE BLOODSTom Selleck as a New York police commissioner whose two sons are cops
and whose daughter is an assistant district attorney. (CBS, Fridays beginning
Sept. 24.)

SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE The 35th season begins, host to be determined. Coming up on
Oct. 9: Jane Lynch of ''Glee.'' (NBC, Saturdays beginning Sept. 25.)

SHARKTOPUS If ''Dinoshark'' and ''Dinocroc vs. Supergator'' didn't satisfy your
hunger for mutant-animal rampages and cheesy special effects, Syfy is back with
another ungodly creation. Eric Roberts plays the scientist who breeds the
weaponized hybrid (it can be controlled electronically), but the important name
is the one after ''producer'': Roger Corman. (Syfy, Sept. 25.)

60 MINUTES Just for the record, this is the newsmagazine's 43rd season,
currently the longest continuous run in prime time. (CBS, Sunday nights
beginning Sept. 26.)

BORED TO DEATH This minimalist Brooklyn metacomedy, created by the writer
Jonathan Ames and starring Jason Schwartzman as Jonathan Ames, writer and
semi-professional detective, returns for a second season. (HBO, Sundays
beginning Sept. 26.)

STICKS, STONES AND CYBER SLAMS: A NEW BREED OF BULLY Teenage victims of cyber
-bullying discuss their experiences on this installment of ''Nick News With
Linda Ellerbee.'' (Nickelodeon, Sept. 26.)NATURE The natural history show's 29th
season begins with ''Cuba: Accidental Eden,'' an examination of how the island
nation's isolation has helped preserve its biodiversity and how changing times
-- and especially the end of the United States trade embargo -- could threaten
it. (PBS, Sundays beginning Sept. 26.)

DEXTER Michael C. Hall's serial killer with a heart of gold returns for a fifth
season. Julia Stiles takes over as primary guest star, the role that recently
resulted in an Emmy for John Lithgow. (Showtime, Sundays beginning Sept. 26.)

SISTER WIVES The first ''plural wife family'' to get a reality show numbers
three sister wives -- Janelle, 40; Meri, 39; and Christine, 37 -- but husband
Kody wants to add a younger fourth wife. Will he get his way? And more
important, is the money they're being paid by TLC worth the risk of going to
jail? (TLC, Sundays beginning Sept. 26.)

TEENAGE PAPARAZZO The actor Adrian Grenier made this documentary about a
14-year-old would-be celebrity photographer. (HBO, Sept. 27.)

WHEN WORLDS COLLIDE The journalist and author Ruben Martinez is host of this
documentary that traces the roots of Latino culture to the effects that the
cultures of the old and new worlds had on each other in the century after
Columbus's arrival. (PBS, Sept. 27.)

NO ORDINARY FAMILY If you can wrap your head around the notion of Michael
Chiklis, the murderous cop from ''The Shield,'' and Julie Benz, the abused wife
from ''Dexter,'' as an all-American married couple, then you can probably accept
the idea that they and their children survive a plane crash in the Amazon and
develop superpowers. (ABC, Tuesdays beginning Sept. 28.)

INTO THE WIND Steve Nash, the Phoenix Suns point guard and a two-time winner of
the National Basketball Association's most valuable player award, directed this
documentary about a fellow Canadian's attempt to run across Canada despite
having lost a leg to bone cancer. (ESPN, Sept. 28.)

THE TENTH INNINGKen Burns's ''Baseball'' made a lot of grown-ups teary back in
1994. This new two-part, four-and-a-half-hour documentary covers developments in
the sport since then, including home-run madness, steroids and the lifting of a
curse in Boston. (PBS, Sept. 28 and 29.)

STARGATE UNIVERSE One of last season's better, if bleaker, new shows returns,
with its cast of soldiers and civilians still trapped aboard a runaway alien
spaceship and Robert Carlyle still starring as the only marginally sympathetic
protagonist. (Syfy, Tuesdays beginning Sept. 28.)

LAW & ORDER: LOS ANGELES The New York-based franchise opens for business in Los
Angeles -- can a Dodgers joke be far behind? -- with Skeet Ulrich and Corey
Stoll as the police who investigate crime and the high-powered duo of Alfred
Molina and Terrence Howard as the district attorneys who prosecute the
offenders. When they're not sitting by the pool. (NBC, Wednesdays beginning
Sept. 29.)

OCTOBER

TEACH: TONY DANZA Boxer, actor, song and dance man -- schoolteacher? Before
''Taxi,'' Mr. Danza got his degree in education; this reality series was filmed
over the last year as he taught 10th-grade English full time in a Philadelphia
public high school. (A&E, Fridays beginning Oct. 1.)

THE INCREASINGLY POOR DECISIONS OF TODD MARGARET The cult comedian David Cross
(''Arrested Development,'' ''The Show'') created, wrote and stars in this
six-episode farce about a less than honest office temp. (IFC, Fridays beginning
Oct. 1.)

WWE FRIDAY NIGHT SMACKDOWN Your Friday-night professional wrestling fix hasn't
been canceled -- it's just moving to Syfy, its fourth network in 12 years,
following UPN, CW and MyNetworkTV. (Syfy, Fridays beginning Oct. 1.)

FARM AIDJohn Mellencamp, Neil Young, Willie Nelson, Dave Matthews, Kenny
Chesney, Norah Jones and many more are scheduled to perform at the 25th edition
of the benefit concert, broadcast live from Milwaukee. (DirecTV, Oct. 2.)

T.U.F.F. PUPPY Butch Hartman (''The Fairly OddParents'') created this new
animated series about a dumb dog who becomes a crime-fighting hero.
(Nickelodeon, Saturdays beginning Oct. 2.)

PLANET SHEEN This ''Adventures of Jimmy Neutron'' spin-off follows a character
from that show as he crash lands his rocket on a strange planet. (Nickelodeon,
Saturdays beginning Oct. 2.)

IRT: DEADLIEST ROADS The echo of ''Deadliest Catch'' in the title of this ''Ice
Road Truckers'' spin-off is allowed, since all three shows are made by Original
Productions, the kings of high-risk reality television. ''IRT'' takes drivers
from ''Ice Road Truckers'' and transports them to India, where they can practice
their skills in the Himalayas. (History Channel, Sundays beginning Oct. 3.)LIES
IN PLAIN SIGHTRosie Perez stars in a television movie as a woman investigating
her blind cousin's suicide. Lifetime Movie Network, Oct. 3.

WALLANDER IIKenneth Branagh returns as the dour Swedish detective Kurt Wallander
in a second series of adaptations of Henning Mankell's mystery novels. (PBS,
Sundays beginning Oct. 3.)

PARKER SPITZER Shades of Shana Alexander and James Kilpatrick, except that this
time the woman is the conservative and the man was forced out of public office
by a sex scandal. CNN devotes a prime 8 p.m. spot to this current-affairs show
hosted by the columnist Kathleen Parker and the former New York governor Eliot
Spitzer, who will go head to head with Bill O'Reilly on Fox News and Keith
Olbermann on MSNBC. Will Jane Curtin and Dan Aykroyd come back to parody them on
''Saturday Night Live''? (CNN, weekdays beginning Oct. 4.)

A LETTER TO ELIA Martin Scorsese's documentary about the life and work of one of
his major influences, the great director Elia Kazan (''On the Waterfront,'' ''A
Streetcar Named Desire''), will be shown as part of ''American Masters'' after
playing at the Venice, Telluride and New York film festivals. (PBS, Oct. 4.)

UNDERBELLY: THE GOLDEN MILE A second season of this vivid Australian drama
series based on actual gangsters and cops is set in Sydney in the late 1980s.
(DirecTV, Tuesdays beginning Oct. 5.)HOUSE OF GLAM Apparently ''The Rachel Zoe
Project'' on Bravo has done well enough that there's room for a second reality
series about celebrity stylists. This one focuses on the New York-based B. Lynn
Group. (Oxygen, Oct. 5.)

STEVEN SEAGAL: LAWMAN Last season's most improbable success story is back for
Season 2. (A&E, Wednesdays beginning Oct. 6.)

MICHAEL FEINSTEIN'S AMERICAN SONGBOOK Mr. Feinstein, the singer, scholar and
Dame Edna foil, takes his mission of preserving classic American songwriting to
television in a mini-series that combines history, performance and footage of
the host digging through storage lockers and attics. (PBS, Oct. 6, 13 and 20.)

GIGANTIC This new drama about the teenage children of Hollywood heavyweights
goes to the source: the cast includes Meryl Streep's daughter Grace Gummer and
Joe Mantegna's daughter Gia Mantegna. (TeenNick, Fridays beginning Oct. 8.)

THE MINIMALIST Mark Bittman presents recipes and tips in a show based on his New
York Times column of the same title. (Cooking Channel, Sundays beginning Oct.
10.)

HARDCOVER MYSTERIES Writers including David Baldacci, Harlan Coben, Sara
Paretsky and Lisa Scottoline discuss the real cases on which they based their
novels. (Investigation Discovery, Mondays beginning Oct. 11.)

GOD IN AMERICA PBS takes on a large and timely topic in this three-night,
six-hour miniseries, a co-production of ''American Experience'' and
''Frontline.'' (PBS, Oct. 11-13.)

NICK SWARDSON'S PRETEND TIME Mr. Swardson, the comedian and ''Reno 911!''
regular, gets his own sketch comedy series. (Comedy Central, Tuesdays beginning
Oct. 12.)

THE VANILLA ICE PROJECT Robert Van Winkle, a. k. a. Vanilla Ice, attempts a
career renovation in this new reality series that highlights his post-pop-star
avocation: home improvement. (DIY, Thursdays beginning Oct. 14.)

MONICA & DAVID Alexandra Codina's film, the winner of the Tribeca Film
Festival's best documentary feature award this year, is about a married couple
who both have Down syndrome. (HBO, Oct. 14.)

30 ROCK The show exhibits its ''Saturday Night Live'' DNA by doing a live
episode. But the sitcom does the variety show one better: it will perform the
episode twice, at 8:30 p.m. Eastern time and again at 8:30 p.m. Pacific time.
(NBC, Oct. 14.)

LUTHER Idris Elba, who mesmerized American audiences as the drug dealer Stringer
Bell in ''The Wire,'' gets to play the good guy -- and use his real accent -- in
this British series about a tortured-genius detective. (BBC America, Sundays
beginning Oct. 17.)

TOWER PREP The Prisoner goes to high school: Drew Van Acker stars as a teenager
who wakes up at a strange prep school and can't leave in this live-action
series. (Cartoon Network, Tuesdays beginning Oct. 19.)

NOVA The science show begins a new season with ''Building the Great
Cathedrals,'' in which engineers, architects and computer historians work to
decipher medieval building methods so that they can be used to help save the
Gothic cathedrals now. (PBS, Tuesdays beginning Oct. 19.)

NIGHT OF TOO MANY STARS Subtitled ''An Overbooked Concert for Autism
Education,'' this live comedy show will be hosted by Jon Stewart and is
scheduled to include Stephen Colbert, Steve Carell, Jimmy Fallon, Tina Fey,
Ricky Gervais, John Oliver, Chris Rock and Sarah Silverman. (Comedy Central,
Oct. 21.)

DEAN OF INVENTIONDean Kamen, inventor of, among other things, the Segway,
travels around the world seeking out ''emerging technologies.'' (Planet Green,
Fridays beginning Oct. 22.)

SHERLOCK The ''Masterpiece Mystery!'' season closes with this new Sherlock
Holmes series, set in contemporary London and starring Benedict Cumberbatch as
Holmes. (PBS, Oct. 24 and 31 and Nov. 7.)

DEAD SET Zombies surround the Big Brother house, but the reality-show
contestants have no way of knowing they're there, in this British mini-series.
(IFC, Oct. 25-29.)

BIDDER RIVALS Yet another tchotchke reality show, in the vein of ''Antiques
Roadshow,'' ''Pawn Stars,'' ''American Pickers'' et al. This one follows the
owner of a Southern auction house as he hunts down collectibles. (Discovery,
Tuesdays beginning Oct. 26.)

STEVE BARTMAN: CATCHING HELLAlex Gibney, the Oscar-winning director of ''Taxi to
the Dark Side,'' tackles a lighter subject (unless you're Steve Bartman) in this
''30 for 30'' documentary about the Chicago Cubs fan who tried to catch a foul
ball and ended up being blamed for the team's failure to reach the World Series.
(ESPN, Oct. 26.)

FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS The best television show that you're probably not watching
returns for its fifth, and final, season. (DirecTV, Wednesdays beginning Oct.
27.)

THE WALKING DEAD Part George A. Romero, part ''The Road,'' this new zombie
series -- AMC's fourth original drama, after ''Mad Men,'' ''Breaking Bad'' and
''Rubicon'' -- was created by Frank Darabont (''The Green Mile,'' ''The Mist'').
(AMC, Sundays beginning Oct. 31.)

NOVEMBER

MOGULS AND MOVIE STARS: A HISTORY OF HOLLYWOOD Christopher Plummer narrates this
seven-part history of the American film business, from the beginning through the
1960s. (Turner Classic Movies, Mondays beginning Nov. 1.)

MARION JONES: PRESS PAUSEJohn Singleton (''Boyz n the Hood,'' ''Shaft'')
profiles the Olympic sprinter and fallen hero Marion Jones in this ''30 for 30''
documentary. (ESPN, Nov. 2.)

CIRCUS It's probably the closest you'll get to running away: this six-hour
mini-series goes on the road and behind the scenes with the New York-based Big
Apple Circus. (PBS, Nov. 3, 10 and 17.)

HOLLYWOOD TREASURE More tchotchke hunting, this time of the show-business and
pop-culture variety. (Syfy, Thursdays beginning Nov. 4.)

DOWNSIZED Or, ''With Nine You Get Foreclosure Papers.'' In this reality series,
a large blended family copes with the new hard times; its strategies include
growing food and making clothes. (WE, Saturdays beginning Nov. 6.)

GREAT MIGRATIONS In a clear challenge to David Attenborough's hegemony over
lushly photographed, buzz-generating, DVD-moving nature series (''The Blue
Planet'' and ''Planet Earth'' on the Discovery Channel), National Geographic
offers this three-years-in-the-making, seven-hour high-definition mini-series.
Alec Baldwin narrates tales of animal journeys. (National Geographic Channel,
beginning Nov. 7.)

CONAN Mr. O'Brien, folk hero and talk-show host, begins his new 11 p.m. show,
bumping George Lopez to midnight. (TBS, weekdays beginning Nov. 8.)

AUCTION HUNTERS Absolutely the last tchotchke reality show that will be included
here. This one sounds promising, actually: it's about a pair of prospectors who
bid, nearly sight unseen, on the contents of abandoned storage units. Think of
it as ''Antiques Horror Show.'' (Spike, Tuesdays beginning Nov. 9.)

WARTORN: 1861-2010James Gandolfini, an executive producer of ''Alive Day
Memories: Home From Iraq,'' took the same role in Jon Alpert and Ellen
Goosenberg Kent's documentary about the history of post-traumatic stress in the
American military. (HBO, Nov. 11.)

GOLD RUSH A group of modern 49ers head to Alaska to strike it rich in this
nonfiction series. (Discovery, Fridays beginning Nov. 12.)

SARAH PALIN'S ALASKA Salmon fishing, glacier hiking and other outdoorsy
activities with the former governor. (TLC, Sundays beginning Nov. 14.)

GLORY DAZE It's an hour-long show, but TBS, in defiance of television
convention, is labeling it a comedy. Kelly Blatz heads the cast of this college
comedy set in Wisconsin in the 1980s. (TBS, Tuesdays beginning Nov. 16.)

GET OUT ALIVE A reversal on National Geographic's ''Locked Up Abroad,'' this
series features the stories of people who managed to escape from Somali pirates,
South American drug dealers, the Taliban and other modern bogeymen. (Discovery,
Mondays beginning Nov. 22.)

LENNONYC This installment of ''American Masters'' recalls the years John Lennon
and Yoko Ono spent living and working in New York City. (PBS, Nov. 22.)

NOVEMBER CHRISTMAS John Corbett, Sam Elliott, Sarah Paulson and Karen Allen star
in a Hallmark Hall of Fame movie about making Christmas come early for a gravely
ill girl. (CBS, Nov. 28.)

WILD JUSTICE Another new show from Original Productions (the ''Deadliest Catch''
people), this one focuses on the dangerous lives of game wardens. (National
Geographic Channel, Sundays beginning Nov. 28.)

Correction: September 19, 2010, Sunday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A television
entry in the listings last Sunday misstated the given name of one of the stars
of ''Law & Order: Los Angeles.'' He is Corey Stoll, not Casey.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: Ted Danson, left, and Jason
Schwartzman in ''Bored to Death''
Gugu Mbatha-Raw in ''Undercovers''
a scene from ''Hawaii Five-0''
and Billy Gardell and Melissa McCarthy in ''Mike and Molly.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
BARRY WETCHER/HBO
CHRIS HASTON/NBC
MARIO PEREZ/CBS
MONTY BRINTON/CBS)
Alfred Molina and Regina Hall as district attorneys in a scene from ''Law &
Order: Los Angeles.'' Skeet Ulrich, Casey Stoll and Terrance Howard also star in
the new series on NBC. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEAN HENDLER/NBC) (AR27)
Top, Kenneth Branagh as the Swedish detective Kurt Wallander in the second
season of ''Wallander,'' on PBS. Above, Sarah Palin in her in-laws' kitchen in
''Sarah Palin's Alaska,'' on TLC. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PBS
 GILLES MINGASSON/DISCOVERY CHANNEL) (AR28)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               64 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 19, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Terror Translators

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2548 words


INSPIRE magazine, an English-language journal published by Al Qaeda, included in
its summer edition what amounted to a ''Friends and Foes'' list. There, on Page
4, following the letter from the editor (''We survive through jihad and perish
without it''), were pictures of, and quotations from, kindred spirits like
Faisal Shahzad, who pleaded guilty in a plot to detonate a car bomb in Times
Square, and, perhaps surprisingly, David Letterman, who was praised for recent
criticism of former President George W. Bush.

Among the magazine's ''foes'' were Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates; Nicolas
Sarkozy, the president of France; and King Abdullah II of Jordan. Then there was
Mitchell D. Silber, a studious and mild-mannered former financier who grew up in
Atlantic Beach, N.Y.

Mr. Silber (''I guess I was flattered in a strange way'') may seem an unlikely
choice to occupy that space with a terrorist, a television star, a cabinet
secretary, a European head of state and an Arab potentate. He is not, after all,
a boldface name. Rather, he is a 40-year-old father with a master's degree in
international affairs from Columbia University who says his main hobby is
reading deeply on the Middle East.

What landed Mr. Silber on that list was his leadership of a little-known
counterterrorism team deep within the crime-fighting structure of the New York
Police Department.

Formally known as the Analytic Unit of the department's Intelligence Division,
the team was created in 2002 as part of the city's response to the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks. It stands as a unique experiment in breaking traditional
law-enforcement boundaries, comprising two dozen civilian experts -- lawyers,
academics, corporate consultants, investment bankers, alumni of the World Bank
and the Council on Foreign Relations and even a former employee of the Foreign
Ministry of Azerbaijan.

The team serves as the Police Department's terrorism reference arm: available on
demand to explain Islamic law or Pakistani politics to detectives in the field.

''We have found that conducting terrorism investigations is more art than
science and requires a breadth of complementary skill sets,'' Mr. Silber said
during one of several interviews this summer. ''Our detectives tend to have a
very narrow focus. But the analysts have 360-degree visibility. They focus on
the bigger picture, and they sometimes see things detectives don't see.''

To bolster counterterrorism operations after 9/11, the Police Department
expanded its Intelligence Division -- run by David Cohen, a 30-year veteran of
the C.I.A. -- with detectives who had mainly spent their careers chasing street
gangs, drug lords and violent Mafiosi. Such trained investigators brought with
them specific skills the department thought would translate into the fight
against terror: the ability to read a suspect's manner and the talent for
managing secret informants.

What they needed, in turn, were people to help them translate their skills to
new terrain, people with a firm cultural grasp of the suspects they were meant
to be pursuing. Over the years, a gang detective in the Bronx will probably have
developed a radar able to determine at a glance the meaning of a hand gesture or
a prison tattoo. But, as one former intelligence detective said of potential
Islamic extremists, ''when we first started, we didn't even know they prayed on
Fridays.''

Enter the Analytic Unit, which Samuel J. Rascoff, who ran it from 2006 to 2008
and is now a law professor at New York University, described as an attempt to
bring ''the culturally exotic world of the ivory tower to bear on the gritty
problems of counterterrorism as experienced by beat cops and seasoned
detectives.''

Consider the time a detective was investigating an Afghan immigrant suspected of
involvement in terror activities. The detective found it helpful when an analyst
informed him that the United States military had attacked the man's hometown
three months earlier with a drone strike. Sometimes, analysts walk detectives
through Google Earth images of Pakistani villages -- the mosque is here, the
bazaar is there -- so the detectives sound more informed and enhance their
credibility when dealing with potential covert sources.

''Say a detective is doing surveillance on a cabdriver and he pulls over and
goes into a mosque,'' Mr. Silber said. ''Is this a secret meeting or is it
Ramadan and the driver is simply going to pray? The detective is just unlikely
to be familiar with that kind of thing, but the analyst can put it in context.''

Mr. Silber's analysts earn $55,000 to $95,000 a year working daily shifts at
their offices in Manhattan and at the Brooklyn Army Terminal, but are available
to put things into context around the clock, at the ring of a cellphone. Their
assistance can be as complicated as explaining the interlocking network of
Afghan tribes or the nuances of the Koran, or as simple as keeping current with
New York's foreign-language newspapers.

As one detective from the Intelligence Division's Priority Targeting Unit, which
focuses on the highest-profile cases, said: ''I'm not reading that stuff. I'm
reading Sports Illustrated.''

LESS than an hour after a Nissan Pathfinder was found spewing smoke and rigged
with a car bomb on West 45th Street on May 1, several members of the Analytic
Unit had gathered at their secret office on the West Side of Manhattan trying to
assess what, by all accounts, was the most severe terror threat to face the city
in years.

For the next 24 hours, as detectives in the field scoured the car for clues,
pulled apart the bomb and began tracking down witnesses, their civilian
counterparts helped them, by brainstorming leads to be pursued. In which stores,
they asked themselves, could the fireworks and propane tanks that had made up
the bomb be obtained? And what did that Arab-language sticker on its timing
device -- a cheap alarm clock -- say?

The unit's linguists monitored jihadist Web sites for useful hints or boastful
chatter. Others searched the Internet -- sometimes using methods as basic as
typing ''Times Square car bomb'' into Google, but filtering the results through
eyes trained to see obscure tidbits. Eventually, they came across a YouTube
video posted by the Pakistani Taliban, claiming responsibility for the plot.

Cyber specialists were able to determine that the YouTube account had been set
up less than 24 hours before the attack occurred. The video was analyzed by the
unit's Pakistan expert, who knew, for instance, that a leader of the group, the
Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan, or T.T.P., had posted videos during the previous
month, announcing that commandoes had ''penetrated'' the United States and were
poised to strike.

By 9 p.m. on May 2, a Sunday, the Analytic Unit had prepared an eight-page
report for Mr. Cohen, the Police Department's deputy commissioner for
intelligence, suggesting that an ''evolving, highly dynamic'' terrorist group,
T.T.P., was probably behind the failed attack. Officials in Washington announced
the same conclusion days later. (Mr. Shahzad eventually acknowledged that the
group had trained him for the operation.)

No other municipal police force in the country has a team similar in scope and
sophistication to the Analytic Unit. Its specialists speak Urdu, Farsi, Russian,
Arabic and Hebrew, and ''cover'' subjects including South Asia, Somalia, Yemen,
Turkey, Lebanon, Israel, Iran and homegrown terrorist groups.

The unit began with five analysts working for a police captain. When Mr.
Rascoff, its first civilian leader, was tapped four years ago to enhance the
team -- quadrupling its size to 20 -- he described his mission as finding people
who ''combined very solid analytic and cultural skills with the ability to make
it in a world of cops where the coin of the realm is not whether your degree
came from Harvard or Columbia.''

As an Ivy Leaguer himself who once clerked for a Supreme Court justice, Mr.
Rascoff understood it would be difficult having ''pointy-headed youngsters''
interacting with veteran cops and wanted analysts with what he called ''a low
jerk quotient.''

Mr. Silber, who was hired to run the team in 2008 and has further expanded it to
24 analysts, spent nine years in the financial world with the Carson Group and
Evolution Capital, but left because, as he put it, 9/11 made him want ''to get
into the fight.'' At Columbia's School of International and Public Affairs, he
specialized in Saudi Arabia's laws regulating the flow of terrorist money. ''I
went from corporate finance to terrorist finance,'' he said.

The analysts he has brought in are mostly in their 20s and 30s and have worked
at the United Nations, the State Department, the Defense Intelligence Agency and
the New America Foundation, a research group in Washington.

''We come into this with a couple of years' experience in a region, or with a
law degree or master's degree,'' said one analyst, Jennifer, who, like most,
spoke on the condition that her last name not be used, for security reasons.
''We're not like the street cops. But it's the blending of those worlds that's
the best part of the job.''

Mr. Rascoff said this ''blending'' was his goal. Analysts sometimes accompany
detectives into the field, where they offer what Sgt. Steven Hines called
''another set of eyes.'' Those eyes are often attuned to what police eyes may
not see: a poster in Pashto for a local demonstration against drone strikes; or
a collection box on a deli counter seeking spare change for a charity suspected
of having terrorist ties.

Mr. Rascoff said the working relationship between the civilian and sworn
counterterrorism officials in New York was better than the parallel
relationships in the Federal Bureau of Investigation because federal agents,
unlike the local detectives, were often as highly educated as the analysts they
work with.

''F.B.I. agents sometimes look at their analysts and say, 'So, basically, we do
the same job, but I carry a gun and kick down doors while you sit at your desk
all day,' '' said Mr. Rascoff, who has been working in intelligence since 2003,
when he was a consultant to L. Paul Bremer, the special envoy to Iraq.

In the C.I.A., Mr. Rascoff added, the relationship between operatives and
analysts is often the chilly one between ''an author of cables and a reader of
cables.''

In the Police Department, he said, there is an ''educational, experiential but
not intellectual'' gulf that can, paradoxically, bring the sides together.

''While it's sometimes hard to harness those conflicting energies,'' Mr. Rascoff
said, ''when it succeeds, it succeeds wildly.''

The police officers agree, noting that academics versed in the culture of the
region are able to seize upon investigative subtleties that they themselves
might miss.

''An analyst once pointed out an individual on the street I thought was Afghan,
but was actually Pakistani,'' said the detective from the Priority Targeting
Unit. ''She knew because of the henna in his beard, the lack of a mustache and
the pants length.

''They're from a different world,'' he added. ''They're educated; I'm not. My
education is locking up bad guys.''

Another detective, sounding a bit like a Woody Allen character, put it this way:
''Whenever I have problems, I call my analyst.''

THE history of domestic intelligence in the United States has, to say the least,
a checkered record. From Cointelpro, a series of F.B.I. counterintelligence
programs, to the New York Police Department's own spying at the Republican
National Convention in 2004, there are enough instances of the authorities'
inappropriately surveilling their own citizens to make even the firmest
law-and-order advocate wince.

Christopher Dunn, a lawyer for the New York Civil Liberties Union who has
criticized the Police Department's surveillance of political groups, expressed
some concern about the arrangement.

''This is yet another step toward the N.Y.P.D. being able to operate entirely
outside of the larger law-enforcement community,'' he said. ''This type of
lone-wolf approach, which we saw during the convention, is a recipe for abuse,
or worse.''

But if civilian analysts help bring intellectual rigor to terrorism
investigations, if the police ''are more sophisticated and less stereotypical in
their work,'' Mr. Dunn added, ''that's all to the good.''

Investigations undertaken by the Analytic Unit, like those of the Intelligence
Division over all, are governed by legal controls put in place in 1985 as a
result of a 1971 class-action lawsuit, Handschu v. Special Services Division,
that concerned harassment of political groups by the department's so-called Red
Squad.

Mr. Silber argued that, by nature, a team of academics trained in Islamic law
and mores mitigated abuse. ''The unit helps detectives dealing with sources and
suspects to be more sophisticated,'' he said, ''and to develop a nuanced
understanding of doctrines, ideology and historical and cultural references.''

NEW YORK seems an ideal place to practice this theory of intellectual
investigation, and the unit has managed over the years to attract people who
have worked in the Washington bureaucracy and seem to prefer the city.

''We had people leaving jobs with the C.I.A. and military intelligence to come
work for us,'' Mr. Rascoff said. ''Why were they doing that? Part of it was the
noir quality of being within the confines of an institution like the N.Y.P.D.
There is an emotional, even an aesthetic, immediacy in being in New York rather
than sitting in a cubicle in some fluorescent-lit office in Langley.''

To Mr. Silber, the attraction is the opportunity to work at street level on
terrorism cases.

This year, analysts used their knowledge of cultural and political trends in
Somalia to help prepare an undercover officer in his dealings with two New
Jersey men, Mohamed Mahmood Alessa and Carlos Eduardo Almonte, arrested in June
just before they traveled to Somalia to join Al Shabab, a group that claims
kinship with Al Qaeda. Last year, an analyst provided unique advice to
detectives investigating Najibullah Zazi, an Afghan immigrant who has pleaded
guilty in a plot to detonate a bomb on the subway. The analyst, who served in
Afghanistan with the elite Army Rangers, drew upon his knowledge of local tribes
in Waziristan to create a flow chart of the numerous suspects in the Zazi case,
highlighting those that shared hometowns and family affiliations.

The Zazi case, Mr. Silber said, was the largest surveillance effort the Police
Department ever mounted in a terrorism investigation, and the unit's analysts
worked around the clock at covert locations, debriefing detectives as they came
in off the street, then analyzing and sharing the information with the next
shift before it went into the field.

''We're very much in the weeds of investigations,'' Mr. Silber said. ''We're
looking at the threat to New York, in New York, so there's a feeling of
grittiness in a sense.''

He said that working in Washington, where the focus is often on events and
people thousands of miles away, can feel ''a little antiseptic.''

''Here we're all in the same domain -- the suspects and the analysts,'' he said.
''You might hear that yesterday, at 3 o'clock, people gathered at this street
corner or in this cafe. We're all in the same fishbowl together. It makes for an
odd, exciting dynamic.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LOOKING FOR LEADS: A Nissan Pathfinder, top, used in a failed
bomb plot in Times Square led investigators to Faisal Shahzad, who pleaded
guilty in the case. Civilians with the city's antiterrorism unit helped link Mr.
Shahzad, whose family owned this house in Pakistan, to a Taliban group there.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOP, HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
MOHAMMAD SAJJAD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (MB1)
LEADERS: Mitchell D. Silber, top, director of the Police Department's Analytic
Unit, and Samuel J. Rascoff, his predecessor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
TEAMWORK :Analysts brainstormed about the components of the Times Square bomb,
including fireworks and a clock. An analyst who had served with the Army Rangers
in Afghanistan worked to develop data about a subway bomb plot, a case in which
Najibullah Zazi, right, pleaded guilty. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM LEFT, NIKO
KALLIANIOTIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RAMIN TALIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHRIS SCHNEIDER/DENVER POST, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (MB6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               65 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2010 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Cyberwar Chief Calls for Secure Computer Network

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 735 words


FORT MEADE, Md. -- The new commander of the military's cyberwarfare operations
is advocating the creation of a separate, secure computer network to protect
civilian government agencies and critical industries like the nation's power
grid against attacks mounted over the Internet.

The officer, Gen. Keith B. Alexander, suggested that such a heavily restricted
network would allow the government to impose greater protections for the
nation's vital, official on-line operations. General Alexander labeled the new
network ''a secure zone, a protected zone.'' Others have nicknamed it
''dot-secure.''

It would provide to essential networks like those that tie together the banking,
aviation, and public utility systems the kind of protection that the military
has built around secret military and diplomatic communications networks --
although even these are not completely invulnerable.

For years, experts have warned of the risks of Internet attacks on civilian
networks. An article published a few months ago by the National Academy of
Engineering said that ''cyber systems are the 'weakest link' in the electricity
system,'' and that ''security must be designed into the system from the start,
not glued on as an afterthought.''

General Alexander, an Army officer who leads the military's new Cyber Command,
did not explain just where the fence should be built between the conventional
Internet and his proposed secure zone, or how the gates would be opened to allow
appropriate access to information they need every day. General Alexander said
the White House hopes to complete a policy review on cyber issues in time for
Congress to debate updated or new legislation when it convenes in January.

General Alexander's new command is responsible for defending Defense Department
computer networks and, if directed by the president, carrying out
computer-network attacks overseas.

But the military is broadly prohibited from engaging in law enforcement
operations on American soil without a presidential order, so the command's
potential role in assisting the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal
Bureau of Investigation or the Department of Energy in the event of a major
attack inside the United States has not been set down in law or policy.

''There is a real probability that in the future, this country will get hit with
a destructive attack, and we need to be ready for it,'' General Alexander said
in a roundtable with reporters at the National Cryptologic Museum here at Fort
Meade in advance of his Congressional testimony on Thursday morning.

''I believe this is one of the most critical problems our country faces,'' he
said. ''We need to get that right. I think we have to have a discussion about
roles and responsibilities: What's the role of Cyber Command? What's the role of
the 'intel' community? What's the role of the rest of the Defense Department?
What's the role of D.H.S.? And how do you make that team work? That's going to
take time.''

Some critics have questioned whether the Defense Department can step up
protection of vital computer networks without crashing against the public's
ability to live and work with confidence on the Internet. General Alexander
said, ''We can protect civil liberties and privacy and still do our mission.
We've got to do that.''

Speaking of the civilian networks that are at risk, he said: ''If one of those
destructive attacks comes right now, I'm focused on the Defense Department. What
are the responsibilities -- and I think this is part of the discussion -- for
the power grid, for financial networks, for other critical infrastructure? How
do you protect the country when it comes to that kind of attack, and who is
responsible for it?''

As General Alexander prepared for his testimony before the House Armed Services
Committee, the ranking Republican on the panel, Howard P. McKeon of California,
noted the Pentagon's progress in expanding its cyber capabilities.

But he said that ''many questions remain as to how Cyber Command will meet such
a broad mandate'' given the clear ''vulnerabilities in cyberspace.''

The committee chairman, Rep. Ike Skelton, Democrat of Missouri, said that
''cyberspace is an environment where distinctions and divisions between public
and private, government and commercial, military and nonmilitary are blurred.''
He said that it is important ''that we engage in this discussion in a very
direct way and include the public.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               66 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Malicious Software Program Attacks Industry

BYLINE: By RIVA RICHMOND

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 576 words


The technology industry is being rattled by a quiet and sophisticated malicious
software program that has infiltrated factory computers.

The malware, known as Stuxnet, was discovered in mid July, at least several
months after its creation, by VirusBlokAda, a Belarussian computer security
company that was alerted by a customer.

Security experts say Stuxnet attacked the software in specialized industrial
control equipment made by Siemens by exploiting a previously unknown hole in the
Windows operating system. The malware marks the first attack on critical
industrial infrastructure that sits at the foundation of modern economies.

It also displays an array of novel tactics like an ability to steal design
documents or even sabotage equipment in a factory that suggest its creators are
much more sophisticated than hackers whose work has been seen before. The
malware casts a spotlight on several security weaknesses.

Eric Chien, the technical director of Symantec Security Response, a security
software maker that has studied Stuxnet, said it appears that the malware was
created to attack an Iranian industrial facility. Security experts say that it
was likely staged by a government or government-backed group, in light of the
significant expertise and resources required to create it. The specific facility
that was in Stuxnet's crosshairs is not known, though speculation has centered
on gas and nuclear installations.

Since it was unleashed, Stuxnet has spread to plants around the world. Siemens
said it has received 15 reports from affected customers, five of which were
located in Germany. All of these sites successfully removed the malicious
program, which can be detected and removed by commercial antivirus programs.
''Up to now there have been no instances where production operations have been
influenced,'' the company said in an e-mailed statement. Security researchers
initially believed Stuxnet's primary purpose was espionage because of its
ability to steal design documents for industrial control systems. But more
in-depth study of the program, which is extremely large and highly complex by
malware standards, has revealed that it can also make changes to those systems.

Exactly what Stuxnet might command industrial equipment to do still isn't known.
But malware experts say it could have been designed to trigger such
Hollywood-style bedlam as overloaded turbines, exploding pipelines and nuclear
centrifuges spinning so fast that they break. ''The true end goal of Stuxnet is
cyber sabotage. It's a cyber weapon basically,'' said Roel Schouwenberg, a
senior antivirus researcher at Kaspersky, a security software maker. ''But how
it exactly manifests in real life, I can't say.''

Stuxnet's remarkable sophistication has surprised many security professionals.
Its authors had detailed knowledge of Siemens' software and where its security
weaknesses are. They discovered and used four unknown security flaws in
Microsoft's Windows operating system. And they masked their attack with the aid
of sensitive intellectual property stolen from two hardware companies, Realtek
and JMicron, which are located in the same office park in Taiwan.

''It's impossible this was created by some teenager in his basement,'' Mr. Chien
said. ''The amount of resources and man hours to put this together,'' he said,
show ''it has to be something that was state originated.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               67 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 26, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Three Faces of the New China

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1392 words


UNITED NATIONS -- In a blur of headlines over the past few days, Americans have
been surprised with brief, seemingly contradictory glimpses of how China is
wielding its newfound power.

There was China the neighborhood bully, cutting off Japan's access to rare-earth
minerals unless Tokyo folded in a minor, but longstanding, territorial dispute.
(The Japanese folded.)

There was China the schmoozer, with its prime minister, Wen Jiabao, trying his
hardest on Thursday to deflect President Obama's pressure over the value of
China's currency -- really a battle over whether jobs go to workers in Seattle
or Shenzhen. The two leaders talked for two hours at the United Nations. The
outcome was left unclear.

And there was China the classic realist, opting for convenient inconsistency on
sanctions against North Korea and Iran in efforts to balance its competing
national interests. (The first is to engage the West on the Security Council.
The others include securing oil and protecting a client-state from collapse.)

In one sense, there's nothing surprising about a rising power finding subtle
ways to handle complex problems. But before China's breakout from poverty to
arguably the world's No. 2 economy, its default position on foreign policy was
to restate the principle of non-interference in other nations' affairs and focus
largely on its neighborhood.

That was before it had the military resources and the incentive to start
thinking of how to secure and defend interests around the globe. Today, its
interests include access to oil in places like Sudan and Iran, safe shipping
around the Horn of Africa, the ability to manipulate its currency for its own
gain.

And for the first time, the world is seeing a distinct range of behaviors, from
aggressive to passive-aggressive to diplomatic, in places that 20 years ago
China's leaders rarely thought about.

What American diplomats and analysts now have to figure out is what drives
China's actions and responses, how to try to shape them and, some would argue,
what limits to try to set.

''The China that President Obama hoped he was getting a year ago, the one that
becomes this great cooperative global power on the biggest issues of the day --
that's not the China he's dealing with today,'' said David Shambaugh, director
of the China policy program at George Washington University.

A senior administration official who often deals with the Chinese leadership
said: ''As they begin to manage their many constituencies, their politics is
looking more like ours.''

Here's a scouting report so far on China's style of muscle-flexing:

THE NEIGHBORHOOD: TIME FOR THE BIG STICK

For decades countries around Asia have been wary of China's resurgence --
tracking how many ships and missiles it was acquiring, and how it was using its
influence as an investor. A decade ago, as President Bush took power, a number
of neoconservatives urged him to ''contain'' China's presumed ambitions.

But containment would have probably been impossible and it proved, at least in
the past decade, unnecessary. So far Beijing has not pressed new territorial
claims; it has simply begun to defend old ones in sparsely inhabited places.

The Japanese stepped into one of those when they arrested the captain of a
Chinese trawler near a group of islands in the East China Sea, called the
Senkaku by the Japanese and the Diaoyu by China. The Japanese said the trawler
rammed a Japanese coast guard vessel. A few years ago this might have been
sorted out quietly as a consular issue. Not this time.

The Chinese -- perhaps driven by the People's Liberation Army, perhaps eager to
begin to declare their equivalent of the Monroe Doctrine -- demanded the
captain's return. Japan refused. Pushed by a nationalistic groundswell, China
started blocking shipments of the rare earths, an act that threatened Japan's
electronics industry.

''This played to the Asia First crowd in China,'' said Mr. Shambaugh, referring
to a faction in China's establishment that says the wise course is to dominate
the region while avoiding tussles with great powers. In recent months there have
been disputes over American exercises in nearby waters and over the border with
India.

''We've begun pushing back,'' said a senior administration official, explaining
why the United States is sending an aircraft carrier to the area.

But the Japanese, after 20 years of recession, had no push left in them. The
prosecutor dropped charges on Friday.

WASHINGTON: THE ART OF DEFLECTION

If China's strategy with Asia is all sharp elbows, with the United States it is
largely politeness and deflection -- most of the time.

When Mr. Obama first encountered Hu Jintao, the country's president, a fire was
threatening to consume both their economies, and they pursued the common
strategy of massive stimulus. For most of 2009, one of Mr. Obama's top aides
noted, ''everything else was set aside.''

Then they narrowly skirted clashes on environmental policy at Copenhagen, and a
cyber attack on Google was traced to China. But it is China's foot-dragging on
its promise to gradually let the market determine the value of its currency that
has really strained relations. In Congress, rightly or wrongly, China is often
accused of manipulating its currency to keep its factories humming, at the
expense of American workers. Democrats and Republicans are calling for tariffs.

So far China's strategy appears to be to maintain the trappings of routine
diplomacy while dragging its feet. Prime Minister Wen used the word
''cooperation'' or ''cooperative'' six times in just a few minutes when standing
beside Mr. Obama here. But when the doors closed, America pressed for immediate
action, and, a witness said, Mr. Wen ''dodged and weaved,'' restating arguments
that it takes generations to build an economic powerhouse.

Jeffrey Bader, the National Security Council's Asia director, said the president
noted he was ''disappointed that there had not been much movement'' since they
last met. But his leverage was scant, which is why the White House threatened to
to take other steps. Now the Chinese are gauging what he meant.

SPECIAL CASES: NORTH KOREA AND IRAN

North Korea and Iran are where China's local imperatives and great-power
interests collide.

If America's No. 1 goal is a stripping North Korea of its nuclear weapons,
China's is keeping North Korea stable. Should it collapse, the Chinese suspect,
South Korea (and its American allies) will move in, perhaps up to China's
border. As one American intelligence official put it recently, ''if the choice
is between living with a half-crazed nuclear North or with us on top of them,
the Chinese are choosing the first option.''

That doesn't mean they are happy about it. James Church, pen name of the author
of ''The Man With the Baltic Stare,'' his latest spy novel about North Korea,
learned about the country as an intelligence officer. He said in an interview:
''The Chinese may not like the North Koreans much. But there is too much
geography, history and emotion tying them together and shaping Chinese
thinking'' for Beijing to jettison its long-time client, particularly if it
means North Korea's absorption by America's ally, the South.

So in 2009, after the North's second nuclear test, it suited China's interests
to join sanctions against Pyongyang. This year, when the United States again
tried sanctions over the North's presumed role in sinking a South Korean
warship, the situation had changed: Kim Jong Il, the North's dictator, was ill,
and China needed to gain influence over his son and presumed heir, Kim Jong Un,
to keep the lid on the North. So the Chinese watered down the sanctions effort
here, and, foreign diplomats said, held a small victory party with the North
Korean delegation.

Iran is another special case. Twelve percent of China's oil comes from the
country; while it has gone along with sanctions, it has also made sure that
energy imports and exports were kept off the United Nations list. There is
constant talk of new, long-term energy investments by the Chinese in Iran. But
so far, few of those deals have been consummated. And when American officials
point out that a confrontation with Iran over its nuclear ambitions would
disrupt the flow of oil out of the Persian Gulf, the Chinese say they are
certain it won't come to that.

It is the ultimate three-dimensional chess board, played Chinese style.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Deflection: Wen Jiabao fended off President Obama's pleas on
currency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (WK1)
 Power Play: Japan was forced to rescind the arrest of a trawler captain.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KYODO/REUTERS) (WK3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               68 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 27, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 730 words


8 P.M. (NBC) CHUCK Chuck (Zachary Levi) and Sarah (Yvonne Strahovski), together
above, go stylish -- and undercover -- in Milan during fashion week to retrieve
a high-tech secret weapon. The model Karolina Kurkova and the actors Lou
Ferrigno and Isaiah Mustafa guest star. In ''The Event,'' at 9, the staff of
President Martinez (Blair Underwood) races to assess what happened to the plane
that was barreling toward him last week until it disappeared into a fissure in
the space-time continuum. And in ''Chase,'' at 10, Annie Frost (Kelli Giddish)
and a team of United States marshals track a fugitive (Robert LaSardo) intent on
killing for what he thinks is rightfully his.

3 P.M. (Fox Business Network) COUNTDOWN TO THE CLOSING BELL Liz Claman
broadcasts her 600th episode live from the Hercules Offshore oil rig H 201 in
the Gulf of Mexico. Among the topics: the concerns and frustrations experienced
by workers because of the moratorium against deep-water drilling imposed after
the BP spill.

8 P.M. (Fox) HOUSE House (Hugh Laurie) ponders the collapse of a 14-year-old
(Alyson Stoner) during a skateboarding competition and deals with the work
ramifications of his relationship with Cuddy (Lisa Edelstein). Kyle Killen,
creator of the ratings-challenged ''Lone Star,'' has said he will do just about
anything -- mow lawns or offer a sensual massage -- if people tune it at 9 to
the second episode, which finds Bob (James Wolk) recruiting his father (David
Keith) to help on a wind-farm scheme. Lindsay (Eloise Mumford) suspects that she
doesn't know her boyfriend as well as she thought.

8 P.M. (CBS) HOW I MET YOUR MOTHER Barney (Neil Patrick Harris) learns the truth
about his father when he helps his overprotective mother pack up his childhood
home. In ''Rules of Engagement,'' at 8:30, Jeff (Patrick Warburton) reveals that
he keeps a list of mistakes made by Audrey (Megyn Price). Charlie (Charlie
Sheen) tries to coerce Alan (Jon Cryer) into accepting the invitation of Lindsey
(Courtney Thorne-Smith) to move in with her in ''Two and a Half Men,'' at 9. And
in ''Mike & Molly,'' at 9:30, cold medicine proves disastrous to a first date.

9 P.M. (13, 49) WHEN WORLDS COLLIDE Carl Byker travels to Spain and South and
Central America to chronicle the origins of modern Latino culture, starting with
the arrival of Columbus in the New World.

9 P.M. (CW) GOSSIP GIRL Blair (Leighton Meester) enrolls at Columbia and courts
a social club for the creme de la creme.

9 P.M. (National Geographic) ANCIENT X-FILES Investigators search for clues
regarding the authenticity of a cup believed by some to be the Holy Grail and,
at 10, try to determine if the Shroud of Oviedo holds a trace of Jesus' blood.

9 P.M. (BBC America) TOP GEAR Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May
introduce a 15th season of automobile ogling by driving up an active volcano in
Iceland in a Toyota Hilux and taking a few laps around the track in a Bentley
Continental Supersports. They also celebrate a new reasonably priced car with a
starry party featuring the BBC journalist Nick Robinson, the Olympic gold-medal
skeleton racer Amy Williams and -- drum roll, please -- Angelina Jolie.

10 P.M. (CMT) INVITATION ONLY Kenny Chesney answers audience questions and
performs hits like ''When the Sun Goes Down'' and ''Out Last Night'' as well as
five new songs from his coming album, ''Hemingway's Whiskey.''

10 P.M. (CBS) HAWAII FIVE-0 The team goes to the rescue of a former cyber
-terrorism expert for the National Security Agency and tries to prevent a
nationwide breach.

10 P.M. (ABC) CASTLE Beckett (Stana Katic) and Castle (Nathan Fillion) debate
the existence of extrasensory abilities while investigating the murder of a
famous psychic. Among the evidence: a letter from the victim, written the day
she was killed, predicting her death.

10 P.M. (Showtime) WEEDS Nancy (Mary-Louise Parker) faces off against Cesar
(Enrique Castillo) in a Skee-Ball museum while trying to retrieve her kidnapped
son, Shane (Alexander Gould). In ''The Big C,'' at 10:30, Cathy (Laura Linney)
phones Lenny (Idris Elba) for a ride after she has a lump on her lower back
removed and Marlene (Phyllis Somerville) fails to show up to drive her home.
Paul (Oliver Platt) blows his chance at reconciliation when he mentions his
fling with Tina (Nadia Dajani). And Andrea (Gabourey Sidibe) vandalizes the
school. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               69 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 30, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Computer Worm, a Possible Biblical Clue

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF and DAVID E. SANGER; Ethan Bronner contributed reporting
from Israel, and William J. Broad from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1534 words


Deep inside the computer worm that some specialists suspect is aimed at slowing
Iran's race for a nuclear weapon lies what could be a fleeting reference to the
Book of Esther, the Old Testament tale in which the Jews pre-empt a Persian plot
to destroy them.

That use of the word ''Myrtus'' -- which can be read as an allusion to Esther --
to name a file inside the code is one of several murky clues that have emerged
as computer experts try to trace the origin and purpose of the rogue Stuxnet
program, which seeks out a specific kind of command module for industrial
equipment.

Not surprisingly, the Israelis are not saying whether Stuxnet has any connection
to the secretive cyberwar unit it has built inside Israel's intelligence
service. Nor is the Obama administration, which while talking about
cyberdefenses has also rapidly ramped up a broad covert program, inherited from
the Bush administration, to undermine Iran's nuclear program. In interviews in
several countries, experts in both cyberwar and nuclear enrichment technology
say the Stuxnet mystery may never be solved.

There are many competing explanations for myrtus, which could simply signify
myrtle, a plant important to many cultures in the region. But some security
experts see the reference as a signature allusion to Esther, a clear warning in
a mounting technological and psychological battle as Israel and its allies try
to breach Tehran's most heavily guarded project. Others doubt the Israelis were
involved and say the word could have been inserted as deliberate misinformation,
to implicate Israel.

''The Iranians are already paranoid about the fact that some of their scientists
have defected and several of their secret nuclear sites have been revealed,''
one former intelligence official who still works on Iran issues said recently.
''Whatever the origin and purpose of Stuxnet, it ramps up the psychological
pressure.''

So a calling card in the code could be part of a mind game, or sloppiness or
whimsy from the coders.

The malicious code has appeared in many countries, notably China, India,
Indonesia and Iran. But there are tantalizing hints that Iran's nuclear program
was the primary target. Officials in both the United States and Israel have made
no secret of the fact that undermining the computer systems that control Iran's
huge enrichment plant at Natanz is a high priority. (The Iranians know it, too:
They have never let international inspectors into the control room of the plant,
the inspectors report, presumably to keep secret what kind of equipment they are
using.)

The fact that Stuxnet appears designed to attack a certain type of Siemens
industrial control computer, used widely to manage oil pipelines, electrical
power grids and many kinds of nuclear plants, may be telling. Just last year
officials in Dubai seized a large shipment of those controllers -- known as the
Simatic S-7 -- after Western intelligence agencies warned that the shipment was
bound for Iran and would likely be used in its nuclear program.

''What we were told by many sources,'' said Olli Heinonen, who retired last
month as the head of inspections at the International Atomic Energy Agency in
Vienna, ''was that the Iranian nuclear program was acquiring this kind of
equipment.''

Also, starting in the summer of 2009, the Iranians began having tremendous
difficulty running their centrifuges, the tall, silvery machines that spin at
supersonic speed to enrich uranium -- and which can explode spectacularly if
they become unstable. In New York last week, Iran's president, Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad, shrugged off suggestions that the country was having trouble
keeping its enrichment plants going.

Yet something -- perhaps the worm or some other form of sabotage, bad parts or a
dearth of skilled technicians -- is indeed slowing Iran's advance.

The reports on Iran show a fairly steady drop in the number of centrifuges used
to enrich uranium at the main Natanz plant. After reaching a peak of 4,920
machines in May 2009, the numbers declined to 3,772 centrifuges this past
August, the most recent reporting period. That is a decline of 23 percent. (At
the same time, production of low-enriched uranium has remained fairly constant,
indicating the Iranians have learned how to make better use of fewer working
machines.)

Computer experts say the first versions of the worm appeared as early as 2009
and that the sophisticated version contained an internal time stamp from January
of this year.

These events add up to a mass of suspicions, not proof. Moreover, the difficulty
experts have had in figuring out the origin of Stuxnet points to both the appeal
and the danger of computer attacks in a new age of cyberwar.

For intelligence agencies they are an almost irresistible weapon, free of
fingerprints. Israel has poured huge resources into Unit 8200, its secretive
cyberwar operation, and the United States has built its capacity inside the
National Security Agency and inside the military, which just opened a Cyber
Command.

But the near impossibility of figuring out where they came from makes deterrence
a huge problem -- and explains why many have warned against the use of
cyberweapons. No country, President Obama was warned even before he took office,
is more vulnerable to cyberattack than the United States.

For now, it is hard to determine if the worm has infected centrifuge controllers
at Natanz. While the S-7 industrial controller is used widely in Iran, and many
other countries, even Siemens says it does not know where it is being used.
Alexander Machowetz, a spokesman in Germany for Siemens, said the company did no
business with Iran's nuclear program. ''It could be that there is equipment,''
he said in a telephone interview. ''But we never delivered it to Natanz.''

But Siemens industrial controllers are unregulated commodities that are sold and
resold all over the world -- the controllers intercepted in Dubai traveled
through China, according to officials familiar with the seizure.

Ralph Langner, a German computer security consultant who was the first
independent expert to assert that the malware had been ''weaponized'' and
designed to attack the Iranian centrifuge array, argues that the Stuxnet worm
could have been brought into the Iranian nuclear complex by Russian contractors.

''It would be an absolute no-brainer to leave an infected USB stick near one of
these guys,'' he said, ''and there would be more than a 50 percent chance of
having him pick it up and infect his computer.''

There are many reasons to suspect Israel's involvement in Stuxnet. Intelligence
is the single largest section of its military and the unit devoted to signal,
electronic and computer network intelligence, known as Unit 8200, is the largest
group within intelligence.

Yossi Melman, who covers intelligence for the newspaper Haaretz and is at work
on a book about Israeli intelligence over the past decade, said in a telephone
interview that he suspected that Israel was involved.

He noted that Meir Dagan, head of Mossad, had his term extended last year partly
because he was said to be involved in important projects. He added that in the
past year Israeli estimates of when Iran will have a nuclear weapon had been
extended to 2014.

''They seem to know something, that they have more time than originally
thought,'' he said.

Then there is the allusion to myrtus -- which may be telling, or may be a red
herring.

Several of the teams of computer security researchers who have been dissecting
the software found a text string that suggests that the attackers named their
project Myrtus. The guava fruit is part of the Myrtus family, and one of the
code modules is identified as Guava.

It was Mr. Langner who first noted that Myrtus is an allusion to the Hebrew word
for Esther. The Book of Esther tells the story of a Persian plot against the
Jews, who attacked their enemies pre-emptively.

''If you read the Bible you can make a guess,'' said Mr. Langner, in a telephone
interview from Germany on Wednesday.

Carol Newsom, an Old Testament scholar at Emory University, confirmed the
linguistic connection between the plant family and the Old Testament figure,
noting that Queen Esther's original name in Hebrew was Hadassah, which is
similar to the Hebrew word for myrtle. Perhaps, she said, ''someone was making a
learned cross-linguistic wordplay.''

But other Israeli experts said they doubted Israel's involvement. Shai
Blitzblau, the technical director and head of the computer warfare laboratory at
Maglan, an Israeli company specializing in information security, said he was
''convinced that Israel had nothing to do with Stuxnet.''

''We did a complete simulation of it and we sliced the code to its deepest
level,'' he said. ''We have studied its protocols and functionality. Our two
main suspects for this are high-level industrial espionage against Siemens and a
kind of academic experiment.''

Mr. Blitzblau noted that the worm hit India, Indonesia and Russia before it hit
Iran, though the worm has been found disproportionately in Iranian computers. He
also noted that the Stuxnet worm has no code that reports back the results of
the infection it creates. Presumably, a good intelligence agency would like to
trace its work.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: A Possible Target: The Stuxnet worm, which targets a type of
Siemens computer suspected to be in use at Iran's uranium enrichment plant at
Natanz, might be responsible for a decline in operating centrifuges since early
2009. (Source: Institute for Science and International Security) (A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               70 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 1, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Son of Expert on Dead Sea Scrolls Is Convicted of Identity Theft

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 364 words


The son of a prominent professor at the University of Chicago was convicted on
Thursday of impersonating a New York University professor and other scholars who
disagreed with his father's theories on the origin of the Dead Sea Scrolls.

Jurors took half a day to find the son, Raphael Haim Golb, a 50-year-old real
estate lawyer, guilty on 30 of 31 counts, including identity theft, criminal
impersonation and aggravated harassment.

Before the trial, prosecutors had offered Mr. Golb a plea deal under which he
would not have served time in jail. Now, at sentencing on Nov. 18, he could
receive up to four years in prison.

Prosecutors contended that Mr. Golb had established e-mail accounts pretending
to be Lawrence H. Schiffman, the N.Y.U. professor, and sent messages to
university officials making a fabricated admission of plagiarism.

Mr. Golb testified that the e-mails were merely parodies, but he maintained that
he did believe Professor Schiffman had plagiarized from his father, Norman Golb.
Professor Schiffman denied those accusations.

After the verdict was read, Mr. Golb and his lawyers blamed Justice Carol
Berkman's instructions to the jury in State Supreme Court in Manhattan for his
conviction. They said the judge had not defined what type of benefit Mr. Golb
had to receive, and what sort of harm his actions had to cause, for him to be
found guilty.

The Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., said in a statement that
identity thieves like Mr. Golb ''maliciously intend to damage their victims'
reputations and harass them.''

The prevailing theory on the origin of the Dead Sea Scrolls, rebutted by Mr,
Golb's father, is that they were written by a Jewish sect known as the Essenes
who lived near the caves where the scrolls were found.

In a statement, Mr. Schiffman expressed regret that ''academic debate was
replaced by cyber crime and identity theft as a means of advancing a particular
scholarly point of view.''

''Let us hope,'' he added, ''that the field of Dead Sea Scrolls research can get
back to its real business -- interpreting the ancient scrolls and explaining
their significance for the history of Judaism and the background of early
Christianity.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               71 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 10, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Playground Gets Even Tougher

BYLINE: By PAMELA PAUL

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; CULTURAL STUDIES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1802 words


SCARLETT made for a good target. The daughter of a Williamsburg artist, she wore
funky clothing to her East Village school, had a mild learning disability and
was generally timid and insecure. Lila, the resident ''mean girl'' in Scarlett's
kindergarten class, started in immediately.

Scarlett, she sneered, couldn't read. Her Payless and Gap shoes weren't good
enough. She wasn't ''allowed'' to play with certain girls. Lila was forming a
band, and Scarlett couldn't be a part. One girl threatened to physically hurt
her. During recess, Lila would loom over Scarlett, arms crossed, and say, ''I'm
watching you.''

''I was in middle school before things got as awful as they did for Scarlett,''
said Scarlett's mother, Annelizabeth, who asked that her last name not be used
to protect her daughter. ''I understand that children are maturing much faster,
but to see such hostility at this young age, wow. It was really shocking.''

Mean-girl behavior, typically referred to by professionals as relational or
social aggression and by terrified parents as bullying, has existed for as long
as there have been ponytails to pull and notes to pass (today's insults are
texted instead). But while the calculated round of cliquishness and exclusion
used to set in over fifth-grade sleepover parties, warfare increasingly
permeates the early elementary school years.

''Girls absolutely exclude one another in kindergarten,'' said Michelle Anthony,
a psychologist and co-author of the new book ''Little Girls Can Be Mean.'' When
her own daughter was manipulated by a ''friend'' into racing down a slide
booby-trapped with mud, making it appear to a group of boys as though she'd
soiled her pants, Dr. Anthony was taken aback. ''You don't expect to run into
that level of meanness in a 7-year-old.''

But at a time when teenage cyber-bullying is making headlines, parents fear that
the onset of bullying behavior is trickling down. According to a new Harris
survey of 1,144 parents nationwide, 67 percent of parents of 3- to 7-year-olds
worry that their children will be bullied; parents of preschoolers and
grade-school-age children are significantly more likely to worry than parents of
teenagers. Such fears may be justified. One recent survey of 273 third graders
in Massachusetts found that 47 percent have been bullied at least once; 52
percent reported being called mean names, being made fun of or teased in a
hurtful way; and 51 percent reported being left out of things on purpose,
excluded from their group of friends or completely ignored at least once in the
past couple of months.

In Washington, at a ''Bullying Prevention Summit'' in August, Secretary of
Education Arne Duncan announced stepped-up efforts in elementary schools,
noting, ''Bullying starts young -- and we need to reach students when they are
young with the message that bullying is not O.K.''

Capt. Stephanie Bryn, a military officer overseeing the government's ''Stop
Bullying Now!'' program, is initiating a campaign geared toward 5- to 8-year-old
children this fall. ''Girl relational bullying has been under the radar,'' she
said. But when the campaign surveyed its 80 partner organizations, they
unequivocally said children were aging up, making bullying pervasive in the
early elementary years. ''We realized we need to address this in kindergarten.''

In the case of a little girl named Caroline Port, the torment didn't begin until
first grade. Within months of starting at a private elementary school in
suburban St. Louis, Caroline, now 9, was waking up with night terrors,
sleepwalking and crying excessively. When her mother, Karen Port, met with
Caroline's teacher, she learned that her daughter was being ostracized. ''I was
very upset,'' she said. ''Why hadn't anyone told me?''

Five birthday parties passed, without any invitations. No one would play with
Caroline. She sat with the boys at lunchtime. ''I hate myself,'' she would tell
her mother when she came home. She was 7 years old.

Ms. Port sought help from a school counselor, which improved matters briefly,
but the scorn and ridicule persisted. One day, Caroline came home from school
carrying a little blue rock that her counselor had given her, a treasure she had
presented to her class. ''They asked if it had Caroline Disease,'' she told her
mother. ''It's starting again.''

Is there really a fresh spate of mean little girls? Social scientists who study
relational aggression point to a dearth of longitudinal data. It could just be
heightened awareness among hyper-parents, ever attuned to their children's most
minuscule slight. It could be a side effect of early-onset puberty, with
hormones raging through otherwise immature 8-year-olds. Or it may be that an
increase has yet to be captured; relational aggression wasn't a focus of
academic research until the mid-1990s, making longitudinal study a bit
premature. Most studies still leapfrog from preschoolers to early adolescents.

Nicole Werner, a psychologist who studies bullying at Washington State
University, said that she hasn't seen research ''to indicate that these forms of
hurtful behavior are increasing in younger kids.''

''However,'' she continued, ''I have to expect that the amount and type of media
kids are consuming at younger ages is having an effect.''

Other experts agreed. ''The research literature on aggression is very clear that
with relational aggression, it's monkey see, money do,'' said Tracy
Vaillancourt, who specializes in children's mental health and violence
prevention at the University of Ottawa. ''Kids mirror the larger culture, from
reality TV to materialism.''

We no longer live in the pigtailed world of Cindy Brady where a handful of
channels import variations on sugar and spice, with prompt repercussions for the
latter. ''So much of what passes for entertainment is about being rude, nasty
and crass,'' said Meline Kevorkian, who studies bullying at Nova Southeastern
University in Fort Lauderdale-Davie, Fla. ''What we see as comedy is actually
making fun of other people.''

Nicole Martins, a professor of telecommunications at Indiana University, has
conducted a study linking aggressive behavior to shows with stars she deemed
socially aggressive, like ''Hannah Montana'' and ''The Simple Life.'' ''There
was no effect on aggression on boys, but in girls, there was an increase among
those who watched socially aggressive female models on TV,'' Dr. Martins said.

Then there is the tendency of children to grow older younger (a trend with its
own acronym: G.O.Y., bandied about by parents and educators). Six-year-olds go
to see Erin Munroe, a school guidance counselor in Boston, complaining that
So-and-So won't play with them because they like the Jonas Brothers and the ''It
girls'' like Miley Cyrus. She sees first-graders pulling their hair out,
throwing up before school and complaining of constant stomachaches. ''It's not
cool to not have a cellphone anymore or to not wear exactly the right thing,''
Ms. Munroe said. ''The poor girls who have Strawberry Shortcake shirts on,
forget it.''

Nobody wants her daughter's penguin kicked out of the igloo on Club Penguin. But
too many parents are too quick to take their daughter's side, without fully
exploring her role in the fracas, said Rosalind Wiseman, the author of the
anti-mean-girl bible, ''Queen Bees and Wannabes.'' Sometimes, she points out,
the victim may turn out to have been the initial provocateur.

While peer influence is no doubt a factor, veteran teachers and school
counselors say parents are often complicit. ''Parents think it's really cute
when their 2- and 3-year-olds are doing 'Single Ladies' or singing the Alicia
Keys/Jay-Z song,'' Ms. Wiseman said. ''But it's not so funny at age 8, when
they're singing along to Lady Gaga and demanding a cellphone.''

A kindergarten teacher at one of New York City's top private all-girls schools
observed, ''The mean girls are often from mean moms.'' She was thrown back by
the ''venom'' among 5-year-olds. They'll say, ''You only read 'Biscuit,' and
we're all reading chapter books.'' Or, ''Why don't you brush your hair? You
don't look nice today.'' And they're not afraid of getting into trouble with a
teacher. ''Perhaps they can act that way at home without repercussions,'' she
said. ''It's untypical of this age group because they're usually
adult-pleasers.''

In certain cases, the parents themselves seem to be pleased. When her daughter
Julia was in first grade last year, said Lea Pfau, a mother of two in Sherman
Oaks, Calif., one girl threatened that, unless Julia did as she ordered, ''I'm
going to tell my mommy, and she'll set up a meeting with your mommy, and you'll
get in trouble.'' The girl then orchestrated a series of exclusive clubs in
which girls could be kicked out for various infractions. ''I was surprised by
the fierceness,'' Ms. Pfau said. ''But I was more surprised at the other
parents. Rather than nip it in the bud, they encouraged it.''

Eileen O'Connor, a lawyer and mother of five girls in the Georgetown section of
Washington, has also witnessed trickle-down meanness in her daughters'
classrooms. ''To be honest with you, the parents not only enabled it, they
engaged in it,'' she said. ''The parents of mean girls often think, Great, our
daughter is so popular!''

Across town, in southeast Washington, Rosalyn Rice, the associate principal of a
public elementary school until last year, continually held mediations among
young grade-school girls. ''They were reporting deeply held grudges from the
first grade,'' she recalled. One first grader was shunned because she didn't
have the ''in'' classroom supplies -- sparkly glue and a Powerpuff Girls
carrying case. She stopped going to school because her parents couldn't afford
them. ''The other girls kept accusing her of stealing theirs, which wasn't
true,'' Ms. Rice said. Children who didn't have their uniforms regularly
laundered or had to borrow one from the school office were mocked mercilessly.
Even at the lower end of the socioeconomic spectrum, ''Girls were judging how
much people cared about them based on what they owned.''

Ms. Rice and several other experts point to a shift in childhood play, with a
focus on controlled environments, techno-goodies and material objects. Instead
of working out issues themselves during free play outside, children are
micromanaged by parents who step in to resolve conflicts for them. Debbie
Rosenman, a teacher in her 31st year at a suburban Detroit school, said that
helicopter parents simultaneously fail to provide adequate authority or
appropriate forms of supervision.

''The girls who are the victims tend to be raised by parents who encourage them
to be more age appropriate,'' Ms. Rosenman said. ''The mean girls are 8 but want
to be 14, and their parents play along. They all want to be top dog.'' And so
the nastiness begins.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANAT EVEN OR)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               72 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 21, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pentagon Will Help Homeland Security Department Fight Domestic Cyberattacks

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 594 words


WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration has adopted new procedures for using the
Defense Department's vast array of cyberwarfare capabilities in case of an
attack on vital computer networks inside the United States, delicately
navigating historic rules that restrict military action on American soil.

The system would mirror that used when the military is called on in natural
disasters like hurricanes or wildfires. A presidential order dispatches the
military forces, working under the control of the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.

Under the new rules, the president would approve the use of the military's
expertise in computer-network warfare, and the Department of Homeland Security
would direct the work.

Officials involved in drafting the rules said the goal was to ensure a rapid
response to a cyberthreat while balancing concerns that civil liberties might be
at risk should the military take over such domestic operations.

The rules were deemed essential because most of the government's
computer-network capabilities reside within the Pentagon -- while most of the
important targets are on domestic soil, whether within the government or in
critical private operations like financial networks or a regional power grid.

The new approach will begin with a Department of Homeland Security team
deploying to Fort Meade, Md., home to both the National Security Agency, which
specializes in electronic espionage, and the military's new Cyber Command. In
exchange, a team of military networking experts would be assigned to the
operations center at the Homeland Security Department.

The rules were detailed in a memorandum of agreement signed in late September by
Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, and Defense Secretary
Robert M. Gates, but they were not released until last week.

Robert J. Butler, the Pentagon's deputy assistant secretary for cyber policy,
said the memorandum was intended to cut through legal debates about the
authority for operating domestically, and to focus on how best to respond to the
threat of attack on critical computer networks.

Mr. Butler said teams of lawyers would watch for potential violations of civil
liberties. ''We have put protection measures in place,'' he said.

The Pentagon is expected to release a full National Defense Strategy for Cyber
Operations this year, to be followed by broader interagency guidance from the
White House, perhaps in the form of a presidential directive, in 2011.

Congress also is weighing legislation that would update domestic law to deal
with advances in computer-based surveillance and cyberwarfare.

William J. Lynn III, the deputy defense secretary, underscored the Pentagon's
''need to protect our military networks,'' but said that ''it's a national
challenge as well.'' In an interview with Charlie Rose broadcast Monday by PBS,
Mr. Lynn added: ''We need to protect our critical infrastructure. We need to
protect our intellectual property. And that's a whole-of-government effort.''

During a visit last week to NATO headquarters in Brussels, Mr. Gates lobbied for
new partnerships to combat computer threats, while warning that the NATO
networks were vulnerable.

''On cybersecurity, the alliance is far behind,'' Mr. Gates said. ''Our
vulnerabilities are well known, but our existing programs to remedy these
weaknesses are inadequate.''

Mr. Gates said he was not concerned that secret intelligence shared with allies
would be compromised, but he said NATO had weaknesses in its defenses for
computer networks at its headquarters and throughout the shared command
structure.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               73 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 22, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Wave of Indie Angst Hits South Asian Cinema

BYLINE: By RACHEL SALTZ

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; CRITIC'S
NOTEBOOK; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 866 words


Bollywood, until recently the home of fine romances with no kisses, now takes
smooching in stride. Did anyone expect the younger generation of South Asian
filmmakers to stop there? How could they, growing up not only with Bollywood --
itself only a portion of the Indian film business -- but also with Hollywood,
Hong Kong cinema, indies and all the global culture the Internet can deliver.

As the seventh annual South Asian International Film Festival makes plain, a new
wave of independent films is out there, eager to bust taboos, sexual and
otherwise. These films, showcased in the dramatic competition, are the
festival's most unusual offerings.

But the festival, running Wednesday through Nov. 2, goes deeper. It also has a
shorts competition and something called Spectrum, which includes releases from
the outskirts of Bollywood and beyond, and not incidentally, contains the
charmers of the group. With 16 features and five shorts in all, mostly from
India -- but also from Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh -- the festival gives
a good sense of the variety, abundance and liveliness of South Asian film.

You can practically see the growing pains in the competition films, mostly by
first- or second-time directors. Often experimental, the selections are also
self-conscious and terribly solemn. These films want to poke at corners of
reality and humanity that the commercial cinema has traditionally ignored.

''Get some real people'' for your film, a woman says to the aspiring director in
Srivinas Sunderrajan's ''Untitled Kartik Krishnan Project.'' And not just real
people, she wants ''arty'' types. ''Kartik,'' billed as India's first mumblecore
movie, is full of them, and arty ideas (about narratives within narratives) and
visuals (much soft focus, digital effects and blinking robots).

With its rapping, heroin-smoking, angry-young-man hero, a film by the Bengali
director Q (the title's printable translation is ''Loser'') thumbs its nose at
convention and aims to shock. The story, mostly shot in black and white, is
stylishly if diffusely told. But Q can't resist the meta-narrative. He (or a
director called Q) appears, confusing the hero about what's real and what isn't.
Credits roll.

But the film isn't over. It starts again, and delivers its coup de grace: an
extended, graphic sex scene that simply has no counterpart in Indian cinema,
whose idea of raciness used to be to wet, clinging saris. Dear Q, you have
succeeded -- I was shocked, though your movie left me cold: too much attitude.

The rest of the competition is tamer. Aamir Bashir's meditative, somewhat
plodding ''Harud'' (''Autumn'') dramatizes the crisis in Kashmir and, with its
social and political concerns, harks back to the Parallel Cinema, the older
tradition of Indian independent filmmaking. ''Chitra Sutram'' (''The Image
Threads''), in Malayalam, is an almost comically ponderous art movie that gets
tangled up in cyber space. (Sample dialogue: ''Do you want to listen to one of
my many thoughts?'')

The odd man out is Thiagarajan Kumararaja's ''Anima and Persona,'' an
existential gangster picture that is the only non-indie in the group. A Tamil
film featuring the Bollywood star Jackie Shroff as an aging don, ''Anima'' is
the longest but the most engaging entry in the competition. With his sometimes
stately, sometimes punchy visuals, Mr. Kumararaja knows how to tell a story, and
he adroitly keeps a number of narrative balls in the air.

Though not in competition, the opening-night feature, Anurag Kashyap's ''That
Girl in Yellow Boots,'' fits in with this new wave. About a British girl
searching for her father in Mumbai, this film has a frankness about sex and
drugs, and a desire to show the city's sordid underbelly. But like ''Kartik
Krishnan'' it's short on narrative and long on arty mannerisms, at once fussy
and overblown.

With the exception of ''Anima'' the dramatic entries are more interested in
personal expression than in entertainment -- Bollywood's very life blood -- even
as they pay lip service to influences like Quentin Tarantino and Bruce Lee. Not
so the Spectrum films, which include a couple of real delights: ''Slackistan,''
a pitch-perfect comedy about restless youths in Islamabad, ''the city that
always sleeps''; and ''With Love to Obama,'' a recession comedy from Bollywood
(no songs, no dances) with a ''Godfather''-like idea about the commonalities
among gangsters, businessmen and politicians.

Almost all the films I saw feature young male protagonists with nothing to do
but wander aimlessly through urban landscapes, whether driving Daddy's Mercedes
in Islamabad (''Slackistan'') or knocking about Kolkata in a pal's rickshaw
(''Loser''). Mostly these fellows don't work, but if they do, they're probably
baby gangsters.

Or else they dream of escape and of becoming artists -- photographers, maybe, or
rappers or, best of all, filmmakers. They dream of pointing a camera at the
world they inhabit and documenting their lives.

And like the young filmmakers in this festival, they dream of elevating their
angst into art.

The South Asian International Film Festival runs from Wednesday to Nov. 2 at the
SVA Theater, 333 West 23rd Street, Chelsea; (646) 330-4172 saiff.org.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sampath Raj in the film ''Anima and Persona,'' directed by
Thiagarajan Kumararaja.
 Anubrata, left, as the lead character in a film directed by Q, with Rii as The
Angel. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SOUTH ASIAN INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               74 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 22, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Show Is All Cyber, Some of the Time

BYLINE: By KAREN ROSENBERG

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW;
Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1102 words


It may seem like a stroke of morbid journalistic humor that the New Museum's
''Free,'' a show exploring the Internet as a public art space, coincides with
another exhibition titled ''The Last Newspaper.'' On the third floor, artists
are toiling in a makeshift newsroom; on the second, they're dismantling the last
traces of print culture.

Or so you might think. In reality, the shows offer similar experiences -- lots
of reading, supplemented by video, photography, performance and multifarious
conceptual object-tweaking.

Certainly the organizer of ''Free'' -- Lauren Cornell, the executive director of
Rhizome.org and an adjunct curator at the New Museum -- deserves credit for
thinking off-screen. ''Art engaged with the Internet does not require it to
exist online,'' she writes in her essay in the virtual catalog.

So sculptures that make use of objects found on eBay, by Hanne Mugaas and Amanda
Ross-Ho, are fair game. So are Rashaad Newsome's collages of Web-based images,
though these don't feel substantially different from the print variety.

Meanwhile, some significant platforms go ignored; none of the 50 works on view
engage Facebook, YouTube (for that, you'll have to go to the Guggenheim -- see
Roberta Smith's review of ''YouTube Play'' on Page 29) or Twitter. (Tumblr, a
Twitter competitor, does play a significant role.) These omissions feel like a
missed opportunity.

In many ways ''Free'' is most interesting as an exercise in open-source
curating. In her essays and labels, Ms. Cornell makes frequent references to the
Creative Commons co-founder Lawrence Lessig's 2004 book ''Free Culture'' and the
artist Seth Price's 2002 essay ''Dispersion.'' Mr. Price's ''Dispersion'' is
particularly relevant because it talks about the Web's superseding of physical
public space.

''We should recognize that collective experience is now based on simultaneous
private experiences, distributed across the field of media culture, knit
together by ongoing debate, publicity, promotion and discussion,'' he writes.

True to its argument, ''Dispersion'' exists in multiple forms -- one of which is
a screenprinted-polystyrene wall sculpture titled ''Essay With Knots'' (2008).

But the art in ''Free'' doesn't always rise to the level of the dialogue. It's
also darker and more cynical -- or maybe it just looks that way, weeks after a
Webcam prank made one teenager distraught enough to jump off the George
Washington Bridge.

''LEAVE ME ALONE'' says a giant T-shirt by Ms. Ross-Ho, despite the mellow
associations of its tie-dyed rainbow spiral. The message is reinforced by three
Northern Irish teenagers making an obscene gesture to a Google Street View
camera, in one of several images painstakingly recovered and isolated by Jon
Rafman.

Even projects rooted in creative problem-solving have a way of becoming
dystopian. At last year's ''Seven on Seven'' conference, initiated by Ms.
Cornell, artists were paired with Internet entrepreneurs and asked to innovate
under strict time limits. The Internet-video artist Ryan Trecartin teamed up
with David Karp, founder of the microblogging platform Tumblr. Their brainchild,
''River the Net,'' is now projected on a large screen in the museum. Essentially
it's a stream of video clips uploaded by visitors to their site, with tags that
allow the viewer to toggle from one 10-second clip to the next. In an interview
on an art blog, Mr. Trecartin described it as ''a movie made by everyone and the
plot arc is the life of a tag.'' With its attention-deficit pacing, it shares
some of the qualities of Mr. Trecartin's own videos. It also looks a lot like
the site Chatroulette, and has some of the same problems -- becoming, at times,
a vehicle for pornography. (The museum version, like the Web site, isn't
censored.) But the real thrill is in the often odd coupling of words (each clip
has three tags) and moving images.

An intense desire for communal experience underlies many of the works in
''Free,'' whether or not they exist or were produced on the Internet. Aleksandra
Domanovic's ''19:30,'' a split-screen video installation, combines introductory
graphics from local news programs from the former Yugoslavia with footage of
techno-raves.

Similarly, Lisa Oppenheim's series of slide projections, ''The Sun Is Always
Setting Somewhere Else,'' mines the Flickr posts of United States soldiers in
Iraq and Afghanistan for postcard-worthy photographs of sunsets. The Flickr
images, printed out and held up to actual skies, transcend banality with a
nagging sense of homesickness.

Other artists cleverly subvert the protocol of online communities. Using Yahoo!
Answers, Joel Holmberg aims profound, existential inquiries at an audience more
accustomed to supplying practical knowledge. It's amusing to see people struggle
to field questions like, ''How do you occupy space?''

Martijn Hendricks, meanwhile, infiltrates an online forum on the video of Saddam
Hussein's execution. His ''Untitled Black Video'' (2009) shows the comments
only, in white text at the bottom of a dark screen. Some cheer and others
express outrage, but a sizable number simply complain about the poor video
quality.

Technical difficulties inspire Andrea Longacre-White, who repeatedly reshoots
low-resolution photographs of car accidents until the images themselves become
blurry wrecks. Working in black and white, she's a Weegee for what we used to
call the information superhighway.

Not everything in the show is gloomy, suspicious or sinister. The tone of
Alexandre Singh's ''School of Objects Criticized,'' a quirky and compelling
sculptural tableau, is defiantly antic. Using spotlighted pedestals and a
soundtrack, he transforms toys and household items into characters in a lively
comedy of manners (after Moliere's ''School for Wives'').

A feminist Slinky toy and a ''neo-post-Marxist'' bottle of bleach, among others,
engage in dinner-party discussions about Duchamp, Woody Allen and other cultural
touchstones. On paper it's childish, but in practice it skewers the chattering
class and shows off Mr. Singh's excellent ear for dialogue (also flaunted in his
lecture-style performances).

''School of Objects Criticized'' has a room to itself, at the end of the show,
and in many ways it stands apart. It doesn't seem to have much to do with the
Internet, or ''free culture''; in fact, an analog tape recorder is among the
anthropomorphized items.

That's the problem with ''Free,'' in general. It's a conversation and an
exhibition that aren't quite on the same page.

''Free'' continues through Jan. 23 at the New Museum, 235 Bowery, at Prince
Street, Lower East Side; (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Free: Alexandre Singh's ''School of Objects Criticized,'' in
this New Museum exhibition, uses spotlighted pedestals and a soundtrack to
transform toys and household items into characters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENOIT
PAILLEY)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               75 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The New Icons Of Fashion

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1611 words


ANNA DELLO RUSSO lives in a glass house -- the virtual kind -- her subtlest
gesture or sartorial quirk scrutinized by her legions of fans. Pecking at their
keyboards, those online viewers wax effusive. ''She is like Coco Chanel to me,''
one admirer exclaimed on The Sartorialist, the popular blog. ''Isn't she
fabulous ... so jolie laide,'' gushed another on The Fashion Spot; a third
posting on Ms. Dello Russo's blog, to her: ''I love when you wear pink.''

''They want to choose my outfit, to dress me like a doll,'' said Ms. Dello
Russo, the elastic-limbed editor at large for Vogue Japan. ''I'm thinking I'm a
Barbie of the Internet.''

Not that she is complaining. Ms. Dello Russo and her raffish style-world cohort,
who populate the mastheads of the fashion magazines, represent a new breed of
Web-based reality star. Cyber idols like Carine Roitfeld and Emmanuelle Alt of
French Vogue, Kate Lanphear of American Elle and Giovanna Battaglia, lately of
Italian Vogue, are hardly household names. But as the heroines of influential
fashion blogs like Jak & Jil, Who What Wear and Citizen Couture, they are
casting a spell, their comings and goings relentlessly tracked by a new
generation of aspiring style savants.

''Editors and models have become the new fashion icons,'' said Tommy Ton, the
Toronto-based publisher of Jak & Jil, a photo blog that charts stylists' and
editors' progress to and from the fashion tents. Their look and quirky glamour
have, in fact, inspired a flurry of advertising campaigns, product introductions
and fashion lines. ''Even celebrities follow their lead,'' Mr. Ton maintained.

They do, in fact, seem to be wielding an influence that is, ironically, poised
to outstrip that of the magazines they serve. ''You've got people interested in
fashion in Middle America going to these Web sites and studying these people,''
said Gregory Littley, a social media and branding consultant in New York. They
are ''using the blogs as a resource with which to educate themselves.

''To parts of America that aren't exposed to Paris, New York or Milan,'' Mr.
Littley added, ''those sites are a bible, a window on the culture that they take
as gospel.''

Indeed, the widening appeal of a cluster of high-ranking stylists marks a kind
of sea change. ''Today, if I were to stop a young girl in the street in
Stockholm and ask her, she would probably know who Carine Roitfeld is,'' Jens
Grede observed in Industrie, the London-based magazine that he co-edits and that
caters to fashion insiders. ''Five years ago she would never have known.''

Style-struck viewers might identify Ms. Roitfeld by her form-fitting dresses,
dominatrix footwear or the swag of dark hair that falls over one eye and grazes
her finely etched cheekbones; they could as readily pick out Ms. Dello Russo by
her theatrical, straight-from-the-runway looks: big shoulders, big furs, baroque
accessories and cascades of drapery; and Ms. Lanphear by her platinum boy bob,
spiky jewelry and biker coat. And they might know Ms. Battaglia by her offbeat
classicism -- back-swept hair, creased trousers and breezy, trend-proof dresses.
Would-be insiders themselves, those blogophiles already are more than glancingly
acquainted with a handful of fashion stars who invade their living rooms each
week by way of shows like ''Project Runway.'' They formed a sizable part of the
audience for ''The September Issue,'' a film documentary that made an unlikely
pop star of Grace Coddington, the creative director of American Vogue. And some
can parrot the sayings of Rachel Zoe, the Hollywood superstylist who is given to
breathing ''I die'' in broadcasts of ''The Rachel Zoe Project'' on the Bravo
network.

Stylists who dress celebrities or direct fashion shoots and put together runway
looks for prominent designers, were once fashion's unsung worker bees. ''They
have been inspiring designers for years,'' said Andrew Rosen, the chief
executive of Theory, a fashion brand that featured a roster of prominent
stylists in a recent store and Web campaign. ''Now they're inspiring
consumers.''

Fashion professionals and civilians alike are drawn by the editors' evident
passion, said Ms. Lanphear, one of Jak & Jil's most popular subjects and the
heroine as well of several fan sites devoted exclusively to her racy look.
''They communicate that passion by wearing runway pieces styled in new ways, in
everyday situations,'' she said. ''That's what's so inspiring.'' (Elle.com is
capitalizing on Ms. Lanphear's visibility by featuring her on its site, where
she shares her insights with readers.)

The fashion idiosyncrasies of stylists certainly appeal to Tiffany Fung, a
senior at Oberlin College in Ohio, and a devotee of blogs like Face Hunter,
Lookbook and Styleclicker. The women photographed on those sites ''are
presenting fashion masterpieces,'' Ms. Fung enthused, ''and, for the most part,
my job is to try and interpret their ideas for myself.''

Maya Chayot, a communications major at the State University of New York at
Purchase, routinely scans the blogs for photographs of models and stylists she
admires. Those people offer a glimpse of fashion that is ''more authentic and
eclectic than the fashion magazines,'' said Ms. Chayot, 21, one that is ''more
obtainable for me.''

Updated weekly, or even daily, the blogs themselves are ''much more current than
other mainstream media outlets,'' said Mr. Littley, the branding consultant.
They are providing their audiences with ''an instant window to the fashion world
-- one they don't read about in Us Weekly.''

Or, generally speaking, in the leading fashion publications, which have
traditionally attracted readers over 30. Though some have sought to capture a
younger readership, offering a smattering of cover subjects scarcely out of
their teens, such efforts have gone largely ignored. Between 2000 and 2010, the
median age of female readers of fashion magazines stayed fairly steady,
according to GfK MRI, a media research company, climbing only slightly, from
34.2 to 35.4 at Vogue, from 40.6 to 42.6 at Harper's Bazaar and from 32.3 to
32.6 at Elle.

But style professionals say that the fashion glossies carry little weight with
women in their teens and 20s. As Mr. Grede of Industrie noted, ''a substantial
part of the global readership has been migrating online.''

Ms. Fung is typical. ''I rarely look at Vogue or Bazaar,'' she said. ''But The
Sartorialist is synonymous with my morning coffee. It is close to religion for
me.''

Readers' exodus to the Web has not escaped Ms. Dello Russo. Her own blog
annadellorusso.com, draws, she said, some 20,000 viewers a day, most of them in
their teens. ''Those girls are desperately looking for wearable fashion with an
interesting twist, one they do not find in magazines,'' she said. Few of them
read fashion bibles like Vogue, she added, since those magazines show fashion in
a way that is ''too abstract.'' Their editors are too much concerned with
''creating beautiful images,'' she argued, while paying scant attention to
bread-and-butter issues like ''how to wear a particular jacket, dress or
pants.'' Magazines like Vogue and Elle provide service features on their Web
sites.

Ms. Dello Russo's popularity and flamboyant approach to dress piqued the
interest of Federico Marchetti, the founder of Yoox Group, the parent of
Yoox.com, the popular online boutique. Earlier this month, Mr. Marchetti invited
her to market her own fragrance on Yoox. The pocket-size $25 perfume, bottled in
a pocket-size gold shoe, will arrive next month, following a small collection of
T-shirts with Ms. Dello Russo's image, which sold out within hours.

They were bought, Mr. Marchetti said, because, ''Anna is a celebrity in the
Internet world. These days the boundaries between Hollywood celebrities and
fashion insiders are increasingly blurred.''

Prominent editors like Ms. Dello Russo are also magnets to designers and
mainstream American merchants, who have built marketing strategies around them.
Ms. Lanphear is the sultry-looking star of a print campaign for the haute punk
jewelry of her friend Eddie Borgo. Earlier this year T. J. Maxx enlisted Lucy
Sykes, a British stylist, and Zoe Glassner, a senior editor at Marie Claire
magazine, to appear in a series of television commercials. Featuring fashion
insiders adds a layer of credibility, said a T. J. Maxx spokeswoman. ''It
elevates us as a brand.''

Last spring Mr. Rosen of Theory showcased outfits that were assembled by
marquee-name stylists like Andrea Lieberman, Annabel Tollman and Isabel Dupre in
Theory stores and on the company's Web site. Though he did not provide sales
figures, Mr. Rosen attributed a subsequent uptick in business at Theory stores,
in part, to the campaign.

Inspired perhaps by J. Crew, whose Web pages and catalogs feature ensembles put
together by Jenna Lyons, the company's president and creative director, Web
sites like fashiontoast and SHE Boutique now routinely promote their in-house
stylists, who chatter on the Web about their personal picks for the season. A
handful of magazines have followed suit.

In a departure for a publication that focuses on film stars, In Style has
introduced ''Shop Like a Fashion Editor,'' a four-part feature highlighting its
editors and their fashion choices. The series has been successful enough to
return in the spring, said Ariel Foxman, In Style's editor. Readers now are
''inundated with fashion information,'' he said. ''They want an expert voice, a
real authority, a role model they can relate to.''

Studying the style picks of experienced editors is like ''peering into
somebody's diary,'' Mr. Foxman added. ''That kind of access is rare. But it's
what people are craving now.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HELLO, LADIES: Anna Dello Russo, editor at large for Vogue
Japan, drew attention in Paris during Fashion Week in October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
BILL CUNNINGHAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E1)
CLICKING: Anna Dello Russo, in New York during Fashion Week, will market
perfume. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL MORIGI/WIREIMAGE)
WATCHED: Giovanna Battaglia, above, and Kate Lanphear, right, are fashion blog
heroines. (PHOTOGRAPH BYS HANNELI MUSTAPARTA
GARANCE DORE) (E6-E7)
SELLING: Kate Lanphear in an ad campaign for Eddie Borgo's jewelry. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY PAUL MAFFI)
 ONE OF THE CROWD (SORT OF): Anna Dello Russo sits down with other visitors to
Paris. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL CUNNINGHAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               76 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 14, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mean Girls and Bad Mommies

BYLINE: By PAMELA PAUL.

Pamela Paul's most recent book is ''Parenting, Inc.'' She writes the Studied
column for the Sunday Styles section of The Times.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1273 words


THE TWISTED SISTERHOOD

Unraveling the Dark Legacy of Female Friendships

By Kelly Valen

229 pp. Ballantine Books. $25

THE MONSTER WITHIN

The Hidden Side of Motherhood

By Barbara Almond

265 pp. University of California Press. $27.50

One of the most refreshing scenes in the movie ''The Kids Are All Right'' comes
when 15-year-old Laser has it out with his jerky pal, Clay. They trade a barbed
sentence or two, shove each other, and then bam! With a punch to the face, the
friendship is over.

Had the pair been girls, this exchange would have involved at least six other
participants and weeks of anguished e-mails, phone calls and tete-a-tetes. Such
are the convoluted trials Kelly Valen examines in ''The Twisted Sisterhood,''
the follow-up to her 2007 lamentation, in a contribution to the Modern Love
column in this newspaper, over an unhappy sorority past. Like many who bare
their souls publicly in personal essays, Valen subsequently fell victim to the
blogosphere pile-on; the Tri Delts and Pi Phis of the world did not take well to
her airing of the dirty sisterly laundry.

So Valen wondered: ''Hadn't the very concept of sisterhood become downright
twisted?'' Why was her story of female viciousness taboo? ''Any suggestion that
women are co-architects of their unhappiness or failure to prosper,'' she
writes, ''shall be deemed tantamount to misogyny, horizontal hostility and
internal sexism.''

Keen to avoid another round of ''cyber-beatings,'' Valen maintains a tone of
measured affability throughout her book. She is careful not to call herself a
feminist, careful to credit feminists, careful not to bash anti-feminists.
Although she protests the cruelty of women, she is optimistic about our capacity
for change.

And oh my, things need changing -- at least according to Valen's research,
which, in the Gladwellian tradition of pop social science, dips into recent
neuroscience as well as studies on social anxiety and loneliness. But most of
her argument rests on a survey she circulated among a random sampling of
womankind: 3,020 women, ages 15 to 86, ''from rural towns in Washington and New
Mexico, to Florida leisure communities, to Manhattan's Upper West Side.'' The
results yield some startling statistics. Eighty-four percent of respondents said
they had ''suffered terribly'' at the hands of other women; 88 percent had felt
''currents of meanness and negativity emanating from other females.'' Nearly
1,000 women said they had struggled with depression or sought counseling as a
result of ''intrafemale trouble.''

Yet, Valen writes, 96 percent of those surveyed said they want ''something
better for girls and women.'' Who wouldn't?

Not to stomp on the sisterhood (or deny its aptitude for malice), but these
numbers aren't all that meaningful. First, what woman toils over a 50-question
survey unless she has a beef with the sisters to begin with? It's impossible to
say for sure, but a selectivity bias may be at work. And there are other
structural problems. Rather than setting a time frame, Valen asks if women have
ever suffered because of jealousy, manipulation or ridicule. A more useful
measure would have been to ask who had suffered in the previous three to six
months. Mean-girl behavior exists, but it has its seasons, from ''girly girl''
squabbles to junior high ''slut lists'' to mommy wars on the adult playground
(and Valen has an incisive chapter on the maternal role in schoolyard meanness).
But most of us took our abuse as fifth graders or sophomores, followed by a
20-something fallout or two. At some point, people largely grow out of it. And
do women differ so much from men in their inability to get along? Men unleash
their fury, too, if not in such byzantine fashion.

Even some of Valen's respondents took issue with the survey's structure.
Several, she notes, had trouble with its wording: ''pain, distress, trauma,
scars'' seemed ''too strong, dramatic, intimidating or clinical'' for them to
adopt. She mentions that more than 100 respondents said they were ''highly
discerning about who they'll pass time with, reveal limited personal
information, don protective layers of cynicism and sarcasm, and project bravada,
defensiveness or aloofness,'' all as ways to keep other women at a distance.
Color me coldhearted, but this sounds fairly normal.

Many of Valen's points are valid, but she seems caught between the polar
positions of ''It's a trend!'' and ''Nothing new here.'' This leads to
caveat-laden passages like the following: ''Does every woman feel this way about
the world of women's relationships? Of course not. But the frequency with which
these stories and sentiments have rolled in troubles me and implicates us all.''
Well, certainly it implicates schoolyard bullies, online trolls and office
meanies. But casting blame gender-wide is a stretch.

In another book examining women's darker tendencies, ''The Monster Within: The
Hidden Side of Motherhood,'' Barbara Almond, a psychoanalyst, is intent on
recognizing the worst -- and reassuring women that it's O.K.

Her book spans a vast territory, from run-of-the-mill fears about childbirth to
Andrea Yates-style child murder. She argues that every mother suffers from some
form of maternal ambivalence, which she defines as ''that mixture of loving and
hating feelings that all mothers experience toward their children and the
anxiety, shame and guilt that the negative feelings engender.''

It's an idea typically shunned, especially among today's perfectionist mothers,
with their homemade organic snacks and calibrated rounds of edifying
experiences. ''I believe,'' Almond writes, ''that today's expectations for good
mothering have become so hard to live with, the standards so draconian, that
maternal ambivalence has increased and at the same time become more unacceptable
to society.'' Many a fatigued mom might cry, Amen to that!

But Almond's book, while empathetic, offers little in the way of cheerleading.
Packed with jargon like ''ego strength'' and ''object-relatedness,'' Freudian
case studies and postmodern readings of ''Frankenstein'' and ''Rosemary's
Baby,'' it swiftly transported me back to Gender and Sexuality Studies 111
(cross-listed, Semiotics 12), circa 1992. Almond is most sure-footed when she
steers clear of social trend-spotting and literary parable, and concentrates on
mothers' enduring ambivalent feelings. Her psychoanalytic approach can be
insightful, and Freud has passed so thoroughly out of vogue that certain of her
dictums feel weirdly fresh. Other appraisals -- including intimations that
abortion constitutes some form of infanticide -- uncomfortably evoke the ''blame
the mother'' interpretations that Almond is otherwise eager to dispel.

Although most of the ambivalence Almond documents is of the nonpsychotic
variety, she can veer toward the hyperbolic. Take her insistence on referring to
women's fear of ''monster'' children, when what she mostly means are demanding
children who drive their parents to exhaustion -- not quite Frankenbaby.

The reader's receptivity may depend on her view of a story Almond relates about
a woman who goes temporarily blind upon giving birth. ''I now see this woman's
blindness as a primitive response to her wish to be rid of her baby,'' Almond
writes. ''She literally could not see it.'' Either that, or she'd had way too
much Demerol.

Both of these books aim to puncture what the authors view as a societal
assumption that women are necessarily kind, loving and lollipop pink. We uphold
this lie while pretending to be shocked by the manufactured infighting on
Housewives TV. Somewhere in between live actual women, probably just as
conflicted and complicated as men.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KELLY BLAIR)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               77 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 14, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

OPINIONATOR: EXCLUSIVE ONLINE COMMENTARY FROM THE TIMES

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; OpEd; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 361 words


TIMOTHY EGAN If common sense were currency Michele Bachmann would be broke, and
holding a tin can by the road-side just now. Alas, because we live in an age
where hyperbole is gold, Bachmann is rich. She was on CNN the other day,a rare
departure from the in-house fawning of Fox ''News,'' expressing out-rage that
President Obama's trip to India was going to cost $200 million a day and involve
nearly three dozen war-ships. In fact, this figure was made up. Now that they
have to govern, Republicans are grappling with a tough initial challenge: how to
detach themselves from an influential wing of their party that has never been
interested in arguing facts. On a daily basis, these people bemoan, detest and
feign outrage over utter fantasies. Some of the loudest voices are elected
representatives; others are professional provocateurs i-terested in keeping
their lecture feeshigh and their base in a lather.Bachmann's disastrous turn
outside the Fox bubble was instructive, for its howed how the liars' club
works.-- Excerpt from ''Liars' Club''

FIXES The typical institutional response to bullying is to get tough. In the
case of the suicide of Tyler Clementi, a gay college student who was a victim of
cyber-bullying, prosecutors are considering bringing hate-crime charges. But
some programs show the potential of augmenting our innate impulses to care for
one another instead of just fall-ing back on punishment as a deterrent. And
what's the secret formula? A baby. We know that humans are hardwired to be
aggressive and selfish. But a growing body of research is demonstrating that
there is also a biological basis for human compassion. Brain scans reveal that
when we contemplate violence done to others we activate the same regions in our
brains that fire up when mothers gaze at their children, suggesting that caring
for strangers may be instinctual. We are beginning to understand how to nurture
this biolog-ical potential. It seems that it's not only possible to make people
kinder, it'spossible to do it systematically -- at least with schoolchildren.--
DAVID BORNSTEIN, excerpt from''Fighting Bullying With Babies''For more,
nytimes.com/opinionator

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               78 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 20, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

TV Channel Draws Viewers, and Threats, in Iran

BYLINE: By DEXTER FILKINS; William Yong contributed reporting from Tehran, and
John Markoff from San Francisco.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1091 words


KABUL, Afghanistan -- In little more than a year, the Persian-language satellite
television channel beamed into Iran by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation and a
prominent Afghan family has rapidly become one of the most popular stations in
the country.

A little too popular, it appears.

This week, a long-running campaign led by the Iranian government to undermine
the channel, Farsi1, took a menacing turn: A group calling itself the Iranian
Cyber Army hacked into Farsi1's Web site, as well as several sites owned by the
Mohseni family, and posted a cryptic but sinister warning.

''The allies of Zionism should know this,'' said the message, which stayed on
the Web sites for about six hours on Thursday. ''Dreams of destroying the
foundation of the family will lead straight to the graveyard.''

The exact meaning of the message was unclear, but conservative Iranian leaders
complain that the programming -- a heavily censored variety of comedies, soap
operas and dramas -- is eroding traditional Iranian values.

The campaign against Farsi1 illustrates the growing fear among Iranian leaders
over the intrusion of private broadcasters onto the country's airwaves, which is
challenging the state's monopoly over the flow of information.

The cyberattack is the latest effort in a campaign to discredit the television
station, which went on the air in August 2009. This year, Iranian authorities
tried to jam a satellite used by the channel. Personal attacks on Mr. Murdoch,
as well as on Saad Mohseni, the chairman of the Moby Group, have appeared on
Iranian television and newspapers. News Corporation and the Moby Group each own
half of the channel.

The Iranian authorities appear to be particularly unnerved by the entrance of
Mr. Murdoch, who is not just an aggressive businessman but also a politically
active one. In neighboring Afghanistan, the Mohseni family has built a
successful string of television and radio stations and Web sites since the
American-led invasion in 2001.

Both Mr. Murdoch and the Mohseni family were named in the renegade Web site
posting that appeared Thursday.

According to American officials, as well as spokesmen for both the Moby Group
and the News Corporation, Farsi1 receives no funds from any government.

Indeed, Farsi1 offers no political fare, neither news nor editorial commentary.
Instead, it provides viewers with comedies and dramas, most of them from Latin
America and Korea, and toned down for a more conservative Iranian audience.

Though the plots often involve romance and infidelity, anything resembling
male-female contact is excised -- even kissing. The menu even includes a few
American standbys like ''24,'' which features an American federal agent who
often battles terrorists from the Muslim world.

''If the script says anything that is not right or appropriate, we edit it,''
said Zaid Mohseni, the chief executive officer of Farsi1 and Saad Mohseni's
brother. ''Visually, if there is something not appropriate, we edit it out. We
know that the majority of viewers are watching with their families. We are very
sensitive to this.''

Still, Farsi1 has drawn the ire of Iranian leaders, who say that the
Western-oriented programming represents an assault on traditional Iranian values
and is even corrupting the Iranian people.

''Satellite TV programs such as those broadcast on Farsi1 destroy the chastity
and honor of our families and encourage the young to take up lovemaking, wine
drinking and Satan worship,'' Mohammad-Taghi Rahbar, a member of Parliament,
told the Iranian news agency IWNA this year.

''The channel is funded by 'Zionist money' and planned and managed by Iran's
enemies,'' he said, without providing details. ''What family that has any
dignity would let is members watch Farsi1?''

Television audiences are difficult to measure in Iran, especially audiences for
programs broadcast by satellite. Satellite dishes are prohibited, but as many as
half the households in Tehran are thought to maintain them.

A station like Farsi1, which is based in Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, has
no transmitter inside Iran. Many of the Persian-language channels that are
broadcast into the country are news- and politics-oriented, like the BBC or the
Voice of America.

Farsi1's backers focus exclusively on entertainment and, by doing so, say they
have been able to draw millions of viewers away from the drab programs offered
by Iranian state television and the news-only offerings of the others.

Mr. Mohseni says that by his own tentative estimates, Farsi1 has been able to
draw several million viewers a day. If that is true, then it has most likely
peeled viewers away from some of the more mainstream Iranian stations -- and
possibly irritated some of the Iranian government's establishment, who have a
vested interest in the success of state television.

''We should not discount financial motivations in the negative statements about
Farsi1,'' Mr. Mohseni said.

In any case, anti-Western fears appear to be running at a high pitch in Iran
these days, especially since the huge antigovernment protests last year that the
government eventually crushed.

In a television interview earlier this year, Hassan Abassi, the head of the
Center for Doctrinal and Strategic Studies, associated with the Islamic
Revolutionary Guards Corps, warned against a ''soft cultural war'' being waged
by the West. The Revolutionary Guards is an especially politicized wing of the
Iranian military. Mr. Abassi said that the American show ''24'' was meant to
encourage hatred of Muslims and fear of Islam by portraying Muslims as
terrorists.

Mr. Mohseni said, ''If people feel we are destroying the culture, they will not
watch us.''

The Iranian Cyber Army appears to be a group affiliated with the Revolutionary
Guards and dedicated to staging computer attacks against perceived enemies. A
Web site, ircarmy.com, says the group was established ''to protest U.S. and
Israeli interference in our internal affairs'' and ''the distribution of false
news.''

The group has a proven track record, experts say.

''The Iranian government has in the past claimed to attack Web sites on U.S.
servers to collect the names of Iranian dissidents,'' said Jeffrey Carr, an
expert on computer hacking and the author of ''Inside Cyber Warfare.''

''I suspect that this is a case of a patriotic, highly skilled Iranian hacker
crew conducting an attack on behalf of their government, but not officially a
part of the government,'' Mr. Carr said.

He said the Iranian Cyber Army recently took credit for an attack on Baidu, the
Chinese Internet search engine.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               79 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 22, 2010 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Even Before Friday's Crush, Retail Deals Will Go Online

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1238 words


Amanda Thomas Perry used to skip sleeping on Thanksgiving night so she could be
at Lowe's or Wal-Mart before dawn on Friday for the special ''door-buster''
deals.

But after too many so-called Black Fridays where she felt nauseated from lack of
sleep -- and one when her husband, overwhelmed by the discounts, arrived at the
register with armfuls of digital photo frames they did not need -- Ms. Perry
will be starting her holiday sales shopping from the computer in her living room
on Thanksgiving Day.

''You're warmer, and you don't have to deal with cranky people,'' said Ms.
Perry, a college student who lives in Murray, Ky.

A few years ago, Thanksgiving was not even considered a shopping day, as most
stores are closed. But this year, retailers are driving customers to the Web
with more specials than ever -- door busters without the door -- creating an
online jump-start to the traditional Black Friday rush.

''It's going to be a very competitive day,'' said Kevin Mansell, chairman and
chief executive of Kohl's, the department store chain with more than 1,000
outlets nationwide, which plans to offer almost all of its Black Friday specials
online beginning on Thursday.

The Web deals are wide-ranging. Walmart.com is offering discounts of up to 40
percent on almost 150 items, triple the number of specials in 2009. At Radio
Shack, Best Buy, Macy's and J. C. Penney, almost every Black Friday deal can be
had online starting on Thursday. Even Web-only merchants like Amazon.com are
offering steep discounts that day.

''Just because they're at home on Thanksgiving and most stores are closed, that
doesn't mean they don't want the opportunity to go online, to shop, to build
their gift list,'' said Mr. Mansell of Kohl's, which like most retailers will
extend its Thursday deals to Friday, too.

For several years now, both Thanksgiving and the Friday after have grown in
importance for online retailers, which previously directed their late November
promotions almost entirely to the Monday after Thanksgiving.

Last year, $318 million was spent online on Thanksgiving, an increase of more
than 10 percent from the year before, and $595 million was spent the next day,
an increase of 11 percent. While the Cyber Monday total was bigger, $887
million, it grew only 5 percent from 2008, according to comScore, an Internet
research company.

Retail analysts and executives said they expected the numbers to be even greater
this year.

The reasons are chiefly economic: in-store sales for the last few years have
been dreary, and the Internet is a crucial place to attract new customers who
are not early risers. Retail sales have risen about 1.5 to 2.5 percent this
year, according to SpendingPulse, an information service of MasterCard Advisors.
By contrast, the most recent figures for e-commerce showed growth of more than
11 percent for early November alone, MasterCard said.

''The competitive landscape is one driver leading retailers to be more
aggressive earlier,'' said Eric Best, chief executive of the Mercent
Corporation, which aims to help brands sell products on e-commerce sites.

Retailers say they are also responding to their customers.

''I don't think retailers would tell you it was our target to start shopping
earlier -- that's what consumers wanted,'' said Steve Nave, senior vice
president and general manager of Walmart.com. ''As broadband penetration,
specifically, started to grow, customers on that day, once they were done with
their Thanksgiving celebrations, they weren't necessarily ready to go to a
store, but it's pretty easy to pull up a Web page and start researching.''

Wal-Mart is trying to capitalize on those advance researchers. On Monday, it
plans to announce that it will match any competitor's Black Friday prices in
Wal-Mart stores as long as customers bring in the competitor's ads.

Also, traffic to retail Web sites began to grow as stores put Black Friday ads
and tools online. At Walmart.com, for instance, shoppers can print out in-store
maps that label where specially discounted product are located. The increased
online traffic led many retailers to offer Web deals so visitors would buy
something, not just browse.

Michael J. Boylson, chief marketing officer, said: ''We think it's a way to get
some of that early business. We'd rather capture it online than open on
Thursday.''

Marie Prophete, a 23-year-old college student in Fullerton, Calif., made the
switch to online holiday shopping after she went to a Wal-Mart on the morning of
Black Friday and found that not only was the store out of specially discounted
video game consoles, but also that every popular video game was gone.

''Online, they have a warehouse of the stuff, so you'll know you'll get it --
they won't run out in a few seconds,'' Ms. Prophete said. ''I was like, oh, man,
never mind. I'll just shop online.''

Even if shoppers do wind up in the stores on Black Friday, they often end up
buying online anyway, said Craig Berman, a spokesman for Amazon.com.

''There are lots of customers who will be out and about, and maybe comparing
prices via mobile devices and may end up shopping on Black Friday through their
smartphones,'' he said.

Though it expands potential customers, running online deals on Thursday and
Friday poses challenges for retailers. Shoppers who wait for hours in line and
find that a door-buster deal has been snapped up -- but that people on the Web
got the item without even waiting -- could feel some ill will.

To avoid that problem, Kathee Tesija, executive vice president of merchandising
for Target, said the company Web site and stores ran different deals.

''We don't want any confusion between online and in stores,'' she said. ''There
are limited quantities, and our intent is for them to last the whole two days,
but sometimes we do run short.''

Another risk for stores is that retailers traditionally earn little profit on
door-buster specials to get shoppers inside, hoping they will add other, more
profitable, items to their shopping carts. Online, that is less likely to
happen.

''I can budget better,'' said Ms. Prophete, the California student. ''When I go
to the store, you make a list, but you usually get stuff that's not on the
list.''

Not that online shopping cannot be fun for bargain seekers who enjoy the thrill
of the hunt.

In Kentucky, Ms. Perry said she would be at home on Thanksgiving, but poised for
the virtual version of rushing the door.

She has created accounts at Walmart.com, BestBuy.com, Toysrus.com and others to
store her shipping address. She plans to have the product pages for the
Microsoft Xbox and flat-screen televisions pulled up before the sales start. She
has even typed her credit card number into a Word document so she can copy and
paste it into the ordering site rather than typing it out and risk taking too
long.

''You have to get in quick or they're gone, like within five minutes,'' she
said. ''It's still a competition.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 23, 2010



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An article on Monday about holiday specials that will be offered online on
Thanksgiving Day misattributed a quotation about the strategy. It was Michael J.
Boylson, chief marketing officer of J. C. Penney -- not Michael T. Theilmann, a
group executive vice president at the company -- who said: ''We think it's a way
to get some of that early business. We'd rather capture it online than open on
Thursday.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amanda Thomas Perry of Murray, Ky., plans to get a jump on
holiday shopping by hunting for deals online on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH
ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               80 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 22, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chinese View Of Google's Issues

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BRUSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 426 words


Google failed in China because it did not understand the Chinese Internet
market, not because the playing field was unfairly tilted against it, said Robin
Li, the chief executive of Baidu, the Chinese search engine that dominates in
China.

Mr. Li, speaking at the Web 2.0 conference in San Francisco Monday, was making
his first public comments at an American industry conference. He spoke shortly
after Eric E. Schmidt, the chief executive of Google, had taken the same stage.

And he said failed, even though Google is still in China. Google lost market
share to Baidu after confronting the Chinese government over censorship of
search results and cyber attacks of Google servers.

''China is a very different market,'' said Mr. Li. ''It's growing, meaning
conditions change every day. If you're not close to that market it's difficult
to keep up.''

Mr. Li said that he too had struggled with the government censorship that Google
cited when it ended its Chinese operations earlier this year. He said that his
first inclination when he left the United States to start Baidu was to move to
Hong Kong. That way, he could avoid some of the restrictions on the Chinese
mainland. But such a move would have been impossible for a Chinese company, he
said.

''They would call me some kind of antigovernment person, my life would be
ruined'' he said. ''If a U.S. company were to ignore Chinese law, they would
still call them strategic partners.''

Instead, Baidu stayed in China and accepted censorship as a price of doing
business, along with China's onerous bureaucracy, slow connection speeds and a
low computer penetration rate. It focused on what it could control, he said, and
did not worry about what it could not.

Doing so has worked out well for Baidu. Its stock price has nearly tripled since
November 2009. Its revenue has increased 15 times in the five years since Mr. Li
turned down offers to sell the company for over $1 billion before its initial
public offering in 2005. The company is looking to expand internationally,
although it has no plans to move into the United States.

The Chinese Internet market today still presents enormous room for growth, said
Mr. Li. There are about 420 million Chinese Internet users, and practically all
of them use Baidu, he said. There are more than twice that many mobile phones in
the country.

American Internet companies should be prepared to deal with difficulties that
they do not face at home if they want to expand to China, said Mr. Li.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY AVELAR/BLOOMBERG NEWS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               81 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Scouting Report

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 400 words


POP UP

The designers Monica Zwirner and Lucy Wallace Eustice of the M Z Wallace handbag
label are starting MZW E-POP, an online holiday shop of eclectic gifts on Cyber
Monday. Among the offerings are Tamanohada Welcome Soap from Japan in a
beautifully designed package ($40); Van Rycke bracelets ($65 to $85); a signed
Marcel Dzama catalog ($35); and from their archives, the large New York kevlar
tote ($375). The site will be up through December. mzwallace.com/epop

ALLSAINTS SPITALFIELDS Meatpacking Holiday Pop-Up Shop has opened at 415 West
13th Street; (646-862-3155; us.allsaints.com) with a range of accessories and
apparel for men, women and children, and a focus on party-wear.

OPENINGS

ICEBREAKER, a New Zealand sporting apparel line, will open its first store in
Manhattan at 102 Wooster Street (646-861-2523; icebreaker.com). The company uses
mountain-dwelling merinos for its woolen performance wear, and each piece of
Icebreaker clothing includes a Baacode (or unique code) enabling customers to
trace the garment's sourcing through the supply chain, including the
high-country farmers who run the sheep stations. Men's Oasis Crewe Heli, $85,
and Realfleece Aspiring Hood zippered jacket, $200; popular women's Oasis V top,
$85.

SALES

The NORMA KAMALI ''$200 and Under'' sale will continue this Friday from 10 a.m.
to 6 p.m. at 11 West 56th Street (212-957-9797; normakamali.com). An
off-shoulder dress from the Poly Jersey Collection, originally $650, will be
$185. Sleeping Bag coats (in select colors), which retailed for $500 to $650,
will be reduced to $125 to $175; Satin Gowns, originally $895 to $2,700, will be
$200.

The 3.1 PHILLIP LIM Fall 2010 sale will start on Friday at 3.1 Phillip Lim, 115
Mercer Street (212-334-1160; 31philliplim.com). The rabbit-lined trench, which
originally retailed for $995, will be on sale for $597; a reversible duffle coat
with shearling lining will be reduced to $990 from $1,650; wrap printed skirts,
originally $475, will be $285.

The GRYSON sample sale will be from 11 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. on Wednesday and
Thursday at the company's showroom, 180 Varick Street, Suite 916. The Gryson
Morgan Painted Eel Bag, an oversize clutch, originally $575, will be $230; The
Gryson Violet Painted Eel Bag, originally $995, will be $398. Joy Gryson
designed bags for Marc Jacobs before starting her own line in 2006.

Send shopping suggestions to Browsing@nytimes.com

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               82 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 30, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Holiday Indicator, Retailers Say Online Sales Remain Strong

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFF and LIZ ROBBINS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 717 words


Online shoppers started buying on Thanksgiving and did not let up on so-called
Cyber Monday, the day retailers designated for more discounts and promotions. By
6 p.m. on Monday, Eastern time, sales were 20 percent higher than during the
same time period on the Monday after Thanksgiving a year ago, according to
Coremetrics, a research firm owned by I.B.M. that tracks online sales.

Cyber Monday was created five years ago to encourage people to shop online from
work, where they could use a high-speed Internet connection that they lacked at
home. It never was the busiest online shopping day. But now that broadband
Internet connections have replaced dial-up access in most American homes, fewer
consumers are waiting until they get to their work computers to shop online.

The day has evolved into a way for online retailers to keep up the spending
momentum that began in earnest on the day after Thanksgiving.

Shop.org, the online arm of the National Retail Federation, a trade group, said
that the percentage of people shopping online from work on Monday was expected
to drop more than one percentage point from last year, to 12.1 percent.

''We saw a lot of companies jumping the gun by doing a Thursday-only sale,''
said Charlie Graham, the founder and chief executive of ShopItToMe.com, a
personal shopping site that works with more than 200 retailers. ''There are
still some retailers who did a different deal on Friday than on Monday,'' Mr.
Graham said, ''and you'll see retailers who put a deal up Thursday through
Monday.''

And yet, he said, there were enough shoppers who waited until they got back to
work on Monday to visit retail Web sites that the day is still a marketing tool.

The scene at the fulfillment center of Zappos.com, the online shoe retailer,
outside Louisville, Ky., offered physical evidence of this year's online holiday
shopping trends. To satisfy the demand, not only did the company expand its
warehouse to a second building, but Zappos.com also plans to add 500 employees
this week.

''It's absolutely crazy,'' Craig Adkins, the vice president for fulfillment
operations, said early Monday afternoon. He said orders were ''significantly
larger than we thought.''

At Target.com, books were discounted 60 percent, and the discount for a JASTI
Mini Projector -- $50 for a savings of 50 percent -- was available all week, the
company said.

Industrywide, online retail sales for the month through Nov. 26 were up 13
percent, to $11.6 billion, according to comScore. Consumer spending -- both
online and in stores -- increased 6 percent over the four-day weekend to an
average of $365, according to a survey of 4,300 Americans by the National Retail
Federation.

Online retailers were careful to note that while the strength of sales on Friday
and Monday might be indicators of the season, they were only the beginning. The
peak shopping day for many online retailers comes in mid-December as shipping
deadlines approach. Many companies offer deals like free shipping throughout the
holidays.

One of them, Amazon.com, says the busiest day comes near the final day of its
free shipping offer for Christmas delivery.

On Monday morning, a spokeswoman for Amazon.com, Sally Fouts, described business
as ''very busy,'' with hundreds of thousands of packages already shipped out of
Amazon's distribution center in Phoenix, where she was working. The biggest
seller, as is the case on most days, was the Kindle e-reader, she said.

But like other retailers, Amazon.com also got an early start, offering its
holiday discounts as early as October in its electronics category. Thousands
more deals were added on Friday, including a number of limited-time offers.

Ms. Fouts said that Amazon sold out of 47-inch Visio televisions, each on sale
on Monday for $600, or $300 off its list price.

Shoppers are increasingly using cellphones to shop online, whether to buy
products or simply to research. Shop.org said that it expected around 7 percent
of people to use their cellphones to shop on Monday, nearly double from last
year.

Another relatively new phenomenon is the use by online retailers of social media
sites like Facebook to get the word out. Land's End, for instance, created ''12
hours of Twitter'' on Monday, during which it promoted its discounts, some of
which were played up only on Twitter.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               83 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Look That's Worth a Million Hits

BYLINE: By CATHERINE SAINT LOUIS

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1434 words


ON the afternoon of what has come to be known as Cyber Monday, Alissandre
Martines, 23, a French Polynesian with high-arched eyebrows, was making a
color-blocked scarf by Me & Kashmere look like a must-have.

Mindful of the tiny rectangle she would inhabit on Gilt Groupe, the designer
discount Web site, Ms. Martines flashed a little personality as she moved in
front of a softly illuminated white backdrop, to the sounds of Prince playing on
Pandora. There was a smirk. A hand on the hip. A mischievous, close-mouthed
smile. But Ms. Martines didn't bring a hand to her face (that would hide the
neckline), nor did she do any fabulously contrived poses.

''You're doing straight catalog shots, but still need some expression,'' said
Philip Attar, the art director in charge of the shoot at the Brooklyn Navy Yard,
explaining the challenge of modeling clothes online. He was sitting in front of
a computer as images of Ms. Martines popped up. ''Got it,'' he called, when one
satisfied him. The process involves ''selling clothes to people who can't touch
anything,'' Mr. Attar said, ''so even if only for one second, you want to have
some connection with her.''

Last year, customers nationwide spent $19 billion online on apparel and
accessories, according to comScore, an Internet research company. This growing
market has given rise to another category of catalog modeling, with different
requirements from the Sears books of yore.

Online apparel retailers want women who look good in motion since 360-degree
shots of merchandise (and often video) are de rigueur. ''It's our responsibility
now to not only educate models to look good on camera, but also to educate them
in how to move,'' said Ivan Bart, the managing director of IMG Models worldwide,
adding that top-tier magazines also now often require doing B-roll video for
their sites in addition to print editorial spreads. (Moving well also helps with
the 50-odd clothing changes a session sometimes required of online models.)
''The Internet is definitely driving it,'' Mr. Bart said. ''People are
understanding that's the way the consumer is being seduced.''

Web models need to be attractive, of course, but not intimidatingly so -- the
better, the thinking goes, to woo shoppers who may be browsing at 3 a.m. in
their slippers. Many niche apparel sites direct their models to evoke
just-off-the-street charm with a touch of je ne sais quoi -- in other words, be
''relatable,'' but not a bore (as opposed to the unrelentingly cheery models on
the Web site of a department store like Macy's). While Gilt uses models full of
don't-you-want-it attitude to sell their high-end products, Rue La La, Ideeli
and Swirl by DailyCandy ask their models to exude friendly warmth, rather than
hauteur. Shopbop, meanwhile, uses the same distinctive models in such heavy
rotation that shoppers nickname them.

Elena Greenwell, a six-year veteran of Shopbop who is known simply as the
Redhead, says she is recognized by fans even at the beach without makeup. ''I've
had people say, 'You look so pissed off,' '' said Ms. Greenwell, of Ford Models.
''I am the opposite of that girl. If you saw the outtakes, we are always
laughing and dancing.''

Shopbop also frequently features a come-hither brunette, Iskra Stoycheva, a
Bulgarian-born resident of Milwaukee who has been working for the site for seven
years and is often shown with slightly parted lips. ''I'm bored with regular
work,'' said Ms. Stoycheva, a Factor model who also does print catalogs. ''It's
just not enough to do. It's not stimulating enough for me.'' Plus, working at
Shopbop is like collaborating with friends, she said. (She gets to do her own
hair and makeup there; Internet shoppers, it seems, welcome a whiff of
amateurism.)

A daily e-mail featuring either of these women acts as a Pavlovian trigger for
customers to examine new arrivals on the site, which has approximately five
million visits per month, according to Shopbop. ''People come to see them as
personalities,'' Morgan Wendelborn, the site's style director, said of the
models, who routinely drive to Madison, Wis., from Chicago or fly in from New
York for shoots. Ms. Wendelborn, who runs the site's model castings, said ''I
want a girl who actually looks like she has personality. People do relate to
that. She kind of seems like me. She looks like she's having fun, even if she's
not smiling.''

Being ''relatable'' on Shopbop and elsewhere entails dressing a sophisticated,
somewhat age-ambiguous woman in outfits that appear down-to-earth despite
three-figure prices. Her body language seems to ask ''Don't I look good?'' Her
aura of cool suggests she doesn't need an answer. The professional online model
is skinny, sure -- but size 4s, not zeros like many on the runway. ''Seeing
clothes on someone like them really resonates with consumers -- not a runway
model, not an austere glamazon,'' said Hillary Mendelsohn, an online marketing
expert and founder of thepurplebook.com, a Zagat guide to the Web.

The fast-and-furious shoots for online apparel purveyors also help convey a
sense of off-the-cuff authenticity. ''Oh, you can definitely do 80 outfits in a
day,'' said Lindsi Miller, 21, who models once or twice a week for Swirl by
DailyCandy, their sample sale site. With a hint of pride, she added, ''They tell
me I'm the fastest changer they've ever had.''

Perfection isn't required. Bony knees aren't airbrushed smooth. Models sometimes
work the same baffling expression ad nauseam. Referring to online modeling
generally, Steven Reider, a manager at Elite Model Management, said, ''I don't
think it's ever made anyone a star on the global playing field of models.''

Still, Ms. Mendelsohn contends, consumers relate to them. ''I don't think that
people want to see a perfect model,'' she said. ''The ones that attract us the
most are ones with effortless cool who are actually approachable, that you could
be friends with.''

Swirl by DailyCandy, which is about a year old, uses quirky models who appear
''smart but not snarky, friendly but not annoying, someone genuinely cool, not
in a supercilious way, but in an exuberant relatable way,'' said Eve Epstein,
the creative director for Swirl, who hires for the 32 to 35 sales a month, which
are shot in a studio in Los Angeles.

Gilt, which has roughly 100 women's and 80 men's ready-to-wear sales monthly,
works with some luxury brands to find appropriate models. ''Some brands are very
clear about their style guidelines,'' said Alexandra Wilkis Wilson, the chief
merchandising officer of Gilt. Other brands let the site cast their shoots,
which take place in two shifts between 8 a.m. and 1 a.m. at one of their eight
studios in Brooklyn. In those cases, the aim is broad appeal. ''We don't want a
model to appear intimidating in a way they do in a fashion show,'' Ms. Wilson
said. (Ms. Martines, a Gilt regular, recently finished shooting for Agent
Provocateur.)

Gregory Costello, the creative director at Ideeli.com, a free flash sale site
where members can pay for earlier access, discourages contrived poses that are
staples of fashion magazines. ''Both arms up, elbows out -- we don't go for
that,'' he said. ''That's also not how you, mother of one, would be standing at
the cocktail party in your Donna Karan dress.'' Mr. Costello, who is
pro-smiling, wants models to show personality in the site's eight daily staffed
shoots. They do about six more with no people.

The jury is still out on whether flesh-and-blood models are even necessary to
move merchandise sight unseen. Bluefly and the OutNet mostly use mannequins on
their item shots. Net-a-Porter, the international luxury online retailer that
feeds the discount OutNet, crops out models' faces, as if to disabuse them of
the prevalent notion of our time that they can be more than clothes hangers. The
site shows multiple views of a $1,355 Miu Miu asymmetric strapless crepe dress,
and a video that clarifies where the slit in the hem falls. But the statuesque
model wearing it remains faceless.

Bluefly's quick selling periods made investment in models seem unwise, said
Bradford Matson, the company's chief marketing officer. He said that some of the
models hired for the site's home page are runway walkers but are styled to be
''approachable.'' In September, however, for the first time, Bluefly had models
on its item pages don some boxy-cut cashmere sweaters to see if they increased
sales. They were pitted against headless torsos wearing cashmere on the same
page.

Consumers said they appreciated the zoomable pictures and videos, Mr. Matson
said. But he added, using human beings only slightly increased sales.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE PICK TO CLICK: Stephanie Teymourian, left, an agent with
Ford Models, in Chicago with Elena Greenwell, a model who on the Shopbop Web
site is known simply to her fans as the Redhead. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E1)
HOLD IT: Alissandre Martines, far left, with the photographer Keetja Allard
during a Gilt fashion shoot at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. Elena Greenwell, above
and left, modeling a variety of looks for the Web site Shopbop. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 AND YOU ARE? The models Daniela Mirzac above, and Cerelina Proesl on
Bluefly.com. (E12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               84 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 5, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Contributors

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Holiday Magazine; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 721 words


Zoe Heller

Stones or Beatles? It is the most divisive question in pop culture, and the
novelist Zoe Heller (''Notes on a Scandal'') knows where she stands, even after
her interview with Mick Jagger (''Without Moss,'' Page 162). ''Beatles songs are
what my family sang on road trips when I was growing up, so they have the
superior nostalgic appeal.'' Heller's last novel, ''The Believers,'' evoked the
spirit of Greenwich Village. Her idea of yuletide bliss is similarly
transportative: ''A day or two of English countryside -- wood smoke, Wellington
boots, crumpets. . . .''

Max Vadukul

The first image the photographer Max Vadukul saw on television was Mick Jagger
singing ''Jumpin' Jack Flash.'' ''It's strange how things in life seem
connected,'' says Vadukul, who shot Jagger for the fourth time in ''Without
Moss'' (Page 162). (Sir Mick actually took the picture of Vadukul at left.) A
frequent New Yorker contributor, Vadukul is also responsible for the portrait of
Julian Assange (Page 166). ''Julian's totally in another world,'' he says of the
WikiLeaks founder and the swirl of intrigue around him. ''Somehow, he is quite
sexy.''

David Vandewal

For ''Zing!'' (Page 154), the stylist David Vandewal raided the spring
collections of New York-based designers like Thakoon and Alexander Wang, which
he sums up this way: ''It's all about the simple day dress.'' Vandewal, who is
of Flemish extraction, graduated from the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in Antwerp
(Brussels, by contrast, is a bore: there's ''no culture'') and worked as a
designer for Dries Van Noten, Karl Lagerfeld and Raf Simons. A frequent
contributor to T, he splits his time beween New York, Paris and Antwerp.

Misha Glenny

The London-based writer Misha Glenny writes mostly about crime, estimating in
his book ''McMafia'' that it accounts for 15 percent of the world's economic
output. In the '90s, Glenny covered the Balkans, where he believes mafias, not
overheated nationalism, caused the wars that tore apart Yugoslavia. For his next
book, he's been staking out the Internet underworld. There resides the WikiLeaks
founder, Julian Assange (''The Gift of Information,'' Page 166). ''He uses the
same tools as cyber-criminals, but for very different purposes.''

Susan Winget

Trained as a ballet dancer, Susan Winget became obsessed with performance art in
the 1990s and, as a reporter in Stamford, Conn., covered PepsiCo Summerfare,
then an important cultural event that routinely lured theater and dance greats
like Peter Sellars and Mark Morris. She began styling fashion stories -- like
''Moonstruck'' on Page 178 -- after assisting on an Italian Vogue shoot.
''Somebody asked me to iron clothes in Norway,'' she recalls. ''Sometimes it's
hard to believe this is a real job.''

Emma Summerton

In ''Zing!'' (Page 154), the Australian-born photographer Emma Summerton offers
up a color-saturated study in strut-your-stuff. ''I like girls that have an
opinion,'' she says. ''It's one thing to look good, but if you don't have that
other energy and spark, it can be . . . boring.'' A frequent contributor to I.D.
and Italian Vogue, Summerton first turned heads with her six-year-long Polaroid
self-portrait project, which began as a visual love letter to her photographer
boyfriend.

Joan Juliet Buck

Years before she played Madame Brassart, the Cordon Bleu tyrant, in Nora
Ephron's film ''Julie & Julia,'' Joan Juliet Buck (''Full House,'' Page 172) was
the editor in chief of French Vogue. ''After I left, in 2001, I went as far from
fashion as I could go, which was Santa Fe.'' There, the American-born Buck began
to study with Ruth Zaporah, a dancer who founded the improvisational Action
Theater. Now back in New York, Buck appears often in plays that ''you never
heard of and wouldn't see.''

Jame Carroll

For ''The Gift of Reconciliation'' (Page 168), James Carroll got the back story
on the imam at the center of the so-called ''Ground Zero mosque'' controversy.
Carroll was ordained as a Catholic priest in 1969 but decamped with other Church
progressives who felt betrayed by Vatican II. His weekly columns in The Boston
Globe often delve into religion, and his next book, ''Jerusalem, Jerusalem: How
the Ancient City Ignited the Modern World,'' is set in the Holy Land. ''An inch
below the surface of American imagination,'' he says, ''is the City on the
Hill.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIGITTE LACOMBE
PATRICIA PINGREE
DAVID VANDEWAL
JACQUES BROUCHIER
COURTESY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF BRISTOL
MICK JAGGER
GERALD DECOCK
 TONY NOTARBERARDINO)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               85 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 5, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cyberspace Gamble

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1979 words



LOS ANGELES

THE very first feature that Joseph Kosinski has ever directed -- ''Tron:
Legacy'' -- cruises into theaters on Dec. 17, and it's not exactly a cinematic
baby step. A $170 million budget. State-of-the-art 3-D visual effects. A
three-year marketing campaign. An extensive line of related toys, clothes,
jewelry and electronics. A spinoff television show. Theme park tie-ins. Overt
hopes for a sequel.

Pressure? Just a little.

But late last month, as Mr. Kosinski showed ''Tron: Legacy'' to his cast for the
first time, he was the epitome of calm; an ice sculpture would have looked like
a nervous wreck next to him. ''I've got some bad news for you,'' he said to
Olivia Wilde, who plays a cyber warrior named Quorra. ''You're no longer in the
movie.'' Ms. Wilde looked at him, blinking. Mr. Kosinski, an architect by
training, waited a beat and then smiled. ''Just kidding.''

Earlier that day Mr. Kosinski, 36, slouched on a sofa in his dimly lighted
office, took a careful sip of mint tea and tried to explain his unflappable
demeanor. ''As a director, if you know what you want, then it's not scary,'' he
said. ''I had a very clear idea of what I wanted 'Tron: Legacy' to look like.''

If he came across as more arrogant, you might believe that he is really this
confident. But he doesn't. Raised in Marshalltown, Iowa -- population 26,000 --
he is quiet, polite and interested in other people's opinions in a way that is
rare in moviedom's major leagues. Instead the cool exterior seems designed to
keep people out of his head. After all, when a reporter asked him a silly
question -- what kind of building best describes you? -- he gave a revealing
answer: ''Tall and thin with no windows.''

Handing over a major motion picture to a director with a very thin resume is not
unheard of, in part because vision matters even in risk-averse Hollywood.
(Newbie directors can also be easier for studios to control.) Joseph McGivney
Nichol, better known as McG, had only directed two shorts and several music
videos when Sony gave him a $100 million budget to make ''Charlie's
Angels.''Michael Bay was best known for directing a Meat Loaf video when he
landed ''Bad Boys,'' the 1995 Will Smith vehicle. And David Fincher's directing
experience was mostly limited to commercials and music videos (Madonna's
''Vogue'') when he was given ''Alien3.''

But ''Tron: Legacy,'' as evidenced by the Category 5 marketing storm that Walt
Disney Studios has whipped up on its behalf, is not just any multiplex behemoth.
The goal is a juggernaut franchise on the scale of ''Pirates of the Caribbean,''
a series that appeals squarely to boys but is mainstream enough to lure everyone
else and hit a cultural nerve.

Disney has been taking more risks lately. A gutsy move to rename its Rapunzel
movie ''Tangled'' to play down the princess paid off with stellar Thanksgiving
ticket sales, for instance. But ''Tron'' marks one of its biggest movie gambles
ever, not only because of its huge production and marketing cost (an estimated
$150 million globally) but because Disney has moved forward with spinoffs --
''Tron: Uprising,'' an ambitious animated series for Disney Channel and Disney
XD, is already deep in production -- without waiting to see how the film is
received.

''Tron: Legacy,'' written by the ''Lost'' alumni Edward Kitsis and Adam
Horowitz, also revisits sacred ground for science fiction fans. The first
''Tron,'' released by Disney in 1982, was a box office disappointment (as was
''Blade Runner'' that same year), but its computer-generated effects and story
line -- a hacker is pulled inside a computer and forced to play space-age
gladiator games -- deeply influenced a generation of techies.

''It's a science-fiction story that actually came true: inside a computer is a
world where you, or a version of you, can go and live,'' said Steven Lisberger,
who wrote and directed ''Tron'' and served as a producer on the sequel. ''I'm
assuming you've heard of Facebook?'' Another now-quaint notion: ''Tron'' was
banned from the Oscar race for visual effects because using a computer was
considered cheating.

So the basic challenge for ''Tron: Legacy'' is twofold. It must be as
cutting-edge as Mr. Lisberger's movie, or the core fan base will crucify it. At
the same time it must be accessible enough -- warm enough despite all of the
chilly white and blue neon -- to attract rank-and-file moviegoers, particularly
older ones.

How did Mr. Kosinski convince Disney he was remotely qualified to shoulder this
load? It sounds corny, but it all started back in 2007 with one guy who believed
in him: Sean Bailey, a Disney producer who was trying to figure out how to
reinvent ''Tron.'' Mr. Bailey had heard through the Hollywood grapevine about a
director of commercials -- that would be Mr. Kosinski -- who had an unusual
visual style.

His ads, some of which are viewable on josephkosinski.com, were moody, arresting
sales pitches for Chevrolet cars, Nike shoes and video games like Gears of War.
By using light, music and perspective in creative ways Mr. Kosinski had turned
the commercials into free-standing pieces of entertainment. ''I immediately
thought that this was genuinely a very, very special talent,'' Mr. Bailey said.

An uncommissioned video called ''iSPEC'' stood out in particular. Having been
told by advertising agencies that his style was too arty when he first started
out, Mr. Kosinski decided to prove that he knew how to sell products by
imagining what an iPod might look like in the future and designing a commercial
for it. The result -- on which iPods can place their users inside digital
re-creations of movie scenes -- evoked the core idea of ''Tron.''

Mr. Bailey convinced Disney to give Mr. Kosinski some money to put together some
test footage, essentially a three-minute ride into the world of ''Tron'' as Mr.
Kosinski saw it. Impressed at the outcome but still hesitant to pull the
trigger, Disney decided to show the footage at Comic-Con International, the
annual multimedia geekfest in San Diego.

The reaction was nuclear. (''Nerds like me weep with joy,'' wrote a blogger on
Cinematical.com.) Disney told Mr. Kosinski to proceed.

''Tron: Legacy,'' filmed with an updated version of the 3-D camera system that
James Cameron used to make ''Avatar,'' focuses on Sam Flynn, the 27-year-old son
of the hacker Kevin Flynn, who was pulled inside the computer in the original
film, and who has been trapped there for the last 20 years. Sam, played by
Garrett Hedlund (''Four Brothers''), looks into the disappearance of his father
and finds himself zapped into the same realm.

He discovers that technology has run amok. A ruthless dictator named Clu 2.0
rules this world, a pitch-black place where people hurl glowing discs at one
another and ride light-trailing motorcycles on highways made of crystal. (Wired
magazine aptly called one sequence ''motocross by way of Harry Winston.'') The
twist: Clu is an evolved digital incarnation that Sam's dad created for himself
back when he first hacked into the system.

Jeff Bridges, 61, returns as Kevin Flynn and -- appearing as a 34-year-old
version of himself -- also plays Clu. (Mr. Bridges was made to look half his age
with the same technology that allowed Brad Pitt to look elderly in Mr. Fincher's
''Curious Case of Benjamin Button.'') Other notable characters include Castor, a
nightclub denizen played as a bizarre cross between Mae West and Charlie Chaplin
by Michael Sheen (''The Queen'').

Ms. Wilde, best known for the television series ''House,'' said Mr. Kosinski
encouraged her to pattern Quorra, a friendly soldier in the virtual universe,
after Joan of Arc. ''He could have very easily said, 'Just be hot,' and moved
on,'' she said. ''Instead he was as interested as I was in creating a unique
female character.''

In many ways Mr. Kosinski had been preparing himself to create the world of
''Tron: Legacy'' for years without realizing it. While studying mechanical
engineering at Stanford University, he dreamed about a career designing
racecars. He spent a term at Oxford University, where he focused on particle
physics and space phenomena like black holes.

But a Stanford professor, impressed with Mr. Kosinski's eye for design, had
encouraged him to look at architecture, which led him to the Graduate School of
Architecture, Planning and Preservation at Columbia University. There he became
proficient in digital design programs, the same kind that Hollywood's visual
effects wizards use.

''I realized that I loved using computers to create something, but being an
architect just wasn't going to keep me interested,'' Mr. Kosinski said. ''The
idea of a life spent obsessing over bathroom details for an Upper East Side
penthouse was pretty depressing.''

In the back of his head was another person who initially studied architecture
but realized it wasn't for him: Michelangelo Antonioni, the Italian director of
detached, dreamlike films like ''L'Avventura'' and ''Blow-Up.'' Before long Mr.
Kosinski was dragging his wife, Kristin, a patent attorney, from New York to
Hollywood.

It didn't go well. ''We slept on the floor of an apartment with no furniture,''
he said. ''I couldn't even get a fabric softener commercial.''

Then one day he got one of those classic show business breaks: a call from
Anonymous Content, a leading management company specializing in commercials.
Three days later he was sitting in a meeting with Mr. Fincher, an Anonymous
partner.

''In my earliest look at Joe's work I felt as though he had an immediate
understanding of how to structure images,'' Mr. Fincher said in an e-mail
message. ''This is not an easy thing to do. It takes many years for most
filmmakers to develop the kind of fluency and ease that Joe had very early on,
and very naturally.''

Noting Mr. Kosinski's knack for using digital tools to visualize camera movement
and staging, Mr. Fincher added, ''He was someone whose skill set, I felt,
represented precisely where directing was heading.''

Where Mr. Kosinski's career goes next depends on how ''Tron: Legacy'' performs
at the box office. He could immediately move to a sequel or tackle ''Oblivion,''
a movie project based on a graphic novel he created while trying to land
directing jobs. Disney bought the rights to ''Oblivion,'' which at first glance
tells a very un-Disney story: as brutal alien scavengers stalk the ruins of
Earth, which has been irradiated beyond recognition, a mysterious visitor
arrives from space, setting off an unusual chain of events. William Monahan, who
won an Oscar for ''The Departed,'' is writing the screenplay.

Disney has also signed Mr. Kosinski to remake ''The Black Hole,'' the 1979 movie
about a missing spaceship that is perched on the edge of a galactic abyss. For
now, however, he is focused on promoting ''Tron: Legacy,'' particularly
overseas, and playing the tranquil eye of the hurricane -- a trait that Mr.
Bailey of Disney explains by retelling a story from Mr. Kosinski's youth.

When Mr. Kosinski was still in high school, he spent almost a year building an
elaborate remote-control airplane, Mr. Bailey said. It was made of balsa wood,
had retractable landing gear and a pilot in Mr. Kosinski's likeness. But he
never tested it and, when it came time to see if the plane would fly, Mr.
Kosinski's father, a vascular surgeon, grew worried that his son would become
despondent if it didn't. He told him that he was proud either way.

''Joe apparently just looked at his dad like he was crazy,'' Mr. Bailey said,
''and responded, 'Oh, it will fly.' ''

Sure enough, it did.

Correction: December 12, 2010, Sunday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article
last Sunday about the new movie ''Tron: Legacy'' and its director, Joseph
Kosinski, described Oxford University's academic year incorrectly. Oxford bases
its school year on a series of terms, not on two semesters.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (AR1)
Garrett Hudlund, left, faces a combatant in ''Tron: Legacy,'' a sequel to
Disney's 1982 cult favorite. A television spinoff to the movie is already in the
works. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DISNEY ENTERPRISES)
Joseph Kosinski directed the $170 million ''Tron: Legacy.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID
LAURIDSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Bruce Boxleitner in ''Tron,'' from 1982. A box office disappointment upon its
release, the film has since acquired many fans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BUENA
VISTA/EVERETT COLLECTION) (AR14)
Mr. Bridges, left, and Garrett Hudlund in ''Tron: Legacy.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DISNEY ENTERPRISES)
 In ''Tron: Legacy,'' Jeff Bridges reprises two roles from the original film: a
benign hacker, above, and a malevolent dictator, Clu. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WALT DISNEY
PICTURES) (AR15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               86 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 6, 2010 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

News From the Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 909 words


Accounts

Choice Hotels International, Silver Spring, Md., named Doner, Southfield, Mich.,
as its lead creative agency. The assignment, with spending estimated at more
than $40 million, had been handled by Leo Burnett, Chicago, part of the Publicis
Groupe. Choice Hotels brands include Comfort Inn, Comfort Suites and Sleep Inn.

Anheuser-Busch InBev named the London and New York offices of Mother as the
worldwide creative agency for Beck's beer. The assignment, with spending
estimated at $40 million, had been handled by Publicis Worldwide, part of the
Publicis Groupe. Mother is also the global creative agency for another
Anheuser-Busch InBev beer brand, Stella Artois.

People

Mark O'Brien, chief operating officer at DDB North America, New York, part of
the DDB Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group, was promoted to president at DDB
North America. He succeeds Dick Rogers, who becomes chairman at DDB North
America, a new post, and remains based in Chicago.

John Partilla joined Dentsu Network West, New York, a new unit of Dentsu, as
chief operating officer. He had been executive vice president and president for
global media sales at the New York office of Clear Channel Communications; he
previously held senior management posts at agencies like Y&R, part of the Young
& Rubicam Brands division of WPP. At Clear Channel, the employees who reported
to Mr. Partilla will now report to Charlie Rahilly, president for national
advertiser platforms.

Tom Drouillard will join Scarborough Research, New York, as president and chief
executive, as of Jan. 1. He has been president at Nielsen Online, New York, part
of the Nielsen Company. Mr. Drouillard will assume those duties from Gregg
Lindner, executive vice president at Scarborough, who had been managing the
company's operations while Robert Cohen, president and chief executive, was on a
medical leave of absence. Scarborough announced recently that Mr. Cohen would
not be returning in a full-time capacity. When Mr. Drouillard joins Scarborough,
Mr. Lindner will take a new post at the company, executive vice president for
service innovation and chief research officer. Scarborough is a joint venture of
Nielsen and Arbitron.

Mike McKay will join the San Francisco office of BBDO Worldwide, effective in
January, as executive creative director. He will succeed Jim Lesser, who is
being promoted to chairman. Mr. McKay has been executive creative director at
the Torrance, Calif., office of Saatchi & Saatchi, part of the Publicis Groupe.
BBDO is part of the Omnicom Group.

Robert Grammatica, global chief client officer at Rapp, New York, part of the
Omnicom Group, was named managing director for the New York office. He succeeds
Terry Young, who left to become president at Purple@Epsilon, New York, a unit of
Epsilon.

Miscellany

Prometheus Global Media, New York, dismissed four longtime employees at its
Adweek unit. They included Barbara Lippert, editor at large, the last
advertising critic at a weekly ad trade publication. The others were Mark
Dolliver, editor at large; Jim English, research editor; and David Gianatasio,
managing online editor.

Additional advertisers have announced they will run commercials during Super
Bowl XLV on Feb. 6, to be broadcast by Fox. The advertisers include the Audi
division of Volkswagen, a returning sponsor; Best Buy, a first-time Super Bowl
advertiser; BMW, which last advertised during a Super Bowl a decade ago; and
Mercedes-Benz, a first-time Super Bowl advertiser. Fox has previously said that
all the commercial time in the game was sold out; other sponsors include
Anheuser-Busch InBev, Cars.com, E*Trade Financial, the Chevrolet division of
General Motors, GoDaddy.com, HomeAway and Mars.

The popular ''Pure Michigan'' campaign, which promotes Michigan as a tourism
destination, will continue after the State Legislature agreed to appropriate an
additional $10 million so that ads could keep appearing. There had been concern
that the budget for the campaign, which features the voice of the actor Tim
Allen, would be reduced substantially or eliminated. The campaign was created by
the Birmingham, Mich., office of McCann Erickson Worldwide, part of the McCann
Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies. The campaign,
coincidentally, won several awards last week, including best in show, at the
2010 D Show, for creativity in advertising produced by Detroit-area agencies.

MDC Partners, Toronto, acquired majority interests in Kenna, Mississauga,
Ontario, and Capital C Communications, Toronto. MDC acquired both stakes, for
undisclosed financial terms, from Newport Partners Holdings, Toronto.

Jumptap, Cambridge, Mass., a mobile advertising company, is allying with Cyber
Communications Inc., known as CCI, part of Dentsu, Tokyo. Financial terms were
not disclosed. CCI will invest in Jumptap and Jumptap will offer its technology
in Japan through CCI.

Travel Ad Network, New York, acquired the assets of TravelMuse, Palo Alto,
Calif., including a travel planning Web site (travelmuse.com). Financial terms
were not disclosed.

CheapOAir, part of Travelong, New York, plans to begin running on Monday its
first television advertising campaign. Commercials, carrying the theme ''Get
there for less,'' are being created by LDMI, Omaha.

Spending in the United States on mobile advertising -- search, display ads and
text ads -- will grow to $2.9 billion in 2014 from $491 million last year,
according to a forecast from BIA/Kelsey, Chantilly, Va.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               87 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 7, 2010 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

State Dept. Daily Is Window on a Jittery Planet

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 507 words


WASHINGTON -- In Tunisia, a man was spotted sitting in a cafe, watching the road
to the American ambassador's residence, before driving away in a gray
Volkswagen. In Nigeria, extremists, possibly including a ''well-trained''
operative just arrived from Chad, were believed to be ''planning a massive
terrorist attack.'' And Persian-language computer hacking sites had posted
dangerous ''Trojan horse'' programs, suggesting how Iranian agents might attack
the United States.

Those were just three of dozens of threats reported in a single issue of a
publication with a limited subscriber list: The Diplomatic Security Daily, a
classified roundup of potential horrors facing American diplomats or citizens
anywhere in the world. A look at one issue, from June 29, 2009, gives a feeling
for the nerve-racking atmosphere in which State Department officers routinely
operate.

The Diplomatic Security Daily is classified ''secret/noforn,'' a label that
prohibits sharing it even with foreign allies, and it goes to American embassies
and other outposts to alert them of possible threats. Some 14 issues of The
Daily were included in a quarter-million diplomatic cables obtained by The New
York Times.

The June 29, 2009, issue is a window on the government's round-the-clock
struggle to assess rumors, often vague, about terrorists, assassins, kidnappers,
hackers and others who might single out Americans. Few of the threats
materialize, but the State Department's Bureau of Diplomatic Security sorts and
shares the steady flow of reports.

One case involves intelligence reports that ''militants attached to Pakistan's
Mumtaz Group'' were scheming to kidnap Americans and Britons in Pakistan,
conceivably in Peshawar's University Town neighborhood. But was the danger real?

The Mumtaz Group, the report says, may be linked to a dead operative of Al Qaeda
who used that nom de guerre. (In fact, The Daily reports in a rare touch of
black humor, the alias Mumtaz is ''arguably inauspicious,'' since at least three
Qaeda members who used it are now dead.)

The threatened kidnappings might be linked to another militant known as Imran,
an Uzbek connected to a fatal attack on an American contractor in 2008. Someone
named Imran had reportedly just been captured by Pakistani intelligence -- but
American intelligence could not be certain it was the same man, The Daily said
in its frustratingly inconclusive report.

One striking aspect of the security warnings sent to embassies is how many
involve cyber threats. The June 29, 2009, issue, in addition to mentioning the
Persian hacker sites, discussed at length Chinese companies and government
agencies specializing in computer security, implying that they might pose a
hazard.

Such companies had ''recruited Chinese hackers,'' including Lin Yong, known as
Lion, to support research projects on attacking computer networks, The Daily
reported. There is a strong possibility that China ''is harvesting the talents
of its private sector in order to bolster offensive and defensive''
cyberoperations, the report said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               88 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 12, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mom and Dad vs. the Cyberbully

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 848 words


To the Editor:

Re ''As Bullies Go Digital, Parents Play Catch-Up'' (''Poisoned Web'' series,
front page, Dec. 5):

While the Internet has served to broaden the audience for abuse, it has also
made bullying less hidden. Parents can no longer hide behind the excuse that
''we didn't know'' if it is right up there on their kid's Web pages.

While many parents argue that the kids should be able to work it out themselves,
I saw early on that without intense adult scrutiny it becomes an Internet
version of ''Lord of the Flies.''

I regularly check my child's pages, and when something arouses my suspicion, I
check her friends' pages, too.

As parents, we need to be vigilant that our children not fall into the traps
that come with always having to post something entertaining, which can easily
slip into posting ever more cruel and outrageous ''jokes'' in the name of being
funny.

Aurora DeMarco Brooklyn, Dec. 6, 2010

To the Editor:

Adolescents are not keeping their hatred to themselves. Privacy? Today anyone
can get through the cracks.

Rumors are no longer whispers down the lane: now it's instant messaging down the
highway.

Kids without the Internet are catty. With social networking, they become
monsters.

I attend a public high school in the suburbs of Philadelphia, the City of
Brotherly Love, right? If parents saw what their children post on the Internet,
they would realize that there's no love being spread.

Young people today no longer understand how to figure out their problems without
the use of technology. We have become the person behind the computer, instead of
an individual with a face.

Carlie Saunders Wallingford, Pa., Dec. 7, 2010

To the Editor:

In every case cited in the article, the cyberbullying occurred between young
people who knew one another from the same schools or programs. For one child
(''D.C.''), it was his ''loner'' status in school that attracted the attention
of the boys who attacked him.

In most bullying, a child likely to be targeted and his or her negative
relationships with other youth can be identified even before an incident occurs.

There should have been at least one trusted adult in the school who was aware of
the child's isolated status before the incident, who was working to improve it,
and to whom the child could turn when incidents began. Apparently, this was not
so.

I'm appalled that there continues to be an uncertain or negative response by
school administrators and staff to parents and children when bullying -- cyber
or not -- occurs. The adults who run the schools and youth programs that
children attend are also responsible for addressing bullying! Until they do,
much unnecessary suffering will continue to occur.

Stuart Green Summit, N.J., Dec. 6, 2010

The writer is director of the New Jersey Coalition for Bullying Awareness and
Prevention.

To the Editor:

As a retired elementary school principal, I cannot understand school
administrators who hold the position that if bullying takes place ''off
campus,'' then they have no jurisdiction. I strongly disagree, and did intervene
with cases of cyber-bullying or aggressive physical encounters after school
hours. My rationale for such action was that the victim and the bully were
adversely affected during school hours.

We owe it to the children to empower the victim, resolve conflicts in a
respectful manner and always follow due process. Involving both sets of parents
in the process has proved successful. Understanding the ''bully'' and teaching
right from wrong is essential. If all else fails, logical consequences should be
administered. It can work. It has worked.

Michael Wolk South Huntington, N.Y., Dec. 5, 2010

To the Editor:

The saddest part about your article is the feeling of isolation that parents
feel as they try to help their children navigate the messy terrain of online
life. It is simply unacceptable for schools to stand on the sidelines and
declare cyberbullying incidents an off-campus matter.

The fact is that online incidents, even if they take place outside of the school
network, play out offline at school, for days, weeks and months. For schools to
ignore or shun this reality is not fair to students or parents.

Communities need to tackle the perils of cyberbullying together, so that parents
understand that they are not alone, and, more important, so that kids recognize
that the adults in their lives are paying attention, supervising and supporting
them, as they untangle the knots of Facebook and e-mail.

Otherwise, kids are left on their own in the lawlessness of the Internet. We can
and must do better than that for kids.

Matt Levinson Hillsborough, Calif., Dec. 5, 2010

The writer is assistant head of school, the Nueva School.

To the Editor:

I am 40 years old and childless, and presume neither to grasp the complexities
of parenting nor the imaginary world where so many people younger than I opt to
spend so much of their time. Nevertheless, the question that occurs to me is why
children need to use Facebook and its like at all.

If children are not wasting time on the Internet, they can't be bullied there,
can they?

David Tallman Atlanta, Dec. 5, 2010

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN HERSEY)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               89 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 15, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

We've Only Got America A

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 851 words


Former President Jose Maria Figueres of Costa Rica has a saying I like: ''There
is no Planet B'' -- so we'd better make Plan A work to preserve a stable
environment. I feel the same way about America these days. There is no America
B, so we'd better make this one work a lot better than we've been doing, and not
only for our sake. When Britain went into decline as the globe's stabilizing
power, America was right there, ready to pick up the role. Even with all our
imperfections and mistakes, the world has been a better place for it. If America
goes weak, though, and cannot project power the way it has, your kids won't just
grow up in a different America. They will grow up in a different world. You will
not like who picks up the pieces. Just glance at a few recent headlines.

The world system is currently being challenged by two new forces: a rising
superpower, called China, and a rising collection of superempowered individuals,
as represented by the WikiLeakers, among others. What globalization,
technological integration and the general flattening of the world have done is
to superempower individuals to such a degree that they can actually challenge
any hierarchy -- from a global bank to a nation state -- as individuals.

China has put on a sound and light show these past few weeks that underscored
just how much its rising economic clout can be used to warp the U.S.-led
international order when it so chooses. I am talking specifically about the
lengths to which China went to not only reject the Nobel Peace Prize given to
one of its citizens -- Liu Xiaobo, a democracy advocate who is serving an
11-year sentence in China for ''subversion of state power'' -- but to intimidate
China's trading partners from even sending representatives to attend the Nobel
award ceremony at Oslo's City Hall.

Mr. Liu was represented at Friday's Nobel ceremony by an empty chair because
China would not release him from prison -- only the fifth time in the 109-year
history of the prize that the winner was not in attendance. Under pressure from
Beijing, the following countries joined China's boycott of the ceremony: Serbia,
Morocco, Pakistan, Venezuela, Afghanistan, Colombia, Ukraine, Algeria, Cuba,
Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Tunisia, Vietnam and
the Philippines. What a pathetic bunch.

''The empty chair in Oslo's Town Hall last Friday was not only that of Liu, but
of China itself,'' observed Rowan Callick, a columnist for The Australian. ''The
world is still waiting for China to play its proper, full role in international
affairs. The perversity of such a successful, civilized nation playing a
dominant role as a backer -- if sometimes merely by default -- of cruel, failed
or failing states is intensely frustrating.''

It gets worse. The Financial Times reported that ''outside Mr. Liu's apartment
in Beijing, where his wife Liu Xia has been held under house arrest since the
award was announced, large blue screens were erected, preventing television
cameras from having a view of the building.''

Honestly, I thought China's leaders had more self-confidence than that. Clearly,
they are feeling very insecure. Think if China had said instead: ''We disagree
with this award and we will not be attending. But anytime one of our citizens is
honored with a Nobel, it is an honor for all of China -- and so we will pass
this on to his family.'' It would have been a one-day story, and China's leaders
would have looked so strong.

As for the superempowered individuals -- some are constructive, some are
destructive. I read many WikiLeaks and learned some useful things. But their
release also raises some troubling questions. I don't want to live in a country
where they throw whistle-blowers in jail. That's China. But I also don't want to
live in a country where any individual feels entitled to just dump out all the
internal communications of a government or a bank in a way that undermines the
ability to have private, confidential communications that are vital to the
functioning of any society. That's anarchy.

But here's the fact: A China that can choke off conversations far beyond its
borders, and superempowered individuals who can expose conversations far beyond
their borders -- or create posses of ''cyber-hacktivists'' who can melt down the
computers of people they don't like -- are now a reality. They are rising
powers. A stable world requires that we learn how to get the best from both and
limit the worst; it will require smart legal and technological responses.

For that job, there is no alternative to a strong America. Critics said of the
British Labour Party of the 1960s that the Britain they were trying to build was
half-Sweden and half-heaven. The alternative today to a world ordered by
American power is not some cuddly multipolar system -- half-Sweden and
half-heaven. It is half-China and half-superempowered individuals.

Managing that will never be easy. But it will be a lot easier with a healthy
America, committed to its core values, powerful enough to project them and
successful enough that others want to follow our lead -- voluntarily.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               90 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 15, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Air Force Says Leaked Cables Are Off Limits On Its Network

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT; William J. Broad contributed reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 722 words


WASHINGTON -- The Air Force is barring its personnel from using work computers
to view the Web sites of The New York Times and more than 25 other news
organizations and blogs that have posted secret cables obtained by WikiLeaks,
Air Force officials said Tuesday.

When Air Force personnel on the service's computer network try to view the Web
sites of The Times, the British newspaper The Guardian, the German magazine Der
Spiegel, the Spanish newspaper El Pais and the French newspaper Le Monde, as
well as other sites that posted full confidential cables, the screen says
''Access Denied: Internet usage is logged and monitored,'' according to an Air
Force official whose access was blocked and who shared the screen warning with
The Times. Violators are warned that they face punishment if they try to view
classified material from unauthorized Web sites.

Some Air Force officials acknowledged that the steps taken might be in vain
since many military personnel could gain access to the documents from home
computers, despite admonishments from superiors not to read the cables without
proper clearances.

Cyber network specialists within the Air Force Space Command last week followed
longstanding procedures to keep classified information off unclassified computer
systems. ''News media Web sites will be blocked if they post classified
documents from the WikiLeaks Web site,'' said Lt. Col. Brenda Campbell, a
spokeswoman for the Air Force Space Command, a unit of which oversees Air Force
cyber systems. ''This is similar to how we'd block any other Web site that
posted classified information.''

Colonel Campbell said that only sites posting full classified documents, not
just excerpts, would be blocked. ''When classified documents appear on a Web
site, a judgment will be made whether it will be blocked,'' she said. ''It's an
issue we're working through right now.''

Spokesmen for the Army, Navy and Marines said they were not blocking the Web
sites of news organizations, largely because guidance has already been issued by
the Obama administration and the Defense Department directing hundreds of
thousands of federal employees and contractors not to read the secret cables and
other classified documents published by WikiLeaks unless the workers have the
required security clearance or authorization.

''Classified information, whether or not already posted on public websites or
disclosed to the media, remains classified, and must be treated as such by
federal employees and contractors, until it is declassified by an appropriate
U.S. Government authority,'' said a notice sent on Dec. 3 by the Office of
Management and Budget, which is part of the White House, to agency and
department heads.

A Defense Department spokesman, Col. David Lapan, in an e-mail on Tuesday night
sought to distance the department from the Air Force's action to block access to
the media Web sites: ''This is not DoD-directed or DoD-wide.''

The Air Force's action was first reported on The Wall Street Journal's Web site
late Tuesday and underscores the wide-ranging impact of the recent release of
secret State Department documents by WikiLeaks, and five news organizations,
including The Times. It also illustrates the contortions the military and other
government agencies appear to be going through to limit the spread of classified
information that has become widely available in the public domain.

''It is unfortunate that the U.S. Air Force has chosen not to allow its
personnel access to information that virtually everyone else in the world can
access,'' said a spokeswoman for The Times, Danielle Rhoades Ha. A senior
administration official said Tuesday that the administration's policy contained
some leeway, for instance, to allow certain employees to download information in
order for them to be able to verify that classified information was leaking into
the public domain, and to assess damage to national security and potential
danger to sources.

Steven Aftergood of the Federation of American Scientists, a secrecy specialist,
said dozens of agencies, as well as branches of the military and government
contractors, had issued their own policy instructions based on the Office of
Management and Budget memo.

''It's a self-defeating policy that will leave government employees less
informed than they ought to be,'' Mr. Aftergood said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               91 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 18, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Buy Feels the Pressure of Rivals on the Web

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1185 words


At barely 10 a.m., holiday shopping was in full swing at a Best Buy on the Upper
West Side. A harried father searched for a new Xbox for his children. A personal
assistant picked up video game accessories for her boss's twins. One young woman
fiddled with a coffeemaker, while another paid for a DVD player.

Outside, parked along the curb, a Best Buy van displayed the slogan ''to serve,
install and repair.'' Inside, one of Best Buy's frontline salesmen, known as
blue shirts for their uniforms, shouted to no one in particular across the vast
showroom: ''Anybody have any questions?'' And moments later, to a couple trying
out some laptops, he said: ''You guys O.K.?''

At a time when the nation's brick-and-mortar electronics retailers are
increasingly feeling the squeeze from online sellers and discounters, the scene
at the Best Buy store exemplified what the company hoped would keep customers
pushing through its glass doors: the service support, the personal touch of its
sales staff and the products on display that allow shoppers to see, touch and
try.

Its strategy, however, has not worked as well as envisioned in a recovering
economy. The challenges faced by electronics stores were highlighted this week
when Best Buy, the world's largest consumer electronics retailer in revenue,
reported that third-quarter net income fell 4.4 percent, to $217 million, and
sales fell 1.1 percent, to $11.9 billion. Sales at stores open for more than a
year declined 5 percent.

The third-quarter results were below analysts' forecasts and affected other
stocks. Shares of Best Buy fell 18 percent during the day Tuesday, after the
results were announced. That was the biggest decline since August 2002, and
other retailers like Hhgregg and RadioShack followed suit.

For the week, Best Buy shares lost 18 percent, Hhgregg fell 14 percent, and
RadioShack 5 percent.

''The market, which is already weak, is dramatically shifting away from stores
and toward online,'' said Colin A. McGranahan, a senior analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Company. ''The online share of the market is now a critical mass,
and the discount stores are also fierce competitors and willing to sell the
product at very low prices to get that customer through the door.''

''You are also seeing another factor where people are going into Best Buy,
getting advice on the product and then using smartphones to scan the Web for
better deals,'' he said.

With the shift toward online destinations, electronics retailers need to adapt
to the changing landscape, analysts say, even as they continue to open
storefronts. Online sales in the United States are forecast to account for 20
percent of total consumer electronics sales of $250 billion by the end of this
year.

''Online has now gotten big enough to encroach on Best Buy,'' Mr. McGranahan
said.

Best Buy reported for the first time this year that it had started to lose
market share. Sales of televisions, computers and video game software were
weaker than expected, Brian J. Dunn, Best Buy's chief executive, said this week.

Separately, in a e-mail he added that the company offered customers ''a place
where they can talk to knowledgeable, unbiased and engaged salespeople who
demonstrate the art of what's possible'' and help them make choices.

Even so, new technology, like 3-D televisions that often need specialists to
answer the questions of consumers, was not moving as briskly as hoped. Analysts
said the company did not promote lower-tier products as aggressively as it
should have. In general, sales were going to Amazon, Wal-Mart, Target, Costco
and Sears.

''The results certainly signify how much competition consumer electronic
retailers are facing from mass merchants and larger online retailers,'' said R.
J. Hottovy, director of consumer research at Morningstar. ''It is tough to see
what the company is going to do,'' he said. ''I think that a lot of the worries
lingering out there were exacerbated by the results.''

Morningstar said it was reducing its fair value estimate for the stock, raising
questions about Best Buy's ability to defend market share from mass merchants,
especially while major suppliers like Apple expanded their own outlets. ''These
factors support the viewpoint that Best Buy lacks an economic moat, in our
view,'' said the research note.

Analysts downgraded their expectations for the fiscal year.

''We whacked a billion in revenue out of our forecast,'' down to $50.2 billion
in global sales, Mr. McGranahan said, adding: ''It was a pretty bad quarter.
Sales declined more than we thought, and the outlook for the fourth is not
great.''

And Best Buy said in its third-quarter earnings news release that it was
lowering its per-share outlook for the year.

Even so, electronics and appliances retailers are still pressing ahead with new
storefronts. Best Buy plans to open 50 to 55 stores by the end of February.

Hhgregg expects to open a store early next year in Pensacola, Fla., and up to 45
more in fiscal 2012. Company officials declined to be interviewed before the end
of the current quarter on Dec. 31.

Analysts still question how the surviving electronics retailers can adapt in an
industry that has already seen its share of bankruptcies, like Circuit City's.
While Best Buy is testing new products, like fitness equipment and electronic
scooters, it might have to shift to smaller stores, Mr. Hottovy said.

''They have got to change their business model,'' he said. ''They are throwing
anything against the wall to see if it will work.''

A spokeswoman for Best Buy, Susan Busch, said the company planned to accelerate
the use of its ''robust'' online offerings. ''Best Buy's online channel had more
than 40 million site visits from Thanksgiving through Cyber Monday,'' she said
in an e-mail.

Analysts note that the company and other stand-alone retailers are banking on
what they see as the competitive advantage of in-store expertise. But some fear
customers will go to a store to get advice about a product, only to buy it
online or at a better price with discounters.

Mr. McGranahan said he suspected there was still a market for the personal
touch. ''I don't think 100 percent of consumer electronics are going to be sold
online,'' he said. ''There are still a lot of people who want to see it, touch
it, feel it, take it home today.''

On a recent morning, Gregory D. Shufro went to a RadioShack on Manhattan's Upper
West Side to inspect a coaxial cable before buying it. ''That is something you
can't do online,'' he said.

At Best Buy, Dinah Sternbach, 19, weighed down with school textbooks in her
backpack, said it was still worth it to pick up a bulky new Keurig coffeemaker
instead of ordering it online. ''There is something psychological about getting
what I want now,'' she said.

And Jordan Miraglia, 24, a hospital intern, bought a DVD player for a local
child. She said she would have ordered gifts online only for her family in
Maryland, to avoid carrying them through Penn Station. Otherwise, she said she
loved holiday shopping in stores.

''It reminds me people have people they care about,'' she said. ''Everyone looks
at each other in the eyes.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Despite a staff trained to advise on electronics, Best Buy is
losing sales to online retailers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL DWYER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
(B1)
 A Best Buy in Tacoma, Wash., early on the day after Thanksgiving. Same-store
sales dropped 5 percent in the third quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TED S.
WARREN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               92 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 19, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE IDEAS FILE

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 4361 words


The Megalobster There may be nothing new under the sun, but there's a lot of
weird stuff in the water. Way more than we thought, according to the Census of
Marine Life, a project 10 years in the making that involved 2,700 scientists in
80 countries who put together ''a map of where we haven't been,'' according to
Ron O'Dor, one of the program's senior scientists. Using everything from fancy
submersibles to old seafood-restaurant menus, the scientists produced more than
2,600 papers, the highlights of which were released in a 64-page report in
October.

Among the ''large, active and conspicuous organisms'' that no one knew existed
is a new species of spiny lobster, Palinurus barbarae, which was found by a
Spanish fishing boat on the Walters Shoals in the Indian Ocean, 400 nautical
miles south of Madagascar, and classified by South African marine biologists.
It's more than half a meter long. ''This was a lobster that had never been
described,'' O'Dor says.

What O'Dor and his colleagues call ''biodiversity's big, wet secret'' is the
understudied midwater depths, well below the surface but above the seafloor.
There researchers gathered videotaped evidence of big-fin squids, which have
extremely large ''undulating'' fins and whose ''long, thin arms and tentacles
have a strange elbowlike bend near the body.'' They can grow as long as 22 feet
and have been glimpsed in four different oceans. O'Dor, a squid biologist
himself, explains that taxonomists had already ''ID'd the paralarvae, but nobody
knew what they grew up to be.'' -- Aaron Retica

Taking Your Pulse by Webcam The Cardiocam, unveiled this year by researchers in
the Harvard-M.I.T. division of health sciences and technology, measures a
subject's heart rate by sensing subtle shifts in facial coloring caused by the
variation in blood flow. Possible uses include remote monitoring of vital signs.
-- Amanda Schaffer

More Club Teammates, More World Cup Success This year, the soccer team F. C.
Barcelona provided much of the cast for the Spanish national team's run to the
World Cup championship. Seven members of the team played their club soccer for
Barcelona, including Xavi, Spain's best player, and Andres Iniesta, who scored
the tournament-winning goal. The Spaniards weren't alone in relying on players
with a shared club background to help them achieve World Cup success. In this
year's tournament, club partnerships correlated strongly with late-round glory:
from the quarterfinals on, the country that fielded more club teammates won
every match.

Why? The globalization of club soccer has meant that more stars play outside
their home countries, where they don't become as familiar with their national
teammates. In a game that relies on anticipation and coordinated movement,
players who train together all year have an advantage. At the World Cup, knowing
your enemy may matter less than knowing your friends. -- Brian Phillips

The Youth Condom Earlier this year, after several studies, including one by the
Swiss government, found that young teenagers had trouble finding suitably sized
condoms, a company called Lamprecht AG started selling the Hotshot, a
smaller-than-usual condom marketed especially to 13- to-15-year-olds.
Controversy ensued. -- Pat Walters

The Train That Never Stops There are 15 stops along the 665-mile Wuhan-Guangzhou
High-Speed Railway, which opened at the end of last year. If a train sits still
at each stop for three minutes, it sits idle for a total of 45 minutes. Now a
Chinese inventor, Chen Jianjun, has developed a concept for a train that could
service those stations without ever stopping. In his plan, explained in an
animated video that went viral worldwide this year, passengers exit the train by
entering a detachable pod that sits on top of it; as the train passes below and
alongside the station platform, the platform engages the pod, which disconnects
from the train and coasts to a stop. Meanwhile, the train connects with a new
pod containing passengers who had been waiting at the station, and the two pull
away together from the platform. A hatch between the pod and the train opens,
allowing the passengers to board. -- Clay Risen

Turbine-Free Wind Power Conservationists argue that wind turbines pose a risk to
birds, bats and sensitive habitats like shorelines. People living close to wind
farms, meanwhile, complain of constant noise and vibration. This year, engineers
responded with a new way to draw electricity from the wind: oscillating wind
panels.

The wind panels are the brainchild of Francis Moon, a professor of mechanical
engineering at Cornell University. He created a panel of 25 pads that oscillate
in the wind, much the way leaves vibrate when a gust of air sifts through a
tree. The pads attach to piezoelectric materials that produce electricity from
each vibration. Moon and a team of undergraduates have a working prototype
called Vibro-Wind, which functions in variable wind speeds and generates little
noise, making it ideally suited for urban spaces. Moon envisions Vibro-Wind on
the sides and roofs of buildings, powering electronics and ad displays day and
night. -- Andrew Tolve

Perfect Parallel Parking Late last year, the mathematician Simon Blackburn
devised a simple formula for ''perfect parking.'' Drawing on basic geometry, he
used the car's dimensions and turning radius, and the width of the vehicle in
front, to calculate the shortest parking space required for a back-in maneuver
that puts the car flush with the curb without any shuttling back and forth.

When a Louisiana math teacher named Jerome White saw Blackburn's formula in news
reports, he recalls noting that this was ''a conservative and unrealistic
formula'' that required too much space. Working with his fellow teachers at
Lusher Charter School in New Orleans, he set out to improve the model, allowing
the driver to back in, turn her wheels toward the curb, pull forward and
straighten out. White's model also lets the driver choose how far away from the
curb she is willing to park, permitting her to slip into even shorter spaces.

With the use of simple trigonometry, White derived another formula to predict
how much closer to the curb you could get using a back-and-forth maneuver,
validating one of Blackburn's predictions: if you're willing to perform this
maneuver an unlimited number of times, you can squeeze into any space that is
longer than your vehicle.

All these equations may seem old-fashioned to the owners of recent Lexus and
Ford models that automatically parallel park with the help of ultrasonic
sensors. But drivers of these vehicles may yet have a use for mathematics: late
last month White posted a formula that approximates the minimum size of a
parking space you can pull into in a perpendicular fashion. -- Jascha Hoffman
The Bra Mask Treating victims of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster in 1986, the
Ukrainian scientist Elena Bodnar realized that her patients could have
drastically reduced their radiation poisoning if they'd had immediate access to
even a crude air filter. This fall she commercially introduced the Emergency
Bra, whose cups can be separated and converted into face masks. -- Alexa Vaughn

The Ginger-Ale Celebration The Texas Rangers teammates of the reigning American
League M.V.P. and recovering drug-and-alcohol addict Josh Hamilton celebrated
two postseason series victories this year by dousing each other with Canada Dry
ginger ale rather than Champagne -- offering a refreshingly sober spin on a
longtime baseball tradition. -- Tony Gervino

Literary Near Futurism Two years ago, in an essay called ''The Missing Near
Future,'' the technology writer Kevin Kelly asked why we lost our ability to
imagine the world right around the corner. ''The near future -- let's peg it
2020 and beyond -- is a blank because there is no version of a near future that
seems both desirable and plausible,'' he wrote. Now the project of sketching out
that near future has been taken up by that most retrograde of content providers
-- the literary novelist.

The quarterly McSweeney's got things rolling with an issue devoted to stories
set in the year 2024 A.D. Then two of America's most acclaimed novelists, Gary
Shteyngart and Jennifer Egan, chimed in with their own unsettling visions of the
near future.

In Shteyngart's ''Super Sad True Love Story,'' a sinister Bipartisan government
is waging an oil war with Venezuela, New York is balkanized into heavily
fortified neighborhoods like the United Nations Retail Corridor and apparati --
iPhone-like devices worn around the neck -- give constant updates on your credit
worthiness and sexual hotness. The circa 2020 New York in Egan's ''A Visit from
the Goon Squad'' is a bit less apocalyptic: the end of 15 years of war has
brought a baby boom. ''If thr r childrn,'' one character asks in a text message,
''thr mst b a fUtr, rt?''

A future for the world but maybe not for the publishing industry. The current
wave of literary near futurism comes at a time when the printed book -- and the
very act of traditional reading -- seems under siege by digital technology. Both
Shteyngart and Egan embrace a kind of if-you-can't-beat-'em-join-'em approach,
weaving instant messages, social networking and other forms of digital
communication into their texts. Egan even pulls off a powerful 70-page chapter
written entirely in PowerPoint. The overall effect of their experimentation is
to produce a powerful nostalgia for the ever-vanishing present. This time, maybe
the future really is already here. --Jennifer Schuessler

Cybercom This year, the Pentagon set up a ''regional'' command for the Internet:
U.S. Cyber Command, a 1,000-person, $150 million-a-year unit that reached ''full
operational capability'' last month. At first, the command will concentrate on
defending the military's often-porous computer networks. But it's not easy to
separate ''dot-mil'' from ''dot-com'' security: the armed forces rely on
civilian networks for everything from logistics to power to weapons purchases.
Gen. Keith Alexander, who heads both Cybercom and the National Security Agency,
has said that he wants ''no role'' in domestic civilian-information defense (and
he doesn't have that authority). But the Pentagon is nevertheless working on
plans to help shore up civilian ''critical infrastructure.'' Civil liberties
groups like the Electronic Privacy Information Center have expressed worry that
this could be the digital equivalent of putting soldiers on street corners. --
Noah Shachtman

D.I.Y. Macroeconomics Until recently, the economics profession largely
controlled the production, dissemination and interpretation of economic data.
Now there's a new trend afoot: do-it-yourself macroeconomics, in which ordinary
citizens pull apart the data and come to their own conclusions.

The democratization of economics owes much to the financial crisis that first
hit in 2007. That ongoing catastrophe, which few economists predicted, tarnished
the profession's reputation, prompting some to look elsewhere for answers. They
turned to -- where else? -- the Internet, where vast amounts of economic data
that had once been hidden from public view were now online. Sites like FRED,
maintained by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, enabled anyone with a
connection to the Web to download data on everything from local home-price
indexes to credit-card balances to weekly fluctuations in diesel prices.

At the same time, a growing army of knowledgeable ''econo-bloggers'' began
analyzing the data available online. Strikingly, many of the authors of these
blogs -- the brains behind the Big Picture, Calculated Risk, Mish's Global
Economic Trend Analysis and others -- aren't academic economists but people with
real-world experience in financial markets. Their Web sites offer sophisticated
interpretations of economic data and hold passionate debates with their readers
over the merits of the data. As a result, economic data that were formerly
greeted with grudging acceptance by the public -- the latest unemployment
figures, for example -- are now the catalyst for endless popular exegeses. --
Stephen Mihm

Doping Bicycles When Fabian Cancellara won the Tour of Flanders in April, doping
accusations soon followed. This time, though, it was the bike that stood
accused, not the rider. A popular YouTube video lingered on Cancellara's
idiosyncratic finger movements: was he pressing an ''on'' switch, activating a
hidden battery-powered motor? The cycling federation did not investigate, but
X-ray machines, for the first time, were used at the Tour de France in July. --
Wm. Ferguson

The Long-Life-Span Smartphone In the United States, a cellphone's average life
span is 18 months, and yet fewer than 1 percent of these phones are estimated to
be recycled. As an antidote to this pattern of rapid obsolescence, the British
design-consulting firm Kinneir Dufort developed its Revive smartphone concept,
proposing a device that can evolve over time rather than be cast aside when it
breaks or something newer and shinier hits the market. Unlike existing products
on the market, it would be designed for easy disassembly, so the end user could
replace or upgrade components without tossing the entire phone. Service
providers and manufacturers would be able to charge for these improvements,
replacing revenue they would have earned from selling new phones. To help it age
gracefully, Revive would be made from materials -- leathers, metals and plastic
composites -- that acquire a patina from wear. A service subscription,
meanwhile, would offer the user credits the longer he held on to the phone,
making him a ''stakeholder'' with an investment in the longevity of the product.
-- Jesse Ashlock

Relaxation Drinks Has the energy-drink craze peaked? Drinks like Slow Cow,
Vacation in a Bottle and Mary Jane's Relaxing Soda are the anti-Red Bull:
they're loaded with natural -- though not necessarily F.D.A.-certified --
relaxants like melatonin, hops, linden, kava extract and valerian. They're
quickly gaining a foothold on the beverage aisle: IBISWorld, a market-research
company, says it expects the relaxation-drink category to reach sales of $68
million this year and grow 26 percent annually over the next five years. -- Clay
Risen The Armored T-Shirt In an article in May in Advanced Materials,
researchers gave their recipe for infusing a T-shirt with boron carbide, the
main component of bulletproof vests. Dip a cotton T-shirt in a boron-nickel
solution, and put it in a furnace heated to 1,160degreesC, and you have a hybrid
textile of boron-carbide nanowire and carbon-microfiber -- a flexible shirt
reinforced with the third-hardest material on the planet. -- Michael Silverberg

The Guitar That Stays in Tune In October, an engineer and a musician named
Cosmos Lyles began selling EverTune, a guitar bridge that keeps the instrument
from going out of tune no matter how hard its strings are strummed or bent.
Self-tuning guitars have been available since the late '80s but have failed to
gain traction among players because of their complexity. Gibson's Robot Guitar
system, for example, requires a rechargeable battery to power an onboard
computer and motors that retune the instrument. EverTune, however, is a purely
mechanical spring-and-lever system: when a string stretches or slips, the
springs apply the opposing force necessary to compensate for the shift, thus
maintaining the correct tension and tuning. Lyles's solution eluded guitar
builders for decades, but he stresses that it's not the product of wildly
original thinking. ''Ask any engineer how to flatten a tension curve, which is
what EverTune does,'' he says, ''and 9 out of 10 of them will say you should use
a spring-and-lever system like the one I designed.'' -- Tom Beaujour

Emotional Spell-Check ToneCheck, an e-mail-outbox filter that works as a sort of
emotional spell-check, offers typists a chance to reconsider their words before
hitting ''send.'' If the content of a message exceeds a preset threshold for
negative emotions like anger or sadness, the e-mailer is confronted with a
warning and a chance to revise. Drawing on the opinions of thousands of people
who have been paid to evaluate the emotional charge of various phrases, the
software can also detect unseemly levels of positive emotions like affection or
elation.

Future versions of ToneCheck, which was released as a plug-in for Microsoft
Outlook in July by the Canadian start-up Lymbix, may allow for personal
variations in tone, gauge a sentence's level of emotional ambiguity and offer
suggestions for revision. According to Josh Merchant, a 24-year-old co-founder
of Lymbix, the company eventually plans to allow clients to prevent employees
from sending e-mails that violate their ''tone policy.'' -- Jascha Hoffman

Performance-Enhancing Basketball Shoes The Concept 1, a basketball shoe released
this summer, is said to add nearly four inches to a player's vertical leap
without sacrificing running ability or lateral movement. A springlike mechanism
implanted in front of the ball of the foot harnesses and releases the downward
force of a player's prejump crouch. The N.B.A. banned the $300 shoe from
competition this fall; the N.C.A.A. has yet to do so. -- Sam Laird The Meat
Dress This year, Lady Gaga left the terrestrial realm of pop star and ascended
to the astral plane of pop icon. Most memorable of her provocations was that
now-infamous raw-meat dress -- supposedly her sartorial protest against ''don't
ask, don't tell,'' if a rather oblique one. But it may be that, as was the case
with Andy Warhol, the ideas behind the antics don't much matter. The antics
themselves have the power of ideas. -- Amanda Fortini

End-of-Men Fashion Nearly three years after the onset of a recession that
disproportionately affected men -- they sustained roughly 80 percent of U.S. job
losses -- commentators began to forecast an upending of established gender
roles. The Atlantic predicted ''The End of Men.'' Newsweek announced, ''The
Traditional Male Is an Endangered Species.'' Even the fashion world offered its
own interpretations of this incipient new world order.

For its women's spring/summer 2011 collection, Maison Martin Margiela sent down
the runway masculine silhouettes that were exaggerated to the point of
cartoonishness: shoulder pads and trouser waistbands extended far past the
models' bodies, ''dresses'' were so boxy they resembled sandwich-board signs. In
yet another example of gender-boundary blurring, Patrick Mohr, a German
designer, outfitted his models, female and male alike, with latex bald pates and
wispy fake beards. Though most were dressed in drapey, monastic-style layers,
two models wore nothing but boxers, creating, especially with the woman, a
disconcerting combination of beard, baldness and bare chest. -- Amanda Fortini
The 2000s Were a Great Decade Two recessions. 9/11. Iraq. Afghanistan. You might
think the last decade was among the worst in modern history. But according to
the economist Charles Kenny, author of ''Getting Better,'' a forthcoming book on
global development, you'd be wrong. Average worldwide income, at $10,600, is 25
percent higher than it was a decade ago. Thanks to increases in agriculture
efficiency, cereal production grew at double the rate of population in the
developing world. Vaccine initiatives have helped cut the death rate from common
diseases like measles by 60 percent. Child mortality is down 17 percent.

One of the many factors behind these improvements was increased
telecommunications (especially television) in Africa and Asia: education and
better health practices could penetrate communities where illiteracy and
geographic isolation long stymied public-health efforts. This resulted in
hundreds of millions of people who were better educated, more politically
engaged and more aware of social and health issues, creating a virtuous cycle of
progress. -- Clay Risen The Real-time Inflation Calculator Measuring inflation
is a time-consuming business: at the beginning of each month, government
researchers across the country amass troves of data on prices for everything
from shoes to milk to phones. Two weeks after the end of the month, the
government releases gauges of inflation like the Consumer Price Index. But
inflation hunters may now get an advance glimpse of the data, thanks to a
real-time inflation calculator devised by two economists at M.I.T., Alberto
Cavallo and Roberto Rigobon.

Cavallo and Rigobon devised software that scans Web sites for prices, using a
method similar to the one that Google uses to index Web pages. Whenever a new
page containing a product and a price appears, the software begins tracking it.
The initial results are promising: the price index has anticipated the
government's inflation data with remarkable precision, even though the software
can't track things sold offline. Data on prices, once monopolized by government
gatekeepers, are now up for grabs. -- Stephen Mihm

Aftercrimes After an earthquake, changes to the earth increase the likelihood of
aftershocks occurring in a particular place and time -- something that
seismologists have become good at forecasting. This year, the mathematician
George Mohler showed that what holds for earthquakes also holds true for crime:
not only does an initial crime beget future offenses, but these ''aftercrimes''
also tend to occur according to a predictable distribution in time and space.
The idea of follow-on crimes is nothing new -- once a house is burglarized,
police know that criminals are likely to return to the same house or others
nearby -- but Mohler showed that the timing and location of the crimes can be
statistically predicted with a high degree of accuracy. Using L.A.P.D. burglary
data to identify a series of random, initial offenses in a sector of the city
and adapting algorithms used to forecast aftershocks, he predicted that 17
percent of the city's burglaries would occur in a 5-percent area of the city
over the next year. -- Clay Risen

The Comeback Album as Testimonial After a long hiatus from recording, during
which he was inundated with negative press (including President Obama's
off-the-record assessment of him as a ''jackass''), the producer-rapper Kanye
West packed his comeback album, ''My Dark Beautiful Twisted Fantasy,'' with a
remarkably large grouping of A-list guest performers, including Jay-Z, Beyonce,
Rihanna, Elton John, Fergie, Drake, Alicia Keys, John Legend, Bon Iver, Kid
Cudi, Nicki Minaj and Chris Rock, among others. With this set of
''endorsements,'' West created a de facto testimonial to counter the growing
public perception of him as unlikable. -- Tony Gervino

Social Media as Social Index Even as several social networks have surpassed the
populations of most nations -- more than 500 million people are now signed up
for Facebook and 175 million for Twitter -- we still tend to regard these sites
in terms of their value to us as individual users. In the past year, however,
social scientists have begun looking more broadly at the aggregate value of
social media. According to a number of recent studies, it now seems possible
that the networks' millions of posts and status updates are adding up to
something culturally and financially priceless.

This past April, for instance, Sitaram Asur and Bernardo Huberman at HP Labs
demonstrated that by analyzing the positive or negative sentiments expressed in
2.8 million Twitter messages about 24 movies, they could predict how the films
would perform at the box office. Their methodology -- an algorithm, actually,
that their company is now in the process of patenting -- worked significantly
better than the Hollywood Stock Exchange, another popular tool for predicting
box-office success.

In October, a team led by Johan Bollen at Indiana University reported that by
classifying 9.7 million Twitter posts as falling into one of six mood categories
(happiness, kindness, alertness, sureness, vitality and calmness) they could
predict changes in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. As Bollen explains, when he
began his study, he expected that the mood on Twitter would be a reflection of
up and down movements in the stock market. He never imagined it would be a
precursor.

Twitter's daily feed challenges some of the conventions of social science. Those
old methods of fact-gathering -- finding a small population for study, applying
for a grant and then spending years doing observations or surveys -- can seem
quaint by comparison. Of course, it's hard to ignore the mercenary aspects of
big data, too. Any technology that might help predict the future does not come
cheap. Twitter and Facebook -- which last year used an analysis of posts to
create a daily happiness index -- can easily mine information about consumer
products, in real time, from their data streams. ''Given that there's a
population of 250 million people or more logging in every day, it seems
ridiculous that you would try to get in touch with them through a phone,'' says
Cameron Marlow, the head of Facebook's data-science team. ''So it seems like
it's improbable that social media won't be the way that we acquire opinion
research.'' -- Jon Gertner

LeBron James's 'Decision' Sports fans like to know what's coming next. They tune
in to live coverage of the N.F.L. and N.B.A. drafts, and watch the made-for-TV
rollout of the teams chosen for the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament. LeBron
James, the N.B.A. star, decided this year that he was big enough to expand this
genre of sports programming. He essentially self-produced an ESPN special, ''The
Decision,'' devoted to the question of which team he would play for. By
packaging and selling his own news, he bypassed the traditional structures of
team, league and media. Though he botched the execution -- the conventional
wisdom is that he tarnished his brand and may have diminished his off-court
earning potential -- the show represented an important trend in the business of
sport, as leagues increasingly manage the dissemination of their own news
through proprietary TV networks and Web sites. James will surely not be the last
big star to assume the hybrid role of news subject/executive producer. --
Michael Sokolove

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY PROP STYLIST: KRISTY GREENE) (MM31)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID DRUMMOND) (MM32)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAURICIO ALEJO
PROPS STYLIST: KRISTY GREENE) (MM34)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY GRANDCHILDREN) (MM36)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAURICIO ALEJO) (MM38)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAURICIO ALEJO
PROP STYLIST: KRISTY GREENE) (MM42)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY FREDERICK M. BROWN/GETTY IMAGES) (MM44)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID DRUMMOND) (MM45) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY CHRISTOPHER KUZMA)
(MM30)
(DRAWING BY COOEE.NL) (MM32)
(DRAWINGS BY BUCK
JEZ BURROWS
JULIEN BERTHIER) (MM33)
(DRAWING BY CLAIRE SCULLY) (MM34)
(DRAWINGS BY JULIEN BERTHIER
CIARA PHELAN) (MM36)
(DRAWINGS BY CLAIRE SCULLY
STUDIO AKA) (MM38)
(DRAWINGS BY CIARA PHELAN
JEZ BURROWS) (MM40)
(DRAWING BY JULIEN BERTHIER) (MM41)
(DRAWINGS BY DAVID DRUMMOND
SIDNEY PINK) (MM42)
(DRAWINGS BY CLAIRE SCULLY
MICHAEL BIERUT AND CHRISTINA NIZAR) (MM44)
(DRAWING BY NIGEL EVAN DENNIS) (MM45) GRAPHICS (GRAPHIC BY FEED) (MM30) CHARTS:
G.D.P. PER CAPITA: (Adjusted to 2005 dollars)
 WORLD CEREAL YIELD: (Kilograms per hectare) (SOURCE: WORLD BANK, INTERNATIONAL
COMPARISON PROGRAM DATABASE) (MM45)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               93 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 20, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Online Stores Start to Wean Shoppers Off Sales

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD and CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words


This holiday season, online sales are zooming, even as online retailers offer
fewer discounts and turn picky about who shops at their sites.

After two years of relative malaise, online sales grew 12 percent in the first
47 days of the holiday season, according to comScore, to $27.5 billion. That
significantly outpaces the growth rate of retail sales over all, which
analystsexpect to rise 3 to 4 percent this holiday season.

But online retailers are now protecting their margins with careful offers,
dispensing with the promotions of the last two holiday seasons that were meant
to drive sales and get rid of extra inventory. Gone are the coupons that give
shoppers 40 percent off all purchases. Instead, offers go to selected customers,
and are specialized: a discount on wool jackets, free hoop earrings when people
spend $100, a ''mystery'' discount amount that is revealed only at checkout.

The promotions try to get customers to behave in a certain way. A coupon may
seem straightforward, like Drugstore.com offering $5 off a $30 purchase. In
fact, it is encouraging one-time customers to browse through several pages of a
site and get to know what a retailer offers as they decide what to buy.

''The reason there's these different promotions and not just the straight
dollar-off or percent-off promotions all the time is there are different
incentives,'' said David Lonczak, chief marketing officer of Drugstore.com.
''You may just need a sale, you may have a product you're long on and you need
to get rid of it, or you may be looking to acquire customers with a higher
basket,'' he said, referring to the transaction price. ''You have to be
thoughtful.''

Discounting has declined; in November, retailers' e-commerce revenue from sales
of full-price items rose 52 percent versus November 2009, according to MyBuys,
which works on personalization offers for retailers.

But less discounting has not tamped down online sales. On Thanksgiving weekend,
more than one-third of purchases were made online, versus about 28.5 percent
last year, according to the National Retail Federation.

That is because even staunch in-store shoppers are now comfortable buying
online, said Fiona Dias, executive vice president for strategy and marketing for
GSI Commerce, which provides e-commerce technology to retailers like Toys ''R''
Us. And the high demand means that online retailers do not have to slash prices
to get customers.

''If anything, we're running tight on inventory because everyone has sold a lot
more than they expected to,'' Ms. Dias said of the sites she works with.
''That's why we're not seeing 50-percent-off promotions.''

Given their strong position, retailers are trying to get customers out of the
price-wars mind-set that they adopted during the recession.

''At some point, we have to stop and try to go back to where we were because if
everyone continues to offer 20 percent, 50 percent off, it's going to change the
market on a long-term scale that it would be too hard to get back from,'' said
Melissa Joy Manning, who runs an online jewelry store bearing her name. She has
stopped discounting, but is giving a pair of silver hoop earrings to customers
who spend $100 or more. ''We don't have unlimited resources, so we do try to be
as creative with them as we can,'' she said.

Like Ms. Manning, other retailers are getting creative with unusually specific
offers.

''It's about margins,'' said Andy Dunn, the chief executive and co-founder of
Bonobos, a men's clothing site. While last December, about a third of his
revenue came from promotions, this year it's down to about a quarter, even as he
expects his revenue to nearly triple for the month. ''There's less of a need to
be highly promotional,'' he said. ''At the same time, we feel we need to get
better at the laser-beam promoting.''

So he is whittling down offers, sending, for instance, a 20 percent offer on
suit elements to people who have bought wool pants but not a jacket.

''We don't have to treat everyone the same,'' he said.

Drugstore.com also changes its approach depending on the customer.

That offer for $5 off any purchase over $30 may prompt people to explore the
site. ''So if a new Drugstore.com customer doesn't know I sell toys and games,
would you think I'd sell a Razor scooter?'' he said. ''I have to incent you to
shop around.''

He would use a percent-off coupon, he said, when he wants to drive overall
sales. And he tends to avoid offers like ''$10 off your purchase,'' because ''I
would get a whole bunch of people coming in, they would find the product that
was 10 dollars and one cent, they would get it and I would never see them
again,'' he said.

Other retailers are trying to stand out in crowded in-boxes. Bloomingdales.com
had a ''mystery savings'' event last week, in which customers on its e-mail list
were sent a code that called up discounts of between 10 and 40 percent at
checkout.

''People are going, 'Well, maybe I'm going to be the one who hits the jackpot,'
'' said Bruce Berman, president of Bloomingdales.com and chief financial officer
of Bloomingdale's. ''So they open it at a higher rate.'' The tactic helped the
store stand out, he said. The day after the Bloomingdale's e-mail went out, Saks
Fifth Avenue also sent one promoting a ''mystery sale'' online. Saks declined to
comment on the promotion.

For Bloomingdale's, Mr. Berman said, ''It worked out to our advantage because
whoever shops both will say, 'I already did that.' ''

Sometimes, a retailer can be too successful with an online sale, and have to
shift tactics on the fly to keep profit up.

At the Gap Inc. sites, which include Banana Republic and Old Navy, the plan was
to do heavy discounts on the four days after Thanksgiving. But Friday sales
''exceeded our forecast -- it was too hot, it was too strong,'' said Toby Lenk,
the president of Gap Inc. Direct. ''So we pulled back on our promotions for
Cyber Monday.''

And other retailers have had to devise new tactics after vendors instructed them
to stop offering discounts on their brands.

''With the discounting in the last years, the perception from our vendors is
that we were discounting their products,'' said Pete LaBore, director of
customer retention at Backcountry.com.

So the company came up with a new offer -- ''on our dime,'' Mr. LaBore said --
that gave $20 off on the site. ''It's totally free money,'' the offer said. But
customers did not seem to believe it, and Backcountry.com sent another e-mail
two days later with the subject line, ''Seriously -- It's Free.''

The offer went only to people who had bought, in the past, certain brands or
categories in which Backcountry.com now had too much stock, or to people who
usually spent enough that ''we weren't just going to have somebody coming in
buying a three-dollar pair of socks,'' Mr. LaBore said.

It seemed a smart approach; so far, the offer has been profitable, with most
people spending much more than $20, Mr. LaBore said.

''We're trying to get away from the 'sale, sale, sale' message, and this is a
different way to do that,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Melissa Joy Manning has stopped giving discounts on her jewelry
site. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCIO JOSE SANCHEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               94 of 94 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 20, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

MEDIA DECODER; A Christmas Morning Spree

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 396 words


This year, the book publishing industry has its own version of Black Friday or
Cyber Monday: Christmas Day.

On that day, hundreds of thousands of consumers are expected to unwrap new
e-readers that they received as gifts, and quickly begin downloading books to
read.

Random House, the publisher of Stieg Larsson, John Grisham and Stephen Sondheim,
is hoping to be there to make a few suggestions. It has prepared a free e-book,
''The eBook Insider,'' that is full of recommendations, reviews and book
excerpts directed squarely at consumers who have just received e-readers.

''With so many people receiving an e-reader for the first time on Christmas, one
of the things they're going to want to do is go looking for the books they want
to read,'' said Anne Messitte, the publisher of Vintage/Anchor, a division of
Random House. ''And we think it's an ideal moment to really begin helping a
reader curate the collection of e-books that they want.''

Unlike the traditional holiday book advertising that takes place in the weeks
leading up to Christmas, the promotion for ''The eBook Insider'' is scheduled to
begin on Dec. 25, first with social media messaging and then with Google ads and
also print ads in The New York Times Book Review and The New Yorker.

The book will be available free at knopfdoubleday.com/ebooks, Amazon.com,
BN.com, Borders.com and other e-book retailers.

Of course, many of the suggestions are books from the Knopf Doubleday Publishing
Group, the division of Random House that is heading the promotion. There is a
mix of literary fiction (''A Visit From the Goon Squad,'' by Jennifer Egan),
biography (''Frank: The Voice,'' by James Kaplan), commercial fiction (''The
Lost Symbol,'' by Dan Brown) and humor (Nora Ephron's latest, ''I Remember
Nothing'').

The book includes lists of the winners of the National Book Awards and the Edgar
Awards for mysteries, along with books grouped by genre.

Ms. Messitte said this was another way to market books directly to consumers, a
strategy that publishers have increasingly relied on as the number of
brick-and-mortar bookstores has decreased.

''The future of book marketing is increasingly going to be about curating books
for readers,'' Ms. Messitte said. ''As publishers, we're letting readers know
about the books that are worth reading.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
