
                               1 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 1, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Lauded Russian Hacker Whose Company Landed on the U.S. Blacklist

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 995 words


MOSCOW -- The blacklist includes two people suspected of cybercrimes, and four
others who are military intelligence officers. All are the kinds of figures one
might expect to be on a list of people targeted by the Obama administration in
retaliation for Russia's malfeasance, including efforts to influence the 2016
election.

Then there is the one who calls herself ''mishacker,'' a globe-trotter with a
rebellious online persona who is perhaps the most intriguing of the newly
revealed Russian spies.

On what appears to be her personal website, called ''Hello, stranger,'' that
person, Alisa Shevchenko, introduces herself and expounds on some of her digital
accomplishments, including setting up a work space for hackers in Moscow.

''My name is Alisa,'' the site reads. ''I am a human being. Part misfit, part
mishacker. A businesswoman in the past as well as in a possible future.
Currently I am mostly working on vulnerabilities and exploits, while striving to
minimize entropy in the process.''

The White House identified the company Ms. Shevchenko founded, Zor Security, as
a supplier to the Russian military's Main Intelligence Directorate, or G.R.U.,
the group said to be behind the hacking attacks on the Democratic National
Committee and other political organizations. The United States government said
the company provided technical support to the G.R.U. for the attacks.

Ms. Shevchenko had been a minor celebrity in Moscow computer industry circles as
a ''legal'' hacker. An article in the Russian edition of Forbes magazine in 2014
described the work of her business as discovering security flaws in the software
of banks and other institutions.

And a year before the United States government applied sanctions against her
company, the  Department of Homeland Security said she had helped prevent
cybercrime under a program of information sharing between the public and private
sector. Ms. Shevchenko was said to have assisted a French company, Schneider
Electric, in identifying vulnerabilities in its software.

Ms. Shevchenko was recognized in a notice from the department's Industrial
Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team, set up to coordinate between the
government and industry to protect ''the nation's critical infrastructure.''

This nod from the American government illustrates Ms. Shevchenko's ambiguous
role and, more broadly, the diversity of people believed to be working inside
Russia's government hacking program. The inclusion of Ms. Shevchenko's company
on the American sanctions list sheds light on the sprawling scope of the effort,
which drew in students, civilians and possibly criminal hackers to bolster the
military and intelligence agencies' cyberwar abilities.

Praised in the Russian news media as a young talent in 2005, when she was just
21, Ms. Shevchenko worked on cyberdefense projects but embraced the symbols and
parlance of criminal hackers.

She has tattoos and often posts messages on Twitter under the handle ''badd1e.''

In a flurry of Twitter posts on Friday, Ms. Shevchenko mocked an American
sanctioning agency, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, with a vulgarism, and
said that she had already closed Zor Security.

A message sent to Ms. Shevchenko's Twitter account was not answered Friday.

''How my little simple company (closed long ago at that) could possibly appear
in the same list with the FSB and international terrorists,'' she wrote, using
the initials of the Russian name of the Federal Security Service, the successor
to the K.G.B.

The Forbes article identified Ms. Shevchenko as the winner of a hacking contest
in 2014, in which she had found her way into industrial control software used
for such things as running electrical power plants and grids.

''I didn't expect such triviality,'' she was quoted as saying after winning the
contest. She said she found ''around 10 vulnerabilities in just a few hours.''

On her website, Ms. Shevchenko posted a link to a blog entry on the award she
won.

''If exploited in real life, discovered vulnerabilities could cause harmful
consequences, such as denial of service, functional failure of critical
infrastructure management systems, which in its turn may disrupt normal life of
an entire city,'' the blog post said of her hack.

Her Twitter feed cultivates the persona of a digital rebel.

In Moscow, her website said, Ms. Shevchenko founded a working space for hackers
in the Chistye Prudy neighborhood of the capital, called Neuron Hackspace, also
ostensibly for legitimate security purposes.

The more prominent of the two cybercriminal suspects designated in the sanctions
announced by the Obama administration was Yevgeny M. Bogachev, who the Treasury
Department said was a developer of malicious software. One product, called Zeus,
was used to steal bank account information, while another, Cryptolocker,
scrambled the system of victims until they paid a ransom, according to the
Treasury Department. The sanction notice said Mr. Bogachev had stolen about $100
million from American companies and government agencies.

While the Treasury Department imposed sanctions on Mr. Bogachev for criminal
activities rather than political ones, at times in Russia's digital underworld,
the distinction is one without a difference.

In the current wave of Russian politicized hacking, code from the Zeus malware
showed up in phishing attacks, according to Dmitri Alperovitch, a co-founder and
the chief technology officer of the American cybersecurity company CrowdStrike.

The Treasury Department also imposed sanctions on Aleksei A. Belan, who is
accused in the theft of email addresses and passwords from customers of three
e-commerce companies.

''The fact is, the Russian system of mathematical education is quite good,''
Anton M. Shingarev, a vice president at Kaspersky, a Russian antivirus company,
said in an interview. ''And it produces a lot of computer programmers. And this
is the reason why there are a lot of Russian hackers.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/31/world/europe/russia-hacking-alisa-shevchenko.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alisa Shevchenko on her Twitter profile.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 1, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nation-Building's Siren Song

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER.

David E. Sanger covers national security for The Times and is the author, most
recently, of ''Confront and Conceal: Obama's Secret Wars and Surprising Use of
American Power.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; NONFICTION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1371 words


THE TRAGEDY OF U.S. FOREIGN POLICYHow America's Civil Religion Betrayed the
National InterestBy Walter A. McDougall408 pp. Yale University Press. $30.

On a chilly January morning nearly 16 years ago, my Times colleague Frank Bruni
and I went to visit the president-elect of the United States at his ranch in
Crawford, Tex. He made us coffee while his dogs barked, and said: ''I just don't
understand what Gore was talking about,'' referring to the campaign debate about
whether the United States should be a ''nation builder.'' He would not fall into
the trap of seeking to change the world, he vowed, when there was so much to do
at home.

Less than a year later George W. Bush invaded Afghanistan, followed by Iraq, and
began some of the grandest, and least successful, American experiments in
shaping other societies since the Marshall Plan after World War II. By the time
of his second Inaugural Address, Bush was fully converted -- he saw America as
on a mission. ''It is the policy of the United States,'' he declared, ''to seek
and support the growth of democratic movements and institutions in every nation
and culture.'' There was no prioritizing of American national interests. ''When
you stand for your liberty,'' he promised, ''we will stand with you.''

Today as another president-elect prepares to take office, he sounds like the
George W. Bush who made us coffee in his country kitchen that morning. In two
interviews earlier this year, Donald J. Trump told me and Maggie Haberman that
he, too, rejected nation-building. He was about ''America first,'' he said, and
that meant sending few American troops abroad except to kill terrorists, and a
new, transactional relationship with longtime allies to assure they pay their
fair share. Iraq was a ''disaster,'' which, he said, Barack Obama had worsened.

Walter A. McDougall, a professor of history at the University of Pennsylvania
who has taken on some of the broadest themes in American society and won a
Pulitzer for his brilliant history of the American space program, warns in ''The
Tragedy of U.S. Foreign Policy'' that once in office American presidents are
often ''susceptible to a utopian temptation.'' They adopt a language that he
describes as ''American civil religion,'' wrapping adventurism in a gauzy,
semireligious haze. Democracy becomes an export.

In the 19th century, as he describes the history, this was mostly limited to the
American continent. But when Manifest Destiny was fulfilled, global destiny
beckoned. So from Theodore Roosevelt's empire-building to Kennedy's ''pay any
price'' and Reagan's shining-city-on-a-hill, America kept recommitting itself to
remaking the world.

This is not a new theme. Walter Russell Mead's ''Special Providence,'' published
just after the 9/11 attacks, made a convincing case about how different
imaginings of American exceptionalism were used to justify adventures abroad,
for good and ill.

But McDougall's study -- and his argument that ''civil religion'' has often
trumped a serious discussion of American national interests -- comes at a moment
when the pendulum of public opinion has swung far in the other direction. Trump
owes his election, in part, to his ability to sell a story of an America that
builds up a fearsome defensive force but uses it only against outsiders who
threaten our safety at home, or our cyber networks. The failed experiments of
the past 15 years have, for the moment at least, put Americans in a defensive
crouch, if not an isolationist mood. No politician, Democrat or Republican,
dares to make the argument today that it is our divine mission to bring liberty
to the world. Has the impulse passed for good? History suggests it will be back.

McDougall is at his most convincing describing how American civil religion
episodically drove the country's thinking, from the early days of the Republic
to Truman. He's at his least persuasive explaining more recent times, and it can
be argued that he fundamentally misses how a cold-eyed view of America's
national interests became the defining element of Obama's foreign policy. For if
we were truly following the command to stand with liberty, we would have 100,000
troops in Syria.

McDougall starts with founders like Thomas Jefferson, who wrote in 1812 that the
''acquisition of Canada'' would be ''a mere matter of marching,'' and would
represent ''the final expulsion of England from the American continent.'' That
turned out to be a more complicated task than Jefferson had in mind. But his
vision was driven more by military necessity than some sense of religious fervor
to spread the American model.

Not quite a century later, though, God and American destiny were fully merged.
Trying to figure out what to do with the Philippines, President McKinley decided
that the best choice was to annex the territory and ''by God's grace do the very
best we could by them, as our fellow men for whom Christ also died.'' In a
Memorial Day address at Arlington National Cemetery in 1902, Theodore Roosevelt
said America had fought in the Philippines in a ''triumph of civilization over
forces which stand for the black chaos of savagery and barbarism.''

Franklin Roosevelt's false isolationism -- a cover for his secret preparations
for entering the war -- gave way as he met Winston Churchill off Newfoundland
and the two men ''held hands on Sunday and sang Anglican hymns,'' a show of
solidarity in the battle for survival they knew was at hand. And throughout the
Cold War, McDougall argues, the battle against Communism was wrapped not only in
the flag, but in some kind of atomic theology. Truman, he notes, ''was no
theologian. He was not even a very good Southern Baptist, to judge from his
fondness for bourbon, poker and profanity.'' But when it came to the stewardship
of nuclear weapons, he said, ''We thank God that it has come to us, instead of
to our enemies; and we pray that he may guide us to use it in his ways and for
his purposes.''

In the course of one of our campaign interviews, Trump told me that it was
during the 1950s -- when American civil religion was at its peak -- that the
country was at its strongest, and that the '50s are the era he has in mind when
he vows to make us ''great again.'' This gets to the internal dissonance in
McDougall's argument. He makes a convincing case that civil religion was used to
justify American power. But that is different from saying that it guided how
that power was used.

The nuclear arms race, begun by Truman and accelerated by Eisenhower and
Kennedy, came less out of religious fervor than out of a conviction that
national survival depended on having the biggest arsenal. The ''domino theory''
that justified the failed intervention in Vietnam was also about the perception
of American vital interests. The same was true for the 2003 invasion of Iraq: It
was first and foremost a campaign to disarm Saddam Hussein of weapons of mass
destruction. Only when it turned out there were no such weapons did liberating
the oppressed Iraqis become Bush's primary objective.

And what about Barack Obama? In McDougall's telling, there is little difference
between Obama and his predecessor; it was Obama who ''echoed Bush in pledging
support for 'democracy from Asia to Africa, from the Americas to the Middle
East.' ''

Perhaps, but to a reporter covering his presidency, Obama seemed largely immune
from civil-religion disease. His actions spoke of a very different philosophy.
The Obama Doctrine was all about the ''light footprint'' -- drones, Special
Forces and cyber attacks -- that defended American interests but occupied no
territory, and put few troops at risk. We could not seize, hold and build; only
local forces could do that. That explains Obama's hesitancy to intervene in
Syria, even when upward of a half million Syrians were dying in a civil war, or
to put an occupation force in Libya. He has even hesitated to retaliate against
Russia for attempting to influence the American presidential election -- the
holy underpinning of the democratic process.

American foreign policy has certainly been influenced by civil religion over the
centuries. But the last president didn't step into that church, and the next one
is still figuring it out.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/27/books/review/tragedy-of-us-foreign-policy-walt
er-a-mcdougall.html

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President George W. Bush on the U.S.S. Abraham Lincoln, May 1,
2003. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN JAFFE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        January 2, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

Review: 'The Big Stick' Argues for a Robust Military Role Abroad;
Books of The Times

BYLINE: JENNIFER SENIOR

SECTION: BOOKS

LENGTH: 1192 words



HIGHLIGHT: Eliot A. Cohen, a military historian who worked for President George
W. Bush, argues for the use of force in the service of American security.


Two days after the presidential election, Eliot A. Cohen - military historian,
former counselor to Condoleezza Rice at the State Department and impassioned
Never Trumper - wrote an essay in The American Interest intended to console his
anxious friends. Yes, he conceded, the notion of a Donald J. Trump presidency
was far from ideal ("dreadful" was the precise word he used), but he'd still
advise fellow Republicans to work for the new president, so long as each kept an
unsigned letter of resignation just a file drawer away.

Shortly thereafter, one of Mr. Cohen's friends in Mr. Trump's circle reached out
to him, asking for names. Mr. Cohen provided them. Then things took a nasty
turn.

"After exchange w Trump transition team, changed my recommendation: stay away,"
he tweeted on the morning of Nov. 15. "They're angry, arrogant, screaming 'you
LOST!' Will be ugly."

His message was retweeted nearly 14,000 times.

That's what you get for provoking someone who's made a careful study of the uses
of hard power. Mr. Cohen knows all too well the impact of a carefully timed
smart bomb.

Had Hillary Clinton won, it's doubtful that Mr. Cohen's new book, "The Big
Stick: The Limits of Soft Power & the Necessity of Military Force," which he
clearly finished well before the election, would receive the attention it now
surely (and quite deservedly) will. For all of Mr. Trump's chest-pounding about
the Islamic State, it was Mrs. Clinton, ultimately, who was viewed as the more
interventionist, even hawkish, of the two candidates.

But it was her rival, the erratic isolationist with a mysterious affection for
Vladimir V. Putin and a worrying contempt for NATO, who won, which makes Mr.
Cohen's book both an implicit critique of the president-elect's worldview (to
the extent that he has one) and a toothsome snack for those who despise Mr.
Trump. Even if you disagree with Mr. Cohen - and I did, often, scribbling
violent objections in the margins as I read - it's easy to spend time in his
company. He writes thoughtfully, methodically and with unfussy erudition. His
chapters are organized with the pleasing precision of a bento box.

The main argument of "The Big Stick" is encapsulated in its subtitle and its sly
cover image, a close-up of a pair of boots on the ground. He makes an
unfashionable, unabashed and - above all - unwavering case for the use of force
in the service of American security and ideals. To shy away from hard power, in
Mr. Cohen's view, would come at great moral and mortal cost in a world of
irrational regimes, religious revolutionaries, cyber guerrillas and bellicose
competitors like China and Russia.

"The chances are growing that the United States will find itself using military
power chronically, and at varying levels of intensity, throughout the early
decades of the 21st century," he writes in his introduction.

It is perhaps an occupational hazard in Mr. Cohen's line of work to see the
world in light of its dangers. (He also has a son who's done two tours of duty
in Iraq, and a daughter in the Navy - two facts he admirably never mentions, let
alone exploits, in "The Big Stick.") Those with dovish inclinations will
doubtless propose very different solutions to the problems he identifies. But he
does a very good job of identifying them, providing a thorough if disconcerting
tour d'horizon.

On Mr. Cohen's list of concerns, China ranks highest: Its naval aggression and
transgressions could reshape the international order, particularly if it starts
a conflict with one of our allies. Russia's aggression concerns him, too,
especially now that it has found sympathetic authoritarian and nativist
governments in the West. "Without unity," he notes, "NATO is paralyzed."

At the time Mr. Cohen wrote that sentence, he was referring to the governments
of Hungary and Greece, which have both shown themselves to be sympathetic to Mr.
Putin. Who would have imagined adding the next American president to the list?

Also relevant to the new world order: Mr. Cohen believes that the only way to
fight global terror in any meaningful way is through long, sustained campaigns
on the ground, as well as from the air. (Imagine how much more stable Libya
would be, he asks, if the United States and its allies had sent in troops just
after the overthrow of Muammar el-Qaddafi.)

But in order for this strategy to work, both the American public and its leaders
would have to make a dramatic psychological adjustment, thinking much more
flexibly, and patiently, about war. They would have to accept that future
conflicts may be neither swift nor immediately decisive. "Such an honest
appraisal," Mr. Cohen writes, "will test the character of politicians who,
naturally enough, hope to end their tenures having won, or at least finished,
the wars that they have begun or inherited."

This is a tall order for any elected official. For Mr. Trump, who made "We are
going to win so big" a rallying cry, it seems higher than the moon.

All of Mr. Cohen's proposals would cost a great deal of money - and,
potentially, human lives. He'd like to see forces deployed in Poland and the
Baltic States to ward off Russian hostilities. He'd like to see a beefed-up air
and naval presence in the Persian Gulf to thwart Iran. In retrospect, he wishes
we'd left 10,000 to 20,000 troops in Iraq. (He doesn't address the sticky
problem of reconciling this idea with the Iraqi desire for sovereignty.)

These may not be the most practical or, to many, desirable suggestions. Mr.
Cohen is well aware of the contemporary arguments arrayed against America's
interest, or competence, in waging war, which he addresses in Chapter 1. But
they're one response to an increasingly dangerous - and nuclearized - globe. To
read Mr. Cohen is to realize that he thinks for a living about terrible things:
Pakistan's lobbing a nuke at India; Israel's lobbing a nuke at Iran; the United
States' launching a nuclear weapon at North Korea; China's threatening to launch
one at us.

"To assume that nuclear weapons, or some overwhelming logic of international
politics, make statesmen cautious," he writes, "is to assume that human beings
are not capable of tremendous error, which is almost to assume that they are not
human."

Just before Christmas, Mr. Trump tweeted that the United States "must greatly
strengthen and expand its nuclear capability." What that meant we do not know.
It could have meant that he will violate existing nuclear treaties. It could
have meant nothing specific - just another inchoate emanation from his head.

Mr. Cohen notes that all presidential candidates' views of national security
change once they're in office, because they're forced to confront the world as
it is, not the world as they wish it to be. The problem is that Mr. Trump
apparently does not sit still for the intelligence briefings that try to
describe the world as it is. And if that's the case, the future may not be as
dark as Mr. Cohen foresees. It may be darker.

Follow Jennifer Senior on Twitter: @jenseniornyThe Big Stick: The Limits of Soft
Power & the Necessity of Military ForceBy Eliot A. Cohen285 pages. Basic Books.
$27.99.

PHOTOS: Eliot A. Cohen (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAVEH SARDARI)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 3, 2017 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Talk Is Cheap. Firepower Speaks Louder.

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SENIOR.

Follow Jennifer Senior on Twitter: @jenseniorny

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1190 words


Two days after the presidential election, Eliot A. Cohen -- military historian,
former counselor to Condoleezza Rice at the State Department and impassioned
Never Trumper -- wrote an essay in The American Interest intended to console his
anxious friends. Yes, he conceded, the notion of a Donald J. Trump presidency
was far from ideal (''dreadful'' was the precise word he used), but he'd still
advise fellow Republicans to work for the new president, so long as each kept an
unsigned letter of resignation just a file drawer away.

Shortly thereafter, one of Mr. Cohen's friends in Mr. Trump's circle reached out
to him, asking for names. Mr. Cohen provided them. Then things took a nasty
turn.

''After exchange w Trump transition team, changed my recommendation: stay
away,'' he tweeted on the morning of Nov. 15. ''They're angry, arrogant,
screaming 'you LOST!' Will be ugly.''

His message was retweeted nearly 14,000 times.

That's what you get for provoking someone who's made a careful study of the uses
of hard power. Mr. Cohen knows all too well the impact of a carefully timed
smart bomb.

Had Hillary Clinton won, it's doubtful that Mr. Cohen's new book, ''The Big
Stick: The Limits of Soft Power & the Necessity of Military Force,'' which he
clearly finished well before the election, would receive the attention it now
surely (and quite deservedly) will. For all of Mr. Trump's chest-pounding about
the Islamic State, it was Mrs. Clinton, ultimately, who was viewed as the more
interventionist, even hawkish, of the two candidates.

But it was her rival, the erratic isolationist with a mysterious affection for
Vladimir V. Putin and a worrying contempt for NATO, who won, which makes Mr.
Cohen's book both an implicit critique of the president-elect's worldview (to
the extent that he has one) and a toothsome snack for those who despise Mr.
Trump. Even if you disagree with Mr. Cohen -- and I did, often, scribbling
violent objections in the margins as I read -- it's easy to spend time in his
company. He writes thoughtfully, methodically and with unfussy erudition. His
chapters are organized with the pleasing precision of a bento box.

The main argument of ''The Big Stick'' is encapsulated in its subtitle and its
sly cover image, a close-up of a pair of boots on the ground. He makes an
unfashionable, unabashed and -- above all -- unwavering case for the use of
force in the service of American security and ideals. To shy away from hard
power, in Mr. Cohen's view, would come at great moral and mortal cost in a world
of irrational regimes, religious revolutionaries, cyber guerrillas and bellicose
competitors like China and Russia.

''The chances are growing that the United States will find itself using military
power chronically, and at varying levels of intensity, throughout the early
decades of the 21st century,'' he writes in his introduction.

It is perhaps an occupational hazard in Mr. Cohen's line of work to see the
world in light of its dangers. (He also has a son who's done two tours of duty
in Iraq, and a daughter in the Navy -- two facts he admirably never mentions,
let alone exploits, in ''The Big Stick.'') Those with dovish inclinations will
doubtless propose very different solutions to the problems he identifies. But he
does a very good job of identifying them, providing a thorough if disconcerting
tour d'horizon.

On Mr. Cohen's list of concerns, China ranks highest: Its naval aggression and
transgressions could reshape the international order, particularly if it starts
a conflict with one of our allies. Russia's aggression concerns him, too,
especially now that it has found sympathetic authoritarian and nativist
governments in the West. ''Without unity,'' he notes, ''NATO is paralyzed.''

At the time Mr. Cohen wrote that sentence, he was referring to the governments
of Hungary and Greece, which have both shown themselves to be sympathetic to Mr.
Putin. Who would have imagined adding the next American president to the list?

Also relevant to the new world order: Mr. Cohen believes that the only way to
fight global terror in any meaningful way is through long, sustained campaigns
on the ground, as well as from the air. (Imagine how much more stable Libya
would be, he asks, if the United States and its allies had sent in troops just
after the overthrow of Muammar el-Qaddafi.)

But in order for this strategy to work, both the American public and its leaders
would have to make a dramatic psychological adjustment, thinking much more
flexibly, and patiently, about war. They would have to accept that future
conflicts may be neither swift nor immediately decisive. ''Such an honest
appraisal,'' Mr. Cohen writes, ''will test the character of politicians who,
naturally enough, hope to end their tenures having won, or at least finished,
the wars that they have begun or inherited.''

This is a tall order for any elected official. For Mr. Trump, who made ''We are
going to win so big'' a rallying cry, it seems higher than the moon.

All of Mr. Cohen's proposals would cost a great deal of money -- and,
potentially, human lives. He'd like to see forces deployed in Poland and the
Baltic States to ward off Russian hostilities. He'd like to see a beefed-up air
and naval presence in the Persian Gulf to thwart Iran. In retrospect, he wishes
we'd left 10,000 to 20,000 troops in Iraq. (He doesn't address the sticky
problem of reconciling this idea with the Iraqi desire for sovereignty.)

These may not be the most practical or, to many, desirable suggestions. Mr.
Cohen is well aware of the contemporary arguments arrayed against America's
interest, or competence, in waging war, which he addresses in Chapter 1. But
they're one response to an increasingly dangerous -- and nuclearized -- globe.
To read Mr. Cohen is to realize that he thinks for a living about terrible
things: Pakistan's lobbing a nuke at India; Israel's lobbing a nuke at Iran; the
United States' launching a nuclear weapon at North Korea; China's threatening to
launch one at us.

''To assume that nuclear weapons, or some overwhelming logic of international
politics, make statesmen cautious,'' he writes, ''is to assume that human beings
are not capable of tremendous error, which is almost to assume that they are not
human.''

Just before Christmas, Mr. Trump tweeted that the United States ''must greatly
strengthen and expand its nuclear capability.'' What that meant we do not know.
It could have meant that he will violate existing nuclear treaties. It could
have meant nothing specific -- just another inchoate emanation from his head.

Mr. Cohen notes that all presidential candidates' views of national security
change once they're in office, because they're forced to confront the world as
it is, not the world as they wish it to be. The problem is that Mr. Trump
apparently does not sit still for the intelligence briefings that try to
describe the world as it is. And if that's the case, the future may not be as
dark as Mr. Cohen foresees. It may be darker.

The Big Stick: The Limits of Soft Power & the Necessity of Military ForceBy
Eliot A. Cohen285 pages. Basic Books. $27.99.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/02/books/review-the-big-stick-argues-for-a-robust
-military-role-abroad.html

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eliot A. Cohen (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAVEH SARDARI)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      January 4, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Can I Out My Ex-Husband to His Girlfriend?;
The Ethicist

BYLINE: KWAME ANTHONY APPIAH

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 1458 words



HIGHLIGHT: The magazine's Ethicist columnist on whether to reveal a former
spouse's hidden sexuality, how to approach a mother about suspected dementia and
more.


Should I anonymously send a copy of the ad my ex-husband has on a gay-bi-fetish
website to his current girlfriend (or more appropriately, beard) to prevent her
from discovering too late what took me 15 years to uncover?

My ex has at least two personal ads on two gay-bi-fetish websites. I know for a
fact that while he has been dating her, he has met at least one man in a motel
room in another state. I am not being malicious in wanting to let her know; my
concern is that if her daughter becomes attached to him, and the relationship
ends because of his infidelity, it may be difficult for the girl. (Apparently,
he spends more time with this woman's daughter than he does with his own
children.)

My children are unaware of their father's predilection, and even when faced with
irrefutable evidence, he has denied everything. My ex does not know that I know
about his ads. He does, however, know that I was aware of his perusal of
hundreds of such ads, as well as receipts for certain purchases. He is 50 and
had a religious upbringing, which I feel is the main reason he has never been
forthright. I am not looking to "out him" to the world; I just think this woman
should know and/or get herself tested for sexually transmitted diseases.

What do you think is the right way to approach this? Is an anonymous letter or a
copy of the ad the way to go? The ad obscures his face, but if you know what he
looks like - in a Speedo - and the inside of his old apartment, there is no
mistaking him. (Not to mention that I can log in as him and verify the account
is registered to him, as he never changed his passwords.)

Lastly, the reason I suggest informing her anonymously is because I don't want
him to know that I was the one who sent the information to her. But should I
instead bring it up with her in person, if I ever have the opportunity to speak
to her one on one?

I have every intent of sending some-thing, as I am sure this woman thinks things
are serious with him after a year, but then I ponder whether it is the right
thing to do or whether it will negatively impact my children and me. Name
Withheld

I see two sets of considerations here. On one hand, you acquired the information
about your ex-husband as his wife. He has a reasonable expectation of privacy
about information acquired that way. If he had bothered to change his passwords,
you presumably wouldn't be aware of his out-of-state tryst. That you know how to
log in as him and have clearly been doing so suggests something cyber
-stalker-ish is going on here. The fact that you can access this information
about him doesn't mean you have any right to do so. And as your letter suggests,
it's natural to wonder about your own motives in wanting to out your ex to his
new girlfriend.

On the other hand, there are real worries if his new partner stays in the dark.
(I'm assuming that she is in the dark; it's entirely possible that she isn't.)
You indicate that your ex might be failing to take the safe-sex precautions that
would protect both him and her. Were she to test positive for H.I.V., say, you
would have reason to regret not having warned her. Then there's the risk that
she'll eventually discover his infidelities and that disentangling herself will
be painful for her and her daughter. Your use of the word "beard" suggests that
you don't think he is genuinely fond of her, although you don't offer any
evidence for this inference. However he feels, we can agree, he ought to come
clean with her. It would then be up to her to decide what she wanted to do.

Do you have a duty to protect her from these risks by passing on confidential
information, acquired through marriage, without his consent? I would say no. For
one thing, even if you do this anonymously, he may well figure out what
happened. And you express concern that this might "negatively impact" you and
your children. Despite this, are you morally permitted to go through with your
plan? That's a harder issue in my view - especially given that much of what
you've learned was through illegitimate means - but on balance, I'd say that you
are. Yet you're not just asking me whether you should do it; you're asking my
advice about how you should do it. Because I'm not sure you should, I'm not
going to try to say how. Here's a piece of advice I do have: It's time to let go
of your ex. You (and he) will be better off for it.

I am a teenage daughter of a loving mother. My mom has sacrificed so much for
me, and I love her completely, but for a while I've noticed something that
frightens me a little. She frequently talks to herself. No sound comes out, but
her features will become animated, as though she really is engaging in a
conversation. It might happen at any time: as we sit in the living room or,
worse, when we are in the car with friends. I've always been too scared to ask
her about it, for fear she might be offended, but it's embarrassing, to be
honest. It has gotten to the point that when I notice it, I will direct a
question or comment to her to try to get it to stop.

Recently, I decided to do some research about the issue, which unfortunately has
put me in a tricky spot. I found this could be the early onset of dementia. My
grandmother on my mother's side suffers from dementia, and so many times I've
wished we could have known sooner. Maybe then we could have been more proactive.

The crisis I find myself in is: Do I overstep my boundaries and hurt or
humiliate my mother by suggesting she suffers from some sort of dementia, or
bite my tongue and just hope that her silent tête-à-têtes are nothing more than
a bad habit? Name Withheld

The behavior you describe doesn't sound like a bad habit. It sounds, as you
fear, like a symptom of a serious illness. You don't mention another member of
your household, so I'm assuming there's no other adult around. In that case, I
do think you are the person to raise the issue with your mother. There's no
overstepping of boundaries when you express loving concern for a close relative.
(It's a conversation to have when you're alone together, of course, so there's
less risk of embarrassment.) Because she is presumably aware, at least to some
degree, that something is wrong, it may even be a relief for your mother to talk
about it. I would be inclined to talk it through first with a medical
professional, ideally your family doctor. If your conversation goes well, the
next stop may involve you and your mother paying the doctor a visit together.

I told my ex-wife I was not supportive of her decision to allow my boys to play
football, because of the risk associated with concussions. (I am not against
them playing other, less injurious sports, like lacrosse or ultimate Frisbee.)
Because I am not supporting her decision, I am not supporting some of the
outreach to parents, like group dinners and buying space in the season program.
But I want to support my sons. How much "support" can I offer my boys and still
have a clear conscience? M. K., Sandy Hook, Conn.

I should admit that as someone whose main high-school sport was rugby, I am not
entirely alive to the charms of American football. Yes, I go to a Super Bowl
party each year, but the fair-catch rule needs explaining to me every time. More
to the point, the harm the game does is a serious concern. Supporting this sport
encourages an activity that predictably leads to serious brain damage for many
people, and there's significant evidence now that it starts as early as high
school. Our descendants may very well shake their heads at the fact that our
celebrated American sport had such terrible effects on many of its players.

I assume from what you say that your ex-wife is in a position to determine
whether your sons play. Otherwise, given what you know about the damage caused
by regular concussions, I would have encouraged you to stop them. Not because
allowing them to play gives support to a practice that harms others - abstaining
there isn't going to make much difference - but because you have a special duty
to protect your own children.

This may not make you the most popular guy at P.T.A. meetings. High-school
football is so much a part of our system that the parent who worries about this
is likely to be stigmatized, not the one who encourages it. That ought to
change, and I predict it will.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.

Kwame Anthony Appiah teaches philosophy at N.Y.U. He is the author of
"Cosmopolitanism" and "The Honor Code: How Moral Revolutions Happen."To submit a
query: Send an email to ethicist@nytimes.com; or send mail to The Ethicist, The
New York Times Magazine, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. (Include a
daytime phone number.)

DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOMI UM)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       January 5, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Intelligence Chief Criticizes 'Disparagement' of Findings on Russian Hacking;
Live Briefing

BYLINE: MATT FLEGENHEIMER and SCOTT SHANE

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1188 words



HIGHLIGHT: A Senate committee heard from intelligence officials at a hearing on
cyberthreats as President-elect Donald J. Trump has continued to question
foreign involvement in the election.


WASHINGTON - The nation's top intelligence official, in a comment aimed at
President-elect Donald J. Trump, said on Thursday that there was a difference
between expressing "skepticism" of intelligence reports that Russia interfered
with the American election and "disparagement" of the intelligence community.

The official, James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, was
testifying at a hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee, where
Republicans and Democrats defended Mr. Clapper and others just as Mr. Trump has
questioned foreign involvement.

Other highlights from the hearing:

" Intelligence officials said Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder, should not
be given credibility.

" Senator Lindsey Graham accused President Obama of throwing a "pebble" at the
Russians. He said he would use a "rock."

" The Russian practice of planting "fake news" was an election-year propaganda
tactic that remains in use, Mr. Clapper said.

Difference between 'healthy skepticism' and 'disparagement'

Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, was the first to take direct aim
at Mr. Trump, wondering aloud "who benefits from a president-elect trashing the
intelligence community."

Mr. Clapper said pointedly that there was "a difference between healthy
skepticism" - a phrase Vice President-elect Mike Pence used in defending Mr.
Trump's criticism of the intelligence agencies - and "disparagement."

"The intelligence community is not perfect," Mr. Clapper added. "We are an
organization of human beings and we're prone sometimes to make errors." But he
referred to the wall of stars in the C.I.A. lobby commemorating the deaths of
agency officers on duty and said the agencies' efforts to keep the country safe
were not always appreciated.

Ms. McCaskill said there would be "howls from the Republican side of the aisle"
if a Democrat had spoken about intelligence officials as Mr. Trump has.

"Thank you for that nonpartisan comment," joked Senator John McCain, Republican
of Arizona and chairman of the committee.

Intelligence officials say Assange deserves no credibility

Mr. McCain steered the conversation to Mr. Assange, saying, "I believe he is the
one who's responsible for publishing the names of individuals who work for us
who put us in direct danger."

"Do you think there's any credibility we should attach to this individual?" Mr.
McCain asked.

"Not in my view," Mr. Clapper replied.

Mr. McCain turned to Adm. Michael S. Rogers, a leader of the National Security
Agency and United States Cyber Command. "I would second those comments," Admiral
Rogers said.

Asked by Mr. McCain whether hacking the American elections would be an attack on
the United States, Mr. Clapper demurred. "Whether that constitutes an act of war
is a very heavy call that I don't think the intelligence community should make,"
he said. But he called it a matter of "great gravity."

Mr. McCain was sharply critical of what he described as the Obama
administration's failure to devise a clear-cut policy of deterrence and
retaliation for cyberattacks, saying that at times the United States government
appeared to be a "bystander."

Pebbles or rocks?

Mr. Graham, Republican of South Carolina, asked Mr. Clapper if the intelligence
community was prepared for "being challenged" by the president-elect at a
briefing on Friday. "Are you ready for the task?" Mr. Graham asked. "I think
so," Mr. Clapper said dryly, adding that he and his colleagues were glad to be
challenged and ready to explain their views.

Mr. Graham said the Obama administration had lobbed mere "pebbles" at Russia in
retaliation for the interference. "When it comes to interfering with our
election, we better be ready to throw rocks," he said.

Mr. Graham also made clear that Republicans could well become the target of
cyberattacks next time. "Could it be Republicans next election?" he said. "It's
not like we're so much better at cybersecurity than Democrats."

What about 'fake news'?

Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, the ranking Democrat, asked if the
dissemination of "fake news" was part of the Russian effort to influence the
election. Mr. Clapper said it was, calling the attack "a multifaceted campaign."

"The hacking was only one part of it," Mr. Clapper said. "And it also entailed
classical propaganda, disinformation, fake news."

"Does that continue?" Mr. Reed asked. Mr. Clapper said yes.

Senator offers a defense of Trump

Perhaps the closest to a defense of Mr. Trump came from Senator Tom Cotton,
Republican of Arkansas. Noting "imprecise language" stating that Russia "hacked
the election," Mr. Cotton referred to Mr. Clapper's Oct. 7 statement on the
matter and pressed him to be more specific about the agencies' findings.

Mr. Cotton also suggested that the conventional wisdom that Mr. Putin favored
Mr. Trump over Hillary Clinton might be wrong. Mr. Trump promised a stronger
military and more American oil and gas production - policies Mr. Cotton
suggested would not be to Russia's advantage.

Public must wait for new information on hackings

Mr. Clapper suggested that he would not be unveiling major new inside
information on the intelligence agencies' conclusion that the Russian government
had directed the interference in the election.

Mr. Clapper said he knew there was "great interest" in Russian interference in
the election, but he indicated that public curiosity might have to wait for the
release of an unclassified report on the matter early next week. President Obama
is being briefed today on the full, classified report, and Mr. Trump will get an
identical briefing on Friday.

While keeping any scoops about the Russian attack for next week's release, Mr.
Clapper did promise to "push the envelope" in declassifying as much detail as
possible, including the motive of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia in
carrying it out. "We'll be as forthcoming as we can, but there are some fragile
and sensitive sources and methods here," he said.

Mr. Clapper offered no new details but said that "our assessment now is even
more resolute" that the Russians carried out the attack on the election. He
confirmed that there was no Russian hacking that altered the actual vote count
and repeated that it was not the agencies' job to assess the political impact of
information released by Russian agents.

What comes next?

Though senators from both parties, led by Mr. McCain and Mr. Graham on the
Republican side, have called for a select committee to investigate Russian
interference in the election, Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, has
said a select committee was unnecessary.

The Senate Intelligence Committee is "more than capable of conducting a complete
review," Mr. McConnell said last month, adding that Mr. McCain could also
conduct an investigation on the Armed Services Committee.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Related Articles


     ·    Obama Strikes Back at Russia for Election Hacking
     ·    Obama Confronts Complexity of Using a Mighty Cyberarsenal Against
          Russia
     ·    U.S. Faces Tall Hurdles in Detaining or Deterring Russian Hackers
     ·    Obama Says U.S. Will Retaliate for Russia's Election Meddling


LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       January 5, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Countering Trump, Bipartisan Voices Strongly Affirm Findings on Russian Hacking

BYLINE: MATT FLEGENHEIMER and SCOTT SHANE

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1488 words



HIGHLIGHT: In a hearing, top intelligence officials and senators of both parties
pushed back forcefully in a display that seemed directed solely at
President-elect Donald J. Trump.


WASHINGTON - A united front of top intelligence officials and senators from both
parties on Thursday forcefully reaffirmed the conclusion that the Russian
government used hacking and leaks to try to influence the presidential election,
directly rebuffing President-elect Donald J. Trump's repeated questioning of
Russia's role.

They suggested that the doubts Mr. Trump has expressed on Twitter about the
agencies' competence and impartiality were undermining their morale.

"There's a difference between skepticism and disparagement," James R. Clapper
Jr., the director of national intelligence, said at a hearing of the Senate
Armed Services Committee on the Russian hacks. He added that "our assessment now
is even more resolute" that the Russians carried out the attack on the election.

The Senate hearing was the prelude to an extraordinary meeting scheduled for
Friday, when Mr. Clapper and other intelligence chiefs will repeat for Mr. Trump
the same detailed, highly classified briefing on the Russian attack that
President Obama received on Thursday. In effect, they will be telling the
president-elect that the spy agencies believe he won with an assist from
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.

Then Mr. Trump will have to say whether he accepts the agencies' basic findings
on Russia's role or holds to his previous contention that inept, politicized
American spies have gotten the perpetrator of the hacking wrong. That would
throw the intelligence agencies into a crisis of credibility and status with
few, if any, precedents.

In apair of Twitter posts early Thursday, Mr. Trump appeared to back away from
the scorn he had previously expressed for the intelligence agencies' work, as
well as from his embrace of Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, which
released most of the hacked emails of Democratic officials.

"The dishonest media likes saying that I am in agreement with Julian Assange -
wrong," he wrote. "I simply state what he states, it is for the people to make
up their own minds as to the truth. The media lies to make it look like I am
against 'Intelligence' when in fact I am a big fan!"

But on Thursday night, the president-elect returned to Twitter and appeared to
underscore his doubts about the F.B.I.'s investigation of the hacking.

"The Democratic National Committee would not allow the FBI to study or see its
computer info after it was supposedly hacked by Russia," he wrote, a day after a
report by BuzzFeed on the issue. "So how and why are they so sure about hacking
if they never even requested an examination of the computer servers? What is
going on?"

Early next week, the public will get its fullest information to date on the
evidence the agencies have to support their contention that Mr. Putin's
government used the hacked emails to hurt Hillary Clinton's campaign and help
Mr. Trump's. Mr. Clapper said he would "push the envelope" to include as much
detail as possible in the unclassified version of the intelligence agencies'
report on the Russian operation.

The hacking, he added, was only one part of that operation, which also included
the dissemination of "classical propaganda, disinformation, fake news."

Mr. Clapper will step down as intelligence director later this month after a
career in intelligence and military service that began when he enlisted in the
Marine Corps in 1961. His replacement is expected to be Dan Coats, a retired
senator from Indiana, a Trump transition official said Thursday.

A low-key conservative who served on the Senate Intelligence Committee, Mr.
Coats would oversee the nation's 16 intelligence agencies in a job that was
created after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks to improve the sharing of
information, but that is sometimes criticized as adding a layer of bureaucracy.

The Coats news came on the same day that R. James Woolsey, a former C.I.A.
director, stepped down as a senior adviser to Mr. Trump, citing his diminishing
role in the transition.

The Senate hearing on Thursday, devoted to foreign cyberthreats, was unusual as
much for its context as its content - a public, bipartisan display of support
for the intelligence community that seemed aimed, at times, at an audience of
one.

Though Mr. Clapper and most Republican senators were careful to avoid
antagonizing the president-elect directly, the hearing spoke to the rift Mr.
Trump has threatened to create between the incoming administration and the
intelligence officials assigned to inform it.

Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and chairman of the committee, said
the purpose of the gathering was "not to question the outcome of the
presidential election" but to move forward with a full understanding of what had
happened.

Repeatedly, though, Mr. McCain and his colleagues seemed to undercut Mr. Trump's
past messages of support for Russia, and for Mr. Assange of WikiLeaks.

"Do you think there's any credibility we should attach to this individual?" Mr.
McCain asked.

"Not in my view," Mr. Clapper said. Another witness at the hearing, Adm. Michael
S. Rogers, the head of the National Security Agency and United States Cyber
Command, said he agreed.

The intelligence director said he welcomed skeptical questioning from Mr. Trump,
allowing that the intelligence community was "not perfect."

"We are an organization of human beings, and we're prone, sometimes, to make
errors," Mr. Clapper said. But he said the agencies had learned from their
failures, notably their declaration that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction.

Democrats on the committee repeatedly coaxed intelligence leaders to rebut Mr.
Trump's multiple assertions that a random individual hacker might have hacked
Democratic targets.

Senator Joe Donnelly, Democrat of Indiana, told Mr. Clapper that in the conflict
between the intelligence agencies and Mr. Assange over Russian responsibility
for the attack, "We're on your side every time." He asked Mr. Clapper to convey
his level of confidence in attributing the election attack to Russia, rather
than "someone in his basement."

"It's, uh, very high," the laconic intelligence director replied.

At one point, Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, wondered aloud
"who benefits from a president-elect trashing the intelligence community."

Ms. McCaskill said there would be "howls from the Republican side of the aisle"
if a Democrat had spoken about intelligence officials as Mr. Trump had.

Senator Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia and Mrs. Clinton's running mate, used
the occasion for an aside about Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump's choice
for national security adviser, who has a history of sharing discredited news
stories and conspiracy theories. Mr. Kaine said that he was unsure whether Mr.
Flynn was acting out of "gullibility" or "malice," but that it was a cause for
"great concern" that Mr. Flynn shared stories that "most fourth graders would
find incredible."

No Republican lawmakers embraced Mr. Trump's remarks casting doubt on the
intelligence conclusions, though some were more conspicuous than others in their
efforts to distance themselves.

Perhaps the closest to a defense of Mr. Trump came from Senator Tom Cotton,
Republican of Arkansas. Denouncing "imprecise language" stating that Russia
"hacked the election," Mr. Cotton asked Mr. Clapper to confirm that the actual
balloting was not affected.

Mr. Cotton also suggested that the conventional wisdom that Mr. Putin favored
Mr. Trump over Mrs. Clinton might be wrong. Mr. Trump promised a stronger
military and more American oil and gas production - policies Mr. Cotton
suggested would not be to Russia's advantage.

Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, criticized the Obama
administration for its response to the Russian attack. He said the White House
had lobbed mere "pebbles" in retaliation for the interference.

"When it comes to interfering with our election, we better be ready to throw
rocks," he said. Then Mr. Graham issued a warning for fellow Republicans who
might be inclined to brush off any attack on an opposing party.

"Could it be Republicans next election?" he asked. "It's not like we're so much
better at cybersecurity than Democrats."

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

PHOTOS: "Our assessment now is even more resolute," James R. Clapper Jr., the
director of national intelligence, said at a hearing Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); Above, James R. Clapper Jr., the
director of national intelligence, arriving on Thursday for the Senate Armed
Services Committee hearing on Russia's role in the election hacking. The hearing
also included several other intelligence leaders, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AL
DRAGO/THE NEW YORK TIMES; STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)

Related Articles


     ·    Donald Trump Casts Intelligence Aside
     ·    Intelligence Chief Criticizes 'Disparagement' of Findings on Russian
          Hacking
     ·    Obama Strikes Back at Russia for Election Hacking


LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       January 5, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump Casts Intelligence Aside;
Editorial

BYLINE: THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 670 words



HIGHLIGHT: Why is he trying to undermine organizations meant to keep the country
safe?


What plausible reason could Donald Trump have for trying so hard to discredit
America's intelligence agencies and their finding that Russia interfered in the
presidential election? Maybe he just can't stand anyone thinking he didn't, or
couldn't, win the presidency on his own.

Regardless of his motives, the nation's top intelligence officials were having
none of his nonsense on Thursday. In an extraordinary pushback against the
president-elect, James Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, told
the Senate Armed Services Committee that he was "even more resolute" in
believing that Russia not only hacked the computers of the Democratic National
Committee and others but also disseminated classic propaganda, disinformation
and fake news.

Flanked by the Pentagon's top intelligence official and the head of the cyber
command, Mr. Clapper acknowledged that the intelligence agencies can at times
make mistakes. But he distinguished between presidential skepticism about their
findings, which is healthy, and "disparagement" of the professionalism of the
agencies, which is perilous for national security.

With his refusal to accept regular intelligence briefings on threats facing this
country and his persistent denigration of the intelligence community, Mr. Trump
has shown time and again that he worries more about his ego than anything else.
He is effectively working to delegitimize institutions whose jobs involve
reporting on risks, threats and facts that a president needs to keep the nation
safe.

Since last summer, Mr. Trump has dismissed intelligence findings that the
Russians were responsible for hacking the Democrats and leaking the emails that
were eventually made public by WikiLeaks. In November, when the Central
Intelligence Agency went further and concluded that the Russian hacking was
intended to favor Mr. Trump, he rejected the finding as "ridiculous," though he
and President Vladimir Putin of Russia have repeatedly expressed a bewildering
and alarming mutual admiration.

Since then, President Obama has sanctioned Russia for its interference in the
election and his administration has released limited corroborating information
while most Democrats and some Republicans in Congress voiced outrage over the
Russian role and called for a full investigation. Nevertheless, Mr. Trump and
his spokesmen have continued to deny there was any evidence of Russian
involvement, and on Wednesday, Mr. Trump proved he could still shock people by
embracing Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder, who has been long reviled by
Republicans as an anarchist lawbreaker.

On Twitter, Mr. Trump enthusiastically endorsed Mr. Assange's insistence that
the "Russians did not give him the info" with the leaked emails. This was after
Mr. Trump had mocked the intelligence community about a classified briefing he
is due to receive on Friday. Given such an attitude, one has to wonder whether
Mr. Trump's plans to reform the intelligence agencies are intended as a vendetta
or a serious initiative to make the kinds of meaningful changes that some
experts say are needed.

The Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday that Mr. Trump, believing that the
office of the director of national intelligence had become bloated and
politicized, wants to restructure and pare it back and also restructure the
C.I.A., sending more staff members to foreign posts. A spokesman for Mr. Trump
denied the report. Experts agree the director's operation grew beyond what was
envisioned in the reforms after Sept. 11; some contraction makes sense, but not
as political retribution, they say.

If he ever decides to govern responsibly, Mr. Trump has made his job much more
difficult. Having worked so hard to convince the American people that the
intelligence community cannot be trusted, what will he tell the country when
agents inform him of a clear and present danger?

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for theOpinion Today newsletter.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL ZENDER)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        January 6, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump and the Intelligence Agencies;
Letters

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 756 words



HIGHLIGHT: Readers decry Trump's skepticism about Russian hacking of the
election.


To the Editor:

Regarding "Trump Says Focus on Russian Hacking Is a 'Political Witch Hunt' "
(nytimes.com, Jan. 6):

President-elect Donald Trump and others frequently use the intelligence on
weapons of mass destruction in Iraq to disparage our intelligence agencies.
Remember, even before the Iraq war, many were pointing out that the problem was
not so much the intelligence, but President George W. Bush's "cherry picking"
the intelligence to support his wish to go to war.

Mr. Trump is doing exactly that, picking the intelligence he prefers. If past is
prologue, we are in very serious danger.

CHARLES MERRILL

New York

To the Editor:

Re "Mr. Trump Casts Intelligence Aside" (editorial, Jan. 6):

The headline of your editorial would be hilarious were not the circumstances it
describes so grave.

Whether Donald Trump sets aside intelligence - as in the intelligence regarding
Russian hacking in the recent election - for tactical and strategic reasons of
his own, to protect his fantasy of a landslide electoral victory, or as a
defensive reaction to overwhelming complexity that he can't fathom, the outcome
is the same: increased confusion, further alienation and heightened anxiety here
and abroad.

ARTHUR POMPONIO

New York

To the Editor:

If the truth gets in the way of Donald Trump's narrative, then the truth must
go. It is the world according to Trump. No agency is going to control his
thinking.

From the first, his alternate reality prevailed. When he questioned Barack
Obama's place of birth, Mr. Trump invented a nonexistent secret trove of
documents that buttressed his fabrication.

Last week he spoke of the clearly fictional information he would soon reveal
that supported his denunciation of the conclusion of the intelligence agencies
about Russian hacking, and by extension, the agencies themselves. Why rely on
experts when the answers within your head are all you want or need?

For most of us, facts dictate our determinations. For Mr. Trump, his
determinations dictate the facts.

ROBERT S. NUSSBAUM

Fort Lee, N.J.

To the Editor:

There is a lot of speculation as to why Donald Trump refuses to believe that the
Russians hacked the Democratic National Committee. Most speculation centers on
Mr. Trump's ego. The more I think about it, the more I am thinking that maybe
Vladimir Putin has something on Mr. Trump himself?

JIM McCARTHY

Wilmette, Ill.

To the Editor:

While no country wants foreign powers interfering in its election processes,
there is another issue that has been smothered in the brouhaha over Russian
activities. There have been no allegations that whatever may have been hacked
and leaked was false, made up or doctored by the Russians or anyone else.
Therefore, the hacking did not mislead voters, but rather informed them of
things that Hillary Clinton's team would rather have remained unexposed.

ROBERT LONERGAN

Easton, Md.

To the Editor:

For America's security and Donald Trump's presidential longevity he needs to sit
up, pay attention and ask probing questions instead of being outspokenly
dismissive of high-level intelligence briefings.

Should America ever be attacked on his watch, Americans will justifiably ask why
the intelligence community again failed as it did on 9/11. If it is revealed
that warnings were ignored or not acted upon at the presidential level, or if
intelligence reorganizations mandated by the president impaired intelligence
gathering, the blame will fall squarely on the White House.

It could well doom his presidency as well as his worldwide brand. For our sake
and his, the president-elect should pay attention when intelligence briefers
come to call.

ARNOLD REINER

Pensacola, Fla.

To the Editor:

Re "Bipartisan Voices Back U.S. Agencies on Russia Hacking" (front page, Jan.
6):

No, Donald Trump, we are not going to let this go. Your actions are serving our
enemies.

That said, I do not think that any votes were directly changed by the hackers'
actions, and Mr. Trump is legitimately the president-elect, may God help us. But
for years - before President Obama was in office - the former presidential
adviser Richard Clarke (in his book "Cyber War") and other experts have been
warning us that China, Russia and Iran have operatives hacking our critical
infrastructure.

What Russia does to the Democratic National Committee today it can do to the
electrical grid or the Pentagon tomorrow.

For Mr. Trump to deny this shows how ignorant and arrogant he is. He will lead
our nation to disaster, unless he starts listening to people who actually know
something about national security.

JOE ESSID

Richmond, Va.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        January 6, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Kerry Lists Obama Era's Diplomatic Successes. (Trump Opposes Them All.)

BYLINE: RUSSELL GOLDMAN

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 787 words



HIGHLIGHT: In a memo summing up the last eight years of foreign policy, the
secretary of state enumerated and defended the Obama administration's work.


In an exit memorandum reflecting on eight years of United States foreign policy,
Secretary of State John Kerry enumerated the Obama administration's diplomatic
accomplishments. But that record may be weakened or overturned by
President-elect Donald J. Trump, who has denigrated many of President Obama's
policies.

Here is a look at how the secretary and the president-elect see the major
foreign policy issues differently.

The Iran Nuclear Deal

Kerry: Mr. Kerry praised the 2015 deal that the United States brokered with Iran
to curtail that country's ability to produce nuclear weapons. Mr. Kerry wrote
that before the deal was struck, Iran was less than "90 days away from having
the material necessary to produce one nuclear weapon," but "today they are at
least a year away."

He wrote on Thursday, "In reaching and implementing this deal, we took a major
security threat off the table without firing a single shot."

Trump: Mr. Trump made criticism of the nuclear deal a major talking point of his
foreign policy in the presidential campaign. He has called the agreement "the
worst deal ever negotiated." At a speech to the American Israel Public Affairs
Committee in March, he said, "My No. 1 priority is to dismantle the disastrous
deal with Iran." Later, he said he would renegotiate the agreement.

Russia

Kerry: The secretary said that the United States tried to reset relations with
Russia early in President Obama's first term, but that a series of aggressions
including "unprecedented cyber intrusions," "military intervention in Syria,"
and the "illegal occupation" of Ukraine impeded that effort.

Trump: Mr. Trump has made improved relations with President Vladimir V. Putin of
Russia a cornerstone of his future foreign policy. After American intelligence
agencies provided evidence that Russians hacked Democratic National Committee
systems to help tip the election in his favor, Mr. Trump criticized the
reliability of the intelligence community. He has praised Mr. Putin and said he
would work closely with him to combat the Islamic State. Mr. Trump also seemed
to upend American nuclear weapons policy when he declared in December: "Let it
be an arms race. We will outmatch them at every pass and outlast them all."

Climate Change

Kerry: Mr. Kerry devoted a significant portion of his memo to climate change,
calling it "not just a threat to the future of our planet, but a growing and
immediate threat to our national security." He lauded an agreement struck
between President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China, which bolstered a
global climate agreement reached in Paris in 2015that he called the most
"ambitious, inclusive climate agreement ever negotiated."

Trump: Mr. Trump has called climate change a "hoax," said he would "cancel" the
Paris accords and vowed to dismantle the Environmental Protection Agency "in
almost every form." His nominee to run that agency is Scott Pruitt, the Oklahoma
attorney general and a close ally of the fossil fuel industry, who has led the
legal battle against Mr. Obama's climate-change policies.

Guantánamo Bay

Kerry: Though the Obama administration never fulfilled a promise to shutter the
Guantánamo Bay detention center, Mr. Kerry wrote that "no single action would do
more to reaffirm our commitment to international human rights norms and remove a
recruiting tool for terrorists than closing" the site. During Mr. Obama's
presidency, the number of detainees decreased to 59 from 242, with 20 approved
for transfer.

Trump: In a message posted to Twitter on Tuesday, Mr. Trump wrote: "There should
be no further releases from Gitmo. These are extremely dangerous people and
should not be allowed back onto the battlefield."

Refugees

Kerry: "It would be a moral failing of the highest caliber to turn our backs on
those in need - including and especially from countries like Syria and Iraq,"
Mr. Kerry wrote, adding that the United States had a "profound responsibility to
help refugees."

Trump: After the terrorist attack in San Bernardino, Calif., in December 2015,
Mr. Trump called for "a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the
United States." Later in the campaign, he said: "We must suspend immigration
from regions linked with terrorism until a proven vetting method is in place."

PHOTOS: THE SECRETARY: John Kerry, a former senator, has been President Obama's
top diplomat since 2013. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO
AGENCY); IRAN: President Hassan Rouhani, center left, and the foreign minister,
Mohammad Javad Zarif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABEDIN TAHERKENAREH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO
AGENCY); SYRIAN MIGRANTS: In Greece, in 2015. Mr. Kerry said it would be a
"moral failing" not to help them. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEY PONOMAREV FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        January 6, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Russia Requires Apple and Google to Remove LinkedIn From Local App Stores

BYLINE: CECILIA KANG and KATIE BENNER

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 827 words



HIGHLIGHT: The move came after a November court ruling found the professional
networking service in violation of Russia's internet laws.


WASHINGTON - Smartphone users in Russia can no longer download the LinkedIn app
on iPhone or Android devices, following a similar move in China to block The New
York Times app on iPhones.

The demand by Russian authorities to remove LinkedIn in Apple and Google app
stores comes weeks after a court blocked the professional networking service for
flouting local laws that require internet firms to store data on Russian
citizens within the nation's borders.

The action is the equivalent of a nation banning "Catcher in The Rye" and then
forcing booksellers to remove the title from their shelves. It puts Apple and
Google in a difficult position. The companies are strong proponents of open
internet policies and free speech but are now being asked to be agents for
governments that censor its citizens.

When LinkedIn's website was blocked, the apps stopped functioning properly.
Removing them from the Google Play store and Apple's App Store may not have cut
off access to content, but it sent a signal that countries can push the tech
giants to remove the apps.

Direct blocking of websites has been done by China, Russia, Turkey and several
other nations for years, usually through their state-run internet service
providers. But civil rights groups say the pressure authoritarian governments
are now placing on Apple and Google is a new wrinkle.

"Apps are the new choke point of free expression," said Rebecca MacKinnon, who
leads a project on open internet tracking at New America.

Increasingly, United States tech companies are complying with those demands. In
the early 2000s, American internet firms strongly pushed back on demands by
China to comply with censorship rules within the country's internet controls,
known as the Great Firewall. Recently, Facebook has been working on a censorship
tool to be able to access China, where it is currently blocked along with
Twitter and Google.

LinkedIn, which is owned by Microsoft, said it was "disappointed" with the
decision by Russian regulators to block the service, which the company confirmed
was extended to apps in Russian Apple and Google Play stores.

"It denies access to our members in Russia and the companies that use LinkedIn
to grow their businesses," said Nicole Leverich, a spokeswoman for LinkedIn.

Apple confirmed it was asked to remove its LinkedIn app in Russia about a month
ago. It has also confirmed it was asked by China to block The New York Times
app, but declined to comment further on both events. Google would not confirm it
has removed LinkedIn in Russia but said it adheres to local laws in the
countries in which it operates.

More nations have enforced their own internet laws in recent years. Turkey
intermittently blocks social media, such as during the attempted government coup
last summer. It has also forced YouTube to remove content it considers
disparaging of its modern-day founder Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. European nations
have also drawn up their own privacy laws and in 2014 acourt declared its
citizens could demand internet companies like Google unlink information about
users upon request.

Tech companies and civil rights advocates warn that the increasing push by
nations to create their own internet rules will Balkanize the internet and
potentially lead to privacy violations and the stifling of political dissent.
Other countries, however, criticize Silicon Valley and the United States
government for setting the norms and rules for the internet.

"Internet free speech and internet freedom are increasingly under attack all
over the globe, and not just from authoritarian regimes," said Robert M.
McDowell, a former member of the Federal Communications Commission and partner
at Cooley law firm. "It appears to be a one-way ratchet with speech control
getting tighter."

LinkedIn has several million users in Russia, it said. In November, a Russian
court ruled that the professional networking site broke local laws that require
foreign internet firms to keep their servers holding information on Russian
accounts within the nation.

Most American internet companies in Russia operate in violation of the law, but
without explanation, Russian regulators at a body known as Roskomnadzor took the
rare step of enforcing its rules. The Russian regulators could not be
immediately reached for comment.

The action came at a tense moment in Russian-United States relations related to
cyber affairs. Russia has been accused of hacking into American accounts,
including the Democratic National Committee, to try to influence the
presidential election. American intelligence officials concluded in a
declassified report released on Friday that the president of Russia, Vladimir V.
Putin, ordered the campaign.

PHOTO: The company's app was removed in Russian Apple and Google stores after a
local court ruling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEY PONOMAREV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Russia Prepares to Block LinkedIn After Court Ruling
     ·    Apple Removes New York Times Apps From Its Store in China


LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        January 6, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump's Statement After Intelligence Briefing on Hacking

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 276 words



HIGHLIGHT: The president-elect acknowledged that Russia and other countries were
involved in cyberattacks against U.S. targets, including the Democratic National
Committee.


President-elect Donald J. Trump met with intelligence agencies on Friday to be
briefed on cyberattacks against the United States. Following the meeting, his
staff released the following statement:

"I had a constructive meeting and conversation with the leaders of the
Intelligence Community this afternoon. I have tremendous respect for the work
and service done by the men and women of this community to our great nation.

"While Russia, China, other countries, outside groups and people are
consistently trying to break through the cyber infrastructure of our
governmental institutions, businesses and organizations including the Democrat
National Committee, there was absolutely no effect on the outcome of the
election including the fact that there was no tampering whatsoever with voting
machines. There were attempts to hack the Republican National Committee, but the
RNC had strong hacking defenses and the hackers were unsuccessful.

"Whether it is our government, organizations, associations or businesses we need
to aggressively combat and stop cyberattacks. I will appoint a team to give me a
plan within 90 days of taking office. The methods, tools and tactics we use to
keep America safe should not be a public discussion that will benefit those who
seek to do us harm. Two weeks from today I will take the oath of office and
America's safety and security will be my number one priority."

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Related Articles


     ·    Putin Led a Complex Cyberattack Scheme to Aid Trump, Report Finds
     ·    Countering Trump, Bipartisan Voices Strongly Affirm Findings on
          Russian Hacking


LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        January 6, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

No Target Too Small, Trump Intervenes to Oust Ohio's G.O.P. Chair;
Transition Briefing

BYLINE: JONATHAN MARTIN, DAVID E. SANGER, MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM and NICHOLAS
FANDOS

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2042 words



HIGHLIGHT: President-elect Donald J. Trump pressured Republican activists by
phone, determined to remove an Ohio Party official who had publicly opposed his
campaign.


" President-elect Donald J. Trump personally intervened to oust the Republican
Party chairman in Ohio who had opposed his campaign.

" Mr. Trump declared that the hacking of the Democratic National Committee had
"absolutely no effect on the outcome of the election" after the nation's
intelligence chiefs briefed him at Trump Tower.

" Mr. Trump called for an investigation into leaked information about Russia's
efforts to help him win the presidency.

Trump helps oust a foe in Ohio

Proving that no target is too small for a Trump scorned, the president-elect
helped oust the chairman of the Ohio Republican Party who had opposed his
election and install an ally in a state where Republican officials were deeply
split over Mr. Trump's candidacy.

One day after Mr. Trump took the extraordinary step of calling Ohio Republicans
in an effort to defeat the sitting chairman, Matt Borges, a divided state party
on Friday replaced him with Jane Timken, a Trump supporter and donor.

The fight effectively became a proxy battle between Mr. Trump and Gov. John R.
Kasich of Ohio, who never endorsed Mr. Trump and supported Mr. Borges. The 66
voting members of the state Republican Party were almost evenly split between
the candidates after two rounds of balloting. Then they decided to avert a third
ballot by naming Ms. Timken chairwoman and creating a new post for Mr. Borges,
"chairman emeritus."

It was nonetheless a clear victory for Mr. Trump, who was able to overcome Mr.
Kasich's determined lobbying of a group of activists in his own state, some of
whom were hand-picked by the popular governor.

To do so, Mr. Trump had to take time from his presidential transition to
pressure Ohio Republicans over the phone, a remarkable personal intervention in
state party politics two weeks before he will take the oath of office.

For the president-elect, the motivation, as it often can be with him, was
revenge. Mr. Borges was publicly critical of Mr. Trump for much of the campaign,
and Mr. Kasich, a rival of Mr. Trump in the Republican primary, was one of his
most prominent detractors throughout the election.

That Mr. Trump would take the time to oust a single state party chairman
suggests that he may do much the same when anti-Trump Republicans who are
actually in elected office face primaries in 2018. That, certainly, was the
interpretation among Mr. Kasich's allies.

"Petty grudge settling is a top priority for the next president and his
henchmen," said John Weaver, an adviser to the governor. "Not encouraging for
those lonely souls still expecting Trump will ever try to unify."

Trump says hacking had 'absolutely no effect' on election

Emerging from a 90-minute briefing with the nation's intelligence chiefs, Mr.
Trump issued a statement acknowledging the hacking of "the cyber-infrastructure
of our governmental institutions, businesses and organizations including the
Democrat National Committee." But he said it had "absolutely no effect on the
outcome of the election."

"While Russia, China, other countries, outside groups and people are
consistently trying to break through the cyber-infrastructure of our
governmental institutions, businesses and organizations including the Democrat
National Committee, there was absolutely no effect on the outcome of the
election including the fact that there was no tampering whatsoever with voting
machines. There were attempts to hack the Republican National Committee, but the
R.N.C. had strong hacking defenses and the hackers were unsuccessful."

The intelligence chiefs showed Mr. Trump their evidence that Russia hacked into
the accounts of political organizations and members of the Clinton campaign and
that it made their correspondence public in an effort to influence the election.
The president-elect was sharply questioning those findings as late as Friday
morning.

The briefers included James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national
intelligence, who said on Thursday that he was "more resolute" than ever in the
conclusion that Russia was responsible for the hacking, and that it was part of
a broader information warfare campaign. The director of the C.I.A., John O.
Brennan; the head of the National Security Agency and the United States Cyber
Command, Adm. Michael S. Rogers; and the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, also
participated, officials said.

The meeting came at a moment of remarkable tension between the intelligence
agencies and Mr. Trump, who has repeatedly questioned the conclusions about
Russia and suggested that there was political motivation behind the intelligence
findings. Mr. Clapper and Admiral Rogers said, somewhat diplomatically, at a
Senate hearing on Thursday that while they welcomed skepticism, they believed
that questioning the motives of the intelligence officials working on the issue
was damaging to morale and to the agencies' ability to retain top talent.

An unclassified version of the report Mr. Trump heard about was made public
Friday afternoon. The president-elect likely heard the most classified details,
including information about the intercepts of conversation and computer traffic,
and the human sources, that the intelligence agencies used to reach their
conclusions.

President-elect calls for leak investigation

A half-hour before he met with the nation's top intelligence leaders to hear
their evidence that Russia interfered with the election, Mr. Trump demanded a
congressional investigation of leaks from the intelligence report.

The post was a reference to an NBC News report that United States intelligence
agencies heard senior Russian government officials cheering Mr. Trump's victory
on election night. It was actually first reported by The Washington Post.

Neither the president-elect nor Republican leaders in Congress have warmed to
the idea of a special investigation into Russian efforts to swing the election
to Mr. Trump. A leak investigation would swing the pressure the other way,
toward bottling up evidence of Russian interference.

Before briefing, seething on Twitter

Before he sat down to learn how the C.I.A., the F.B.I., the National Security
Agency and other agencies reached their conclusions, Mr. Trump continued on
Friday to seethe about the report, condemning leaks of its findings, casting
doubt on its conclusions and saying that Russia had nothing to do with his
victory.

Hillary Clinton did beat him by nearly three million in the popular vote, but on
Friday, Mr. Trump was officiallydeclared the winner of the Electoral College
vote.

Mr. Trump appears to be worried about the turnout at his Jan. 20 inauguration as
well.

A flurry of posts on Twitter on Thursday night captured Mr. Trump's mood:

Oh, to be a fly on the wall at Trump Tower as the president-elect learns more.

Who will pay for the border wall? The taxpayers

After CNN reported Thursday night that the incoming Trump administration would
seek taxpayer funding for his promised border wall with Mexico, the
president-elect took to Twitter on Friday morning to acknowledge that Mexico
would not be paying for it - at least not at first.

And whom did he blame? The news media.

Making Mexico pay for the border wall was a central campaign promise and a
common chant at his rallies.

Now, Mr. Trump is working with congressional leaders to find the money on this
side of the border. The multibillion-dollar building effort would most likely
use authority approved in 2006, when President George W. Bush signed legislation
to construct a "physical barrier" on the southern border. Mr. Trump's transition
team is already scouting locations for the first legs of the "Great Wall."

And the Mexican president, Enrique Peña Nieto, says he told Mr. Trump during the
campaign that his country had no intention of paying for it.

The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee jumped on the issue immediately.

"House Republicans and Donald Trump have wasted no time in breaking their
promise to voters by preparing to waste massive amounts of American taxpayer
money on an infeasible wall instead of focusing on rebuilding our crumbling
infrastructure, creating jobs and more effective approaches to improving our
national security," said a spokesman, Tyler Law.

Trump denounces TV successor

The incoming president wants the country to know that the man who succeeded him
on his reality television show, "The Apprentice," is not doing so well. But hey,
Arnold Schwarzenegger, the former governor of California, supported Ms. Clinton,
so what could we expect?

Mr. Trump has long been a ratings obsessive: He keeps photocopies of decade-old
Nielsen charts and regularly called network executives at home to brag about
"Apprentice" numbers. He likes to remind television news producers about the big
ratings he attracts and, as a candidate, asked voters, "How do you think
Arnold's going to do?"

Arnold did not do great. Mr. Schwarzenegger's debut on Monday attracted 4.9
million viewers, down from about 6.3 million for Mr. Trump's most recent season
premiere. The president-elect remains a paid executive producer, but if his
Friday posts on Twitter were meant as promotional, it's a funny way to go about
it. A spokeswoman for Mark Burnett, who still runs the show, did not respond to
a request for comment.

Mr. Schwarzenegger responded on Twitter by quoting Lincoln's appeal "to our
better angels."

At least his inauguration will have plenty of money

With two weeks to go before his swearing-in, it seems Mr. Trump will not need to
worry about having the money to pay for the lavish celebration that will
accompany it.

The chairman of the inaugural planning committee, Thomas Barrack Jr., said on
Friday that his finance team had raised $90 million to pay for the festivities,
blowing past its own goal and the previous inaugural fund-raising record.

The total, raised over about six weeks, is close to double the $53 million that
President Obama raised for his 2009 inauguration, the previous high-water mark.
With large gifts from wealthy Republican donors forthcoming and a rash of
corporate gifts, fund-raisers said they had little trouble surpassing their $70
million goal.

Mr. Trump had turned to a group of veteran Republican fund-raisers and close
associates, like Mr. Barrack, to lead the effort.

The group was expected to wrap up its fund-raising efforts on Friday and turn
its attention to finalizing the details of the parade, balls, rally and other
events that will celebrate Mr. Trump's ascension to the presidency.

One last Obama dig on offshore drilling: No seismic tests

The Obama administration on Friday denied nearly all outstanding permit requests
from energy companies wishing to conduct seismic testing for oil and gas
deposits off the Atlantic coast.

The announcement blocked planned seismic tests on large portions of waters from
the coast of New Jersey to the Florida shore.

The process involves creating loud underwater blasts sent from ships. The blasts
can help determine the location and size of oil and gas deposits, but
environmentalists oppose the method because they say it disrupts the habitats
and mating of fish and marine mammals.

The move is the latest in a series of efforts by the Obama administration to
create new environmental protections before Mr. Obama leaves office.

Mr. Trump has vowed to open up America's federal lands and waters to new
drilling, but Mr. Obama has used some novel moves to try to block or delay new
offshore drilling. This month, he used an obscure provision in a 1953 law to
permanently ban drilling in large portions of the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans.
And experts say the move to deny seismic testing permits on such a large scale
so late in an administration is also unusual.

Companies can reapply for the permits under the Trump administration, but the
reapplication process, combined with a current Obama plan which bans all
offshore Atlantic drilling until 2022, could significantly delay the expected
start time of the testing.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Related Articles


     ·    Putin Led a Complex Cyberattack Scheme to Aid Trump, Report Finds
     ·    <div>Trump Insists Mexico Will Pay for Wall After U.S. Begins the
          Work</div>
     ·    Countering Trump, Bipartisan Voices Strongly Affirm Findings on
          Russian Hacking
     ·    Trump Takes on Democrats and Health Law in New Twitter Blitz


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 6, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mr. Trump Casts Intelligence Aside

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 669 words


What plausible reason could Donald Trump have for trying so hard to discredit
America's intelligence agencies and their finding that Russia interfered in the
presidential election? Maybe he just can't stand anyone thinking he didn't, or
couldn't, win the presidency on his own.

Regardless of his motives, the nation's top intelligence officials were having
none of his nonsense on Thursday. In an extraordinary pushback against the
president-elect, James Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, told
the Senate Armed Services Committee that he was ''even more resolute'' in
believing that Russia not only hacked the computers of the Democratic National
Committee and others but also disseminated classic propaganda, disinformation
and fake news.

Flanked by the Pentagon's top intelligence official and the head of the cyber
command, Mr. Clapper acknowledged that the intelligence agencies can at times
make mistakes. But he distinguished between presidential skepticism about their
findings, which is healthy, and ''disparagement'' of the professionalism of the
agencies, which is perilous for national security.

With his refusal to accept regular intelligence briefings on threats facing this
country and his persistent denigration of the intelligence community, Mr. Trump
has shown time and again that he worries more about his ego than anything else.
He is effectively working to delegitimize institutions whose jobs involve
reporting on risks, threats and facts that a president needs to keep the nation
safe.

Since last summer, Mr. Trump has dismissed intelligence findings that the
Russians were responsible for hacking the Democrats and leaking the emails that
were eventually made public by WikiLeaks. In November, when the Central
Intelligence Agency went further and concluded that the Russian hacking was
intended to favor Mr. Trump, he rejected the finding as ''ridiculous,'' though
he and President Vladimir Putin of Russia have repeatedly expressed a
bewildering and alarming mutual admiration.

Since then, President Obama has sanctioned Russia for its interference in the
election and his administration has released limited corroborating information
while most Democrats and some Republicans in Congress voiced outrage over the
Russian role and called for a full investigation. Nevertheless, Mr. Trump and
his spokesmen have continued to deny there was any evidence of Russian
involvement, and on Wednesday, Mr. Trump proved he could still shock people by
embracing Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder, who has been long reviled by
Republicans as an anarchist lawbreaker.

On Twitter, Mr. Trump enthusiastically endorsed Mr. Assange's insistence that
the ''Russians did not give him the info'' with the leaked emails. This was
after Mr. Trump had mocked the intelligence community about a classified
briefing he is due to receive on Friday. Given such an attitude, one has to
wonder whether Mr. Trump's plans to reform the intelligence agencies are
intended as a vendetta or a serious initiative to make the kinds of meaningful
changes that some experts say are needed.

The Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday that Mr. Trump, believing that the
office of the director of national intelligence had become bloated and
politicized, wants to restructure and pare it back and also restructure the
C.I.A., sending more staff members to foreign posts. A spokesman for Mr. Trump
denied the report. Experts agree the director's operation grew beyond what was
envisioned in the reforms after Sept. 11; some contraction makes sense, but not
as political retribution, they say.

If he ever decides to govern responsibly, Mr. Trump has made his job much more
difficult. Having worked so hard to convince the American people that the
intelligence community cannot be trusted, what will he tell the country when
agents inform him of a clear and present danger?

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/05/opinion/donald-trump-casts-intelligence-aside.
html

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL ZENDER)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 6, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bipartisan Voices Back U.S. Agencies on Russia Hacking

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER and SCOTT SHANE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1391 words


WASHINGTON -- A united front of top intelligence officials and senators from
both parties on Thursday forcefully reaffirmed the conclusion that the Russian
government used hacking and leaks to try to influence the presidential election,
directly rebuffing President-elect Donald J. Trump's repeated questioning of
Russia's role.

They suggested that the doubts Mr. Trump has expressed on Twitter about the
agencies' competence and impartiality were undermining their morale.

''There's a difference between skepticism and disparagement,'' James R. Clapper
Jr., the director of national intelligence, said at a hearing of the Senate
Armed Services Committee on the Russian hacks. He added that ''our assessment
now is even more resolute'' that the Russians carried out the attack on the
election.

The Senate hearing was the prelude to an extraordinary meeting scheduled for
Friday, when Mr. Clapper and other intelligence chiefs will repeat for Mr. Trump
the same detailed, highly classified briefing on the Russian attack that
President Obama received on Thursday. In effect, they will be telling the
president-elect that the spy agencies believe he won with an assist from
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.

Then Mr. Trump will have to say whether he accepts the agencies' basic findings
on Russia's role or holds to his previous contention that inept, politicized
American spies have gotten the perpetrator of the hacking wrong. That would
throw the intelligence agencies into a crisis of credibility and status with
few, if any, precedents.

In a pair of Twitter posts early Thursday, Mr. Trump appeared to back away from
the scorn he had previously expressed for the intelligence agencies' work, as
well as from his embrace of Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, which
released most of the hacked emails of Democratic officials.

''The dishonest media likes saying that I am in agreement with Julian Assange --
wrong,'' he wrote. ''I simply state what he states, it is for the people to make
up their own minds as to the truth. The media lies to make it look like I am
against 'Intelligence' when in fact I am a big fan!''

But on Thursday night, the president-elect returned to Twitter and appeared to
underscore his doubts about the F.B.I.'s investigation of the hacking.

''The Democratic National Committee would not allow the FBI to study or see its
computer info after it was supposedly hacked by Russia,'' he wrote, a day after
a report by BuzzFeed on the issue. ''So how and why are they so sure about
hacking if they never even requested an examination of the computer servers?
What is going on?''

Early next week, the public will get its fullest information to date on the
evidence the agencies have to support their contention that Mr. Putin's
government used the hacked emails to hurt Hillary Clinton's campaign and help
Mr. Trump's. Mr. Clapper said he would ''push the envelope'' to include as much
detail as possible in the unclassified version of the intelligence agencies'
report on the Russian operation.

The hacking, he added, was only one part of that operation, which also included
the dissemination of ''classical propaganda, disinformation, fake news.''

Mr. Clapper will step down as intelligence director later this month after a
career in intelligence and military service that began when he enlisted in the
Marine Corps in 1961. His replacement is expected to be Dan Coats, a retired
senator from Indiana, a Trump transition official said Thursday.

A low-key conservative who served on the Senate Intelligence Committee, Mr.
Coats would oversee the nation's 16 intelligence agencies in a job that was
created after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks to improve the sharing of
information, but that is sometimes criticized as adding a layer of bureaucracy.

The Coats news came on the same day that R. James Woolsey, a former C.I.A.
director, stepped down as a senior adviser to Mr. Trump, citing his diminishing
role in the transition.

The Senate hearing on Thursday, devoted to foreign cyberthreats, was unusual as
much for its context as its content -- a public, bipartisan display of support
for the intelligence community that seemed aimed, at times, at an audience of
one.

Though Mr. Clapper and most Republican senators were careful to avoid
antagonizing the president-elect directly, the hearing spoke to the rift Mr.
Trump has threatened to create between the incoming administration and the
intelligence officials assigned to inform it.

Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and chairman of the committee, said
the purpose of the gathering was ''not to question the outcome of the
presidential election'' but to move forward with a full understanding of what
had happened.

Repeatedly, though, Mr. McCain and his colleagues seemed to undercut Mr. Trump's
past messages of support for Russia, and for Mr. Assange of WikiLeaks.

''Do you think there's any credibility we should attach to this individual?''
Mr. McCain asked.

''Not in my view,'' Mr. Clapper said. Another witness at the hearing, Adm.
Michael S. Rogers, the head of the National Security Agency and United States
Cyber Command, said he agreed.

The intelligence director said he welcomed skeptical questioning from Mr. Trump,
allowing that the intelligence community was ''not perfect.''

''We are an organization of human beings, and we're prone, sometimes, to make
errors,'' Mr. Clapper said. But he said the agencies had learned from their
failures, notably their declaration that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction.

Democrats on the committee repeatedly coaxed intelligence leaders to rebut Mr.
Trump's multiple assertions that a random individual hacker might have hacked
Democratic targets.

Senator Joe Donnelly, Democrat of Indiana, told Mr. Clapper that in the conflict
between the intelligence agencies and Mr. Assange over Russian responsibility
for the attack, ''We're on your side every time.'' He asked Mr. Clapper to
convey his level of confidence in attributing the election attack to Russia,
rather than ''someone in his basement.''

''It's, uh, very high,'' the laconic intelligence director replied.

At one point, Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, wondered aloud
''who benefits from a president-elect trashing the intelligence community.''

Ms. McCaskill said there would be ''howls from the Republican side of the
aisle'' if a Democrat had spoken about intelligence officials as Mr. Trump had.

Senator Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia and Mrs. Clinton's running mate, used
the occasion for an aside about Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump's choice
for national security adviser, who has a history of sharing discredited news
stories and conspiracy theories. Mr. Kaine said that he was unsure whether Mr.
Flynn was acting out of ''gullibility'' or ''malice,'' but that it was a cause
for ''great concern'' that Mr. Flynn shared stories that ''most fourth graders
would find incredible.''

No Republican lawmakers embraced Mr. Trump's remarks casting doubt on the
intelligence conclusions, though some were more conspicuous than others in their
efforts to distance themselves.

Perhaps the closest to a defense of Mr. Trump came from Senator Tom Cotton,
Republican of Arkansas. Denouncing ''imprecise language'' stating that Russia
''hacked the election,'' Mr. Cotton asked Mr. Clapper to confirm that the actual
balloting was not affected.

Mr. Cotton also suggested that the conventional wisdom that Mr. Putin favored
Mr. Trump over Mrs. Clinton might be wrong. Mr. Trump promised a stronger
military and more American oil and gas production -- policies Mr. Cotton
suggested would not be to Russia's advantage.

Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, criticized the Obama
administration for its response to the Russian attack. He said the White House
had lobbed mere ''pebbles'' in retaliation for the interference.

''When it comes to interfering with our election, we better be ready to throw
rocks,'' he said. Then Mr. Graham issued a warning for fellow Republicans who
might be inclined to brush off any attack on an opposing party.

''Could it be Republicans next election?'' he asked. ''It's not like we're so
much better at cybersecurity than Democrats.''

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/05/us/politics/taking-aim-at-trump-leaders-strong
ly-affirm-findings-on-russian-hacking.html

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Our assessment now is even more resolute,'' James R. Clapper
Jr., the director of national intelligence, said at a hearing Thursday.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Above, James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, arriving on
Thursday for the Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on Russia's role in the
election hacking. The hearing also included several other intelligence leaders,
left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AL DRAGO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 6, 2017 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Intelligence Chief Criticizes 'Disparagement' of Findings on Russian Hacking

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER and SCOTT SHANE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; LIVE BRIEFING; Pg.

LENGTH: 1171 words


WASHINGTON -- The nation's top intelligence official, in a comment aimed at
President-elect Donald J. Trump, said on Thursday that there was a difference
between expressing ''skepticism'' of intelligence reports that Russia interfered
with the American election and ''disparagement'' of the intelligence community.

The official, James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, was
testifying at a hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee, where
Republicans and Democrats defended Mr. Clapper and others just as Mr. Trump has
questioned foreign involvement.

Other highlights from the hearing:

â-  Intelligence officials said Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder, should
not be given credibility.

â-  Senator Lindsey Graham accused President Obama of throwing a ''pebble'' at
the Russians. He said he would use a ''rock.''

â-  The Russian practice of planting ''fake news'' was an election-year
propaganda tactic that remains in use, Mr. Clapper said.

Difference between 'healthy skepticism' and 'disparagement'

Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, was the first to take direct aim
at Mr. Trump, wondering aloud ''who benefits from a president-elect trashing the
intelligence community.''

Mr. Clapper said pointedly that there was ''a difference between healthy
skepticism'' -- a phrase Vice President-elect Mike Pence used in defending Mr.
Trump's criticism of the intelligence agencies -- and ''disparagement.''

''The intelligence community is not perfect,'' Mr. Clapper added. ''We are an
organization of human beings and we're prone sometimes to make errors.'' But he
referred to the wall of stars in the C.I.A. lobby commemorating the deaths of
agency officers on duty and said the agencies' efforts to keep the country safe
were not always appreciated.

Ms. McCaskill said there would be ''howls from the Republican side of the
aisle'' if a Democrat had spoken about intelligence officials as Mr. Trump has.

''Thank you for that nonpartisan comment,'' joked Senator John McCain,
Republican of Arizona and chairman of the committee.

Intelligence officials say Assange deserves no credibility

Mr. McCain steered the conversation to Mr. Assange, saying, ''I believe he is
the one who's responsible for publishing the names of individuals who work for
us who put us in direct danger.''

''Do you think there's any credibility we should attach to this individual?''
Mr. McCain asked.

''Not in my view,'' Mr. Clapper replied.

Mr. McCain turned to Adm. Michael S. Rogers, a leader of the National Security
Agency and United States Cyber Command. ''I would second those comments,''
Admiral Rogers said.

Asked by Mr. McCain whether hacking the American elections would be an attack on
the United States, Mr. Clapper demurred. ''Whether that constitutes an act of
war is a very heavy call that I don't think the intelligence community should
make,'' he said. But he called it a matter of ''great gravity.''

Mr. McCain was sharply critical of what he described as the Obama
administration's failure to devise a clear-cut policy of deterrence and
retaliation for cyberattacks, saying that at times the United States government
appeared to be a ''bystander.''

Pebbles or rocks?

Mr. Graham, Republican of South Carolina, asked Mr. Clapper if the intelligence
community was prepared for ''being challenged'' by the president-elect at a
briefing on Friday. ''Are you ready for the task?'' Mr. Graham asked. ''I think
so,'' Mr. Clapper said dryly, adding that he and his colleagues were glad to be
challenged and ready to explain their views.

Mr. Graham said the Obama administration had lobbed mere ''pebbles'' at Russia
in retaliation for the interference. ''When it comes to interfering with our
election, we better be ready to throw rocks,'' he said.

Mr. Graham also made clear that Republicans could well become the target of
cyberattacks next time. ''Could it be Republicans next election?'' he said.
''It's not like we're so much better at cybersecurity than Democrats.''

What about 'fake news'?

Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, the ranking Democrat, asked if the
dissemination of ''fake news'' was part of the Russian effort to influence the
election. Mr. Clapper said it was, calling the attack ''a multifaceted
campaign.''

''The hacking was only one part of it,'' Mr. Clapper said. ''And it also
entailed classical propaganda, disinformation, fake news.''

''Does that continue?'' Mr. Reed asked. Mr. Clapper said yes.

Senator offers a defense of Trump

Perhaps the closest to a defense of Mr. Trump came from Senator Tom Cotton,
Republican of Arkansas. Noting ''imprecise language'' stating that Russia
''hacked the election,'' Mr. Cotton referred to Mr. Clapper's Oct. 7 statement
on the matter and pressed him to be more specific about the agencies' findings.

Mr. Cotton also suggested that the conventional wisdom that Mr. Putin favored
Mr. Trump over Hillary Clinton might be wrong. Mr. Trump promised a stronger
military and more American oil and gas production -- policies Mr. Cotton
suggested would not be to Russia's advantage.

Public must wait for new information on hackings

Mr. Clapper suggested that he would not be unveiling major new inside
information on the intelligence agencies' conclusion that the Russian government
had directed the interference in the election.

Mr. Clapper said he knew there was ''great interest'' in Russian interference in
the election, but he indicated that public curiosity might have to wait for the
release of an unclassified report on the matter early next week. President Obama
is being briefed today on the full, classified report, and Mr. Trump will get an
identical briefing on Friday.

While keeping any scoops about the Russian attack for next week's release, Mr.
Clapper did promise to ''push the envelope'' in declassifying as much detail as
possible, including the motive of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia in
carrying it out. ''We'll be as forthcoming as we can, but there are some fragile
and sensitive sources and methods here,'' he said.

Mr. Clapper offered no new details but said that ''our assessment now is even
more resolute'' that the Russians carried out the attack on the election. He
confirmed that there was no Russian hacking that altered the actual vote count
and repeated that it was not the agencies' job to assess the political impact of
information released by Russian agents.

What comes next?

Though senators from both parties, led by Mr. McCain and Mr. Graham on the
Republican side, have called for a select committee to investigate Russian
interference in the election, Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, has
said a select committee was unnecessary.

The Senate Intelligence Committee is ''more than capable of conducting a
complete review,'' Mr. McConnell said last month, adding that Mr. McCain could
also conduct an investigation on the Armed Services Committee.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/05/us/politics/armed-services-committee-john-mcca
in-russia-hacking.html

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       January 7, 2017 Saturday 00:00 EST

White House Red Scare;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: MAUREEN DOWD

SECTION: OPINION; sunday

LENGTH: 929 words



HIGHLIGHT: All this talk about Reds makes Trump see red and gives Washington the
blues.


WASHINGTON - President Donald J. Trump will walk into the Oval Office and be
stunned.

First, it will be a shock to work in an office decorated with images of men
other than himself. Second, he is bound to be suffused with awe as he looks
around at the Remington bronze bronco, the Rockwell "Statue of Liberty," the
portraits of Washington and Lincoln, the Swedish ivy on the mantel that has
eavesdropped - and leavesdropped - on so much history.

The new president will suddenly realize that Joe Biden is right. He needs to
grow up. Chuck Schumer is right. He has to stop nonsense-tweeting and
name-calling. John McCain is right. He needs to stop fawning over Vladimir
Putin, his B.F.F. whose eyes flash "K.G.B."

Donald Trump will, at long last, assume a mantle of dignity.

NOT!

The capital has never been more anxious about its own government. The town is
suffering pre-traumatic stress disorder. This guy is really going to be
president.

Finally, there is bipartisan consensus: It's time to flip out. Decades after
duck-and-cover was a way of life, people here are once more in duck-and-cover
mode. No one knows what is going to happen, but they know it will be utter chaos
and that the old familiar ways have vaporized.

On the verge of the inauguration, a time of stately ritual and tradition in a
city baked in ritual and tradition, ritual and tradition are out the window.
Donald Trump is operating on an utterly new, unique and freaky frequency.

Closed-door confabs in mahogany and marble rooms with brass spittoons have been
replaced with Trump heckling, pouting, demanding and sharing his innermost
thoughts on Twitter. The city has the panicked air of a B-horror movie where the
townsfolk stand stock still, bug-eyed and frozen, too frightened to flee,
waiting for the creature.

Everything is turned inside out into sauerkraut. Democrats are appalled that
Trump is challenging the C.I.A., the same agency that got W.M.D.s wrong.
Republicans are cuddling up to Russia. Mitch McConnell says the American people
will not tolerate the Democrats' holding up a Supreme Court nominee. WikiLeaks
is protesting leaks. Trump and Sean Hannity suddenly love Julian Assange.

The city's mood is "surreal," as Senator Dick Durbin told The Times's Carl Hulse
on "The Run-Up" podcast. As the Illinois Democrat looks down from his Capitol
Hill office at the inaugural stands going up, he is still in disbelief that it's
not Madam President and that they didn't scoop up the Senate.

"I spent months never believing that he would be elected president," Durbin
said. "I sincerely hope that the office makes the man."

House Republicans who had to back off their attempt to eviscerate the
independent ethics office, after the president-elect tweeted his disapproval of
their priorities, looked dazed as they walked out of their party conference
meeting at the swift power of the Trump thunderbolt-tweets.

Can you imagine what would have happened if President-elect Obama had called
McConnell "a clown," as Trump tweeted about Schumer?

Can you imagine a scenario where two Republicans in a row lose the popular vote
but win the White House with a shady helping hand? Can't the G.O.P. win fair and
square? Was it the Russians who turned Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania
truly red?

As Congress was officially certifying Trump's election Friday at the U.S.
Capitol - "It is over," Biden firmly told Democrats who had still been yearning
for the miracle of a recount or redo - the intelligence services were meeting
with Trump and essentially decertifying his election.

For Trump, every humiliation is a small death. So you know he was furious about
the searing report - reflecting rare unanimity by the turf-battling intelligence
agencies - implying that he did not win on his own, given that Putin ordered up
a cyber-campaign designed to "denigrate" Hillary and help Trump.

McCain called it "an act of war." It's certainly the biggest Russian conspiracy
to hit Washington since Kevin Costner's "No Way Out."

Outsiders in a corrupt political establishment meddled in the American election
by painting Trump as an outsider victimized by a corrupt political
establishment. Russia tried to rig our election in favor of Trump even as Trump
was decrying a rigged election.

The intelligence report ascribed a motive: "Putin has had many positive
experiences working with Western political leaders whose business interests made
them more disposed to deal with Russia, such as former Italian Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi and former German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder."

Back in 1987, I interviewed Trump when Mikhail Gorbachev made his first visit to
America. Trump was very suspicious of the Evil Empire then and warned that the
U.S. should not be too eager to make a deal with Gorbachev. But then the Soviets
invited him to a business round-table and softened him up by telling him they
loved Trump Tower and inviting him to build a hotel in Moscow.

A year later, Trump heard that Gorbachev was back, out in front of Trump Tower,
and rushed down from his office to shake hands with the Communist, who turned
out to be an impersonator from New Jersey named Ronald Knapp.

Trump was easily fooled that time. It remains an open question how gullible and
malleable he is.

But those in Washington like Mike Pence, Reince Priebus and Paul Ryan who think
they can manipulate him might be in for a surprise.

IT WON'T HAPPEN!

I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 7, 2017 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Trump and the Intelligence Agencies

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg.

LENGTH: 772 words


To the Editor:

Regarding ''Trump Says Focus on Russian Hacking Is a 'Political Witch Hunt' ''
(nytimes.com, Jan. 6):

President-elect Donald Trump and others frequently use the intelligence on
weapons of mass destruction in Iraq to disparage our intelligence agencies.
Remember, even before the Iraq war, many were pointing out that the problem was
not so much the intelligence, but President George W. Bush's ''cherry picking''
the intelligence to support his wish to go to war.

Mr. Trump is doing exactly that, picking the intelligence he prefers. If past is
prologue, we are in very serious danger.

CHARLES MERRILL

New York

To the Editor:

Re ''Mr. Trump Casts Intelligence Aside'' (editorial, Jan. 6):

The headline of your editorial would be hilarious were not the circumstances it
describes so grave.

Whether Donald Trump sets aside intelligence -- as in the intelligence regarding
Russian hacking in the recent election -- for tactical and strategic reasons of
his own, to protect his fantasy of a landslide electoral victory, or as a
defensive reaction to overwhelming complexity that he can't fathom, the outcome
is the same: increased confusion, further alienation and heightened anxiety here
and abroad.

ARTHUR POMPONIO

New York

To the Editor:

If the truth gets in the way of Donald Trump's narrative, then the truth must
go. It is the world according to Trump. No agency is going to control his
thinking.

From the first, his alternate reality prevailed. When he questioned Barack
Obama's place of birth, Mr. Trump invented a nonexistent secret trove of
documents that buttressed his fabrication.

Last week he spoke of the clearly fictional information he would soon reveal
that supported his denunciation of the conclusion of the intelligence agencies
about Russian hacking, and by extension, the agencies themselves. Why rely on
experts when the answers within your head are all you want or need?

For most of us, facts dictate our determinations. For Mr. Trump, his
determinations dictate the facts.

ROBERT S. NUSSBAUM

Fort Lee, N.J.

To the Editor:

There is a lot of speculation as to why Donald Trump refuses to believe that the
Russians hacked the Democratic National Committee. Most speculation centers on
Mr. Trump's ego. The more I think about it, the more I am thinking that maybe
Vladimir Putin has something on Mr. Trump himself?

JIM McCARTHY

Wilmette, Ill.

To the Editor:

While no country wants foreign powers interfering in its election processes,
there is another issue that has been smothered in the brouhaha over Russian
activities. There have been no allegations that whatever may have been hacked
and leaked was false, made up or doctored by the Russians or anyone else.
Therefore, the hacking did not mislead voters, but rather informed them of
things that Hillary Clinton's team would rather have remained unexposed.

ROBERT LONERGAN

Easton, Md.

To the Editor:

For America's security and Donald Trump's presidential longevity he needs to sit
up, pay attention and ask probing questions instead of being outspokenly
dismissive of high-level intelligence briefings.

Should America ever be attacked on his watch, Americans will justifiably ask why
the intelligence community again failed as it did on 9/11. If it is revealed
that warnings were ignored or not acted upon at the presidential level, or if
intelligence reorganizations mandated by the president impaired intelligence
gathering, the blame will fall squarely on the White House.

It could well doom his presidency as well as his worldwide brand. For our sake
and his, the president-elect should pay attention when intelligence briefers
come to call.

ARNOLD REINER

Pensacola, Fla.

To the Editor:

Re ''Bipartisan Voices Back U.S. Agencies on Russia Hacking'' (front page, Jan.
6):

No, Donald Trump, we are not going to let this go. Your actions are serving our
enemies.

That said, I do not think that any votes were directly changed by the hackers'
actions, and Mr. Trump is legitimately the president-elect, may God help us. But
for years -- before President Obama was in office -- the former presidential
adviser Richard Clarke (in his book ''Cyber War'') and other experts have been
warning us that China, Russia and Iran have operatives hacking our critical
infrastructure.

What Russia does to the Democratic National Committee today it can do to the
electrical grid or the Pentagon tomorrow.

For Mr. Trump to deny this shows how ignorant and arrogant he is. He will lead
our nation to disaster, unless he starts listening to people who actually know
something about national security.

JOE ESSID

Richmond, Va.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/06/opinion/donald-trump-and-the-intelligence-agen
cies.html

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 7, 2017 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

From Kerry, a Diplomatic Scorecard

BYLINE: By RUSSELL GOLDMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 720 words


In an exit memorandum reflecting on eight years of United States foreign policy,
Secretary of State John Kerry enumerated the Obama administration's diplomatic
accomplishments. But that record may be weakened or overturned by
President-elect Donald J. Trump, who has denigrated many of President Obama's
policies.

Here is a look at how the secretary and the president-elect see the major
foreign policy issues differently.

The Iran Nuclear Deal

Kerry: Mr. Kerry praised the 2015 deal that the United States brokered with Iran
to curtail that country's ability to produce nuclear weapons. Mr. Kerry wrote
that before the deal was struck, Iran was less than ''90 days away from having
the material necessary to produce one nuclear weapon,'' but ''today they are at
least a year away.''

He wrote on Thursday, ''In reaching and implementing this deal, we took a major
security threat off the table without firing a single shot.''

Trump: Mr. Trump made criticism of the nuclear deal a major talking point of his
foreign policy in the presidential campaign. He has called the agreement ''the
worst deal ever negotiated.'' At a speech to the American Israel Public Affairs
Committee in March, he said, ''My No. 1 priority is to dismantle the disastrous
deal with Iran.'' Later, he said he would renegotiate the agreement.

Russia

Kerry: The secretary said that the United States tried to reset relations with
Russia early in President Obama's first term, but that a series of aggressions
including ''unprecedented cyber intrusions,'' ''military intervention in
Syria,'' and the ''illegal occupation'' of Ukraine impeded that effort.

Trump: Mr. Trump has made improved relations with President Vladimir V. Putin of
Russia a cornerstone of his future foreign policy. After American intelligence
agencies provided evidence that Russians hacked Democratic National Committee
systems to help tip the election in his favor, Mr. Trump criticized the
reliability of the intelligence community. He has praised Mr. Putin and said he
would work closely with him to combat the Islamic State. Mr. Trump also seemed
to upend American nuclear weapons policy when he declared in December: ''Let it
be an arms race. We will outmatch them at every pass and outlast them all.''

Climate Change

Kerry: Mr. Kerry devoted a significant portion of his memo to climate change,
calling it ''not just a threat to the future of our planet, but a growing and
immediate threat to our national security.'' He lauded an agreement struck
between President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China, which bolstered a
global climate agreement reached in Paris in 2015 that he called the most
''ambitious, inclusive climate agreement ever negotiated.''

Trump: Mr. Trump has called climate change a ''hoax," said he would ''cancel''
the Paris accords and vowed to dismantle the Environmental Protection Agency
''in almost every form.'' His nominee to run that agency is Scott Pruitt, the
Oklahoma attorney general and a close ally of the fossil fuel industry, who has
led the legal battle against Mr. Obama's climate-change policies.

Guantánamo Bay

Kerry: Though the Obama administration never fulfilled a promise to shutter the
Guantánamo Bay detention center, Mr. Kerry wrote that "no single action would do
more to reaffirm our commitment to international human rights norms and remove a
recruiting tool for terrorists than closing'' the site. During Mr. Obama's
presidency, the number of detainees decreased to 59 from 242, with 20 approved
for transfer.

Trump: In a message posted to Twitter on Tuesday, Mr. Trump wrote: ''There
should be no further releases from Gitmo. These are extremely dangerous people
and should not be allowed back onto the battlefield.''

Refugees

Kerry: ''It would be a moral failing of the highest caliber to turn our backs on
those in need -- including and especially from countries like Syria and Iraq,''
Mr. Kerry wrote, adding that the United States had a ''profound responsibility
to help refugees.''

Trump: After the terrorist attack in San Bernardino, Calif., in December 2015,
Mr. Trump called for ''a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the
United States.'' Later in the campaign, he said: ''We must suspend immigration
from regions linked with terrorism until a proven vetting method is in place.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/06/world/kerry-lists-obama-eras-diplomatic-succes
ses-trump-opposes-them-all.html

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE SECRETARY: John Kerry, a former senator, has been President
Obama's top diplomat since 2013. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO/EUROPEAN
PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
IRAN: President Hassan Rouhani, center left, and the foreign minister, Mohammad
Javad Zarif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABEDIN TAHERKENAREH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 SYRIAN MIGRANTS: In Greece, in 2015. Mr. Kerry said it would be a ''moral
failing'' not to help them. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEY PONOMAREV FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 7, 2017 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Russia Bans Downloads of LinkedIn Phone App

BYLINE: By CECILIA KANG and KATIE BENNER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 788 words


WASHINGTON -- Smartphone users in Russia can no longer download the LinkedIn app
on iPhone or Android devices, following a similar move in China to block The New
York Times app on iPhones.

The demand by Russian authorities to remove LinkedIn in Apple and Google app
stores comes weeks after a court blocked the professional networking service for
flouting local laws that require internet firms to store data on Russian
citizens within the nation's borders.

The action is the equivalent of a nation banning ''Catcher in The Rye'' and then
forcing booksellers to remove the title from their shelves. It puts Apple and
Google in a difficult position. The companies are strong proponents of open
internet policies and free speech but are now being asked to be agents for
governments that censor its citizens.

When LinkedIn's website was blocked, the apps stopped functioning properly.
Removing them from the Google Play store and Apple's App Store may not have cut
off access to content, but it sent a signal that countries can push the tech
giants to remove the apps.

Direct blocking of websites has been done by China, Russia, Turkey and several
other nations for years, usually through their state-run internet service
providers. But civil rights groups say the pressure authoritarian governments
are now placing on Apple and Google is a new wrinkle.

''Apps are the new choke point of free expression,'' said Rebecca MacKinnon, who
leads a project on open internet tracking at New America.

Increasingly, United States tech companies are complying with those demands. In
the early 2000s, American internet firms strongly pushed back on demands by
China to comply with censorship rules within the country's internet controls,
known as the Great Firewall. Recently, Facebook has been working on a censorship
tool to be able to access China, where it is currently blocked along with
Twitter and Google.

LinkedIn, which is owned by Microsoft, said it was ''disappointed'' with the
decision by Russian regulators to block the service, which the company confirmed
was extended to apps in Russian Apple and Google Play stores.

''It denies access to our members in Russia and the companies that use LinkedIn
to grow their businesses,'' said Nicole Leverich, a spokeswoman for LinkedIn.

Apple confirmed it was asked to remove its LinkedIn app in Russia about a month
ago. It has also confirmed it was asked by China to block The New York Times
app, but declined to comment further on both events. Google would not confirm it
has removed LinkedIn in Russia but said it adheres to local laws in the
countries in which it operates.

More nations have enforced their own internet laws in recent years. Turkey
intermittently blocks social media, such as during the attempted government coup
last summer. It has also forced YouTube to remove content it considers
disparaging of its modern-day founder Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. European nations
have also drawn up their own privacy laws and in 2014 a court declared its
citizens could demand internet companies like Google unlink information about
users upon request.

Tech companies and civil rights advocates warn that the increasing push by
nations to create their own internet rules will Balkanize the internet and
potentially lead to privacy violations and the stifling of political dissent.
Other countries, however, criticize Silicon Valley and the United States
government for setting the norms and rules for the internet.

''Internet free speech and internet freedom are increasingly under attack all
over the globe, and not just from authoritarian regimes,'' said Robert M.
McDowell, a former member of the Federal Communications Commission and partner
at Cooley law firm. ''It appears to be a one-way ratchet with speech control
getting tighter.''

LinkedIn has several million users in Russia, it said. In November, a Russian
court ruled that the professional networking site broke local laws that require
foreign internet firms to keep their servers holding information on Russian
accounts within the nation.

Most American internet companies in Russia operate in violation of the law, but
without explanation, Russian regulators at a body known as Roskomnadzor took the
rare step of enforcing its rules. The Russian regulators could not be
immediately reached for comment.

The action came at a tense moment in Russian-United States relations related to
cyber affairs. Russia has been accused of hacking into American accounts,
including the Democratic National Committee, to try to influence the
presidential election. American intelligence officials concluded in a
declassified report released on Friday that the president of Russia, Vladimir V.
Putin, ordered the campaign.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/06/technology/linkedin-blocked-in-russia.html

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The company's app was removed in Russian Apple and Google stores
after a local court ruling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEY PONOMAREV FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 7, 2017 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

No Target Too Small, Trump Intervenes to Oust Ohio's G.O.P. Chair

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MARTIN, DAVID E. SANGER and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; TRANSITION BRIEFING; Pg.

LENGTH: 1885 words


â-  President-elect Donald J. Trump personally intervened to oust the Republican
Party chairman in Ohio who had opposed his campaign.

â-  Mr. Trump declared that the hacking of the Democrat National Committee had
''absolutely no effect on the outcome of the election'' after the nation's
intelligence chiefs briefed him at Trump Tower.

â-  Mr. Trump called for an investigation into leaked information about Russia's
efforts to help him win the presidency.

Trump helps oust a foe in Ohio

Proving that no target is too small for a Trump scorned, the president-elect
helped oust the chairman of the Ohio Republican Party who had opposed his
election and install an ally in a state where Republican officials were deeply
split over Mr. Trump's candidacy.

One day after Mr. Trump took the extraordinary step of calling Ohio Republicans
in an effort to defeat the sitting chairman, Matt Borges, a divided state party
on Friday replaced him with Jane Timken, a Trump supporter and donor.

The fight effectively became a proxy battle between Mr. Trump and Gov. John R.
Kasich of Ohio, who never endorsed Mr. Trump and supported Mr. Borges. The 66
voting members of the state Republican Party were almost evenly split between
the candidates after two rounds of balloting. Then they decided to avert a third
ballot by naming Ms. Timken chairwoman and creating a new post for Mr. Borges,
''chairman emeritus.''

It was nonetheless a clear victory for Mr. Trump, who was able to overcome Mr.
Kasich's determined lobbying of a group of activists in his own state, some of
whom were hand-picked by the popular governor.

To do so, Mr. Trump had to take time from his presidential transition to
pressure Ohio Republicans over the phone, a remarkable personal intervention in
state party politics two weeks before he will take the oath of office.

For the president-elect, the motivation, as it often can be with him, was
revenge. Mr. Borges was publicly critical of Mr. Trump for much of the campaign,
and Mr. Kasich, a rival of Mr. Trump in the Republican primary, was one of his
most prominent detractors throughout the election.

That Mr. Trump would take the time to oust a single state party chairman
suggests that he may do much the same when anti-Trump Republicans who are
actually in elected office face primaries in 2018. That, certainly, was the
interpretation among Mr. Kasich's allies.

''Petty grudge settling is a top priority for the next president and his
henchmen,'' said John Weaver, an adviser to the governor. ''Not encouraging for
those lonely souls still expecting Trump will ever try to unify.''

Trump says hacking had 'absolutely no effect' on election

Emerging from a 90-minute briefing with the nation's intelligence chiefs, Mr.
Trump issued a statement acknowledging the hacking of ''the cyber-infrastructure
of our governmental institutions, businesses and organizations including the
Democrat National Committee.'' But he said it had ''absolutely no effect on the
outcome of the election.''

''While Russia, China, other countries, outside groups and people are
consistently trying to break through the cyber-infrastructure of our
governmental institutions, businesses and organizations including the Democrat
National Committee, there was absolutely no effect on the outcome of the
election including the fact that there was no tampering whatsoever with voting
machines. There were attempts to hack the Republican National Committee, but the
R.N.C. had strong hacking defenses and the hackers were unsuccessful.''

The intelligence chiefs showed Mr. Trump their evidence that Russia hacked into
the accounts of political organizations and members of the Clinton campaign and
that it made their correspondence public in an effort to influence the election.
The president-elect was sharply questioning those findings as late as Friday
morning.

The briefers included James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national
intelligence, who said on Thursday that he was ''more resolute'' than ever in
the conclusion that Russia was responsible for the hacking, and that it was part
of a broader information warfare campaign. The director of the C.I.A., John O.
Brennan; the head of the National Security Agency and the United States Cyber
Command, Adm. Michael S. Rogers; and the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, also
participated, officials said.

The meeting came at a moment of remarkable tension between the intelligence
agencies and Mr. Trump, who has repeatedly questioned the conclusions about
Russia and suggested that there was political motivation behind the intelligence
findings. Mr. Clapper and Admiral Rogers said, somewhat diplomatically, at a
Senate hearing on Thursday that while they welcomed skepticism, they believed
that questioning the motives of the intelligence officials working on the issue
was damaging to morale and to the agencies' ability to retain top talent.

An unclassified version of the report Mr. Trump heard about was made public
Friday afternoon. The president-elect likely heard the most classified details,
including information about the intercepts of conversation and computer traffic,
and the human sources, that the intelligence agencies used to reach their
conclusions.

President-elect calls for leak investigation

A half-hour before he met with the nation's top intelligence leaders to hear
their evidence that Russia interfered with the election, Mr. Trump demanded a
congressional investigation of leaks from the intelligence report.

The post was a reference to an NBC News report that United States intelligence
agencies heard senior Russian government officials cheering Mr. Trump's victory
on election night. It was actually first reported by The Washington Post.

Neither the president-elect nor Republican leaders in Congress have warmed to
the idea of a special investigation into Russian efforts to swing the election
to Mr. Trump. A leak investigation would swing the pressure the other way,
toward bottling up evidence of Russian interference.

Before briefing, seething on Twitter

Before he sat down to learn how the C.I.A., the F.B.I., the National Security
Agency and other agencies reached their conclusions, Mr. Trump continued on
Friday to seethe about the report, condemning leaks of its findings, casting
doubt on its conclusions and saying that Russia had nothing to do with his
victory.

Hillary Clinton did beat him by nearly three million in the popular vote, but on
Friday, Mr. Trump was officially  declared the winner of the Electoral College
vote.

Mr. Trump appears to be worried about the turnout at his Jan. 20 inauguration as
well.

A flurry of posts on Twitter on Thursday night captured Mr. Trump's mood:

Oh, to be a fly on the wall at Trump Tower as the president-elect learns more.

Who will pay for the border wall? The taxpayers

After CNN reported Thursday night that the incoming Trump administration would
seek taxpayer funding for his promised border wall with Mexico, the
president-elect took to Twitter on Friday morning to acknowledge that Mexico
would not be paying for it -- at least not at first.

And whom did he blame? The news media.

Making Mexico pay for the border wall was a central campaign promise and a
common chant at his rallies.

Now, Mr. Trump is working with congressional leaders to find the money on this
side of the border. The multibillion-dollar building effort would most likely
use authority approved in 2006, when President George W. Bush signed legislation
to construct a ''physical barrier'' on the southern border. Mr. Trump's
transition team is already scouting locations for the first legs of the ''Great
Wall.''

And the Mexican president, Enrique PeÃ±a Nieto, says he told Mr. Trump during
the campaign that his country had no intention of paying for it.

The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee jumped on the issue immediately.

''House Republicans and Donald Trump have wasted no time in breaking their
promise to voters by preparing to waste massive amounts of American taxpayer
money on an infeasible wall instead of focusing on rebuilding our crumbling
infrastructure, creating jobs and more effective approaches to improving our
national security,'' said a spokesman, Tyler Law.

Trump denounces TV successor

The incoming president wants the country to know that the man who succeeded him
on his reality television show, ''The Apprentice,'' is not doing so well. But
hey, Arnold Schwarzenegger, the former governor of California, supported Ms.
Clinton, so what could we expect?

Mr. Trump has long been a ratings obsessive: He keeps photocopies of decade-old
Nielsen charts and regularly called network executives at home to brag about
''Apprentice'' numbers. He likes to remind television news producers about the
big ratings he attracts and, as a candidate, asked voters, ''How do you think
Arnold's going to do?''

Arnold did not do great. Mr. Schwarzenegger's debut on Monday attracted 4.9
million viewers, down from about 6.3 million for Mr. Trump's most recent season
premiere. The president-elect remains a paid executive producer, but if his
Friday posts on Twitter were meant as promotional, it's a funny way to go about
it. A spokeswoman for Mark Burnett, who still runs the show, did not respond to
a request for comment.

Mr. Schwarzenegger responded on Twitter by quoting Lincoln's appeal ''to our
better angels.''

At least his inauguration will have plenty of money

With two weeks to go before his swearing-in, it seems Mr. Trump will not need to
worry about having the money to pay for the lavish celebration that will
accompany it.

The chairman of the inaugural planning committee, Thomas Barrack Jr., said on
Friday that his finance team had raised $90 million to pay for the festivities,
blowing past its own goal and the previous inaugural fund-raising record.

The total, raised over about six weeks, is close to double the $53 million that
President Obama raised for his 2009 inauguration, the previous high-water mark.
With large gifts from wealthy Republican donors forthcoming and a rash of
corporate gifts, fund-raisers said they had little trouble surpassing their $70
million goal.

Mr. Trump had turned to a group of veteran Republican fund-raisers and close
associates, like Mr. Barrack, to lead the effort.

The group was expected to wrap up its fund-raising efforts on Friday and turn
its attention to finalizing the details of the parade, balls, rally and other
events that will celebrate Mr. Trump's ascension to the presidency.

Mr. Trump has vowed to open up America's federal lands and waters to new
drilling, but Mr. Obama has used some novel moves to try to block or delay new
offshore drilling. This month, he used an obscure provision in a 1953 law to
permanently ban drilling in large portions of the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans.
And experts say the move to deny seismic testing permits on such a large scale
so late in an administration is also unusual.

Companies can reapply for the permits under the Trump administration, but the
reapplication process, combined with a current Obama plan which bans all
offshore Atlantic drilling until 2022, could significantly delay the expected
start time of the testing.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/06/us/politics/donald-trump-transition.html

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 7, 2017 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Donald Trump's Statement After Intelligence Briefing on Hacking

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg.

LENGTH: 251 words


President-elect Donald J. Trump met with intelligence agencies on Friday to be
briefed on cyberattacks against the United States. Following the meeting, his
staff released the following statement:

''I had a constructive meeting and conversation with the leaders of the
Intelligence Community this afternoon. I have tremendous respect for the work
and service done by the men and women of this community to our great nation.

''While Russia, China, other countries, outside groups and people are
consistently trying to break through the cyber infrastructure of our
governmental institutions, businesses and organizations including the Democrat
National Committee, there was absolutely no effect on the outcome of the
election including the fact that there was no tampering whatsoever with voting
machines. There were attempts to hack the Republican National Committee, but the
RNC had strong hacking defenses and the hackers were unsuccessful.

''Whether it is our government, organizations, associations or businesses we
need to aggressively combat and stop cyberattacks. I will appoint a team to give
me a plan within 90 days of taking office. The methods, tools and tactics we use
to keep America safe should not be a public discussion that will benefit those
who seek to do us harm. Two weeks from today I will take the oath of office and
America's safety and security will be my number one priority.''

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/06/us/politics/donald-trump-statement-hack-intell
igence-briefing.html

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 8, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

White House Red Scare

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 943 words


WASHINGTON -- President Donald J. Trump will walk into the Oval Office and be
stunned.

First, it will be a shock to work in an office decorated with images of men
other than himself. Second, he is bound to be suffused with awe as he looks
around at the Remington bronze bronco, the Rockwell ''Statue of Liberty,'' the
portraits of Washington and Lincoln, the Swedish ivy on the mantel that has
eavesdropped -- and leavesdropped -- on so much history.

The new president will suddenly realize that Joe Biden is right. He needs to
grow up. Chuck Schumer is right. He has to stop nonsense-tweeting and
name-calling. John McCain is right. He needs to stop fawning over Vladimir
Putin, his B.F.F. whose eyes flash ''K.G.B.''

Donald Trump will, at long last, assume a mantle of dignity.

NOT!

The capital has never been more anxious about its own government. The town is
suffering pre-traumatic stress disorder. This guy is really going to be
president.

Finally, there is bipartisan consensus: It's time to flip out. Decades after
duck-and-cover was a way of life, people here are once more in duck-and-cover
mode. No one knows what is going to happen, but they know it will be utter chaos
and that the old familiar ways have vaporized.

On the verge of the inauguration, a time of stately ritual and tradition in a
city baked in ritual and tradition, ritual and tradition are out the window.
Donald Trump is operating on an utterly new, unique and freaky frequency.

Closed-door confabs in mahogany and marble rooms with brass spittoons have been
replaced with Trump heckling, pouting, demanding and sharing his innermost
thoughts on Twitter. The city has the panicked air of a B-horror movie where the
townsfolk stand stock still, bug-eyed and frozen, too frightened to flee,
waiting for the creature.

Everything is turned inside out into sauerkraut. Democrats are appalled that
Trump is challenging the C.I.A., the same agency that got W.M.D.s wrong.
Republicans are cuddling up to Russia. Mitch McConnell says the American people
will not tolerate the Democrats' holding up a Supreme Court nominee. WikiLeaks
is protesting leaks. Trump and Sean Hannity suddenly love Julian Assange.

The city's mood is ''surreal,'' as Senator Dick Durbin told The Times's Carl
Hulse on ''The Run-Up'' podcast. As the Illinois Democrat looks down from his
Capitol Hill office at the inaugural stands going up, he is still in disbelief
that it's not Madam President and that they didn't scoop up the Senate.

''I spent months never believing that he would be elected president,'' Durbin
said. ''I sincerely hope that the office makes the man.''

House Republicans who had to back off their attempt to eviscerate the
independent ethics office, after the president-elect tweeted his disapproval of
their priorities, looked dazed as they walked out of their party conference
meeting at the swift power of the Trump thunderbolt-tweets.

Can you imagine what would have happened if President-elect Obama had called
McConnell ''a clown,'' as Trump tweeted about Schumer?

Can you imagine a scenario where two Republicans in a row lose the popular vote
but win the White House with a shady helping hand? Can't the G.O.P. win fair and
square? Was it the Russians who turned Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania
truly red?

As Congress was officially certifying Trump's election Friday at the U.S.
Capitol -- ''It is over,'' Biden firmly told Democrats who had still been
yearning for the miracle of a recount or redo -- the intelligence services were
meeting with Trump and essentially decertifying his election.

For Trump, every humiliation is a small death. So you know he was furious about
the searing report -- reflecting rare unanimity by the turf-battling
intelligence agencies -- implying that he did not win on his own, given that
Putin ordered up a cyber-campaign designed to ''denigrate'' Hillary and help
Trump.

McCain called it ''an act of war.'' It's certainly the biggest Russian
conspiracy to hit Washington since Kevin Costner's ''No Way Out.''

Outsiders in a corrupt political establishment meddled in the American election
by painting Trump as an outsider victimized by a corrupt political
establishment. Russia tried to rig our election in favor of Trump even as Trump
was decrying a rigged election.

The intelligence report ascribed a motive: ''Putin has had many positive
experiences working with Western political leaders whose business interests made
them more disposed to deal with Russia, such as former Italian Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi and former German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder.''

Back in 1987, I interviewed Trump when Mikhail Gorbachev made his first visit to
America. Trump was very suspicious of the Evil Empire then and warned that the
U.S. should not be too eager to make a deal with Gorbachev. But then the Soviets
invited him to a business round-table and softened him up by telling him they
loved Trump Tower and inviting him to build a hotel in Moscow.

A year later, Trump heard that Gorbachev was back, out in front of Trump Tower,
and rushed down from his office to shake hands with the Communist, who turned
out to be an impersonator from New Jersey named Ronald Knapp.

Trump was easily fooled that time. It remains an open question how gullible and
malleable he is.

But those in Washington like Mike Pence, Reince Priebus and Paul Ryan who think
they can manipulate him might be in for a surprise.

IT WON'T HAPPEN!

I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/07/opinion/sunday/white-house-red-scare.html

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 8, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Can I Out My Ex-Husband to His Girlfriend?

BYLINE: By KWAME ANTHONY APPIAH.

Kwame Anthony Appiah teaches philosophy at N.Y.U. He is the author of
''Cosmopolitanism'' and ''The Honor Code: How Moral Revolutions Happen.''

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICIST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1440 words


Should I anonymously send a copy of the ad my ex-husband has on a gay-bi-fetish
website to his current girlfriend (or more appropriately, beard) to prevent her
from discovering too late what took me 15 years to uncover?

My ex has at least two personal ads on two gay-bi-fetish websites. I know for a
fact that while he has been dating her, he has met at least one man in a motel
room in another state. I am not being malicious in wanting to let her know; my
concern is that if her daughter becomes attached to him, and the relationship
ends because of his infidelity, it may be difficult for the girl. (Apparently,
he spends more time with this woman's daughter than he does with his own
children.)

My children are unaware of their father's predilection, and even when faced with
irrefutable evidence, he has denied everything. My ex does not know that I know
about his ads. He does, however, know that I was aware of his perusal of
hundreds of such ads, as well as receipts for certain purchases. He is 50 and
had a religious upbringing, which I feel is the main reason he has never been
forthright. I am not looking to ''out him'' to the world; I just think this
woman should know and/or get herself tested for sexually transmitted diseases.

What do you think is the right way to approach this? Is an anonymous letter or a
copy of the ad the way to go? The ad obscures his face, but if you know what he
looks like -- in a Speedo -- and the inside of his old apartment, there is no
mistaking him. (Not to mention that I can log in as him and verify the account
is registered to him, as he never changed his passwords.)

Lastly, the reason I suggest informing her anonymously is because I don't want
him to know that I was the one who sent the information to her. But should I
instead bring it up with her in person, if I ever have the opportunity to speak
to her one on one?

I have every intent of sending some-thing, as I am sure this woman thinks things
are serious with him after a year, but then I ponder whether it is the right
thing to do or whether it will negatively impact my children and me. Name
Withheld

I see two sets of considerations here. On one hand, you acquired the information
about your ex-husband as his wife. He has a reasonable expectation of privacy
about information acquired that way. If he had bothered to change his passwords,
you presumably wouldn't be aware of his out-of-state tryst. That you know how to
log in as him and have clearly been doing so suggests something cyber
-stalker-ish is going on here. The fact that you can access this information
about him doesn't mean you have any right to do so. And as your letter suggests,
it's natural to wonder about your own motives in wanting to out your ex to his
new girlfriend.

On the other hand, there are real worries if his new partner stays in the dark.
(I'm assuming that she is in the dark; it's entirely possible that she isn't.)
You indicate that your ex might be failing to take the safe-sex precautions that
would protect both him and her. Were she to test positive for H.I.V., say, you
would have reason to regret not having warned her. Then there's the risk that
she'll eventually discover his infidelities and that disentangling herself will
be painful for her and her daughter. Your use of the word ''beard'' suggests
that you don't think he is genuinely fond of her, although you don't offer any
evidence for this inference. However he feels, we can agree, he ought to come
clean with her. It would then be up to her to decide what she wanted to do.

Do you have a duty to protect her from these risks by passing on confidential
information, acquired through marriage, without his consent? I would say no. For
one thing, even if you do this anonymously, he may well figure out what
happened. And you express concern that this might ''negatively impact'' you and
your children. Despite this, are you morally permitted to go through with your
plan? That's a harder issue in my view -- especially given that much of what
you've learned was through illegitimate means -- but on balance, I'd say that
you are. Yet you're not just asking me whether you should do it; you're asking
my advice about how you should do it. Because I'm not sure you should, I'm not
going to try to say how. Here's a piece of advice I do have: It's time to let go
of your ex. You (and he) will be better off for it.

I am a teenage daughter of a loving mother. My mom has sacrificed so much for
me, and I love her completely, but for a while I've noticed something that
frightens me a little. She frequently talks to herself. No sound comes out, but
her features will become animated, as though she really is engaging in a
conversation. It might happen at any time: as we sit in the living room or,
worse, when we are in the car with friends. I've always been too scared to ask
her about it, for fear she might be offended, but it's embarrassing, to be
honest. It has gotten to the point that when I notice it, I will direct a
question or comment to her to try to get it to stop.

Recently, I decided to do some research about the issue, which unfortunately has
put me in a tricky spot. I found this could be the early onset of dementia. My
grandmother on my mother's side suffers from dementia, and so many times I've
wished we could have known sooner. Maybe then we could have been more proactive.

The crisis I find myself in is: Do I overstep my boundaries and hurt or
humiliate my mother by suggesting she suffers from some sort of dementia, or
bite my tongue and just hope that her silent tête-à-têtes are nothing more than
a bad habit? Name Withheld

The behavior you describe doesn't sound like a bad habit. It sounds, as you
fear, like a symptom of a serious illness. You don't mention another member of
your household, so I'm assuming there's no other adult around. In that case, I
do think you are the person to raise the issue with your mother. There's no
overstepping of boundaries when you express loving concern for a close relative.
(It's a conversation to have when you're alone together, of course, so there's
less risk of embarrassment.) Because she is presumably aware, at least to some
degree, that something is wrong, it may even be a relief for your mother to talk
about it. I would be inclined to talk it through first with a medical
professional, ideally your family doctor. If your conversation goes well, the
next stop may involve you and your mother paying the doctor a visit together.

I told my ex-wife I was not supportive of her decision to allow my boys to play
football, because of the risk associated with concussions. (I am not against
them playing other, less injurious sports, like lacrosse or ultimate Frisbee.)
Because I am not supporting her decision, I am not supporting some of the
outreach to parents, like group dinners and buying space in the season program.
But I want to support my sons. How much ''support'' can I offer my boys and
still have a clear conscience? M. K., Sandy Hook, Conn.

I should admit that as someone whose main high-school sport was rugby, I am not
entirely alive to the charms of American football. Yes, I go to a Super Bowl
party each year, but the fair-catch rule needs explaining to me every time. More
to the point, the harm the game does is a serious concern. Supporting this sport
encourages an activity that predictably leads to serious brain damage for many
people, and there's significant evidence now that it starts as early as high
school. Our descendants may very well shake their heads at the fact that our
celebrated American sport had such terrible effects on many of its players.

I assume from what you say that your ex-wife is in a position to determine
whether your sons play. Otherwise, given what you know about the damage caused
by regular concussions, I would have encouraged you to stop them. Not because
allowing them to play gives support to a practice that harms others --
abstaining there isn't going to make much difference -- but because you have a
special duty to protect your own children.

This may not make you the most popular guy at P.T.A. meetings. High-school
football is so much a part of our system that the parent who worries about this
is likely to be stigmatized, not the one who encourages it. That ought to
change, and I predict it will.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.

To submit a query: Send an email to ethicist@nytimes.com; or send mail to The
Ethicist, The New York Times Magazine, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018.
(Include a daytime phone number.)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/04/magazine/can-i-out-my-ex-husband-to-his-girlfr
iend.html

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOMI UM)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        January 9, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump and the Tainted Presidency;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: CHARLES M. BLOW

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 909 words



HIGHLIGHT: A hostile foreign power got its way.


The more we learn about Russia's hacking and the release of its electronic loot
during our presidential election, the more it becomes clear that Donald Trump's
victory and his imminent presidency are already tainted beyond redemption.

While Russian hacks "were not involved in vote tallying," the publishing of
pilfered emails and promulgation of fake news altered the zeitgeist, poisoned
the political environment and shifted public opinion, all of which redounded to
Trump's benefit.

Donald Trump is as much Russia's appointment as our elected executive. The
legacy of his political ascendance will be written in Cyrillic and affixed with
an asterisk.

Do not let this be buried in the pundits' blathering: A hostile foreign power
stole confidential correspondence from American citizens - this is no different
than physically breaking into an American office and carting off boxes of
written letters - and funneled that stolen material to a willing conspirator,
Julian Assange. The foreign power then had its desired result achieved on our
Election Day.

This was an act of war and our presidency was the spoil.

This is not to say that some of what was revealed about the Democrats in the
hacked emails wasn't disturbing. It was, although most of the emails simply
showed the unappetizing process by which the sausage is made. What made the
leaks feel fishy was the absolute asymmetry of the targeting - it was Democratic
only.

Putin helped to defeat a woman, Hillary Clinton, who promised to be a staunch
adversary and helped elevate in her stead a Troglodytic lout who somehow
believes that the snake that coils itself around you is just giving you a hug,
and who sounded so pro-Vladimir Putin that he did everything but blow kisses at
the Kremlin.

On Friday, intelligence officials released a damning report on the Russian
hacking that read: "We assess Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an
influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the U.S. presidential election. Russia's
goals were to undermine public faith in the U.S. democratic process, denigrate
Secretary Clinton, and harm her electability and potential presidency. We
further assess Putin and the Russian Government developed a clear preference for
President-elect Trump."

On the same day, Trump was briefed on the hacking by intelligence officials,
after which he released an incredulous statement claiming "there was absolutely
no effect on the outcome of the election."

(Ironically, that also happened to be the same day that a joint session of
Congress performed its perfunctory duty of counting the Electoral College votes
and verifying Trump's victory.)

No sir, Mr. Trump, as is your wont, your assertions stretch well beyond your
proof. An impact that cannot be measured is not the same as an impact that does
not exist. The question isn't "if" but "how much"; not the existence of impact
but the degree to which that impact was dispositive.

The intelligence community did not say that the Russian hacking had "no effect
on the outcome of the election," but rather stated quite clearly: "We did not
make an assessment of the impact that Russian activities had on the outcome of
the 2016 election. The U.S. Intelligence Community is charged with monitoring
and assessing the intentions, capabilities, and actions of foreign actors; it
does not analyze U.S. political processes or U.S. public opinion."

You twist the truth like a string of yarn caught in a fan. But eventually, you
and every citizen of this country must face the fact that you were not only
elected but also installed, that your victory will be forever tangled up in the
yellow tape of an international crime scene.

No wonder then that you have systematically sought to denigrate all inquiry into
this act of cyber warfare that the intelligence report called "unprecedented."
You have scorned our intelligence agencies - you tweet "intelligence" in quotes
the same way that we should eventually use quotes around the word "president"
when it precedes your name - and you have continued your assault on the press.

On Friday, Trump told my colleague Michael Shear that the focus on the hacking
amounted to "a political witch hunt." Wrong again. It's a truth hunt.
Furthermore, the only person subjected to a witch hunt in this election was
named Hillary.

Yes, as you repeatedly exclaimed before the votes were cast, the election was
rigged, not by widespread voter fraud, as you falsely suggested, but rather by
widespread dissemination of fraudulently obtained information. It is no
coincidence that WikiLeaks began to release John Podesta's emails just an hour
after Trump's disgusting "grab them by the [expletive]" Access Hollywood tape
surfaced.

Mr. Trump, your victory is tainted; your legitimacy is rightly in question. The
American people cast their ballots in the fog of fake news and under influence
of stolen property weaponized as a tool of propaganda.

Some may hesitate to say that the American presidency was stolen, but it is
irrefutable that the integrity of our democratic process was injured when the
sanctity of what we considered uncorrupted self-determination was assaulted.

Donald Trump is Vladimir Putin's American "president" - clearly his preference
and possibly his product.

I invite you to join me on Facebook and follow me on Twitter (@CharlesMBlow), or
email me at chblow@nytimes.com.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 9, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump and the Tainted Presidency

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 920 words


The more we learn about Russia's hacking and the release of its electronic loot
during our presidential election, the more it becomes clear that Donald Trump's
victory and his imminent presidency are already tainted beyond redemption.

While Russian hacks ''were not involved in vote tallying,'' the publishing of
pilfered emails and promulgation of fake news altered the zeitgeist, poisoned
the political environment and shifted public opinion, all of which redounded to
Trump's benefit.

Donald Trump is as much Russia's appointment as our elected executive. The
legacy of his political ascendance will be written in Cyrillic and affixed with
an asterisk.

Do not let this be buried in the pundits' blathering: A hostile foreign power
stole confidential correspondence from American citizens -- this is no different
than physically breaking into an American office and carting off boxes of
written letters -- and funneled that stolen material to a willing conspirator,
Julian Assange. The foreign power then had its desired result achieved on our
Election Day.

This was an act of war and our presidency was the spoil.

This is not to say that some of what was revealed about the Democrats in the
hacked emails wasn't disturbing. It was, although most of the emails simply
showed the unappetizing process by which the sausage is made. What made the
leaks feel fishy was the absolute asymmetry of the targeting -- it was
Democratic only.

Putin helped to defeat a woman, Hillary Clinton, who promised to be a staunch
adversary and helped elevate in her stead a Troglodytic lout who somehow
believes that the snake that coils itself around you is just giving you a hug,
and who sounded so pro-Vladimir Putin that he did everything but blow kisses at
the Kremlin.

On Friday, intelligence officials released a damning report on the Russian
hacking that read: ''We assess Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an
influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the U.S. presidential election. Russia's
goals were to undermine public faith in the U.S. democratic process, denigrate
Secretary Clinton, and harm her electability and potential presidency. We
further assess Putin and the Russian Government developed a clear preference for
President-elect Trump.''

On the same day, Trump was briefed on the hacking by intelligence officials,
after which he released an incredulous statement claiming ''there was absolutely
no effect on the outcome of the election.''

(Ironically, that also happened to be the same day that a joint session of
Congress performed its perfunctory duty of counting the Electoral College votes
and verifying Trump's victory.)

No sir, Mr. Trump, as is your wont, your assertions stretch well beyond your
proof. An impact that cannot be measured is not the same as an impact that does
not exist. The question isn't ''if'' but ''how much''; not the existence of
impact but the degree to which that impact was dispositive.

The intelligence community did not say that the Russian hacking had ''no effect
on the outcome of the election,'' but rather stated quite clearly: ''We did not
make an assessment of the impact that Russian activities had on the outcome of
the 2016 election. The U.S. Intelligence Community is charged with monitoring
and assessing the intentions, capabilities, and actions of foreign actors; it
does not analyze U.S. political processes or U.S. public opinion.''

You twist the truth like a string of yarn caught in a fan. But eventually, you
and every citizen of this country must face the fact that you were not only
elected but also installed, that your victory will be forever tangled up in the
yellow tape of an international crime scene.

No wonder then that you have systematically sought to denigrate all inquiry into
this act of cyber warfare that the intelligence report called ''unprecedented.''
You have scorned our intelligence agencies -- you tweet ''intelligence'' in
quotes the same way that we should eventually use quotes around the word
''president'' when it precedes your name -- and you have continued your assault
on the press.

On Friday, Trump told my colleague Michael Shear that the focus on the hacking
amounted to ''a political witch hunt.'' Wrong again. It's a truth hunt.
Furthermore, the only person subjected to a witch hunt in this election was
named Hillary.

Yes, as you repeatedly exclaimed before the votes were cast, the election was
rigged, not by widespread voter fraud, as you falsely suggested, but rather by
widespread dissemination of fraudulently obtained information. It is no
coincidence that WikiLeaks began to release John Podesta's emails just an hour
after Trump's disgusting ''grab them by the [expletive]'' Access Hollywood tape
surfaced.

Mr. Trump, your victory is tainted; your legitimacy is rightly in question. The
American people cast their ballots in the fog of fake news and under influence
of stolen property weaponized as a tool of propaganda.

Some may hesitate to say that the American presidency was stolen, but it is
irrefutable that the integrity of our democratic process was injured when the
sanctity of what we considered uncorrupted self-determination was assaulted.

Donald Trump is Vladimir Putin's American ''president'' -- clearly his
preference and possibly his product.

I invite you to join me on Facebook and follow me on Twitter (@CharlesMBlow), or
email me at chblow@nytimes.com

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/09/opinion/donald-trump-and-the-tainted-presidenc
y.html

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       January 10, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Russian Hackers Gained 'Limited' Access to R.N.C., Comey Says

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER and MATT FLEGENHEIMER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 901 words



HIGHLIGHT: James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, outlined the hacking of
Republican computers to a panel of the Senate Intelligence Committee.


WASHINGTON - The director of the F.B.I., James B. Comey, told lawmakers at a
Senate hearing on Tuesday that Russian hackers had penetrated the Republican
National Committee's computer records, but he called it a "limited penetration
of old R.N.C." computer systems that were "no longer in use."

Mr. Comey's statement was significant because the committee said weeks ago that
it did not lose data to the Russians because of its strong cybersecurity.
President-elect Donald J. Trump has repeated that assertion and has also said
weaknesses in Democratic National Committee systems had opened the way for their
systems to be hacked.

While Mr. Comey did not go into detail, he appeared to be referring to a
Russian-led attack on a contractor in Tennessee, Smartech Corporation, used by
the Republican committee to host some of its websites and handle some lists of
donors.

Federal investigators have said that a single email server used by that
contractor had been penetrated. But it was going out of service and contained
outdated material that the Russians probably found to be of little value. People
with direct knowledge of the server's contents said it had been used by Senators
Lindsey Graham and John McCain.

An aide in Mr. Graham's office said the hacking of the email server in question
occurred in June. The Graham campaign was using the server to send news clips
and campaign releases, the aide said.

In an unclassified report released on Friday, the intelligence community
reported that the Russians had attacked "Republican-affiliated" organizations
but that they had chosen not to make any of that data public. The report made no
specific reference to the Republican National Committee.

Pressed on the issue by Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, Mr. Comey
said on Tuesday that there was "evidence of hacking directed at the state level"
and at the Republican committee, "but that it was old stuff."

He said there was no evidence "that the current R.N.C." - he appeared to be
referring to servers at the committee's headquarters or contractors with current
data - had been hacked. There is no evidence that computers used by the Trump
campaign or the Clinton campaign were also compromised, though the personal
email account of John D. Podesta, Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman, was
copied and released as part of the Russian-ordered hack.

The testimony on Tuesday was the first since the release of the declassified
report on Russia's interference in the 2016 presidential election, and it came
four days after the findings were described to Mr. Trump.

The panel, convened by the Senate Intelligence Committee, included James R.
Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, and Adm. Michael S. Rogers,
the head of the National Security Agency and of the military's Cyber Command.
John O. Brennan, director of the Central Intelligence Agency, and Mr. Comey also
testified.

Mr. Clapper largely repeated the conclusions of last week's report, including
that the goal of the Russian effort was to disparage Mrs. Clinton - whom the
Russians hoped to weaken if she won - and over time to favor Mr. Trump.

Under questioning, Mr. Clapper said he believed that President Vladimir V. Putin
of Russia and his aides had actively ordered the operation that resulted in the
hacking, though he left unclear how involved they may have been in the details.

After receiving a briefing on the report on Friday, Mr. Trump acknowledged for
the first time that Russia had sought to hack into the Democratic National
Committee's computer systems. But he insisted that the effort had played no role
in his election, and he said nothing about the conclusion that Mr. Putin
preferred him to Mrs. Clinton.

Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia and the committee's vice chairman,
called the election hacking "one of the most serious events of my public life."

At times, Democrats on the committee steered the conversation toward whether
intelligence officials were investigating any link between the Russians and Mr.
Trump's campaign. But Mr. Comey declined to discuss it.

"Especially in a public forum, we never confirm or deny any investigation," Mr.
Comey said. Many Democrats still blame him for Mrs. Clinton's defeat, citing his
ambiguous letter less than two weeks before the election disclosing new
questions about emails on her private server.

Senator Angus King, independent of Maine, who supported Mrs. Clinton, could not
resist an aside. "The irony of your making that statement here I cannot avoid,"
he said.

Mr. Comey, seeking to establish a nonpartisan air, later joked, "I hope I've
demonstrated by now I'm tone deaf when it comes to politics - and that's the way
it should be."

Republicans, for their part, raised few doubts about the intelligence
community's conclusions, but they dwelled little on the report's finding that
Mr. Putin had a clear preference for Mr. Trump.

Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, suggested that Russia had achieved
its broader goal of sowing "chaos and disorder" in the electoral system.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Adam Goldman contributed reporting.

Related Articles


     ·    What Intelligence Agencies Concluded About the Russian Attack on the
          U.S. Election
     ·    Putin Ordered 'Influence Campaign' Aimed at U.S. Election, Report Says
     ·    U.S. Reacting at Analog Pace to a Rising Digital Risk, Hacking Report
          Shows


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 11, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Comey Says Republican Committee Was Hacked

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and MATT FLEGENHEIMER; Adam Goldman contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 881 words


WASHINGTON -- The director of the F.B.I., James B. Comey, told lawmakers at a
Senate hearing on Tuesday that Russian hackers had penetrated the Republican
National Committee's computer records, but he called it a ''limited penetration
of old R.N.C.'' computer systems that were ''no longer in use.''

Mr. Comey's statement was significant because the committee said weeks ago that
it did not lose data to the Russians because of its strong cybersecurity.
President-elect Donald J. Trump has repeated that assertion and has also said
weaknesses in Democratic National Committee systems had opened the way for their
systems to be hacked.

While Mr. Comey did not go into detail, he appeared to be referring to a
Russian-led attack on a contractor in Tennessee, Smartech Corporation, used by
the Republican committee to host some of its websites and handle some lists of
donors.

Federal investigators have said that a single email server used by that
contractor had been penetrated. But it was going out of service and contained
outdated material that the Russians probably found to be of little value. People
with direct knowledge of the server's contents said it had been used by Senators
Lindsey Graham and John McCain.

An aide in Mr. Graham's office said the hacking of the email server in question
occurred in June. The Graham campaign was using the server to send news clips
and campaign releases, the aide said.

In an unclassified report released on Friday, the intelligence community
reported that the Russians had attacked ''Republican-affiliated'' organizations
but that they had chosen not to make any of that data public. The report made no
specific reference to the Republican National Committee.

Pressed on the issue by Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, Mr. Comey
said on Tuesday that there was ''evidence of hacking directed at the state
level'' and at the Republican committee, ''but that it was old stuff.''

He said there was no evidence ''that the current R.N.C.'' -- he appeared to be
referring to servers at the committee's headquarters or contractors with current
data -- had been hacked. There is no evidence that computers used by the Trump
campaign or the Clinton campaign were also compromised, though the personal
email account of John D. Podesta, Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman, was
copied and released as part of the Russian-ordered hack.

The testimony on Tuesday was the first since the release of the declassified
report on Russia's interference in the 2016 presidential election, and it came
four days after the findings were described to Mr. Trump.

The panel, convened by the Senate Intelligence Committee, included James R.
Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, and Adm. Michael S. Rogers,
the head of the National Security Agency and of the military's Cyber Command.
John O. Brennan, director of the Central Intelligence Agency, and Mr. Comey also
testified.

Mr. Clapper largely repeated the conclusions of last week's report, including
that the goal of the Russian effort was to disparage Mrs. Clinton -- whom the
Russians hoped to weaken if she won -- and over time to favor Mr. Trump.

Under questioning, Mr. Clapper said he believed that President Vladimir V. Putin
of Russia and his aides had actively ordered the operation that resulted in the
hacking, though he left unclear how involved they may have been in the details.

After receiving a briefing on the report on Friday, Mr. Trump acknowledged for
the first time that Russia had sought to hack into the Democratic National
Committee's computer systems. But he insisted that the effort had played no role
in his election, and he said nothing about the conclusion that Mr. Putin
preferred him to Mrs. Clinton.

Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia and the committee's vice chairman,
called the election hacking ''one of the most serious events of my public
life.''

At times, Democrats on the committee steered the conversation toward whether
intelligence officials were investigating any link between the Russians and Mr.
Trump's campaign. But Mr. Comey declined to discuss it.

''Especially in a public forum, we never confirm or deny any investigation,''
Mr. Comey said. Many Democrats still blame him for Mrs. Clinton's defeat, citing
his ambiguous letter less than two weeks before the election disclosing new
questions about emails on her private server.

Senator Angus King, independent of Maine, who supported Mrs. Clinton, could not
resist an aside. ''The irony of your making that statement here I cannot
avoid,'' he said.

Mr. Comey, seeking to establish a nonpartisan air, later joked, ''I hope I've
demonstrated by now I'm tone deaf when it comes to politics -- and that's the
way it should be.''

Republicans, for their part, raised few doubts about the intelligence
community's conclusions, but they dwelled little on the report's finding that
Mr. Putin had a clear preference for Mr. Trump.

Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, suggested that Russia had achieved
its broader goal of sowing ''chaos and disorder'' in the electoral system.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/10/us/politics/russia-hack-hearing-clapper-rogers
-brennan.html

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      January 12, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Intelligence Chief's Olive Branch to Trump Gets Twisted in Translation;
Transition Briefing

BYLINE: JONATHAN WEISMAN and JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1207 words



HIGHLIGHT: President-elect Donald J. Trump says James R. Clapper Jr. denounced
as false a dossier of unverified material, but that runs contrary to Mr.
Clapper's statement.


" James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, offered a public
olive branch to President-elect Donald J. Trump on Wednesday night, which Mr.
Trump appears to have twisted.

" Mr. Trump appoints Rudolph W. Giuliani to head his cybersecurity review.

" L.L. Bean finds itself in the middle of a Trump storm.

" Team Trump went to war with the news media after Mr. Trump's contentious news
conference.

Clapper tries to smooth the waters, but Trump's response contradicts him

In an extraordinary statement on Wednesday night, James R. Clapper Jr., the
director of national intelligence, said he had reached out to Mr. Trump, a man
who compared the intelligence agencies to Nazis, to try to ease the
president-elect's concerns.

Mr. Clapper said he had expressed his "profound dismay" at leaks that have
emerged since the intelligence chiefs briefed Mr. Trump last Friday on Russia's
efforts to help elect him president. And he disavowed any authorship of the
dossier of unsubstantiated compromising material that Russia is reported to have
on the incoming president:

"I emphasized that this document is not a U.S. intelligence community product
and that I do not believe the leaks came from within the I.C. The I.C. has not
made any judgment that the information in this document is reliable, and we did
not rely upon it in any way for our conclusions. However, part of our obligation
is to ensure that policy makers are provided with the fullest possible picture
of any matters that might affect national security."

Mr. Trump returned the favor with his own Twitter post Thursday morning:

Someone is lying here. Mr. Clapper's statement was explicit: The intelligence
community "has not made any judgment that the information in this document is
reliable" - a far cry from a "false and fictitious" denunciation.

Of course, Mr. Clapper will soon be heading to the exits, replaced by former
Senator Dan Coats, assuming Senate confirmation. So whether peacemaking at the
top will ease the ill will in the rank and file of the Trump White House and the
intelligence agencies has yet to be determined.

Giuliani named to head cybersecurity review

Mr. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York and one of Mr. Trump's most stalwart
loyalists, finally has a job in the administration: heading Mr. Trump's promised
effort to combat cyberattacks.

"As the use of modern communications and technology has moved forward at
unparalleled speed the necessary defenses have lagged behind. The
President-elect recognizes that this needs immediate attention and input from
private sector leaders to help the government plan to make us more secure.

Mr. Giuliani was asked to initiate this process because of his long and very
successful government career in law enforcement and his now sixteen years of
work providing security solutions in the private sector."

Mr. Giuliani, as chairman of the global cybersecurity practice at the law firm
Greenberg Traurig, brings expertise, but his experience in complex
communications policy is checkered. His tenure as mayor is still haunted by the
decision to place an emergency command center at the World Trade Center over the
opposition of the New York Police Department. The command center, of course, was
destroyed by the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

L.L. Bean finds itself in Trumpian storm

L.L. Bean, known for its preppy sportswear, rubbery boots and New England
reserve, finds itself in an unexpected position: the crossfire of the Trump
wars.

When it came to light that Linda Bean, the granddaughter and heir of the company
founder Leon Leonwood Bean, bankrolled a pro-Trump political action committee,
opponents vowed to boycott. A group called Grab Your Wallet led the charge,
nevermind that Ms. Bean's real empire is in lobsters, not Bean boots.

It's all of a piece now - especially once the president-elect inserted himself
into the fray on Twitter.

The company very much does not want to be part of this fight. In a Facebook
post,Shawn Gorman, L.L.Bean's executive chairman, said:

"We are deeply troubled by the portrayal of L.L. Bean as a supporter of any
political agenda.

L.L. Bean does not endorse political candidates, take positions on political
matters, or make political contributions. Simply put, we stay out of politics.
To be included in this boycott campaign is simply misguided, and we respectfully
request that Grab Your Wallet reverse its position."

There is another problem with Mr. Trump's intervention. It could contravene
ethics rules that prohibit government endorsements of privately made products.

Subpart G - Misuse of Position

Subpart G contains four provisions designed to ensure that employee do not
misuse their official positions. These include:

A prohibition against employees using public office for their own private gain
for the private gain of friends, relatives, or persons with whom they are
affiliated in a non-Government capacity, or for the endorsement or any product,
service, or enterprise.

Trump team in open warfare with news media

It's hard to know which of Mr. Trump's relationships is worse: with the
intelligence agencies or with the news media.

After the president-elect's contentious news conference on Wednesday, his first
as president-elect, indeed his first since July, Mr. Trump graciously posted on
Twitter on Thursday morning:

The soon-to-be White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, seemed to revel in the
cage match that is Mr. Trump's interaction with the news media.

Mr. Spicer's toughest words were aimed at CNN's Jim Acosta, who stood at the
news conference to demand a question after Mr. Trump attacked his network as
"fake news."

Of course, in the Trump era, both sides can get mileage out of the spectacle.

Schumer comes out against Sessions's confirmation

Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, plans to announce on
Thursday that he will oppose a fellow senator, Jeff Sessions of Alabama, when
his nomination as attorney general comes to a vote, saying he is not confident
that Mr. Sessions would "serve as an independent check on the incoming
administration."

Questioning Mr. Sessions's commitment to the nation's most vulnerable citizens,
Mr. Schumer's statement reads:

"The attorney general of the United States has a sacred obligation to enforce
our laws and uphold the constitution. The law gives a voice to the voiceless, it
protects the oppressed from the powerful and it defends the rights of all
people, regardless of gender, sexuality or religion. The attorney general must
wake up every single day ensuring the rights of all Americans: immigrants,
minorities, young and old, gay and straight, disabled and not are protected.
Every right - freedom of speech, freedom of religion, the freedom to vote or any
other enshrined in our Constitution or the law - must be protected for every
American."

The decision does not leave Mr. Sessions's ultimate confirmation in doubt. No
Republican has come out against him, and more conservative Democrats, such as
Senators Joe Manchin III of West Virginia and Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota,
may well support him.

But it does mean that the final Sessions vote is likely to be split largely
along party lines.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 13, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Giuliani, a New Role Is Outside the Spotlight

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 734 words


WASHINGTON -- For a brief moment, it looked as if America's mayor just might
become America's diplomat.

But for Rudolph W. Giuliani, the bombastic former mayor of New York City, a wild
year of being one of President-elect Donald J. Trump's most passionate
surrogates did not, in the end, land him the high-profile administration job he
has long coveted.

Instead, Mr. Trump announced on Thursday that he would enlist Mr. Giuliani to
share his ''expertise and insight as a trusted friend'' on the issue of
cybersecurity. Mr. Giuliani, who has spent the last 16 years as a private
security consultant, will ''from time to time'' assemble meetings between Mr.
Trump and corporate executives who face cyberthreats, the transition team said.

''We've let our defense fall behind,'' Mr. Giuliani told reporters on Thursday
during a conference call. ''Our offense is way ahead of our defense.''

Mr. Giuliani put on a happy face during the call, declaring it a ''great
privilege'' to be taking on the role.

But the announcement -- almost an afterthought, coming the day after lawmakers
grilled Rex W. Tillerson, Mr. Trump's nominee to be secretary of state, in his
confirmation hearing -- reflected how far Mr. Giuliani had fallen in the Trump
universe.

He remains a close friend of Mr. Trump's, according to associates. But he will
not be moving to Washington, as he once hoped, and instead of having his
political career rejuvenated after his failed run for president in 2008, he will
continue to run his consulting firm.

From the start of Mr. Trump's campaign, Mr. Giuliani was there: loudly defending
the candidate against scandals, attacking Hillary Clinton and President Obama,
lashing out at the news media, and boldly asserting that Mr. Trump would be the
solution to the nation's problems on race, terrorism, the economy, gender
issues, health care and just about everything else.

At the Republican National Convention, where Mr. Trump secured his party's
nomination, Mr. Giuliani waved his arms, shouted, clenched his fists and
thundered against Mr. Trump's Democratic opponent. ''Hillary Clinton is for open
borders,'' Mr. Giuliani claimed, warning ominously of ''operatives who are
terrorists, who are going to come to Western Europe and here and kill us.''

It was a classic Giuliani performance that lit up the crowd in Cleveland at a
high point for Mr. Trump. And months later, when the release of an ''Access
Hollywood'' tape revealed Mr. Trump speaking graphically about assaulting women,
Mr. Giuliani was one of the few people to publicly defend the candidate.

Mr. Trump rewarded that loyalty by seriously considering Mr. Giuliani for a
series of posts in the administration. Transition officials informally discussed
with Mr. Giuliani the positions of attorney general, secretary of homeland
security, and director of national intelligence. Mr. Giuliani wanted none of
them.

What he did want was secretary of state, and his decision to make that plain as
day to anyone who asked might have helped scuttle his chances. Some transition
officials were also concerned that Mr. Giuliani, 72, might not have the stamina
for the globe-trotting job.

In the end, Mr. Giuliani removed his name from consideration in mid-December
after the drawn-out public audition, shortly before Mr. Trump announced he had
chosen Mr. Tillerson.

Now, the ill-defined cybersecurity post may be Mr. Giuliani's best hope of
adding some Trump administration luster to his private security business. But
his previous forays into the national and international security arena have been
less than a success.

After leaving the mayor's office, he received a multimillion-dollar signing
bonus to join a Houston-based law firm with oil industry connections, but spent
a majority of his time working on a fast-growing international security business
called Giuliani Partners.

In 2004, Mr. Giuliani pushed President George W. Bush to choose Bernard Kerik,
his former police commissioner and an associate at Giuliani Partners, as
homeland security secretary. Mr. Kerik's nomination was abruptly pulled after it
was revealed that he had employed an unauthorized immigrant as a nanny. Mr.
Giuliani's influence with the Bush team evaporated, and Mr. Kerik was later
sentenced to four years in prison on federal tax charges.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/12/us/politics/rudy-giuliani-cyber
-security-trump.html

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      January 18, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Obama's Last News Conference: Full Transcript and Video

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 6958 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Barack Obama submitted to a final round of questions from
the news media on Wednesday before departing office.


[Video: President Obama's Final News Conference Watch on YouTube.]

The following is the full transcript of a news conference that President Obama
held in Washington on Wednesday, as prepared by the Federal News Service.

For further updates and coverage, follow our live analysis.

OBAMA: Let me start off by saying that I was sorely tempted to wear a tan suit
today...

(LAUGHTER)

... for my last press conference

OBAMA: But Michelle, whose fashion sense is a little better than mine, tells me
that's not appropriate in January.

I covered a lot of the ground that I would want to cover in my farewell address
last week, so I'm just going to say a couple of quick things before I start
taking questions.

First, we have been in touch with the Bush family today after hearing about
President George H. W. Bush and Barbara Bush being admitted to the hospital this
morning. They have not only dedicated their lives to this country.

OBAMA: They have been a constant source of friendship and support and good
counsel for Michelle and me over the years. They are as fine a couple as we
know, and so we want to send our prayers and our love to them. Really good
people.

Second thing I want to do is to thank all of you. Some of you have been covering
me for a long time. Folks like Christie (ph) and Lynn (ph). Some of you I've
just gotten to know. We have traveled the world together. We did a few singles,
a few doubles together. I've offered advice that I thought was pretty sound,
like don't do stupid stuff.

(LAUGHTER)

And even when you complained about my long answers, I just want you to know that
the only reason they were long was because you asked six-part questions.

(LAUGHTER)

But I have enjoyed working with all of you. That does not, of course, mean that
I've enjoyed every story that you have filed, but that's the point of this
relationship. You're not supposed to be (inaudible) fans, you're supposed to be
skeptics, you're supposed to ask me tough questions. You're not supposed to be
complimentary, but you're supposed to cast a critical eye on folks who hold
enormous power and make sure that we are accountable to the people who sent us
here, and you have done that.

And you have done it for the most part in ways that I could appreciate for
fairness, even if I didn't always agree with your conclusions. And having you in
this building has made this place work better. It keeps us honest, it makes us
work harder. You have made us think about how we are doing what we do and
whether or not we're able to deliver on what's been requested by our
constituents. And for example, every time you've asked why haven't you cured
Ebola yet or why is there still that hole in the Gulf, it has given me the
ability to go back and say, "Will you get this solved before the next press
conference?"

(LAUGHTER)

I spent a lot of time on my - in my farewell address talking about the state of
our democracy. It goes without saying that essential to that is a free press.
That is part of how this place, this country, this grand experiment of
self-government has to work. It doesn't work if we don't have a well-informed
citizenry, and you are the conduit through which they receive the information
about what's taking place in the halls of power.

So America needs you and our democracy needs you. We need you to establish a
baseline of facts and evidence that we can use as a starting point for the kind
of reasoned and informed debates that ultimately lead to progress. And so my
hope is is that you will continue with the same tenacity that you showed us, to
do the hard work of getting to the bottom of stories and getting them right and
to push those of us in power to be the best version of ourselves and to push
this country to be the best version of itself.

I have no doubt that you will do so, I'm looking forward to being an active
consumer of your work, rather than always the subject of it. I want to thank you
all for your extraordinary service to our democracy.

And with that, I will take some questions and I will start with Jeff Mason,
whose term is apparently not up.

(LAUGHTER)

I thought, you know, we'd be going out together, brother, but you've got to hang
around for a while.

QUESTION: I'm staying put.

OBAMA: Jeff Mason from Reuters.

QUESTION: Thank you, sir. Are you concerned, Mr. President, that commuting
Chelsea Manning's sentence will send a message that leaking classified material
will not generate (inaudible) groups like WikiLeaks? How do you reconcile that
in light of WikiLeak's connection to Russia's acting in (inaudible) election?

And related to that, Julian Assange has now offered to come to the United
States. Are you seeking that? And would he be charged or arrested if he came
here?

OBAMA: Well, first of all, let's be clear. Chelsea Manning has served a tough
prison sentence, so the notion that the average person who was thinking about
disclosing vital classified information would think that it goes unpunished I
don't think would get that impression from the sentence that Chelsea Manning has
served.

It has been my view that given she went to trial; that due process was carried
out; that she took responsibility for her crime; that the sentence that she
received was very disproportional - disproportionate relative to what other
leakers had received; and that she had served a significant amount of time, that
it made sense to commute and not pardon her sentence.

And, you know, I feel very comfortable that justice has been served and that a
message has still been sent that when it comes to our national security, that
wherever possible we need folks who may have legitimate concerns about the
actions of government or their superiors or the agencies in which they work,
that they try to work through the established channels and avail themselves of
the whistleblower protections that have been put in place.

I recognize that there's some folks who think they're not enough. And, you know,
I think all of us when we're working in big institutions may find ourselves at
times at odds with policies that are set. But when it comes to national
security, we're often dealing with people in the field whose lives may be put at
risk or, you know, the safety and security and the ability of our military or
our intelligence teams or our embassies to function effectively.

And that has to be kept in mind. So, with respect to WikiLeaks, I don't see a
contradiction. First of all, I haven't commented on WikiLeaks generally. The
conclusions of the intelligence community with respect to the Russian hacking
were not conclusive as to whether WikiLeaks was witting or not in being the
conduit through which we heard about the DNC e-mails that were leaked. I don't
pay a lot of attention to Mr. Assange's tweets, so that wasn't a consideration
in this instance. And I'd refer you to the Justice Department for any criminal
investigations, indictments, extradition issues that may come up with him.

You know, I - what I can say broadly is that in this new cyber age, we're going
to have to make sure that we continually work to find the right balance of
accountability and openness and transparency that is the hallmark of our
democracy. But also recognize that there are adversaries and bad actors out
there who want to use that same openness in ways that hurt us, whether that's in
trying to commit financial crimes or trying to commit acts of terrorism or folks
who want to interfere with our elections.

And we're going to have to continually build the kind of architecture to make
sure our - the best of our democracy is preserved; that our national security
and intelligence agencies have the ability to carry out policy without
advertising to our adversaries what it is that we're doing, but do so in a way
that still keeps citizens up to speed on what their government is doing on their
behalf.

But with respect to Chelsea Manning, I looked at the particulars of this case
the same way I have the other commutations and pardons that I've done. And I
felt that in light of all the circumstances, that commuting her sentence was
entirely appropriate.

Margaret Brennan?

QUESTION: Mr. President.

OBAMA: There you go.

QUESTION: Thank you.

The president-elect has said that he would consider lifting sanctions on Russia
if they substantially reduced their nuclear stockpile.

QUESTION: Given your own efforts at arms control, do you think that's an
effective strategy? Knowing this office and Mr. Trump, how would you advise his
advisers to help him be effective when he deals with Vladimir Putin. And given
your actions recently on Russia, do you think those sanctions should be
(inaudible).

OBAMA: Well, a couple of things. Number one, I think it is in America's interest
and the world's interest that we have a constructive relationship with Russia.
That's been my approach throughout my presidency. Where our interests have
overlapped we've worked together.

At the beginning of my term, I did what I could to encourage Russia to be a
constructive member of the international community and tried to work with the
president and the government of Russia in helping them diversify their economy,
improve their economy, use the incredible talents of the Russian people in more
constructive ways.

I think it's fair to say that after President Putin came back into the
presidency, that an escalating anti-American rhetoric and an approach to global
affairs that seem to be premised on the idea that whatever America's trying to
do must be bad for Russians, so we want to try to counter act whatever they do.
That returned to an adversarial spirit that I think existed during the Cold War,
has made the relationship more difficult.

And it was hammered home when Russia went into Crimea and portions of Ukraine.
The reason we imposed the sanctions, recall, was not because of nuclear weapons
issues, it was because the independence and sovereignty of a country, Ukraine,
had been encroached upon by force, by Russia. That wasn't our judgment, that was
the judgment of the entire international community.

And, Russia continues to occupy Ukrainian territory and meddle in Ukrainian
affairs and support military surrogates who have violated basic international
laws and international norms. What I've said to the Russians, is as soon as you
stop doing that, the sanctions will be removed. And I think it would probably
best serve, not only American interests, but also the interests of preserving
international norms if we made sure that we don't confuse why these sanctions
have been imposed with a whole set of other issues.

On nuclear issues, in my first term we negotiated the START II Treaty and that
has substantially reduced our nuclear stock piles, both Russia and the United
States. I was prepared to go further, I told President Putin I was prepared to
go further. They have been unwilling to negotiate.

If President-elect Trump is able to restart those talks in a serious way, I
think there remains a lot of room for our two countries to reduce their our
stock piles. And part of the reason we've have been successful on our
non-proliferation agenda and on our nuclear security agenda, is because we were
leading by example. I hope that continues.

But I think it's important just to remember that the reason sanctions have been
put in place against Russia, has to do with their actions in Ukraine. And it is
important for the United States to stand up for the basic principal that big
countries don't go around and invade and bully smaller countries.

I've said before, I expect Russia and Ukraine to have a strong relationship.
They are historically bound together in all sorts of cultural and social ways,
but Ukraine is an independent country and this is a good example of the vital
role that America has to continue to play, around the world, in preserving basic
norms and values. Whether it's advocating on behalf of human rights, advocating
on behalf of women's rights, advocating on behalf of freedom of the press.

OBAMA: You know, the United States has not always been perfect in this regard,
there are times where we - by necessity are dealing with allies or friends or
partners, who themselves are not meeting the standards that we would like to see
met when it comes to international rules and norms.

But I can tell you that in every multilateral setting in the United Nations, in
the G-20, in the G-7, the United States typically has been on the right side of
these issues and it is important for us to continue to be on the right side of
these issues because if we, the largest, strongest country and democracy in the
world, are not willing to stand up on behalf of these values, then certainly
China, Russia and others will not.

Kevin Corke.

QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President. You have been a strong supporter of the idea
of a peaceful transfer of power demonstrated not terribly far from the Rose
Garden. And yet, even as you and I speak, there are more than five dozen
Democrats that are going to boycott the inauguration of the incoming president.
Do you support that? And what message would you send to Democrats to better
demonstrate the peaceful transfer of power?

And if I could follow, I wanted to ask you about your conversations with the
president-elect previously. And without getting into too much of the personal
side of it, I'm just curious, were you able to use that opportunity to convince
him to take a fresh look at some of the important ideas that you will leave this
office with; maintaining some semblance of the Affordable Care Act, some idea of
keeping DREAMers here in the country without fear of deportation? Were you able
to use personal stories to try to convince him? And how successful were you?

OBAMA: Well, I won't go into details of my conversations with President-elect
Trump. As I've said before, they were cordial. At times, they've been fairly
lengthy and they've been substantive.

I can't tell you how convincing I've been. I think you'd have to ask him whether
I've been convincing or not. I have offered my best advice, counsel about
certain issues both foreign and domestic. And you know, my working assumption is
that having won an election, opposed to a number of my initiatives and certain
aspects of my vision for where the country needs to go, it is appropriate for
him to go forward with his vision and his values. And I don't expect that
there's going to be, you know, enormous overlap. It may be that on certain
issues, once he comes into office and he looks at the complexities of how to in
fact provide healthcare for everybody, something he says he wants to do, or
wants to make sure that he is encouraging job creation and wage growth in this
country, that may lead him to some of the same conclusions that I arrived at
once I got here. But I don't think we'll know until he has an actual chance to
get sworn in and sit behind that desk. And I think a lot of his views are going
to be shaped by his advisers, the people around him, which is why it's important
to pay attention to these confirmation hearings.

I can tell you that - and this is something I have told him - that this is a job
of such magnitude that you can't do it by yourself. You are enormously reliant
on a team. Your Cabinet, your senior White House staff, all the way to fairly
junior folks in their 20s and 30s but who are executing on significant
responsibilities. And so, how you put a team together to make sure that they're
getting you the best information and they are teeing up the options from which
you will ultimately make decisions.

OBAMA: That's probably the most useful constructive advice and the most
constructive advice that I've been able to give him, that if you find yourself
isolated because the process breaks down or if you're only hearing from people
who agree with you on everything or if you haven't created a process that is
fact-checking and probing and asking hard questions about policies or promises
that you've made, that's when you start making mistakes.

And as I indicated in some of my previous remarks, reality has a way of biting
back if you're not paying attention to it.

With respect to the inauguration, I'm not going to comment on those issues. All
I know is I'm going to be there. So is Michelle. And I have been checking the
weather and I'm heartened by the fact that it won't be as cold as my first
inauguration.

(LAUGHTER)

Because that was cold.

Janna Rodriguez (ph)?

QUESTION: (inaudible), Mr. President (inaudible). You have said that you would
come back and fight for the Dreamers. You said that a couple of weeks ago. Are
you fearful for the status of those Dreamers - the future of the young
immigrants and all immigrants in this country, with a new administration?

And what did you mean when you said you would come back? Would you lobby
Congress? Maybe explore the political arena again?

And if I may ask a second question: Why did you take action on (inaudible) a
week ago?

OBAMA: Well, let me be absolutely clear. I did not mean that I was going to be
running for anything anytime soon. So, what I meant is that it's important for
me to take some time to process this amazing experience that we've gone through;
to make sure that my wife, with whom I will be celebrating a 25th anniversary
this year, is willing to re-up and put up with me for a little bit longer.

I want to do some writing. I want to be quiet a little bit and not hear myself
talk so darn much. I want to spend precious time with my girls.

So those are my priorities this year. But as I said before, I'm still a citizen.
And I think it is important for Democrats or progressive who feel that they came
out on the wrong side of this election to be able to distinguish between the
normal back-and-forth, ebb-and-blow of policy. Now, are we going to raise taxes
or are we going to lower taxes? Are we going to, you know, expand this program
or eliminate this program? You know, how - how concerned are we about air
pollution or climate change?

Those are all normal parts of the debate. And as I've said before, in a
democracy sometimes you're going to win on those issues and sometimes you're
going to lose. I'm confident about the rightness of my positions on a lot of
these points, but we've got a new president and a Congress that are going to
make their same determinations.

And there will be a back-and-forth in Congress around those issues. And you guys
will report on all that.

But there's a difference between that normal functioning of politics and certain
issues or certain moments where I think our core values may be at stake. I put
in that category if I saw systematic discrimination being ratified in some
fashion. I put in that category explicit or functional obstacles to people being
able to vote, to exercise their franchise.

OBAMA: I'd put in that category institutional efforts to silence dissent or the
press. And for me at least, I would put in that category efforts to roundup kids
who have grown up here and for all practical purposes are American kids, and
send them someplace else, when they love this country. They are our kids'
friends and their classmates, and are now entering into community colleges or in
some cases serving in our military, that the notion that we would just
arbitrarily or because of politics punish those kids, when they didn't do
anything wrong themselves, I think would be something that would merit me
speaking out.

It doesn't mean that I would get on the ballot anyway.

With respect to wet foot, dry foot, we underwent a monumental shift in our
policy towards Cuba. My view was after 50 years of a policy not working, it made
sense for us to try to reopen diplomatic relations, to engage a Cuban
government, to be honest with them about the strong disagreements we have
around, you know, political oppression and treatment of dissenters and freedom
of press and freedom of religion, but that to make progress for the Cuban
people, our best shot was to suddenly have the Cuban people interacting with
Americans and seeing the incredible success of the Cuban-American community and
engaging in commerce and business and trade, and that it was through that
process of opening up these bilateral relations that you would see over time
serious and significant improvement.

Given that shift in the relationship, the policy that we had in place with wet
foot, dry foot, which treated Cuban immigrants completely different from folks
from El Salvador or Guatemala or Nicaragua or any other part of the world, one
that made a distinction between whether you got here by land or by foot. You
know, that was a carryover of a old way of thinking that didn't make sense in
this day and age, particularly as we're opening up travel between the two
countries.

And so, you know, we had very length think consultations with the Department of
Homeland Security, we had some tough negotiations with the Cuban government, but
arrived at a policy which we both think is both fair and appropriate to the
changing nature of the relationship between the two countries.

Nadia (inaudible).

QUESTION: Thank you, sir. I appreciate the opportunity and I want to wish you
and your family the best of luck in the future.

OBAMA: Thank you.

QUESTION: Mr. President you have been criticized and even (inaudible) attacked
for the U.N. Security Council resolution that considered Israeli settlements
illegal and an obstacle to peace. Mr. Trump promised to move the embassy to
Jerusalem. He appointed an ambassador that doesn't believe in a two-state
solution.

How worried are you about the U.S. leadership in the Arab world and beyond as
(inaudible)? With this ignite (inaudible) protect Israel? And in retrospect, do
you think that you should have held Israel more accountable, like President Bush
Senior did with (inaudible)? Thank you.

OBAMA: I am - I continue to be significantly worried about the
Israeli-Palestinian issue. And I'm worried about it both because I think the
status quo is unsustainable, that it is dangerous for Israel, that it is bad for
Palestinians, it is bad for the region and it is bad for America's national
security.

OBAMA: And you know, I came into this office wanting to do everything I could to
encourage serious peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians. And we invested
a lot of energy, a lot of time, a lot of effort first year, second year, all the
way until last year. Ultimately, what has always been clear is that we cannot
force the parties to arrive at peace. What we can do is facilitate, provide a
platform, encourage, but we can't force them to do it. But in light of shifts in
Israeli politics and Palestinian politics, a rightward drift in Israeli
politics, weakening of President Abbas' ability to move and take risks on behalf
of peace in the Palestinian territories.

In light of all the dangers that have emerged in the region and the
understandable fears that Israelis may have about the chaos and rise of groups
like ISIL and the deterioration of Syria, in light of all those things, what we
at least wanted to do, understanding that the two parties wouldn't actually
arrive at a final status agreement, is to preserve the possibility of the
two-state solution because we do not see an alternative to it.

And I've said this directly to Prime Minister Netanyahu, I've said it inside of
Israel, I've said it to Palestinians as well. I don't see how this issue gets
resolved in a way that maintains Israel as both Jewish and a democracy. Because
if you do not have two states, then in some form or fashion you are extending an
occupation, functionally you end up having one state in which millions of people
are disenfranchised and operate as second class residents.

You can't even call them citizens necessarily. And so - so the goal of the
resolution was to simply say that the settlements, the growth of the settlements
are creating a reality on the ground that increasingly will make a two-state
solution impossible. And we've believed consistent with the position that has
been taken with previous U.S. administrations for decades now that it was
important for us to send a signal, a wakeup call that this moment may be
passing.

And Israeli voters and Palestinians need to understand that this moment may be
passing. And - and hopefully, that then creates a debate inside both Israeli and
Palestinian communities that won't result immediately in peace but at least will
lead to a more sober assessment of what the alternatives are. So, the
president-elect will have his own policy. The ambassador or the candidate for
the ambassadorship obviously has very different views than I do.

That is their prerogative, that's part of what happens after elections, and I
think my views are clear. We'll see how - how their approach plays itself out. I
don't want to - I don't want to project today what could end up happening but
obviously it's a volatile environment. What we've seen in the past is when
sudden unilateral moves are made that speak to some of the core issues and
sensitivities of either side, that can be explosive.

And what we've tried to do in the transition is just provide the context in
which the president-elect may want to make some of these decisions.

QUESTION: (OFF MIKE)

OBAMA: Well, that's part of what we've tried to indicate to the incoming team in
our transition process, is pay attention to this because this is - this is
volatile stuff. People feel deeply and passionately about this and as I said -
as I've said, I think, many times, the actions that we take have enormous
consequences and ramifications. We're - we're the biggest kid on the block and I
think it is right and appropriate for a new president to test old assumptions
and reexamine the old ways of doing things.

But if you're going to make big shifts in policy, just make sure you've thought
it through and understand that there are going to be consequences and actions
typically create reactions. And so you want to be intentional about it. You
don't want to do things off the cuff when it comes to an issue this - this
volatile.

QUESTION: On LGBT rights -

OBAMA: I'm sorry where's Chris (ph)?

QUESTION: I'm right here in the back.

OBAMA: I'm sorry, I didn't see you.

QUESTION: On LGBT rights, we've seen a lot of achievements over the past eight
years, including (inaudible) hate crimes (inaudible), marriage quality
nationwide and insuring transfer (ph) people feel visible and respected.

How do you think LGBT rights will rank in terms of your accomplishments in your
life? And how confident are you that progress will endure or continue under the
president-elect?

OBAMA: I - I could not be prouder of the transformation that's taken place in
our society just in the last decade. And, I've said before, I think we made some
useful contributions to it, but the primary heroes in this stage of our - our
growth as a Democracy and a society are all the individual activists and sons
and daughters and couples who courageously said, this is who I am and I'm proud
of it.

And, that opened people's minds and opened their hearts. And, eventually, laws
caught up. But, I don't think any of that would have happened without the
activism, in some cases loud and noisy, but in some cases just quiet and very
personal. And - and I think that what we did as an administration was to help to
- the society to move in a better direction, but to do so in a way that didn't
create an enormous backlash and was - was systematic and respectful of the fact,
you know, in some cases these issues were controversial.

I think the way we handled, for example, don't ask, don't tell, being methodical
about it, working with the joint chiefs, making sure we showed this would not
have an impact on the effectiveness of the greatest military on Earth. And then
to have Defense Secretary Bob Gates and Chairman Mike Mullen and joint chiefs
who were open to evidence and ultimately worked with me to do the right thing.

I am proud of that, but again, none of that would have happened without this
incredible transformation that was happening in society out there. You know,
when I gave Ellen the Presidential Medal of Freedom, I meant what I said. I
think somebody that kind and likable, projecting into, you know, living rooms
around the country. You know, that changed attitudes. And that wasn't easy to do
for her. And that's just one small example of what was happening in countless
communities all across the country.

So - so I'm proud that in certain places we maybe provided a good block down
field to help the movement advance. I don't think it is something that will be
reversible because American society has changed, the attitudes of young people,
in particular, have changed. That doesn't mean there aren't going to be some
fights that are important, legal issues, issues surrounding transgender persons.
There's still going to be some battles that need to take place.

OBAMA: But, if you talk to young people, Malia, Sasha's generation, even if
their Republicans, even if their Conservative, many of them will tell you, I
don't understand how you would discriminate against somebody because of sexual
orientation. That's just sort of burned into them in - in pretty powerful ways.

(CROSSTALK)

OBAMA: April Ryan (ph).

QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President.

Long before today, you've been considered a (inaudible) president. Under your
watch, people have said that you have expanded the rubber-band of inclusion. And
with the election and the incoming administration, people are saying that the
rubber-band has recoiled and maybe is even broken.

And I'm (inaudible) back to a time on Air Force One going to Selma, Alabama,
when you said your job was to (inaudible). With that, what gaps still remain
when it comes to rights issues on the table? And also, what part will you play
in fixing those gaps after - in your new life?

And lastly, you are the first black president. Do you expect the country to see
this again?

OBAMA: Well, I'll answer the last question first. I think we're going to see
people of merit rise up from every race, faith, corner of this country. Because
that's America's strength. When we have everybody getting a chance and
everybody's on the field, we end up being better.

I - I think I've used this analogy before. We - we killed it in the Olympics in
Brazil. And Michelle and I, we always have our - the Olympic team here. And it's
a lot of fun, first of all, just because, you know, anytime you're meeting
somebody who's the best at anything, it's impressive.

And these mostly very young people are all just so healthy looking and they just
beam and exude fitness and health. And so we have a great time talking to them.
But they are of all shapes, sizes, colors. You know, the genetic diversity that
is on display is remarkable.

And if you look at Simone Biles, and then you look at a Michael Phelps, they're
completely different. And it's precisely because of those differences that we've
got people here who can excel at any sport.

And by the way, more than half of our medals came from women. And the reason is
is because we had the foresight several decades ago with something called Title
IX to make sure that women got opportunities in sports, which is why our women
compete better, because they have more opportunities than folks in other
countries.

So, you know, I use that as a metaphor and if in fact we continue to keep
opportunity open to everybody, then yeah, we're going to have a woman president.
We're going to have a Latino president. And we'll have a Jewish president, a
Hindu president. You know, who knows who we're going to have.

I suspect we'll have a whole bunch of mixed up presidents at some point that
nobody really knows what to call them.

(LAUGHTER)

And that's fine.

Now, what do I worry about? I - I obviously spent a lot of time on this, April,
at my farewell address on Tuesday. So I won't go through the whole list.

I worry about inequality because I think that if we are not investing in making
sure everybody plays a role in this economy, the economy will not grow as fast
and I think it will also lead to further and further separation between us as
Americans - not just along racial lines. I mean, there are a whole bunch of
folks who voted for the president-elect because they feel forgotten and
disenfranchised.

They feel as if they're being looked down on. They feel as if their kids aren't
going to have the same opportunities as they did.

And you don't want to - you don't want to have an America in which a very small
sliver of people are doing really well, and everybody else is fighting for
scraps, as I said last week. Because that's oftentimes when racial divisions get
magnified, because people think, well, the only way I'm going to get ahead is if
I make sure somebody else gets less; somebody who doesn't look like me or
doesn't worship the same place I do.

That's not a good recipe for our democracy. I worry about, as I said in response
to a previous question, making sure that the basic machinery of our democracy
works better. We are the only country in the advanced world that makes it harder
to vote rather than easier. And that dates back. There's an ugly history to that
that we should not be shy about talking about.

QUESTION: Voting rights?

OBAMA: Yes, I'm talking about voting rights.

The reason that we are the only country among advanced democracies that makes it
harder to vote is - it traces directly back to Jim Crow and the legacy of
slavery and it became sort of acceptable to restrict the franchise (ph). And
that's not who we are. That shouldn't be who we are. That's not when America
works best. So I hope that people pay a lot of attention to making sure that
everybody has a chance to vote. Make it easier, not harder.

This whole notion of election - voting fraud, this is something that has
constantly been disproved, this - this is fake news. The notion that there are a
whole bunch of people out there who are going out there and are not eligible to
vote and want to vote. We have the opposite problem. We have a whole bunch of
people who are eligible to vote who don't vote. And so the idea that we put in
place a whole bunch of barriers to people voting doesn't make sense. And then
the - you know, as I said before, political gerrymandering that makes your vote
matter less because politicians have decided you live in a district where
everybody votes the same way you do so that these aren't competitive races and
we get 90 percent Democratic districts, 90 percent Republican districts, that's
bad for our democracy too. I worry about that.

I think it is very important for us to make sure that our criminal justice
system is fair and just, but I also think it's also very important to make sure
that it is not politicized, that it maintains an integrity that is outside of
partisan politics at every level. I think at some point, we're going to have to
spend - and this will require some action by the Supreme Court, we have to re-
examine just the flood of endless money that goes into our politics, which I
think is very unhealthy.

So there are a whole bunch of things I worry about there. And as I said in my
speech on Tuesday, we've got more work to do on race. It is not - it is simply
not true that things have gotten worse. They haven't. Things are getting better
and I have more confidence on racial issues in the next generation than I do in
our generation or the previous generation. I think kids are smarter about it.
They're more tolerant. They are more inclusive by instinct than we are, and
hopefully, my presidency maybe helped that along a little bit.

But you know, we - when we feel stress, when we feel pressure, when we're just
fed information that encourages some of our worst instincts, we tend to fall
back into some of the old racial fears and racial divisions and racial
stereotypes, and it's very hard for us to break out of those and to listen and
to think about people as people and to imagine being in that person's shoes.

And by the way, it's no longer a black and white issue alone. You got Hispanic
folks and you got Asian folks, this is not just the same old battles that -
we've got this stew that's bubbling up from people everywhere and we're going to
have to make sure that we in our own lives and our own families and work places
do a better job of treating everybody with basic respect and understanding that
not everybody starts off in the same situation and imaging what would it be like
if you were born in an inner city and had no job prospects anywhere within a 20
mile radius or how does it feel being born in some rural county where there's no
job opportunities within in a 20 mile radius and seeing those two things as
connected as opposed to separate.

So, you know, we got work to do, but overall, I think on this front, the trend
lines, ultimately, I think will be good.

(CROSSTALK)

OBAMA: Christie Parsons (ph).

QUESTION: Thank you.

OBAMA: And Christie (ph), you are going to get the last question. Christie
(ph)...

(CROSSTALK)

OBAMA: ... is, you know, I've - I've been knowing her since Springfield,
Illinois. When I - when I was a state senator, she listened to what I had to
say. So the least I can do is give her the last question as president of the
United States. Go ahead.

(CROSSTALK)

OBAMA: There you go, go ahead.

QUESTION: Well, thank you, Mr. President. It has been an honor.

OBAMA: Thank you.

QUESTION: And I have a personal question for you, because I know how much you
like those.

The first lady put the stakes of the 2016 election in very personal terms, in a
speech that resonated across the country. And she really spoke the concerns of a
lot women, LGBT, people of color, many others. And - so I wonder now, how you
and the first lady on talking to your daughters about the meaning of this
election and how you interpret it for yourself and for them?

OBAMA: You know, every parent brags on their daughters or their sons. You know,
if your mom and dad don't brag on you, you know you got problems.

(LAUGHTER)

But man, my daughters are something. And - and they just surprise and enchant
and impress me more and more every single day as they grow up. And, so these
days when we talk, we talk as parent to child, but also we learn from them. And,
I think it was really interesting to see how Malia and Sasha reacted. They were
disappointed.

They paid attention to what their mom said during the campaign and believed it
because it's consistent with what we have tried to teach them in our household
and what I've tried to model as a father with their mom and what we've asked
them to expect from future boyfriends or spouses. But what we've also tried to
teach them is resilience and we've tried to teach them hope and that the only
thing that is the end of the world is the end of the world.

And so, you get knocked down, you get up, brush yourself off and you get back to
work. And that tended to be their attitude. I think neither of them intend to
pursue a future of politics and in that, too, I think their mother's influence
shows.

(LAUGHTER)

But, both of them have grown up in an environment where I think they could not
help, but be patriotic to love this country deeply, to see that it's flawed, but
see that they have responsibilities to fix it. And that they need to be active
citizens. And they have to be in a position to talk to their friends and their
teachers and their future co-workers in ways that try to shed some light as
opposed to just generate a lot of sound and fury. And I expect that's what
they're going to do. They do not - they don't mope.

And - and what I really am proud of them, but what makes me proudest about them,
is that they also don't get cynical about it. They - they have not assumed
because their side didn't win or because some of the values that they care about
don't seem as if they were vindicated that automatically America has somehow
rejected them or rejected their values. I don't think they feel that way.

I think they have in part through osmosis, in part through dinner time
conversations appreciated the fact that this is a big complicated country and
democracy is messy, it doesn't always work exactly the way you might want. It
doesn't guarantee certain outcomes. But if you - if you're engaged and you're
involved, then there are a lot more good people than bad in this country and
there's a core decency to this country and - that they got to be a part of
lifting that up. And I expect they will be.

And in that sense, they are representative of this generation that makes me
really optimistic. I've been asked - I had - I've had some off-the-cuff (ph)
conversations with some journalists where they said, "OK, you seem like you're
OK, but really, what are you really thinking?"

(LAUGHTER)

And I've said, "No, what I'm saying really is what I think." I - I believe in
this country. I believe in the American people. I believe that people are more
good than bad. I believe tragic things happen. I think there's evil in the
world, but I think at the end of the day, if we work hard and if we're true to
those things in us that feel true and feel right, that the world gets a little
better each time. That's what this presidency has tried to be about. And I see
that in the young people I've worked with. I couldn't be prouder of them.

And so, this is not just a matter of no drama Obama, this is - this is what I
really believe. It is true that behind closed doors, I curse more than I do
publicly...

(LAUGHTER)

... and sometimes I get mad and frustrated like everybody else does, but at my
core, I think we're going to be OK. We just have to fight for it, we have to
work for it and not take it for granted and I know that you will help us do
that. Thank you very much, Press Corps, good luck.

END

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Related Articles


     ·    In Farewell, Obama Sets Red Lines That Would Pull Him Back Into Fray
     ·    One Hand on Light Switch, Obama Isn't Flipping to 'Off' Just Yet


LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      January 19, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

What Does Vladimir Putin See in Donald Trump?;
Contributing Op-Ed Writer

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2137 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hint: it isn't that Trump never stops winning.


At noon on Friday, Donald Trump will become the 45th president of the United
States. Millions of Americans will rejoice at the sight, and millions more will
not. As a rule, foreign leaders don't attend the inauguration of American
presidents, but Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, will be there in spirit. To
understand why and to understand what's happening as Trump takes over the White
House, we need to go back two weeks.

On Jan. 6, the C.I.A., the F.B.I. and the National Security Agency asserted with
"high confidence" that "Russian efforts to influence the 2016 US presidential
election" formed part of a broader, worldwide agenda "to undermine the US-led
liberal democratic order."

According to the intelligence report, "Assessing Russian Activities and
Intentions in Recent US Elections," Vladimir Putin

ordered an influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the US presidential election.
Russia's goals were to undermine public faith in the US democratic process,
denigrate Secretary Clinton, and harm her electability and potential presidency.
We further assess Putin and the Russian Government developed a clear preference
for President-elect Trump.

The intelligence assessment raises the question: what made Trump an attractive
vehicle through which to attempt to weaken the liberal democratic order. Why
him?

Brendan Nyhan, a professor of government at Dartmouth and a contributor to The
Upshot, made the case succinctly:

Trump has flouted the norms of American elections and governance at every turn,
including calling for the jailing of an opposing candidate, encouraging violence
against protesters, endorsing the torture of prisoners, suggesting he might not
respect the results of the election, falsely claiming that millions of illegal
votes were cast, failing to resolve unprecedented conflicts of interest or to
even disclose his tax returns, and attacking a federal judge based on his
ethnicity (and that's of course a highly incomplete list). I can't directly
assess the IC report, but it's fair to say that the liberal democratic order is
being disrupted both in the U.S. and around the world.

On Oct. 13 in National Review, the conservative columnist Charles Krauthammer
argued that Trump's

incendiary talk is an affront to elementary democratic decency and a breach of
the boundaries of American political discourse." Krauthammer added: "It takes
decades, centuries, to develop ingrained norms of political restraint and
self-control. But they can be undone in short order by a demagogue feeding a
vengeful populism.

I asked several other political analysts to give me their view of Trump's appeal
to those seeking to destabilize the American political order.

Norman Ornstein, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, sent
me his thoughts:

One, the Russians have known for a long time that Trump was susceptible to
flattery, especially from major authority figures. Two, he had a significant
following in the US as a mega-celebrity. Three, if he got engaged in politics,
it would be divisive - a good early example being his birther efforts. Four, he
would perplex, frustrate and divide Republican establishment figures, most of
whom were hostile to Russia, but a divided major party serves to disrupt the
democracy. I doubt they thought he would win, but he would encourage or
exacerbate divisions in the society, challenge many fundamental norms over his
own narcissistic sociopathic views of himself and his entitlements, and break a
lot of crockery without a second's misgiving. His victories, with the GOP
nomination and the election were unexpected icing on the cake.

Heather Conley, the director of the Europe Program at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies (a center-right think tank) and a co-author of the
recently released report, "The Kremlin Playbook," gave me her view of Trump's
allure for hackers:

One of our conclusions was that the Kremlin seeks out political and economic
forces which weaken the "West's desirability, credibility and moral authority."
It does this to make Russia's neighbors less interested in seeking to cooperate
and integrate with Europe or the U.S., making them more dependent on Russia. It
seeks to undermine NATO's unity in the hopes of seeking a new grand bargain with
the U.S. in which the U.S. will recognize Russia's sphere of influence and will
not interfere in its internal issues.

Conley continued:

Against this backdrop, during the presidential campaign Mr. Trump was the only
candidate that openly questioned America's commitment to NATO and its commitment
to defend the Baltic States. He was the only candidate who was not very critical
of Russia's actions in Ukraine and Syria and chose to reframe them in ways that
were in sync with Russian policy. He has proposed a new relationship with
Russia. In other words, based on Mr. Trump's statements, his views appear to
align with Russian interests.

There are those who dispute the conclusions of the government's intelligence
report.

Glenn Greenwald, who has written critically of domestic surveillance by the
United States government, argues that "on the key claims - that Putin directed
this hacking and that he did so to elect Donald Trump - there is no evidence for
it." Matt Taibbi, a contributing editor at Rolling Stone who spent several years
reporting in Russia, contended that the "report is long on jargon but short on
specifics."

Anne Applebaum, a Washington Post columnist who is also a longtime writer on
Russia, presents a counterargument to Greenwald and Taibbi: forget the
intelligence report, she suggests, there is more than enough publicly available
material to support the charge of Russian involvement.

"Instead of wasting more time" debating the contents of the report, Applebaum
wrote on Jan. 13, "maybe we ought to abandon our obsession with 'secrets' and
'spies' and look at what is sitting in front of us."

Here is Applebaum's case.

First, "Trump's real estate empire relies, though we don't know how much, on
Russian money."

Second, Applebaum writes,

Paul Manafort, Trump's former campaign manager, spent many years working on
behalf of the thuggish Russian-backed Ukrainian president, Viktor Yanukovych,
who eventually fled his own country. Manafort maintains links to pro-Russian
groups in Ukraine. His name appeared on a list of people who took large chunks
of cash from Yanukovych. He hasn't gone away - in fact, he has lived in Trump
Tower.

Third, according to Applebaum, "Trump operatives at the convention altered the
Republican Party platform" to eliminate a call to provide arms to Ukrainians who
are resisting a Russian takeover.

Fourth:

Throughout the campaign, Trump unquestioningly repeated slogans and conspiracy
theories - "Obama invented ISIS" and "Hillary will start World War III" - lifted
from Sputnik, the Russian propaganda website.

Finally, Applebaum argues as evidence of Trump's pro-Russia tilt that

Trump is willing to risk serious conflict with China, to destroy U.S. relations
with Mexico, to dismiss America's closest allies in Europe and to downgrade
NATO, our most important military alliance.

All this provides the basis for Applebaum's conclusion:

Trump doesn't have to be a Manchurian candidate who has been hypnotized or
recruited by foreign intelligence. It's enough that he has direct and indirect
links to a profoundly corrupt and violent foreign dictator, whose policies he
admires, whose advisers he shares and whose slogans he uses. That's kompromat
enough for me.

During the past nine days, a highly contentious debate has emerged over the
validity and accuracy of a leaked, unverified 35-page dossier put together by a
former British MI6 official. The dossier, financed by Trump opponents, both
Republican and Democratic - claims that Russia has gathered compromising sexual
and financial material about Trump.

Many of the domestic and foreign policy experts I contacted suggested that
Russia would not need to blackmail Trump to get what it wanted - that Trump's
susceptibility to praise has made him vulnerable to manipulation.

David Leege, a professor emeritus of political science at Notre Dame, wrote me:

Trump was a willing but unwitting accomplice because he loved the flattery, saw
it only as a business opportunity, and had so little understanding of
international relations to recognize how affairs of state could be caught up in
it.

Along similar lines, Sandy Maisel, a political scientist at Colby, argued that
Trump's

ego is such that he never asked, nor does he ask yet, what playing into the
Russians needs and desires meant for our system. An unwitting - ego-driven -
tool of Putin's goal to undermine faith in our system and in the Clinton
candidacy.

Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California, San Diego,
was outspoken in his response to my question asking why the Russians favored
Trump:

His shameless mendacity, narcissism, authoritarian instincts, inability to
tolerate opposition or criticism, hostility to formal institutions and the
media, vast ignorance of foreign and domestic issues, indifference to
constitutional restraints and eagerness to whip up and exploit xenophobia and
(barely disguised) racism. We might add his affection for authoritarian leaders
and other tough guys. Have I left anything out? Probably. All of these
characteristics lead him to say things and propose actions antithetical to
democratic norms and standards.

Fred Wertheimer, founder and president of Democracy 21, a nonpartisan
organization promoting campaign finance reform, agreed that

Putin sees in Trump someone who is enormously susceptible to flattery, which
Putin is perfectly happy to provide in order to achieve his national objectives.

Putin's major objective, Wertheimer wrote by email, is

to break up the Western alliance and he appears to see Trump as an excellent
vehicle to achieve this goal.

In an interview on Jan. 16 with the Times of London and Germany's Bild, Trump
repeated his assertion that NATO is "obsolete" and suggested that sanctions
against Russia could be dropped in return for a reduction of nuclear arms.

Molly McKew, a consultant who has advised such anti-Putin government leaders as
Mikheil Saakashvili, a former president of Georgia, and Vlad Filat, a former
prime minister of Moldova, published an essay in Politico Magazine on Jan. 1.
"Putin's Real Long Game," McKew argued, is to capitalize on Europe's struggle
with surging immigration and economic stagnation. As she put it:

Vladimir Putin has seized the momentum of this unraveling, exacting critical
damage to the underpinnings of the liberal world order in a shockingly short
time.

This threat, McKew warns, should not be taken lightly:

The West is already at war, whether it wants to be or not. It may not be a war
we recognize, but it is a war. This war seeks, at home and abroad, to erode our
values, our democracy, and our institutional strength; to dilute our ability to
sort fact from fiction, or moral right from wrong; and to convince us to make
decisions against our own best interests.

How do "kompromat" and cyber hacking corrode public belief in verifiable truth?

In a Jan. 15 Times article, my colleague Amanda Taub writes:

Specific leaks may take aim at powerful individuals, but in the longer term,
kompromat serves the interests of the powerful, which is why it is often a tool
of autocrats. By eroding the very idea of a shared reality, and by spreading
apathy and confusion among a public that learns to distrust leaders and
institutions alike, kompromat undermines a society's ability to hold the
powerful to account and ensure the proper functioning of government.

Masha Gessen, writing in The Times on Jan. 14, noted that in the debate over
Russia's role in the election,

Mr. Trump's version of reality got a boost: There was no such thing as truth,
only a battle of opinions proffered by different actors, each of whom strives to
be loudest.

Over the next few months, the Senate Intelligence Committee plans to investigate
foreign influence in the 2016 election, an inquiry that will test the
independence and integrity of the Republican-controlled Congress.

The fact is, though, that despite Russia's campaign, Trump won under democratic
rules, with his contempt for behavioral and political norms on incessant
display. He carried a majority of the Electoral College, more counties than any
Republican candidate since 1984 and two million more votes than Mitt Romney
collected in 2012.

This means that we are facing the prospect of a renegade commander in chief
armed with the considerable powers of the executive branch and a seemingly
compliant legislature. Trump has already dealt a body blow to the political
process. We will soon learn how much harm he can inflict once in office.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 19, 2017 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Obama's Last News Conference: Full Transcript and Video

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg.

LENGTH: 6996 words


[Video: President Obama's Final News Conference Watch on YouTube.]

The following is the full transcript of a news conference that President Obama
held in Washington on Wednesday, as prepared by the Federal News Service.

For further updates and coverage, follow our live analysis.

OBAMA: Let me start off by saying that I was sorely tempted to wear a tan suit
today...

(LAUGHTER)

... for my last press conference

OBAMA: But Michelle, whose fashion sense is a little better than mine, tells me
that's not appropriate in January.

I covered a lot of the ground that I would want to cover in my farewell address
last week, so I'm just going to say a couple of quick things before I start
taking questions.

First, we have been in touch with the Bush family today after hearing about
President George H. W. Bush and Barbara Bush being admitted to the hospital this
morning. They have not only dedicated their lives to this country.

OBAMA: They have been a constant source of friendship and support and good
counsel for Michelle and me over the years. They are as fine a couple as we
know, and so we want to send our prayers and our love to them. Really good
people.

Second thing I want to do is to thank all of you. Some of you have been covering
me for a long time. Folks like Christie (ph) and Lynn (ph). Some of you I've
just gotten to know. We have traveled the world together. We did a few singles,
a few doubles together. I've offered advice that I thought was pretty sound,
like don't do stupid stuff.

(LAUGHTER)

And even when you complained about my long answers, I just want you to know that
the only reason they were long was because you asked six-part questions.

(LAUGHTER)

But I have enjoyed working with all of you. That does not, of course, mean that
I've enjoyed every story that you have filed, but that's the point of this
relationship. You're not supposed to be (inaudible) fans, you're supposed to be
skeptics, you're supposed to ask me tough questions. You're not supposed to be
complimentary, but you're supposed to cast a critical eye on folks who hold
enormous power and make sure that we are accountable to the people who sent us
here, and you have done that.

And you have done it for the most part in ways that I could appreciate for
fairness, even if I didn't always agree with your conclusions. And having you in
this building has made this place work better. It keeps us honest, it makes us
work harder. You have made us think about how we are doing what we do and
whether or not we're able to deliver on what's been requested by our
constituents. And for example, every time you've asked why haven't you cured
Ebola yet or why is there still that hole in the Gulf, it has given me the
ability to go back and say, ''Will you get this solved before the next press
conference?''

(LAUGHTER)

I spent a lot of time on my -- in my farewell address talking about the state of
our democracy. It goes without saying that essential to that is a free press.
That is part of how this place, this country, this grand experiment of
self-government has to work. It doesn't work if we don't have a well-informed
citizenry, and you are the conduit through which they receive the information
about what's taking place in the halls of power.

So America needs you and our democracy needs you. We need you to establish a
baseline of facts and evidence that we can use as a starting point for the kind
of reasoned and informed debates that ultimately lead to progress. And so my
hope is is that you will continue with the same tenacity that you showed us, to
do the hard work of getting to the bottom of stories and getting them right and
to push those of us in power to be the best version of ourselves and to push
this country to be the best version of itself.

I have no doubt that you will do so, I'm looking forward to being an active
consumer of your work, rather than always the subject of it. I want to thank you
all for your extraordinary service to our democracy.

And with that, I will take some questions and I will start with Jeff Mason,
whose term is apparently not up.

(LAUGHTER)

I thought, you know, we'd be going out together, brother, but you've got to hang
around for a while.

QUESTION: I'm staying put.

OBAMA: Jeff Mason from Reuters.

QUESTION: Thank you, sir. Are you concerned, Mr. President, that commuting
Chelsea Manning's sentence will send a message that leaking classified material
will not generate (inaudible) groups like WikiLeaks? How do you reconcile that
in light of WikiLeak's connection to Russia's acting in (inaudible) election?

And related to that, Julian Assange has now offered to come to the United
States. Are you seeking that? And would he be charged or arrested if he came
here?

OBAMA: Well, first of all, let's be clear. Chelsea Manning has served a tough
prison sentence, so the notion that the average person who was thinking about
disclosing vital classified information would think that it goes unpunished I
don't think would get that impression from the sentence that Chelsea Manning has
served.

It has been my view that given she went to trial; that due process was carried
out; that she took responsibility for her crime; that the sentence that she
received was very disproportional -- disproportionate relative to what other
leakers had received; and that she had served a significant amount of time, that
it made sense to commute and not pardon her sentence.

And, you know, I feel very comfortable that justice has been served and that a
message has still been sent that when it comes to our national security, that
wherever possible we need folks who may have legitimate concerns about the
actions of government or their superiors or the agencies in which they work,
that they try to work through the established channels and avail themselves of
the whistleblower protections that have been put in place.

I recognize that there's some folks who think they're not enough. And, you know,
I think all of us when we're working in big institutions may find ourselves at
times at odds with policies that are set. But when it comes to national
security, we're often dealing with people in the field whose lives may be put at
risk or, you know, the safety and security and the ability of our military or
our intelligence teams or our embassies to function effectively.

And that has to be kept in mind. So, with respect to WikiLeaks, I don't see a
contradiction. First of all, I haven't commented on WikiLeaks generally. The
conclusions of the intelligence community with respect to the Russian hacking
were not conclusive as to whether WikiLeaks was witting or not in being the
conduit through which we heard about the DNC e-mails that were leaked. I don't
pay a lot of attention to Mr. Assange's tweets, so that wasn't a consideration
in this instance. And I'd refer you to the Justice Department for any criminal
investigations, indictments, extradition issues that may come up with him.

You know, I -- what I can say broadly is that in this new cyber age, we're going
to have to make sure that we continually work to find the right balance of
accountability and openness and transparency that is the hallmark of our
democracy. But also recognize that there are adversaries and bad actors out
there who want to use that same openness in ways that hurt us, whether that's in
trying to commit financial crimes or trying to commit acts of terrorism or folks
who want to interfere with our elections.

And we're going to have to continually build the kind of architecture to make
sure our -- the best of our democracy is preserved; that our national security
and intelligence agencies have the ability to carry out policy without
advertising to our adversaries what it is that we're doing, but do so in a way
that still keeps citizens up to speed on what their government is doing on their
behalf.

But with respect to Chelsea Manning, I looked at the particulars of this case
the same way I have the other commutations and pardons that I've done. And I
felt that in light of all the circumstances, that commuting her sentence was
entirely appropriate.

Margaret Brennan?

QUESTION: Mr. President.

OBAMA: There you go.

QUESTION: Thank you.

The president-elect has said that he would consider lifting sanctions on Russia
if they substantially reduced their nuclear stockpile.

QUESTION: Given your own efforts at arms control, do you think that's an
effective strategy? Knowing this office and Mr. Trump, how would you advise his
advisers to help him be effective when he deals with Vladimir Putin. And given
your actions recently on Russia, do you think those sanctions should be
(inaudible).

OBAMA: Well, a couple of things. Number one, I think it is in America's interest
and the world's interest that we have a constructive relationship with Russia.
That's been my approach throughout my presidency. Where our interests have
overlapped we've worked together.

At the beginning of my term, I did what I could to encourage Russia to be a
constructive member of the international community and tried to work with the
president and the government of Russia in helping them diversify their economy,
improve their economy, use the incredible talents of the Russian people in more
constructive ways.

I think it's fair to say that after President Putin came back into the
presidency, that an escalating anti-American rhetoric and an approach to global
affairs that seem to be premised on the idea that whatever America's trying to
do must be bad for Russians, so we want to try to counter act whatever they do.
That returned to an adversarial spirit that I think existed during the Cold War,
has made the relationship more difficult.

And it was hammered home when Russia went into Crimea and portions of Ukraine.
The reason we imposed the sanctions, recall, was not because of nuclear weapons
issues, it was because the independence and sovereignty of a country, Ukraine,
had been encroached upon by force, by Russia. That wasn't our judgment, that was
the judgment of the entire international community.

And, Russia continues to occupy Ukrainian territory and meddle in Ukrainian
affairs and support military surrogates who have violated basic international
laws and international norms. What I've said to the Russians, is as soon as you
stop doing that, the sanctions will be removed. And I think it would probably
best serve, not only American interests, but also the interests of preserving
international norms if we made sure that we don't confuse why these sanctions
have been imposed with a whole set of other issues.

On nuclear issues, in my first term we negotiated the START II Treaty and that
has substantially reduced our nuclear stock piles, both Russia and the United
States. I was prepared to go further, I told President Putin I was prepared to
go further. They have been unwilling to negotiate.

If President-elect Trump is able to restart those talks in a serious way, I
think there remains a lot of room for our two countries to reduce their our
stock piles. And part of the reason we've have been successful on our
non-proliferation agenda and on our nuclear security agenda, is because we were
leading by example. I hope that continues.

But I think it's important just to remember that the reason sanctions have been
put in place against Russia, has to do with their actions in Ukraine. And it is
important for the United States to stand up for the basic principal that big
countries don't go around and invade and bully smaller countries.

I've said before, I expect Russia and Ukraine to have a strong relationship.
They are historically bound together in all sorts of cultural and social ways,
but Ukraine is an independent country and this is a good example of the vital
role that America has to continue to play, around the world, in preserving basic
norms and values. Whether it's advocating on behalf of human rights, advocating
on behalf of women's rights, advocating on behalf of freedom of the press.

OBAMA: You know, the United States has not always been perfect in this regard,
there are times where we -- by necessity are dealing with allies or friends or
partners, who themselves are not meeting the standards that we would like to see
met when it comes to international rules and norms.

But I can tell you that in every multilateral setting in the United Nations, in
the G-20, in the G-7, the United States typically has been on the right side of
these issues and it is important for us to continue to be on the right side of
these issues because if we, the largest, strongest country and democracy in the
world, are not willing to stand up on behalf of these values, then certainly
China, Russia and others will not.

Kevin Corke.

QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President. You have been a strong supporter of the idea
of a peaceful transfer of power demonstrated not terribly far from the Rose
Garden. And yet, even as you and I speak, there are more than five dozen
Democrats that are going to boycott the inauguration of the incoming president.
Do you support that? And what message would you send to Democrats to better
demonstrate the peaceful transfer of power?

And if I could follow, I wanted to ask you about your conversations with the
president-elect previously. And without getting into too much of the personal
side of it, I'm just curious, were you able to use that opportunity to convince
him to take a fresh look at some of the important ideas that you will leave this
office with; maintaining some semblance of the Affordable Care Act, some idea of
keeping DREAMers here in the country without fear of deportation? Were you able
to use personal stories to try to convince him? And how successful were you?

OBAMA: Well, I won't go into details of my conversations with President-elect
Trump. As I've said before, they were cordial. At times, they've been fairly
lengthy and they've been substantive.

I can't tell you how convincing I've been. I think you'd have to ask him whether
I've been convincing or not. I have offered my best advice, counsel about
certain issues both foreign and domestic. And you know, my working assumption is
that having won an election, opposed to a number of my initiatives and certain
aspects of my vision for where the country needs to go, it is appropriate for
him to go forward with his vision and his values. And I don't expect that
there's going to be, you know, enormous overlap. It may be that on certain
issues, once he comes into office and he looks at the complexities of how to in
fact provide healthcare for everybody, something he says he wants to do, or
wants to make sure that he is encouraging job creation and wage growth in this
country, that may lead him to some of the same conclusions that I arrived at
once I got here. But I don't think we'll know until he has an actual chance to
get sworn in and sit behind that desk. And I think a lot of his views are going
to be shaped by his advisers, the people around him, which is why it's important
to pay attention to these confirmation hearings.

I can tell you that -- and this is something I have told him -- that this is a
job of such magnitude that you can't do it by yourself. You are enormously
reliant on a team. Your Cabinet, your senior White House staff, all the way to
fairly junior folks in their 20s and 30s but who are executing on significant
responsibilities. And so, how you put a team together to make sure that they're
getting you the best information and they are teeing up the options from which
you will ultimately make decisions.

OBAMA: That's probably the most useful constructive advice and the most
constructive advice that I've been able to give him, that if you find yourself
isolated because the process breaks down or if you're only hearing from people
who agree with you on everything or if you haven't created a process that is
fact-checking and probing and asking hard questions about policies or promises
that you've made, that's when you start making mistakes.

And as I indicated in some of my previous remarks, reality has a way of biting
back if you're not paying attention to it.

With respect to the inauguration, I'm not going to comment on those issues. All
I know is I'm going to be there. So is Michelle. And I have been checking the
weather and I'm heartened by the fact that it won't be as cold as my first
inauguration.

(LAUGHTER)

Because that was cold.

Janna Rodriguez (ph)?

QUESTION: (inaudible), Mr. President (inaudible). You have said that you would
come back and fight for the Dreamers. You said that a couple of weeks ago. Are
you fearful for the status of those Dreamers -- the future of the young
immigrants and all immigrants in this country, with a new administration?

And what did you mean when you said you would come back? Would you lobby
Congress? Maybe explore the political arena again?

And if I may ask a second question: Why did you take action on (inaudible) a
week ago?

OBAMA: Well, let me be absolutely clear. I did not mean that I was going to be
running for anything anytime soon. So, what I meant is that it's important for
me to take some time to process this amazing experience that we've gone through;
to make sure that my wife, with whom I will be celebrating a 25th anniversary
this year, is willing to re-up and put up with me for a little bit longer.

I want to do some writing. I want to be quiet a little bit and not hear myself
talk so darn much. I want to spend precious time with my girls.

So those are my priorities this year. But as I said before, I'm still a citizen.
And I think it is important for Democrats or progressive who feel that they came
out on the wrong side of this election to be able to distinguish between the
normal back-and-forth, ebb-and-blow of policy. Now, are we going to raise taxes
or are we going to lower taxes? Are we going to, you know, expand this program
or eliminate this program? You know, how -- how concerned are we about air
pollution or climate change?

Those are all normal parts of the debate. And as I've said before, in a
democracy sometimes you're going to win on those issues and sometimes you're
going to lose. I'm confident about the rightness of my positions on a lot of
these points, but we've got a new president and a Congress that are going to
make their same determinations.

And there will be a back-and-forth in Congress around those issues. And you guys
will report on all that.

But there's a difference between that normal functioning of politics and certain
issues or certain moments where I think our core values may be at stake. I put
in that category if I saw systematic discrimination being ratified in some
fashion. I put in that category explicit or functional obstacles to people being
able to vote, to exercise their franchise.

OBAMA: I'd put in that category institutional efforts to silence dissent or the
press. And for me at least, I would put in that category efforts to roundup kids
who have grown up here and for all practical purposes are American kids, and
send them someplace else, when they love this country. They are our kids'
friends and their classmates, and are now entering into community colleges or in
some cases serving in our military, that the notion that we would just
arbitrarily or because of politics punish those kids, when they didn't do
anything wrong themselves, I think would be something that would merit me
speaking out.

It doesn't mean that I would get on the ballot anyway.

With respect to wet foot, dry foot, we underwent a monumental shift in our
policy towards Cuba. My view was after 50 years of a policy not working, it made
sense for us to try to reopen diplomatic relations, to engage a Cuban
government, to be honest with them about the strong disagreements we have
around, you know, political oppression and treatment of dissenters and freedom
of press and freedom of religion, but that to make progress for the Cuban
people, our best shot was to suddenly have the Cuban people interacting with
Americans and seeing the incredible success of the Cuban-American community and
engaging in commerce and business and trade, and that it was through that
process of opening up these bilateral relations that you would see over time
serious and significant improvement.

Given that shift in the relationship, the policy that we had in place with wet
foot, dry foot, which treated Cuban immigrants completely different from folks
from El Salvador or Guatemala or Nicaragua or any other part of the world, one
that made a distinction between whether you got here by land or by foot. You
know, that was a carryover of a old way of thinking that didn't make sense in
this day and age, particularly as we're opening up travel between the two
countries.

And so, you know, we had very length think consultations with the Department of
Homeland Security, we had some tough negotiations with the Cuban government, but
arrived at a policy which we both think is both fair and appropriate to the
changing nature of the relationship between the two countries.

Nadia (inaudible).

QUESTION: Thank you, sir. I appreciate the opportunity and I want to wish you
and your family the best of luck in the future.

OBAMA: Thank you.

QUESTION: Mr. President you have been criticized and even (inaudible) attacked
for the U.N. Security Council resolution that considered Israeli settlements
illegal and an obstacle to peace. Mr. Trump promised to move the embassy to
Jerusalem. He appointed an ambassador that doesn't believe in a two-state
solution.

How worried are you about the U.S. leadership in the Arab world and beyond as
(inaudible)? With this ignite (inaudible) protect Israel? And in retrospect, do
you think that you should have held Israel more accountable, like President Bush
Senior did with (inaudible)? Thank you.

OBAMA: I am -- I continue to be significantly worried about the
Israeli-Palestinian issue. And I'm worried about it both because I think the
status quo is unsustainable, that it is dangerous for Israel, that it is bad for
Palestinians, it is bad for the region and it is bad for America's national
security.

OBAMA: And you know, I came into this office wanting to do everything I could to
encourage serious peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians. And we invested
a lot of energy, a lot of time, a lot of effort first year, second year, all the
way until last year. Ultimately, what has always been clear is that we cannot
force the parties to arrive at peace. What we can do is facilitate, provide a
platform, encourage, but we can't force them to do it. But in light of shifts in
Israeli politics and Palestinian politics, a rightward drift in Israeli
politics, weakening of President Abbas' ability to move and take risks on behalf
of peace in the Palestinian territories.

In light of all the dangers that have emerged in the region and the
understandable fears that Israelis may have about the chaos and rise of groups
like ISIL and the deterioration of Syria, in light of all those things, what we
at least wanted to do, understanding that the two parties wouldn't actually
arrive at a final status agreement, is to preserve the possibility of the
two-state solution because we do not see an alternative to it.

And I've said this directly to Prime Minister Netanyahu, I've said it inside of
Israel, I've said it to Palestinians as well. I don't see how this issue gets
resolved in a way that maintains Israel as both Jewish and a democracy. Because
if you do not have two states, then in some form or fashion you are extending an
occupation, functionally you end up having one state in which millions of people
are disenfranchised and operate as second class residents.

You can't even call them citizens necessarily. And so - so the goal of the
resolution was to simply say that the settlements, the growth of the settlements
are creating a reality on the ground that increasingly will make a two-state
solution impossible. And we've believed consistent with the position that has
been taken with previous U.S. administrations for decades now that it was
important for us to send a signal, a wakeup call that this moment may be
passing.

And Israeli voters and Palestinians need to understand that this moment may be
passing. And - and hopefully, that then creates a debate inside both Israeli and
Palestinian communities that won't result immediately in peace but at least will
lead to a more sober assessment of what the alternatives are. So, the
president-elect will have his own policy. The ambassador or the candidate for
the ambassadorship obviously has very different views than I do.

That is their prerogative, that's part of what happens after elections, and I
think my views are clear. We'll see how - how their approach plays itself out. I
don't want to - I don't want to project today what could end up happening but
obviously it's a volatile environment. What we've seen in the past is when
sudden unilateral moves are made that speak to some of the core issues and
sensitivities of either side, that can be explosive.

And what we've tried to do in the transition is just provide the context in
which the president-elect may want to make some of these decisions.

QUESTION: (OFF MIKE)

OBAMA: Well, that's part of what we've tried to indicate to the incoming team in
our transition process, is pay attention to this because this is - this is
volatile stuff. People feel deeply and passionately about this and as I said -
as I've said, I think, many times, the actions that we take have enormous
consequences and ramifications. We're - we're the biggest kid on the block and I
think it is right and appropriate for a new president to test old assumptions
and reexamine the old ways of doing things.

But if you're going to make big shifts in policy, just make sure you've thought
it through and understand that there are going to be consequences and actions
typically create reactions. And so you want to be intentional about it. You
don't want to do things off the cuff when it comes to an issue this - this
volatile.

QUESTION: On LGBT rights --

OBAMA: I'm sorry where's Chris (ph)?

QUESTION: I'm right here in the back.

OBAMA: I'm sorry, I didn't see you.

QUESTION: On LGBT rights, we've seen a lot of achievements over the past eight
years, including (inaudible) hate crimes (inaudible), marriage quality
nationwide and insuring transfer (ph) people feel visible and respected.

How do you think LGBT rights will rank in terms of your accomplishments in your
life? And how confident are you that progress will endure or continue under the
president-elect?

OBAMA: I -- I could not be prouder of the transformation that's taken place in
our society just in the last decade. And, I've said before, I think we made some
useful contributions to it, but the primary heroes in this stage of our -- our
growth as a Democracy and a society are all the individual activists and sons
and daughters and couples who courageously said, this is who I am and I'm proud
of it.

And, that opened people's minds and opened their hearts. And, eventually, laws
caught up. But, I don't think any of that would have happened without the
activism, in some cases loud and noisy, but in some cases just quiet and very
personal. And -- and I think that what we did as an administration was to help
to -- the society to move in a better direction, but to do so in a way that
didn't create an enormous backlash and was -- was systematic and respectful of
the fact, you know, in some cases these issues were controversial.

I think the way we handled, for example, don't ask, don't tell, being methodical
about it, working with the joint chiefs, making sure we showed this would not
have an impact on the effectiveness of the greatest military on Earth. And then
to have Defense Secretary Bob Gates and Chairman Mike Mullen and joint chiefs
who were open to evidence and ultimately worked with me to do the right thing.

I am proud of that, but again, none of that would have happened without this
incredible transformation that was happening in society out there. You know,
when I gave Ellen the Presidential Medal of Freedom, I meant what I said. I
think somebody that kind and likable, projecting into, you know, living rooms
around the country. You know, that changed attitudes. And that wasn't easy to do
for her. And that's just one small example of what was happening in countless
communities all across the country.

So -- so I'm proud that in certain places we maybe provided a good block down
field to help the movement advance. I don't think it is something that will be
reversible because American society has changed, the attitudes of young people,
in particular, have changed. That doesn't mean there aren't going to be some
fights that are important, legal issues, issues surrounding transgender persons.
There's still going to be some battles that need to take place.

OBAMA: But, if you talk to young people, Malia, Sasha's generation, even if
their Republicans, even if their Conservative, many of them will tell you, I
don't understand how you would discriminate against somebody because of sexual
orientation. That's just sort of burned into them in -- in pretty powerful ways.

(CROSSTALK)

OBAMA: April Ryan (ph).

QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President.

Long before today, you've been considered a (inaudible) president. Under your
watch, people have said that you have expanded the rubber-band of inclusion. And
with the election and the incoming administration, people are saying that the
rubber-band has recoiled and maybe is even broken.

And I'm (inaudible) back to a time on Air Force One going to Selma, Alabama,
when you said your job was to (inaudible). With that, what gaps still remain
when it comes to rights issues on the table? And also, what part will you play
in fixing those gaps after -- in your new life?

And lastly, you are the first black president. Do you expect the country to see
this again?

OBAMA: Well, I'll answer the last question first. I think we're going to see
people of merit rise up from every race, faith, corner of this country. Because
that's America's strength. When we have everybody getting a chance and
everybody's on the field, we end up being better.

I -- I think I've used this analogy before. We -- we killed it in the Olympics
in Brazil. And Michelle and I, we always have our -- the Olympic team here. And
it's a lot of fun, first of all, just because, you know, anytime you're meeting
somebody who's the best at anything, it's impressive.

And these mostly very young people are all just so healthy looking and they just
beam and exude fitness and health. And so we have a great time talking to them.
But they are of all shapes, sizes, colors. You know, the genetic diversity that
is on display is remarkable.

And if you look at Simone Biles, and then you look at a Michael Phelps, they're
completely different. And it's precisely because of those differences that we've
got people here who can excel at any sport.

And by the way, more than half of our medals came from women. And the reason is
is because we had the foresight several decades ago with something called Title
IX to make sure that women got opportunities in sports, which is why our women
compete better, because they have more opportunities than folks in other
countries.

So, you know, I use that as a metaphor and if in fact we continue to keep
opportunity open to everybody, then yeah, we're going to have a woman president.
We're going to have a Latino president. And we'll have a Jewish president, a
Hindu president. You know, who knows who we're going to have.

I suspect we'll have a whole bunch of mixed up presidents at some point that
nobody really knows what to call them.

(LAUGHTER)

And that's fine.

Now, what do I worry about? I -- I obviously spent a lot of time on this, April,
at my farewell address on Tuesday. So I won't go through the whole list.

I worry about inequality because I think that if we are not investing in making
sure everybody plays a role in this economy, the economy will not grow as fast
and I think it will also lead to further and further separation between us as
Americans -- not just along racial lines. I mean, there are a whole bunch of
folks who voted for the president-elect because they feel forgotten and
disenfranchised.

They feel as if they're being looked down on. They feel as if their kids aren't
going to have the same opportunities as they did.

And you don't want to -- you don't want to have an America in which a very small
sliver of people are doing really well, and everybody else is fighting for
scraps, as I said last week. Because that's oftentimes when racial divisions get
magnified, because people think, well, the only way I'm going to get ahead is if
I make sure somebody else gets less; somebody who doesn't look like me or
doesn't worship the same place I do.

That's not a good recipe for our democracy. I worry about, as I said in response
to a previous question, making sure that the basic machinery of our democracy
works better. We are the only country in the advanced world that makes it harder
to vote rather than easier. And that dates back. There's an ugly history to that
that we should not be shy about talking about.

QUESTION: Voting rights?

OBAMA: Yes, I'm talking about voting rights.

The reason that we are the only country among advanced democracies that makes it
harder to vote is -- it traces directly back to Jim Crow and the legacy of
slavery and it became sort of acceptable to restrict the franchise (ph). And
that's not who we are. That shouldn't be who we are. That's not when America
works best. So I hope that people pay a lot of attention to making sure that
everybody has a chance to vote. Make it easier, not harder.

This whole notion of election -- voting fraud, this is something that has
constantly been disproved, this -- this is fake news. The notion that there are
a whole bunch of people out there who are going out there and are not eligible
to vote and want to vote. We have the opposite problem. We have a whole bunch of
people who are eligible to vote who don't vote. And so the idea that we put in
place a whole bunch of barriers to people voting doesn't make sense. And then
the -- you know, as I said before, political gerrymandering that makes your vote
matter less because politicians have decided you live in a district where
everybody votes the same way you do so that these aren't competitive races and
we get 90 percent Democratic districts, 90 percent Republican districts, that's
bad for our democracy too. I worry about that.

I think it is very important for us to make sure that our criminal justice
system is fair and just, but I also think it's also very important to make sure
that it is not politicized, that it maintains an integrity that is outside of
partisan politics at every level. I think at some point, we're going to have to
spend -- and this will require some action by the Supreme Court, we have to re-
examine just the flood of endless money that goes into our politics, which I
think is very unhealthy.

So there are a whole bunch of things I worry about there. And as I said in my
speech on Tuesday, we've got more work to do on race. It is not -- it is simply
not true that things have gotten worse. They haven't. Things are getting better
and I have more confidence on racial issues in the next generation than I do in
our generation or the previous generation. I think kids are smarter about it.
They're more tolerant. They are more inclusive by instinct than we are, and
hopefully, my presidency maybe helped that along a little bit.

But you know, we -- when we feel stress, when we feel pressure, when we're just
fed information that encourages some of our worst instincts, we tend to fall
back into some of the old racial fears and racial divisions and racial
stereotypes, and it's very hard for us to break out of those and to listen and
to think about people as people and to imagine being in that person's shoes.

And by the way, it's no longer a black and white issue alone. You got Hispanic
folks and you got Asian folks, this is not just the same old battles that --
we've got this stew that's bubbling up from people everywhere and we're going to
have to make sure that we in our own lives and our own families and work places
do a better job of treating everybody with basic respect and understanding that
not everybody starts off in the same situation and imaging what would it be like
if you were born in an inner city and had no job prospects anywhere within a 20
mile radius or how does it feel being born in some rural county where there's no
job opportunities within in a 20 mile radius and seeing those two things as
connected as opposed to separate.

So, you know, we got work to do, but overall, I think on this front, the trend
lines, ultimately, I think will be good.

(CROSSTALK)

OBAMA: Christie Parsons (ph).

QUESTION: Thank you.

OBAMA: And Christie (ph), you are going to get the last question. Christie
(ph)...

(CROSSTALK)

OBAMA: ... is, you know, I've -- I've been knowing her since Springfield,
Illinois. When I -- when I was a state senator, she listened to what I had to
say. So the least I can do is give her the last question as president of the
United States. Go ahead.

(CROSSTALK)

OBAMA: There you go, go ahead.

QUESTION: Well, thank you, Mr. President. It has been an honor.

OBAMA: Thank you.

QUESTION: And I have a personal question for you, because I know how much you
like those.

The first lady put the stakes of the 2016 election in very personal terms, in a
speech that resonated across the country. And she really spoke the concerns of a
lot women, LGBT, people of color, many others. And -- so I wonder now, how you
and the first lady on talking to your daughters about the meaning of this
election and how you interpret it for yourself and for them?

OBAMA: You know, every parent brags on their daughters or their sons. You know,
if your mom and dad don't brag on you, you know you got problems.

(LAUGHTER)

But man, my daughters are something. And -- and they just surprise and enchant
and impress me more and more every single day as they grow up. And, so these
days when we talk, we talk as parent to child, but also we learn from them. And,
I think it was really interesting to see how Malia and Sasha reacted. They were
disappointed.

They paid attention to what their mom said during the campaign and believed it
because it's consistent with what we have tried to teach them in our household
and what I've tried to model as a father with their mom and what we've asked
them to expect from future boyfriends or spouses. But what we've also tried to
teach them is resilience and we've tried to teach them hope and that the only
thing that is the end of the world is the end of the world.

And so, you get knocked down, you get up, brush yourself off and you get back to
work. And that tended to be their attitude. I think neither of them intend to
pursue a future of politics and in that, too, I think their mother's influence
shows.

(LAUGHTER)

But, both of them have grown up in an environment where I think they could not
help, but be patriotic to love this country deeply, to see that it's flawed, but
see that they have responsibilities to fix it. And that they need to be active
citizens. And they have to be in a position to talk to their friends and their
teachers and their future co-workers in ways that try to shed some light as
opposed to just generate a lot of sound and fury. And I expect that's what
they're going to do. They do not -- they don't mope.

And -- and what I really am proud of them, but what makes me proudest about
them, is that they also don't get cynical about it. They -- they have not
assumed because their side didn't win or because some of the values that they
care about don't seem as if they were vindicated that automatically America has
somehow rejected them or rejected their values. I don't think they feel that
way.

I think they have in part through osmosis, in part through dinner time
conversations appreciated the fact that this is a big complicated country and
democracy is messy, it doesn't always work exactly the way you might want. It
doesn't guarantee certain outcomes. But if you -- if you're engaged and you're
involved, then there are a lot more good people than bad in this country and
there's a core decency to this country and -- that they got to be a part of
lifting that up. And I expect they will be.

And in that sense, they are representative of this generation that makes me
really optimistic. I've been asked -- I had -- I've had some off-the-cuff (ph)
conversations with some journalists where they said, ''OK, you seem like you're
OK, but really, what are you really thinking?''

(LAUGHTER)

And I've said, ''No, what I'm saying really is what I think.'' I -- I believe in
this country. I believe in the American people. I believe that people are more
good than bad. I believe tragic things happen. I think there's evil in the
world, but I think at the end of the day, if we work hard and if we're true to
those things in us that feel true and feel right, that the world gets a little
better each time. That's what this presidency has tried to be about. And I see
that in the young people I've worked with. I couldn't be prouder of them.

And so, this is not just a matter of no drama Obama, this is -- this is what I
really believe. It is true that behind closed doors, I curse more than I do
publicly...

(LAUGHTER)

... and sometimes I get mad and frustrated like everybody else does, but at my
core, I think we're going to be OK. We just have to fight for it, we have to
work for it and not take it for granted and I know that you will help us do
that. Thank you very much, Press Corps, good luck.

END

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/18/us/politics/obama-final-press-conference.html

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      January 25, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Mar-a-Lago Doubles Its Initiation Fee as Membership Interest Swells;
First 100 Days Briefing

BYLINE: ERIC LIPTON, NOAH WEILAND and STEVE EDER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2221 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Trump's Palm Beach "Winter White House" has doubled its
membership fee, to $200,000, leading to charges that the Trump Organization is
cashing in on the election.


" The Mar-a-Lago resort doubles its initiation fee - to $200,000 - leading to
charges that the Trump Organization is cashing in on its founder's power.

" By President Trump's definition of voter fraud, his senior adviser, Steve
Bannon, his Treasury secretary nominee and one of his daughters could be swept
up in the investigation.

" The Twitter rebellion seems to be spreading as the Defense Department weighs
in on Muslim refugees.

Ka-ching! Mar-a-Lago membership cost doubles, to $200,000

The initiation fee at Mr. Trump's Mar-a-Lago club in Florida - which the
president himself has called the Winter White House - has doubled to $200,000,
after membership applications surged in the wake of Mr. Trump's election, the
head of membership there said.

Bernd Lembcke, the managing director at the Palm Beach, Fla., club, said the
change in the initiation fee had been planned last fall, before the election,
and that $200,000 had been the fee before 2010, when it was cut in half because
of the recession.

But Mr. Lembcke, who has been at the club for 21 years, said that it also
reflected the upswing in Mar-a-Lago's popularity.

"We have had a sudden surge in requests," he said, adding that new members must
be recommended by someone who is already a member, as is the case at many
private clubs.

Robert Weissman, president of Public Citizen, a nonprofit group that promotes
government ethics, said the move showed that Mr. Trump and his family intended
to profit from his status as president.

"At the minimum, this creates the appearance of cashing in the presidency and
selling direct personal access to the president," he said. "It is unacceptable.
And it demeans the office of the presidency."

The new initiation fee went into effect on Jan. 1, although the annual dues
remained the same - $14,000 a year, he said.

The club has 482 members, with a cap of 500.

"It enhances it," Mr. Lembcke said of Mr. Trump's new job and its impact on the
value of the membership. "His presidency does."

"But we are very careful in vetting them," he added.

News about the change in the initiation fee was reported by CNBC.

Who's a fraudulent voter now?

By President Trump's definition, his senior White House adviser, Steve Bannon,
is apparently committing voter fraud.

So is his nominee to be the next Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin.

So, apparently, is one of his daughters, Tiffany Trump.

Mr. Trump was pretty broad with his definition of voter fraud when he took to
Twitter Wednesday morning to request an investigation of the nefarious conduct
of the 2016 electorate - with no evidence to support it.

I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those
registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and.... - Donald J.
Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017

There is, in fact, a difference between investigating actual voter fraud and
cleaning up the voter rolls. If you move states, you aren't usually required to
tell the state you are leaving that you no longer want to be on the roster.

And so it goes that Mr. Bannon is registered in Sarasota County, Fla., and New
York City. Mr. Mnuchin appears on the rolls of New York and California. And
Tiffany Trump, should she choose, could potentially vote in Pennsylvania and New
York. If she did, of course, that would be fraud.

First Lady of Israel congratulates Melania Trump

Now Melania Trump is fielding her own foreign leader calls. Sara Netanyahu, the
wife of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, called Mrs. Trump on
Wednesday to congratulate her on becoming the first lady, according to the prime
minister's office.

"The two of them look forward to seeing each other soon in Washington and to
working together to strengthen the ties between Israel and the United States,"
Mr. Netanyahu's office said.

Their husbands spoke by telephone earlier in the week, and Mr. Trump invited Mr.
Netanyahu to visit him in Washington next month.

Trump nominates a Navy secretary as Pentagon begins to fill

President Trump announced that he will nominate businessman and former military
intelligence officer Philip Bilden as secretary of the Navy.

Mr. Bilden, who ran a private equity firm in Hong Kong until retiring three
years ago, has expertise in both maritime affairs and Asia - two areas that are
of central importance to the Navy. He was picked over an early Trump campaign
backer, former Rep. J. Randy Forbes of Virginia.

Mr. Bilden received a Masters of Business Administration from Harvard in 1991.

Has the National Park Service's Twitter rebellion spread?

First came the reposting of photos by the National Park Service that clearly
showed that President Trump's inauguration crowd was smaller than former
President Barack Obama's in 2009. That was followed by a contrite apology and
lots of pretty pictures.

We regret the mistaken RTs from our account yesterday and look forward to
continuing to share the beauty and history of our parks with you
pic.twitter.com/mctNNvlrmv - NationalParkService (@NatlParkService) January 21,
2017

But the national parks took up the cause, with a Twitter storm on climate change
from the Badlands that was quickly taken down.

Yesterday, @BadlandsNPS was censored for tweeting about #ClimateChange. RT to
keep #Science facts alive. #ThankYouTrump for nothing.
pic.twitter.com/kEhGEDpdDl - Daniel Schneider (@BiologistDan) January 25, 2017

And lots more:

"Free speech, exercised both individually and through a free press, is a
necessity in any country where the people are free." TR, 5/7/1918 - TR Inaugural
Site (@TRInauguralSite) January 25, 2017

2016 was the hottest year on record for the 3rd year in a row. Check out this
@NASA & @NOAA report: https://t.co/rLJUC56xqipic.twitter.com/AKhFzYw6l6 - Golden
Gate NPS (@GoldenGateNPS) January 23, 2017

Now, with word that Mr. Trump is moving to shut down the flow of refugees and
halt immigration from Muslim-majority nations, is the Defense Department joining
the fray?

From refugee to #Marine. @USMC Cpl Ali J. Mohammed takes the fight to the
doorstep of those who cast his family
out.https://t.co/oSXWGrzsL7pic.twitter.com/UVlWsaESic - U.S. Dept of Defense
(@DeptofDefense) January 25, 2017

Incidentally, the National Park Service now says those Twitter posts from the
Badlands came from a disgruntled former employee who had commandeered the
account without permission. A National Park Service official said Tuesday:

"Several tweets posted on the Badlands National Park's Twitter account today
were posted by a former employee who was not currently authorized to use the
park's account. The park was not told to remove the tweets but chose to do so
when they realized that their account had been compromised."

No official word on why so many other parks chimed in.

The Greenpeace protest banner reading "RESIST" is seen just blocks from the
White House. @Greenpeacepic.twitter.com/WDKWC8qLsl - Doug Mills (@dougmillsnyt)
January 25, 2017

A Trump Twitter post about Chicago rankles

Mr. Trump may have thought he was being constructive when he weighed in on
Chicago's terrible murder rate, but his offer (or threat) of federal support has
not gone over well - either with Chicago Democrats or small-government
Republicans.

If Chicago doesn't fix the horrible "carnage" going on, 228 shootings in 2017
with 42 killings (up 24% from 2016), I will send in the Feds! - Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017

Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez, Democrat of Illinois was miffed.

"When the President wants to work with states and localities on public policies
to reduce gun-violence, he will find partners in cities like Chicago, but I
think he'd rather spend his time on Twitter. The President wants publicity and
to be seen beating up on Democratic elected officials and appearing hostile to a
big city like Chicago in the eyes of his suburban and rural voters. I get that.
But I doubt he has any serious intention to solve the national problem of guns
killing young people."

But Republicans weren't too keen on the notion of the federal government
swooping into to fight city crime.

How long before he adds "I will send in the Feds!" to his Twitter bio?
https://t.co/3XqO7xC08m - Justin Amash (@justinamash) January 25, 2017

The Republican media consultant Rick Wilson noted the obvious:

If Obama had announced he was going to "send in the Feds" to some red state,
Republicans would rightly be losing their collective minds. - Rick Wilson
(@TheRickWilson) January 25, 2017

Perhaps Mr. Trump's motivation isn't much of a mystery. On Monday, Mayor Rahm
Emanuel of Chicago offered the president what he called "unsolicited advice."

"You didn't get elected to debate the crowd size at your inaugural," Mr. Emanuel
said. "Now, obviously, I wasn't a supporter of then-candidate Trump. He got
elected to make sure that people have a job, the economy continues to grow,
people have security as it relates to their kids' education, etc. And it wasn't
about your crowd size. It was about their lives and their jobs."

"The speech missed an opportunity to speak to our better angels as a country,"
he said of the president's inaugural address.

Or maybe Mr. Trump was just watching Bill O'Reilly on Fox News.

Anyone guessing why Trump suddenly tweeting about Chicago "carnage" should watch
O'Reilly segment from 8pm hour https://t.co/R8GVQX8KTx - Michael Calderone
(@mlcalderone) January 25, 2017

Why everyone hates Washington

Who says former (and supposedly bitter) rivals can't join forces in the spirit
of Washington's most unifying party - the "green" party? (That's money, get it?)

No emoluments clause apparently can stop the former Clinton and Trump campaign
managers Robby Mook and Corey Lewandowski from hitting the road for paid gigs on
the speaking circuit, which is precisely what the two will do together. Leading
Authorities, a speakers' bureau, said it is organizing the events as
"future-focused" assessments of Donald Trump's White House. The two will also
"debate the day's hot issues," including cyber attacks.

Mr. Lewandowski just recently set up shop down the street from the White House
in a consulting and lobbying firm he runs with another former Trump adviser,
Barry Bennett.

Yeh, was all one big dog-pony show from the start -- now everyone gets paid
/Mook Lewandowski Team For Paid Speeches https://t.co/QuCNHpunS4 - Mark
Leibovich (@MarkLeibovich) January 25, 2017

Update: The speaking agency has now deleted the material from its website. A
representative for the firm told Buzzfeed that the listing was generated by them
and not Mr. Mook and Mr. Lewandowski.

Another update: Mr. Mook says no way, he never would have agreed to this buddy
show.

To set record straight: I never committed to speeches w Corey & didn't agree to
posts on "teaming up". It was done w/o my knowledge/consent. - Robby Mook
(@RobbyMook) January 25, 2017

Something is on Charles Grassley's mind

His press aides won't say what exactly is bothering Senator Charles E. Grassley
of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, but something clearly
has gotten his goat.

PresTrump pls issue order to all in ur executive branch ppl to answer all
Senator requests for RECORDS so we can do oversight - ChuckGrassley
(@ChuckGrassley) January 25, 2017

I hope somebody in White House will explain to Pres Trump how important the
oversight responsibility is to this senator - ChuckGrassley (@ChuckGrassley)
January 25, 2017

It might be that the new administration has been slow to answer requests that
date back to the Obama administration.

Pres Trump. I gave all ur cabinet appointees files of Obama unanswered oversight
letters fr me. Will u get them answred. Read nxt Twitter - ChuckGrassley
(@ChuckGrassley) January 25, 2017

Pres Trump Drain the swamp of all Grassley oversight letter in Obama murky
bureaucracy - ChuckGrassley (@ChuckGrassley) January 25, 2017

Then again, his committee still hasn't voted out the nomination of Mr. Trump's
nominee for attorney general, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama.

Trump Organization chooses ethics monitors, but they aren't exactly
disinterested

With the Trump Organization under a very public microscope, the company said
Tuesday that it has appointed two monitors - Bobby Burchfield and George Sorial
- to keep tabs on any ethical issues that may arise.

The former has strong ties to Republican politics and the latter to President
Trump.

Mr. Burchfield, a Washington lawyer who has represented George H.W. Bush and the
Republican National Committee, was appointed as independent ethics adviser to
the Trump Organization, meaning he will advise on avoiding conflicts of
interest, with the power to sign off on certain transactions.

A longtime Trump Organization executive, Mr. Sorial will now be chief compliance
officer, giving him a lead role in ensuring that the company complies with
ethics rules and standards, while also implementing new policies.

The two will assume their roles at a time when Mr. Trump has said he is trying
to remove himself from the activities of the business that carries his name. Mr.
Trump said during a news conference on Jan. 11 that he would place his business
in a trust controlled by his two adult sons - but some ethics experts have
chided the plan for not going far enough to avoid conflicts.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Revives Keystone Pipeline Rejected by Obama


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 26, 2017 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Mar-a-Lago Doubles Its Initiation Fee as Membership Interest Swells

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON, NOAH WEILAND and STEVE EDER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; FIRST 100 DAYS BRIEFING; Pg.

LENGTH: 2248 words


â-  The Mar-a-Lago resort doubles its initiation fee -- to $200,000 -- leading
to charges that the Trump Organization is cashing in on its founder's power.

â-  By President Trump's definition of voter fraud, his senior adviser, Steve
Bannon, his Treasury secretary nominee and one of his daughters could be swept
up in the investigation.

â-  The Twitter rebellion seems to be spreading as the Defense Department weighs
in on Muslim refugees.

Ka-ching! Mar-a-Lago membership cost doubles, to $200,000

The initiation fee at Mr. Trump's Mar-a-Lago club in Florida -- which the
president himself has dubbed the Winter White House -- has doubled to $200,000,
after membership applications surged in the wake of Mr. Trump's election, the
head of membership there said.

Bernd Lembcke, the managing director at the Palm Beach, Fla., club, said the
change in the initiation fee had been planned last fall, before the election,
and that $200,000 had been the fee before 2010, when it was cut in half because
of the recession.

But Mr. Lembcke, who has been at the club for 21 years, said that it also
reflected the upswing in Mar-a-Lago's popularity.

''We have had a sudden surge in requests,'' he said, adding that new members
must be recommended by someone who is already a member, as is the case at many
private clubs.

Robert Weissman, president of Public Citizen, a nonprofit group that promotes
government ethics, said the move showed that Mr. Trump and his family intended
to profit from his status as president.

''At the minimum, this creates the appearance of cashing in the presidency and
selling direct personal access to the president,'' he said. ''It is
unacceptable. And it demeans the office of the presidency.''

The new initiation fee went into effect on Jan. 1, although the annual dues
remained the same -- $14,000 a year, he said.

The club has 482 members, with a cap of 500.

''It enhances it,'' Mr. Lembcke said of Mr. Trump's new job and its impact on
the value of the membership. ''His presidency does.''

''But we are very careful in vetting them,'' he added.

News about the change in the initiation fee was reported by CNBC.

Who's a fraudulent voter now?

By President Trump's definition, his senior White House adviser, Steve Bannon,
is apparently committing voter fraud.

So is his nominee to be the next Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin.

So, apparently, is one of his daughters, Tiffany Trump.

Mr. Trump was pretty broad with his definition of voter fraud when he took to
Twitter Wednesday morning to request an investigation of the nefarious conduct
of the 2016 electorate -- with no evidence to support it.

I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those
registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and.... -- Donald J.
Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017

There is, in fact, a difference between investigating actual voter fraud and
cleaning up the voter roles. If you move states, you aren't usually required to
tell the state you are leaving that you no longer want to be on the roster.

And so it goes that Mr. Bannon is registered in Sarasota County, Fla., and New
York City. Mr. Mnuchin appears on the roles of New York and California. And
Tiffany Trump, should she choose, could potentially vote in Pennsylvania and New
York. If she did, of course, that would be fraud.

First Lady of Israel congratulates Melania Trump

Now Melania Trump is fielding her own foreign leader calls. Sara Netanyahu, the
wife of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, called Mrs. Trump on
Wednesday to congratulate her on becoming the first lady, according to the prime
minister's office.

''The two of them look forward to seeing each other soon in Washington and to
working together to strengthen the ties between Israel and the United States,''
Mr. Netanyahu's office said.

Their husbands spoke by telephone earlier in the week, and Mr. Trump invited Mr.
Netanyahu to visit him in Washington next month.

Trump nominates a Navy secretary as Pentagon begins to fill

President Trump announced that he will nominate businessman and former military
intelligence officer Philip Bilden as secretary of the Navy.

Mr. Bilden, who ran a private equity firm in Hong Kong until retiring three
years ago, has expertise in both maritime affairs and Asia -- two areas that are
of central importance to the Navy. He was picked over an early Trump campaign
backer, former Rep. J. Randy Forbes of Virginia.

Mr. Bilden received a Masters of Business Administration from Harvard in 1991.

Has the National Park Service's Twitter rebellion spread?

First came the reposting of photos by the National Park Service that clearly
showed that President Trump's inauguration crowd was smaller than former
President Barack Obama's in 2009. That was followed by a contrite apology and
lots of pretty pictures.

We regret the mistaken RTs from our account yesterday and look forward to
continuing to share the beauty and history of our parks with you
pic.twitter.com/mctNNvlrmv -- NationalParkService (@NatlParkService) January 21,
2017

But the national parks took up the cause, with a Twitter storm on climate change
from the Badlands that was quickly taken down.

Yesterday, @BadlandsNPS was censored for tweeting about #ClimateChange. RT to
keep #Science facts alive. #ThankYouTrump for nothing.
pic.twitter.com/kEhGEDpdDl -- Daniel Schneider (@BiologistDan) January 25, 2017

And lots more:

"Free speech, exercised both individually and through a free press, is a
necessity in any country where the people are free." TR, 5/7/1918 -- TR
Inaugural Site (@TRInauguralSite) January 25, 2017

2016 was the hottest year on record for the 3rd year in a row. Check out this
@NASA & @NOAA report: https://t.co/rLJUC56xqi pic.twitter.com/AKhFzYw6l6 --
Golden Gate NPS (@GoldenGateNPS) January 23, 2017

Now, with word that Mr. Trump is moving to shut down the flow of refugees and
halt immigration from Muslim-majority nations, is the Defense Department joining
the fray?

From refugee to #Marine. @USMC Cpl Ali J. Mohammed takes the fight to the
doorstep of those who cast his family out.https://t.co/oSXWGrzsL7
pic.twitter.com/UVlWsaESic -- U.S. Dept of Defense (@DeptofDefense) January 25,
2017

Incidently, the National Park Service now says those Twitter posts from the
Badlands came from a disgruntled former employee who had commandeered the
account without permission. A National Park Service official said Tuesday:

''Several tweets posted on the Badlands National Park's Twitter account today
were posted by a former employee who was not currently authorized to use the
park's account. The park was not told to remove the tweets but chose to do so
when they realized that their account had been compromised.''

No official word on why so many other parks chimed in.

The Greenpeace protest banner reading "RESIST" is seen just blocks from the
White House. @Greenpeace pic.twitter.com/WDKWC8qLsl -- Doug Mills
(@dougmillsnyt) January 25, 2017

A Trump Twitter post about Chicago rankles

Mr. Trump may have thought he was being constructive when he weighed in on
Chicago's terrible murder rate, but his offer (or threat) of federal support has
not gone over well -- either with Chicago Democrats or small-government
Republicans.

If Chicago doesn't fix the horrible "carnage" going on, 228 shootings in 2017
with 42 killings (up 24% from 2016), I will send in the Feds! -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017

Rep. Luis V. GutiÃ©rrez, Democrat of Illinois was miffed.

''When the President wants to work with states and localities on public policies
to reduce gun-violence, he will find partners in cities like Chicago, but I
think he'd rather spend his time on Twitter. The President wants publicity and
to be seen beating up on Democratic elected officials and appearing hostile to a
big city like Chicago in the eyes of his suburban and rural voters. I get that.
But I doubt he has any serious intention to solve the national problem of guns
killing young people.''

But Republicans weren't too keen on the notion of the federal government
swooping into to fight city crime.

How long before he adds "I will send in the Feds!" to his Twitter bio?
https://t.co/3XqO7xC08m -- Justin Amash (@justinamash) January 25, 2017

The Republican media consultant Rick Wilson noted the obvious:

If Obama had announced he was going to "send in the Feds" to some red state,
Republicans would rightly be losing their collective minds. -- Rick Wilson
(@TheRickWilson) January 25, 2017

Perhaps Mr. Trump's motivation isn't much of a mystery. On Monday, Mayor Rahm
Emanuel of Chicago offered the president what he called ''unsolicited advice.''

''You didn't get elected to debate the crowd size at your inaugural,'' Mr.
Emanuel said. ''Now, obviously, I wasn't a supporter of then-candidate Trump. He
got elected to make sure that people have a job, the economy continues to grow,
people have security as it relates to their kids' education, etc. And it wasn't
about your crowd size. It was about their lives and their jobs.''

''The speech missed an opportunity to speak to our better angels as a country,''
he said of the president's inaugural address.

Or maybe Mr. Trump was just watching Bill O'Reilly on Fox News.

Anyone guessing why Trump suddenly tweeting about Chicago "carnage" should watch
O'Reilly segment from 8pm hour https://t.co/R8GVQX8KTx -- Michael Calderone
(@mlcalderone) January 25, 2017

Why everyone hates Washington

Who says former (and supposedly bitter) rivals can't join forces in the spirit
of Washington's most unifying party -- the ''green'' party? (That's money, get
it?)

No emoluments clause apparently can stop the former Clinton and Trump campaign
managers Robby Mook and Corey Lewandowski from hitting the road for paid gigs on
the speaking circuit, which is precisely what the two will do together. Leading
Authorities, a speakers' bureau, said it is organizing the events as
''future-focused'' assessments of Donald Trump's White House. The two will also
''debate the day's hot issues,'' including cyber attacks.

Mr. Lewandowski just recently set up shop down the street from the White House
in a consulting and lobbying firm he runs with another former Trump adviser,
Barry Bennett.

Yeh, was all one big dog-pony show from the start -- now everyone gets paid
/Mook Lewandowski Team For Paid Speeches https://t.co/QuCNHpunS4 -- Mark
Leibovich (@MarkLeibovich) January 25, 2017

Update: The speaking agency has now deleted the material from its website. A
spokesperson for the firm told Buzzfeed that the listing was generated by them
and not Mr. Mook and Mr. Lewandowski.

Another update: Mr. Mook says no way, he never would have agreed to this buddy
show.

To set record straight: I never committed to speeches w Corey & didn't agree to
posts on ''teaming up''. It was done w/o my knowledge/consent. -- Robby Mook
(@RobbyMook) January 25, 2017

Something is on Charles Grassley's mind

His press aides won't say what exactly is bothering Senator Charles E. Grassley
of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, but something clearly
has gotten his goat.

PresTrump pls issue order to all in ur executive branch ppl to answer all
Senator requests for RECORDS so we can do oversight -- ChuckGrassley
(@ChuckGrassley) January 25, 2017

I hope somebody in White House will explain to Pres Trump how important the
oversight responsibility is to this senator -- ChuckGrassley (@ChuckGrassley)
January 25, 2017

It might be that the new administration has been slow to answer requests that
date back to the Obama administration.

Pres Trump. I gave all ur cabinet appointees files of Obama unanswered oversight
letters fr me. Will u get them answred. Read nxt Twitter -- ChuckGrassley
(@ChuckGrassley) January 25, 2017

Pres Trump Drain the swamp of all Grassley oversight letter in Obama murky
bureaucracy -- ChuckGrassley (@ChuckGrassley) January 25, 2017

Then again, his committee still hasn't voted out the nomination of Mr. Trump's
nominee for attorney general, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama.

Trump Organization chooses ethics monitors, but they aren't exactly
disinterested

With the Trump Organization under a very public microscope, the company said
Tuesday that it has appointed two monitors -- Bobby Burchfield and George Sorial
-- to keep tabs on any ethical issues that may arise.

The former has strong ties to Republican politics and the latter to President
Trump.

Mr. Burchfield, a Washington lawyer who has represented George H.W. Bush and the
Republican National Committee, was appointed as independent ethics adviser to
the Trump Organization, meaning he will advise on avoiding conflicts of
interest, with the power to sign off on certain transactions.

A longtime Trump Organization executive, Mr. Sorial will now be chief compliance
officer, giving him a lead role in ensuring that the company complies with
ethics rules and standards, while also implementing new policies.

The two will assume their roles at a time when Mr. Trump has said he is trying
to remove himself from the activities of the business that carries his name. Mr.
Trump said during a news conference on Jan. 11 that he would place his business
in a trust controlled by his two adult sons -- but some ethics experts have
chided the plan for not going far enough to avoid conflicts.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/25/us/politics/donald-trump-administration.html

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       February 3, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

How David Became Goliath: The Secret of Israel's Military Success;
Nonfiction

BYLINE: ROSA BROOKS

SECTION: BOOKS; review

LENGTH: 1032 words



HIGHLIGHT: "The Weapon Wizards" by Yaakov Katz and Amir Bohbot examines how
Israel became a giant in military technology.


THE WEAPON WIZARDS
How Israel Became a High-Tech Military Superpower
By Yaakov Katz and Amir Bohbot
Illustrated. 288 pp. St. Martin's Press. $27.99.

Seventy years ago, the state of Israel was still just a gleam in Zionists' eyes,
and the future state's military was hardly more than a ragtag group of
irregulars, forced to manufacture bullets in a secret facility built underneath
a kibbutz. Today, Israel's military is widely viewed as one of the most
effective in the world. Once compelled to arm itself with surplus equipment
purchased from more powerful states (and sometimes obtained by stealth), Israel
is now one of the world's six largest arms exporters, earning billions each year
through the sale of military equipment to buyers from China and India to
Colombia and Russia.

"The Weapon Wizards: How Israel Became a High-Tech Military Superpower" tells
the story of this transformation. Written by the Israeli journalists Yaakov Katz
and Amir Bohbot, "The Weapon Wizards" offers a lively account of Israel's
evolving military prowess, from the early days of Jewish paramilitaries
operating within the British Mandate to Israel's recent emergence as exporter of
60 percent of the world's drones. From satellites and missile defense systems to
adaptive armor and cyber weapons, Israel has consistently found ways to
circumvent or leapfrog financial and technological barriers.

But Katz and Bohbot aspire to do more than just offer a journalistic history of
the Israeli military's technological advances: They aim to explain just how the
tiny Jewish state managed to become such a military innovator. "How did Israel
do it?" Katz and Bohbot ask. "What was the secret to Israel's success?" Their
answer: brains, pluck and the bracing prospect of imminent annihilation.

If "The Weapon Wizards" were a novel, it would be one written by Horatio Alger;
if it were a biblical allegory, it would be the story of David and Goliath. Katz
and Bohbot highlight several interconnected cultural drivers of Israel's
military innovations. Surrounded by enemies at its inception, Israel came to
view itself as a nation that could, as Arieh Herzog, a former head of Israel's
missile defense agency, put it, "either innovate or disappear." Meanwhile, "the
Jewish tradition of education and scholarship" led Israel to place a high value
on investments in research and development.

Today, Israel devotes a higher percentage of its G.D.P. to research and
development than any other country, and Katz and Bohbot note that roughly 30
percent of Israeli R&D goes toward military technologies. Israel also invests in
its human resources, with numerous specialized educational programs designed to
bring top talent into the military and to send soldiers back to school. (Katz
and Bohbot quote Shimon Peres: "We need to invest in soldiers' brains, not just
their muscles.")

Israel's small size, combined with its tradition of universal military service,
also helps, by ensuring that there's rarely more than one degree of separation
between military officials, scientists and entrepreneurs; as a result, military
needs and challenges are quickly and easily communicated to policy makers,
academics and financiers.

Finally, Kahn and Bohbot argue, Israel's culture of informality offers an
underappreciated advantage: "What makes Israel unique is the complete lack of
structure." The absence of "social hierarchy . . . helps spur innovation." In
Israel, junior soldiers feel free to argue with high-ranking officers, and "a
keen sense of chutzpah" encourages creativity and protects against groupthink.

"The Weapon Wizards" offers plenty of good stories about fascinating people.
There's the young Shimon Peres, negotiating weapons deals in Havana nightclubs.
There's Danny Shapira, the legendary Israeli pilot testing French Mirages.
There's the Israeli official who helps start Israel's drone program in the late
1960s by buying remote-control airplanes at a Manhattan toy store and sending
them back to Israel in the embassy's diplomatic pouch.

What "The Weapon Wizards" doesn't offer is any meditation on the political
context or implications of Israel's rise to military superpower status. Katz and
Bohbot are cheerleaders, not critics, and there's little room for introspection
in this breathless tale of triumph over adversity. Left largely unmentioned, for
instance, is the role of the United States. American security guarantees over
the last few decades have kept Israel's neighbors relatively docile, if not
precisely friendly, and nearly a quarter of Israel's annual defense budget is
effectively paid for by the United States. Israel receives more American
military aid than every other country in the world combined. A more complete
answer to "How did Israel do it?" might be: pluck, brains and billions of
dollars of American aid each year.

"The Weapon Wizards" is also largely silent on how Israel uses its military
might. Absent is any reflection on the role of the Israeli armed forces in
paving the way for the contentious expansion of Jewish settlements into
Palestinian territory, for instance, or the Israeli practice of destroying homes
occupied by the families of suspected militants, though both have been condemned
by the international community.

Katz and Bohbot are similarly uninterested in the brave new world Israel is
helping to create. Israel, they note with pride, has "become the first country
to master the art of targeted killings," which have now become "the global
standard in the war on terror." Some might consider this a dubious honor. To
Katz and Bohbot, however, targeted killings are interesting only because they
showcase the combination of "cutting-edge technology, high quality intelligence,
and Israel's best and brightest minds."

Israel, Katz and Bohbot note, is "changing the way wars are being fought around
the globe." Readers will have to decide for themselves if this is something to
cheer or mourn.

Rosa Brooks is a professor at Georgetown University Law Center and the author of
"How Everything Became War and the Military Became Everything."

PHOTO: An Israeli Arrow antiballistic missile, in service since 2000.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SVEN NACKSTRAND/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      February 4, 2017 Saturday 00:00 EST

The Women's March in My Living Room;
Opinion

BYLINE: CATHY GUISEWITE

SECTION: OPINION; sunday

LENGTH: 1333 words



HIGHLIGHT: I gained 40 pounds with one Betty's fudge cake while trying to digest
the other Betty's "Feminine Mystique."


I pull the covers over my head so I can enjoy a few more happy, sleepy minutes
of denial before I get up. To bask in how I might have contributed to the
universe yesterday, embolden myself for what today brings. I scroll down my
inner list, starting with the easy ones, the things I surely accomplished:

Did I walk 10,000 steps yesterday? No.

Did I even make it around the block? No.

Did I clean up the kitchen before I went to bed? No.

Brush the dog? No.

Email any members of Congress? No.

Make my voice heard in any way except by whining to friends or yelling at the
TV? No.

Denial isn't working. I was much more proud of myself when I was sound asleep. I
sit bolt upright in bed, remembering with horror that I'm supposed to be a role
model. It's been awhile since I spent my days putting things into perspective
for others in comic strip form, but I'm at least supposed to be a decent example
for the young woman I hear in the living room who's home for the weekend from
college.

I pause, as I do most mornings, to think of the compassionate, stable parents
who recently moved out of our country's nice, big white house and of the bizarre
babysitter who's now in charge. I squeeze my eyes shut and hope for inspiration.
Inspiration comes roaring back. The sound of millions of women who rallied past
diapers and to-do lists, traveled thousands of miles, to march together all over
the world last month. Millions of voices raised to protect what our grandmothers
dreamed of, our mothers hoped for, what we earned and our girls will inherit.

I'm reminded that I can make a difference only if I get out of bed. The
possibility propels me to my feet, into my sweatsuit, through two
will-emboldening cups of coffee, a 26-grain piece of toast, and straight into
Plan B.

Today, I declare, I'm beginning my own demonstration.

I march into the living room and boldly position myself between my 24-year-old
daughter and the YouTube show she's streaming on the 50-inch smart TV that takes
up half the wall.

I want to show her how change can happen, so she isn't afraid of everything else
that's happening now. To protect her by empowering her with an example of what
one voice can do.

And so I hold this up: the beaming face of Mary Tyler Moore on the cover of a
DVD set of "The Mary Tyler Moore Show." Mary just left us, at the age of 80,
four days after the Women's March on Washington. I want my daughter to know the
connection.

"This is how I got here, baby," I say, gripping the DVDs. "This is the woman who
helped me rise up from the doughnut box when I was exactly the age you are today
and go on.

"I know things seem impossible right now. People are on opposite sides and
neither side can even stand to hear the other speak. But people were on opposite
sides when I was your age, too. When I was 24, a young woman could either aspire
to be a homemaking Betty Crocker or a militant Betty Friedan. We argued about
things you can't comprehend. Should a woman be allowed to have a job? If she got
a job, should she be allowed to wear pants to the office? If she got married
before 25, was she betraying the new career possibilities for which women had
been fighting for a century? If she wasn't married by 35, was she an old maid?"

My daughter stares. I haven't explained this well at all. How is it possible
I've been such a devoted, hovering mother and haven't ever really explained how
we got from then to now?

"I gained 40 pounds with one Betty's Triple Chocolate Fudge Cake Mix while
trying to digest the other Betty's 'Feminine Mystique.' " I point to the box in
my hand. "Mary Tyler Moore navigated the middle ground for me with a gentle
grace. She was a bridge between worlds for so many of us who felt stuck with a
foot -- and a fork -- on each side.

"I walked through the door Mary Tyler Moore opened. Her show gave me permission
to express the vulnerabilities of feeling stuck in the middle, which made it
possible for me to create my comic strip. I was criticized, like Mary was,
sometimes, for using the incredible public platform I had to portray a female
character who was 'stereotypically female' instead of voicing a more powerful,
strident feminist message. But I didn't have a powerful, strident feminist
message. I had confusion and angst. I had insecurities at a time it was
increasingly uncool to voice them. A lot of women did.

"Lots of my comic strips got passed around offices and posted on refrigerators,"
I tell her. "But lots more got tucked into diaries and drawers. Women wrote me
to say I made them feel they weren't alone, and they reassured me I wasn't alone
either. We kept each other going, which opened doors for other women, which
opened doors for other women, and on and on ..."

My daughter, whose assumption that all doors all over the universe are open to
her is so deeply ingrained it's impossible for her to grasp a different reality,
stares more blankly.

She's too happy, I think. I marched in here to arm her with the tools to help
her feel safe. Now I see that first I have to help her be more afraid. Does a
mother ever get a moment off?

A lot has changed for her generation, but some things only look as if they've
changed. My generation freed women from soul-suppressing girdles. Her generation
proudly buys knee-to-chest Spanx. My generation liberated women from the 10 p.m.
curfew and the good-night kiss at the door. Hers lives with the expectation of
intimacy before love.

My generation demanded respect as equals in the workplace, and the right to not
have to dress like a man to succeed. Her generation wears tiny skirts to
business meetings and wrestles with the consequences of the conflicting messages
they send with their self-respect perched on 4-inch heels. My generation
championed the right of women to be proud of our beautiful, natural curves. And
yet almost every single member of my daughter's generation still sobs in the
swimsuit department dressing room.

When I'm not wanting to strangle my daughter for her sense of entitlement, I
want to wrap my arms around her for all the still-impossible choices she'll have
to make. Stay home with the baby and give up the chance to really pursue the
career she's studied so long for? Pursue the career and give up the chance to be
with her baby full time for those first irreplaceable years? I still wake up in
the middle of the night wondering how different my daughter's life would have
been if I'd spent all those hours drawing and coloring with her instead of
drawing and coloring at my office. And even if the guilt weren't there, or the
biological urge, or the cultural norm, many women still earn less than men, so
it's often not a choice who will stay home.

Even with all my generation did to make it a better world, I am way more scared
for her to navigate life as a grown-up than I was for myself. Our daughters have
a universe of cyber-friends, but fewer real ones. They have instant access to
information, but sometimes it helps them filter out only what they don't want to
see.

I hold the DVD set high. "You need to see this right now, honey, when so much of
what's been won for women feels threatened. You need to see what one, sometimes
quivery, voice did to move millions. How minds and doors got opened by someone
who found a way to gently, graciously shift things just enough so that people
could imagine a different future. You need to know that every single one of us
has the power to question everything."

My daughter is fully present now. I've stirred something in her.

"I know you have questions, and I want to answer them all," I say. "Ask me
anything!"

"What's a DVD, Mom?" she asks.

I smack Season 1 into the system, and wrap a loving arm around her shoulder so
she can't get up. I click "play" and am grateful, all over again, to have Mary
here with me.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Cathy Guisewite, the creator of the comic strip "Cathy," is working on a book of
essays.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY CATHY GUISEWITE)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 5, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Women's March in My Living Room

BYLINE: By CATHY GUISEWITE.

Cathy Guisewite, the creator of the comic strip ''Cathy,'' is working on a book
of essays.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1328 words


I pull the covers over my head so I can enjoy a few more happy, sleepy minutes
of denial before I get up. To bask in how I might have contributed to the
universe yesterday, embolden myself for what today brings. I scroll down my
inner list, starting with the easy ones, the things I surely accomplished:

Did I walk 10,000 steps yesterday? No.

Did I even make it around the block? No.

Did I clean up the kitchen before I went to bed? No.

Brush the dog? No.

Email any members of Congress? No.

Make my voice heard in any way except by whining to friends or yelling at the
TV? No.

Denial isn't working. I was much more proud of myself when I was sound asleep. I
sit bolt upright in bed, remembering with horror that I'm supposed to be a role
model. It's been awhile since I spent my days putting things into perspective
for others in comic strip form, but I'm at least supposed to be a decent example
for the young woman I hear in the living room who's home for the weekend from
college.

I pause, as I do most mornings, to think of the compassionate, stable parents
who recently moved out of our country's nice, big white house and of the bizarre
babysitter who's now in charge. I squeeze my eyes shut and hope for inspiration.
Inspiration comes roaring back. The sound of millions of women who rallied past
diapers and to-do lists, traveled thousands of miles, to march together all over
the world last month. Millions of voices raised to protect what our grandmothers
dreamed of, our mothers hoped for, what we earned and our girls will inherit.

I'm reminded that I can make a difference only if I get out of bed. The
possibility propels me to my feet, into my sweatsuit, through two
will-emboldening cups of coffee, a 26-grain piece of toast, and straight into
Plan B.

Today, I declare, I'm beginning my own demonstration.

I march into the living room and boldly position myself between my 24-year-old
daughter and the YouTube show she's streaming on the 50-inch smart TV that takes
up half the wall.

I want to show her how change can happen, so she isn't afraid of everything else
that's happening now. To protect her by empowering her with an example of what
one voice can do.

And so I hold this up: the beaming face of Mary Tyler Moore on the cover of a
DVD set of ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show.'' Mary just left us, at the age of 80,
four days after the Women's March on Washington. I want my daughter to know the
connection.

''This is how I got here, baby,'' I say, gripping the DVDs. ''This is the woman
who helped me rise up from the doughnut box when I was exactly the age you are
today and go on.

''I know things seem impossible right now. People are on opposite sides and
neither side can even stand to hear the other speak. But people were on opposite
sides when I was your age, too. When I was 24, a young woman could either aspire
to be a homemaking Betty Crocker or a militant Betty Friedan. We argued about
things you can't comprehend. Should a woman be allowed to have a job? If she got
a job, should she be allowed to wear pants to the office? If she got married
before 25, was she betraying the new career possibilities for which women had
been fighting for a century? If she wasn't married by 35, was she an old maid?''

My daughter stares. I haven't explained this well at all. How is it possible
I've been such a devoted, hovering mother and haven't ever really explained how
we got from then to now?

''I gained 40 pounds with one Betty's Triple Chocolate Fudge Cake Mix while
trying to digest the other Betty's 'Feminine Mystique.' '' I point to the box in
my hand. ''Mary Tyler Moore navigated the middle ground for me with a gentle
grace. She was a bridge between worlds for so many of us who felt stuck with a
foot -- and a fork -- on each side.

''I walked through the door Mary Tyler Moore opened. Her show gave me permission
to express the vulnerabilities of feeling stuck in the middle, which made it
possible for me to create my comic strip. I was criticized, like Mary was,
sometimes, for using the incredible public platform I had to portray a female
character who was 'stereotypically female' instead of voicing a more powerful,
strident feminist message. But I didn't have a powerful, strident feminist
message. I had confusion and angst. I had insecurities at a time it was
increasingly uncool to voice them. A lot of women did.

''Lots of my comic strips got passed around offices and posted on
refrigerators,'' I tell her. ''But lots more got tucked into diaries and
drawers. Women wrote me to say I made them feel they weren't alone, and they
reassured me I wasn't alone either. We kept each other going, which opened doors
for other women, which opened doors for other women, and on and on ...''

My daughter, whose assumption that all doors all over the universe are open to
her is so deeply ingrained it's impossible for her to grasp a different reality,
stares more blankly.

She's too happy, I think. I marched in here to arm her with the tools to help
her feel safe. Now I see that first I have to help her be more afraid. Does a
mother ever get a moment off?

A lot has changed for her generation, but some things only look as if they've
changed. My generation freed women from soul-suppressing girdles. Her generation
proudly buys knee-to-chest Spanx. My generation liberated women from the 10 p.m.
curfew and the good-night kiss at the door. Hers lives with the expectation of
intimacy before love.

My generation demanded respect as equals in the workplace, and the right to not
have to dress like a man to succeed. Her generation wears tiny skirts to
business meetings and wrestles with the consequences of the conflicting messages
they send with their self-respect perched on 4-inch heels. My generation
championed the right of women to be proud of our beautiful, natural curves. And
yet almost every single member of my daughter's generation still sobs in the
swimsuit department dressing room.

When I'm not wanting to strangle my daughter for her sense of entitlement, I
want to wrap my arms around her for all the still-impossible choices she'll have
to make. Stay home with the baby and give up the chance to really pursue the
career she's studied so long for? Pursue the career and give up the chance to be
with her baby full time for those first irreplaceable years? I still wake up in
the middle of the night wondering how different my daughter's life would have
been if I'd spent all those hours drawing and coloring with her instead of
drawing and coloring at my office. And even if the guilt weren't there, or the
biological urge, or the cultural norm, many women still earn less than men, so
it's often not a choice who will stay home.

Even with all my generation did to make it a better world, I am way more scared
for her to navigate life as a grown-up than I was for myself. Our daughters have
a universe of cyber-friends, but fewer real ones. They have instant access to
information, but sometimes it helps them filter out only what they don't want to
see.

I hold the DVD set high. ''You need to see this right now, honey, when so much
of what's been won for women feels threatened. You need to see what one,
sometimes quivery, voice did to move millions. How minds and doors got opened by
someone who found a way to gently, graciously shift things just enough so that
people could imagine a different future. You need to know that every single one
of us has the power to question everything.''

My daughter is fully present now. I've stirred something in her.

''I know you have questions, and I want to answer them all,'' I say. ''Ask me
anything!''

''What's a DVD, Mom?'' she asks.

I smack Season 1 into the system, and wrap a loving arm around her shoulder so
she can't get up. I click ''play'' and am grateful, all over again, to have Mary
here with me.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/04/opinion/sunday/the-womens-march-in-my-living-r
oom.html

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CATHY GUISEWITE)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 5, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

How David Became Goliath

BYLINE: By ROSA BROOKS.

Rosa Brooks is a professor at Georgetown University Law Center and the author of
''How Everything Became War and the Military Became Everything.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; NONFICTION; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 996 words


THE WEAPON WIZARDSHow Israel Became a High-Tech Military SuperpowerBy Yaakov
Katz and Amir BohbotIllustrated. 288 pp. St. Martin's Press. $27.99.

Seventy years ago, the state of Israel was still just a gleam in Zionists' eyes,
and the future state's military was hardly more than a ragtag group of
irregulars, forced to manufacture bullets in a secret facility built underneath
a kibbutz. Today, Israel's military is widely viewed as one of the most
effective in the world. Once compelled to arm itself with surplus equipment
purchased from more powerful states (and sometimes obtained by stealth), Israel
is now one of the world's six largest arms exporters, earning billions each year
through the sale of military equipment to buyers from China and India to
Colombia and Russia.

''The Weapon Wizards: How Israel Became a High-Tech Military Superpower'' tells
the story of this transformation. Written by the Israeli journalists Yaakov Katz
and Amir Bohbot, ''The Weapon Wizards'' offers a lively account of Israel's
evolving military prowess, from the early days of Jewish paramilitaries
operating within the British Mandate to Israel's recent emergence as exporter of
60 percent of the world's drones. From satellites and missile defense systems to
adaptive armor and cyber weapons, Israel has consistently found ways to
circumvent or leapfrog financial and technological barriers.

But Katz and Bohbot aspire to do more than just offer a journalistic history of
the Israeli military's technological advances: They aim to explain just how the
tiny Jewish state managed to become such a military innovator. ''How did Israel
do it?'' Katz and Bohbot ask. ''What was the secret to Israel's success?'' Their
answer: brains, pluck and the bracing prospect of imminent annihilation.

If ''The Weapon Wizards'' were a novel, it would be one written by Horatio
Alger; if it were a biblical allegory, it would be the story of David and
Goliath. Katz and Bohbot highlight several interconnected cultural drivers of
Israel's military innovations. Surrounded by enemies at its inception, Israel
came to view itself as a nation that could, as Arieh Herzog, a former head of
Israel's missile defense agency, put it, ''either innovate or disappear.''
Meanwhile, ''the Jewish tradition of education and scholarship'' led Israel to
place a high value on investments in research and development.

Today, Israel devotes a higher percentage of its G.D.P. to research and
development than any other country, and Katz and Bohbot note that roughly 30
percent of Israeli R&D goes toward military technologies. Israel also invests in
its human resources, with numerous specialized educational programs designed to
bring top talent into the military and to send soldiers back to school. (Katz
and Bohbot quote Shimon Peres: ''We need to invest in soldiers' brains, not just
their muscles.'')

Israel's small size, combined with its tradition of universal military service,
also helps, by ensuring that there's rarely more than one degree of separation
between military officials, scientists and entrepreneurs; as a result, military
needs and challenges are quickly and easily communicated to policy makers,
academics and financiers.

Finally, Kahn and Bohbot argue, Israel's culture of informality offers an
underappreciated advantage: ''What makes Israel unique is the complete lack of
structure.'' The absence of ''social hierarchy
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. helps spur innovation.'' In Israel, junior
soldiers feel free to argue with high-ranking officers, and ''a keen sense of
chutzpah'' encourages creativity and protects against groupthink.

''The Weapon Wizards'' offers plenty of good stories about fascinating people.
There's the young Shimon Peres, negotiating weapons deals in Havana nightclubs.
There's Danny Shapira, the legendary Israeli pilot testing French Mirages.
There's the Israeli official who helps start Israel's drone program in the late
1960s by buying remote-control airplanes at a Manhattan toy store and sending
them back to Israel in the embassy's diplomatic pouch.

What ''The Weapon Wizards'' doesn't offer is any meditation on the political
context or implications of Israel's rise to military superpower status. Katz and
Bohbot are cheerleaders, not critics, and there's little room for introspection
in this breathless tale of triumph over adversity. Left largely unmentioned, for
instance, is the role of the United States. American security guarantees over
the last few decades have kept Israel's neighbors relatively docile, if not
precisely friendly, and nearly a quarter of Israel's annual defense budget is
effectively paid for by the United States. Israel receives more American
military aid than every other country in the world combined. A more complete
answer to ''How did Israel do it?'' might be: pluck, brains and billions of
dollars of American aid each year.

''The Weapon Wizards'' is also largely silent on how Israel uses its military
might. Absent is any reflection on the role of the Israeli armed forces in
paving the way for the contentious expansion of Jewish settlements into
Palestinian territory, for instance, or the Israeli practice of destroying homes
occupied by the families of suspected militants, though both have been condemned
by the international community.

Katz and Bohbot are similarly uninterested in the brave new world Israel is
helping to create. Israel, they note with pride, has ''become the first country
to master the art of targeted killings,'' which have now become ''the global
standard in the war on terror.'' Some might consider this a dubious honor. To
Katz and Bohbot, however, targeted killings are interesting only because they
showcase the combination of ''cutting-edge technology, high quality
intelligence, and Israel's best and brightest minds.''

Israel, Katz and Bohbot note, is ''changing the way wars are being fought around
the globe.'' Readers will have to decide for themselves if this is something to
cheer or mourn.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/03/books/review/weapon-wizards-yaakov-katz-amir-b
ohbot.html

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Israeli Arrow antiballistic missile, in service since 2000.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SVEN NACKSTRAND/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      February 8, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Government Contractor Indicted in Theft of Top-Secret Documents

BYLINE: ADAM GOLDMAN

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 543 words



HIGHLIGHT: Prosecutors said Harold T. Martin III stole an array of information,
including material on counterterrorism operations, a foreign intelligence target
and the launch of a satellite.


WASHINGTON -- A former security contractor was indicted on Wednesday on charges
of stealing a trove of highly classified information that federal prosecutors,
for the first time, said included documents on sensitive counterterrorism
operations, a foreign intelligence target the C.I.A. was tracking and the launch
of a satellite.

The 20-count indictment that was unsealed in Maryland federal court offered just
a glimpse of what prosecutors claim Harold T. Martin III, 52, stole undetected
for years.

Mr. Martin, of Glen Burnie, Md., was arrested in late August after the F.B.I.
raided his house and found an estimated 50 terabytes of electronic files in his
home office, car and shed. It is still not clear why Mr. Martin was hoarding the
documents, and prosecutors have not suggested, at least publicly, that he might
have passed the information to anyone or sold it to a foreign intelligence
agency.

The indictment says Mr. Martin was employed as a private contractor for the
American government from December 1993 to August 2016. In that time, he worked
for at least seven private companies, including Booz Allen Hamilton. He held
security clearances that allowed him access to some of the government's most
sensitive intelligence programs.

"The indictment alleges that for as long as two decades, Harold Martin
flagrantly abused the trust placed in him by the government by stealing
documents containing highly classified information," Rod J. Rosenstein, the
United States attorney for Maryland, said in a statement.

Mr. Martin's lawyer, James Wyda of the federal public defender's office, said he
had no comment. If convicted on all counts, Mr. Martin could face a 200-year
prison sentence. He is being held without bail.

According to the indictment, he is accused of taking materials from the C.I.A.,
the National Security Agency, the United States Cyber Command, the Defense
Department and the National Reconnaissance Office, which is in charge of
America's intelligence satellites.

A majority of the documents listed in the indictment against Mr. Martin were
taken from the N.S.A., according to prosecutors. There is a 1996 N.S.A. weekly
status summary of national defense concerns around the world; an outline of an
exercise involving N.S.A. and American military "resources to demonstrate
existing cyberintelligence and operational capabilities"; and an N.S.A.
"antiterrorism operational document concerning extremely sensitive U.S. planning
and operations regarding global terrorists."

It appears that Mr. Martin took home classified information just days before his
arrest, while he was working at the Cyber Command. One document was dated Aug.
17, 2016, and was described as discussing gaps in military capabilities and
details of specific operations.

According to court documents, Mr. Martin served in the United States Navy for
four years until 1992 and then was in the Navy Reserve for eight years.

Follow Adam Goldman on Twitter @adamgoldmanNYT.

Scott Shane contributed reporting.

Related Articles


     ·    N.S.A. Gets More Latitude to Share Intercepted Communications
     ·    N.S.A. Appears to Have Missed 'Big Red Flags' in Suspect's Behavior
     ·    N.S.A. Suspect Is a Hoarder. But a Leaker? Investigators Aren't Sure.
     ·    N.S.A. Contractor Arrested in Possible New Theft of Secrets


LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 9, 2017 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Contractor Is Indicted in Stealing of Secrets

BYLINE: By ADAM GOLDMAN; Scott Shane contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 496 words


WASHINGTON -- A former security contractor was indicted on Wednesday on charges
of stealing a trove of highly classified information that federal prosecutors,
for the first time, said included documents on sensitive counterterrorism
operations, a foreign intelligence target the C.I.A. was tracking and the launch
of a satellite.

The 20-count indictment that was unsealed in Maryland federal court offered just
a glimpse of what prosecutors claim Harold T. Martin III, 52, stole undetected
for years.

Mr. Martin, of Glen Burnie, Md., was arrested in late August after the F.B.I.
raided his house and found an estimated 50 terabytes of electronic files in his
home office, car and shed. It is still not clear why Mr. Martin was hoarding the
documents, and prosecutors have not suggested, at least publicly, that he might
have passed the information to anyone or sold it to a foreign intelligence
agency.

The indictment says Mr. Martin was employed as a private contractor for the
American government from December 1993 to August 2016. In that time, he worked
for at least seven private companies, including Booz Allen Hamilton. He held
security clearances that allowed him access to some of the government's most
sensitive intelligence programs.

''The indictment alleges that for as long as two decades, Harold Martin
flagrantly abused the trust placed in him by the government by stealing
documents containing highly classified information,'' Rod J. Rosenstein, the
United States attorney for Maryland, said in a statement.

Mr. Martin's lawyer, James Wyda of the federal public defender's office, said he
had no comment. If convicted on all counts, Mr. Martin could face a 200-year
prison sentence. He is being held without bail.

According to the indictment, he is accused of taking materials from the C.I.A.,
the National Security Agency, the United States Cyber Command, the Defense
Department and the National Reconnaissance Office, which is in charge of
America's intelligence satellites.

A majority of the documents listed in the indictment against Mr. Martin were
taken from the N.S.A., according to prosecutors. There is a 1996 N.S.A. weekly
status summary of national defense concerns around the world; an outline of an
exercise involving N.S.A. and American military ''resources to demonstrate
existing cyberintelligence and operational capabilities''; and an N.S.A.
''antiterrorism operational document concerning extremely sensitive U.S.
planning and operations regarding global terrorists.''

It appears that Mr. Martin took home classified information just days before his
arrest, while he was working at the Cyber Command. One document was dated Aug.
17, 2016, and was described as discussing gaps in military capabilities and
details of specific operations.

According to court documents, Mr. Martin served in the United States Navy for
four years until 1992 and then was in the Navy Reserve for eight years.

Follow Adam Goldman on Twitter @adamgoldmanNYT.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/08/us/politics/harold-martin-nsa.html

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      February 11, 2017 Saturday 00:00 EST

Spyware's Odd Targets: Backers of Mexico's Soda Tax

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1819 words



HIGHLIGHT: The first hints that the phones of nutrition policy makers were
infected were strange messages from unknown contacts.


SAN FRANCISCO -- Last summer, Dr. Simón Barquera's phone started buzzing with a
series of disturbing text messages from unknown numbers. One said his daughter
had been in a serious accident. Another claimed to be from a friend whose father
had died -- with a link to funeral details.

Yet another message informed Dr. Barquera, the director of nutrition policy at
Mexico's National Institute of Public Health, that a Mexican news outlet had
accused him of negligence, again with a link. And in more menacing messages,
someone claimed to be sleeping with Dr. Barquera's wife. That included a link to
what the sender claimed was photo evidence of their affair.

That same week, Luis Manuel Encarnación, then the director at Fundación Mídete,
a foundation in Mexico City that battles obesity, also started receiving strange
messages with links. When he clicked, Mr. Encarnación was ominously redirected
to Gayosso, Mexico's largest funeral service.

The messages Mr. Encarnación received were identical to a series of texts sent
to Alejandro Calvillo, a mild-mannered activist and founder of El Poder del
Consumidor, yet another Mexico City organization that has been at the forefront
of battling childhood obesity in the country.

What the men had in common was this: All were vocal proponents of Mexico's 2014
soda tax, the first national soda tax of its kind. It is aimed at reducing
consumption of sugary drinks in Mexico, where weight-related diseases kill more
people every year than violent crime.

The links sent to the men were laced with an invasive form of spyware developed
by NSO Group, an Israeli cyberarms dealer that sells its digital spy tools
exclusively to governments and that has contracts with multiple agencies inside
Mexico, according to company emails leaked to The New York Times last year.

NSO Group and the dozens of other commercial spyware outfits that have cropped
up around the globe over the past decade operate in a largely unregulated
market. Spyware makers like NSO Group, Hacking Team in Italy and Gamma Group in
Britain insist they sell tools only to governments for criminal and terrorism
investigations.

But it is left to government agents to decide whom they will and will not hack
with spying tools that can trace a target's every phone call, text message,
email, keystroke, location, sound and sight.

The discovery of NSO's spyware on the phones of Mexican nutrition policy makers,
activists and even government employees, like Dr. Barquera, raises new questions
about whether NSO's tools are being used to advance the soda industry's
commercial interests in Mexico.

The soda industry has poured over $67 million into defeating state and local
efforts to regulate soft drink sales in the United States since 2009, according
to the Center for Science in the Public Interest. But the tax in Mexico --
Coca-Cola's biggest consumer market by per capita consumption -- posed an
exceptional threat. After the tax passed in 2014, Coca-Cola pledged $8.2 billion
worth of investments in Mexico through 2020. And soda giants have lobbied
against the tax through various industry groups, like ConMéxico, which
represents Coca-Cola and PepsiCo.

Lorena Cerdán, director of ConMéxico, said the group had no knowledge of, or
part in, the mobile hacking. "This is the first we're hearing of it," Ms. Cerdán
said. "And frankly, it scares us, too."

The timing of the hacking coincided with a planned effort by advocacy
organizations and health researchers -- including Dr. Barquera, Mr. Calvillo and
Mr. Encarnación -- to coordinate a mass media campaign to build support for
doubling the soda tax, an effort that stalled in Mexico's Congress in November.
The three men also opposed a failed effort by Mexican legislators and soda
lobbyists in 2015 to cut the tax in half.

One week after health researchers and advocates announced their campaign in a
news conference last summer, their phones began to buzz with the spyware-laced
messages.

"This is proof that surveillance in Mexico is out of control," said Luis
Fernando García, the director of the Red en Defensa de los Derechos Digitales, a
Mexican digital rights nonprofit better known by the acronym R3D. "When we have
proof that this surveillance is being used against nutritional activists, it's
clear Mexico should not be given these technologies."

NSO Group's motto is "Make the World a Safer Place." But its spyware is
increasingly turning up on the phones of journalists, dissidents and human
rights activists.

NSO spyware was discovered on the phone of a human-rights activist in the United
Arab Emirates and a prominent Mexican journalist in August. Researchers at the
Citizen Lab at the University of Toronto's Munk School of Global Affairs
discovered NSO had exploited flaws in Apple software -- since patched -- to
infiltrate the phones of the Emirati activist and the Mexican journalist, Rafael
Cabrera.

In 2015, Mr. Cabrera reported that a luxury home that had been custom-built for
President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico and his wife was owned by the subsidiary
of a Chinese company that had been awarded hundreds of millions of dollars in
government contracts. Mr. Cabrera's report forced the presidential couple to
forgo its stake in the home and the government to rescind contracts.

The discovery of spyware on Mr. Cabrera's phone prompted digital rights
activists to warn more journalists and activists in Mexico to look out for
similarly suspicious text messages. In the process, they uncovered a new class
of targets: nutrition policy makers and activists, some of whom were government
employees.

Each had been targeted by NSO's main product, a tracking system called Pegasus,
that could extract their text messages, contact lists, calendar records, emails,
instant messages and location. It turned their phones into recording devices and
secretly captured live footage off their cameras. Its full range of capabilities
was detailed in an NSO Group marketing proposal leaked to The Times last year.

In interviews and statements, NSO Group -- whose headquarters are in Herzliya,
Israel, but which sold a controlling stake in 2014 to Francisco Partners, a San
Francisco-based private equity firm -- claims to sell its spyware only to law
enforcement agencies to track terrorists, criminals and drug lords. NSO
executives point to technical safeguards that prevent clients from sharing its
spy tools.

An NSO spokesman reiterated those restrictions in a statement on Thursday, and
said the company had no knowledge of the tracking of health researchers and
advocates inside Mexico.

It is not clear why any Mexican government agency would deploy the spyware to
track those on the front lines of the fight to battle obesity in Mexico -- where
diabetes was recently declared a national emergency -- nor is it clear which
Mexican government agency could be behind the surveillance.

"Mexico's intelligence systems are subject to federal relevant legislation and
have legal authorization," Ricardo Alday, a spokesman for the Mexican Embassy in
Washington, said in a statement. "They are not used against journalists or
activists. All contracts with the federal government are done in accordance with
the law."

The NSO emails leaked to The Times referred to multimillion-dollar, continuing
NSO Group contracts with several government agencies inside Mexico, and the
Mexican government has been an enthusiastic buyer of foreign spy tools.

Mexico was listed as the biggest client of Hacking Team, the Italian cyber
-surveillance firm, which was itself hacked in 2015. Hacked internal documents
published online showed that at least 14 Mexican states and government agencies
had paid $6.3 million to Hacking Team for its spy tools since 2010.

Mexico's Interior Ministry, which operates Cisen, the civil national security
intelligence service, was listed as Hacking Team's highest-paying client. Other
clients included the Mexican Navy, federal police and attorney general's office,
as well as several Mexican states.

The leaked Hacking Team emails also revealed that the firm was increasingly
facing competition from NSO Group to procure contracts with Cisen, the Mexican
attorney general's office and Sedena, an acronym for the office of Mexico's
secretary of national defense.

The health researchers did not discover their phones had been targeted with NSO
spyware until August. That month, SocialTIC, a Mexican digital security
nonprofit, and R3D warned its contacts to look for suspicious messages. A
subsequent forensics investigation by Citizen Lab of the messagessent to Mr.
Calvillo, Dr. Barquera, Mr. Encarnación and others confirmed that they were
laced with NSO Group spyware.

NSO Group executives say they have a strict vetting process to determine the
countries with which they will do business, which includes an ethics committee
comprising employees and an outside counsel that vets potential government
clients based on human rights rankings set by the World Bank and other bodies.
Executives said they had pulled contracts when they uncovered human rights
violations.

But it is unclear how the Mexican spy efforts made it through the vetting
process.

"This is one of the most brazen cases of abuse we have ever seen," said John
Scott-Railton, a senior researcher at Citizen Lab. "It points to a total
breakdown of government oversight in Mexico, and a complete failure of due
diligence by the NSO Group."

The legal case for the use of spyware in Mexico is uncertain. Only the federal
and justice authorities can lawfully intercept private communications in Mexico,
but require a court order to do so. However, Mr. García and others argue that
spyware is more invasive than traditional forms of interception, and they say it
is not clear what case the government would have to monitor the communications
of health researchers and activists.

"I doubt these intrusions were approved by any judge," Mr. García, of R3D, said.

In interviews, Dr. Barquera, Mr. Encarnación and Mr. Calvillo all said they were
not sure which government agency could be behind the hacking. Each said he was
wary of using his phone for sensitive communications. And yet they insist they
are undeterred.

"Suddenly, you are aware of everything you say," Dr. Barquera said. "Everything
you say feels like a potential threat, that it could come back to haunt you."

Elizabeth Malkin contributed reporting from Mexico City.

PHOTOS: Last summer, some vocal proponents of Mexico's 2014 soda tax were sent
text messages laced with spyware. Those affected included, clockwise from top
left: Alejandro Calvillo of El Poder del Consumidor, which battles childhood
obesity; Luis Manuel Encarnación, then of Fundación Mídete; and Dr. Simón
Barquera of Mexico's National Institute of Public Health. Luis Fernando García,
bottom left, director of a digital rights nonprofit, called the episodes "proof
that surveillance in Mexico is out of control." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADRIANA
ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 12, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Invasive Spyware's Odd Targets: Mexican Advocates of Soda Tax

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH; Elizabeth Malkin contributed reporting from Mexico
City.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1730 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Last summer, Dr. Simón Barquera's phone started buzzing with a
series of disturbing text messages from unknown numbers. One said his daughter
had been in a serious accident. Another claimed to be from a friend whose father
had died -- with a link to funeral details.

Yet another message informed Dr. Barquera, the director of nutrition policy at
Mexico's National Institute of Public Health, that a Mexican news outlet had
accused him of negligence, again with a link. And in more menacing messages,
someone claimed to be sleeping with Dr. Barquera's wife. That included a link to
what the sender claimed was photo evidence of their affair.

That same week, Luis Manuel Encarnación, then the director at Fundación Mídete,
a foundation in Mexico City that battles obesity, also started receiving strange
messages with links. When he clicked, Mr. Encarnación was ominously redirected
to Gayosso, Mexico's largest funeral service.

The messages Mr. Encarnación received were identical to a series of texts sent
to Alejandro Calvillo, a mild-mannered activist and founder of El Poder del
Consumidor, yet another Mexico City organization that has been at the forefront
of battling childhood obesity in the country.

What the men had in common was this: All were vocal proponents of Mexico's 2014
soda tax, the first national soda tax of its kind. It is aimed at reducing
consumption of sugary drinks in Mexico, where weight-related diseases kill more
people every year than violent crime.

The links sent to the men were laced with an invasive form of spyware developed
by NSO Group, an Israeli cyberarms dealer that sells its digital spy tools
exclusively to governments and that has contracts with multiple agencies inside
Mexico, according to company emails leaked to The New York Times last year.

NSO Group and the dozens of other commercial spyware outfits that have cropped
up around the globe over the past decade operate in a largely unregulated
market. Spyware makers like NSO Group, Hacking Team in Italy and Gamma Group in
Britain insist they sell tools only to governments for criminal and terrorism
investigations.

But it is left to government agents to decide whom they will and will not hack
with spying tools that can trace a target's every phone call, text message,
email, keystroke, location, sound and sight.

The discovery of NSO's spyware on the phones of Mexican nutrition policy makers,
activists and even government employees, like Dr. Barquera, raises new questions
about whether NSO's tools are being used to advance the soda industry's
commercial interests in Mexico.

The soda industry has poured over $67 million into defeating state and local
efforts to regulate soft drink sales in the United States since 2009, according
to the Center for Science in the Public Interest. But the tax in Mexico --
Coca-Cola's biggest consumer market by per capita consumption -- posed an
exceptional threat. After the tax passed in 2014, Coca-Cola pledged $8.2 billion
worth of investments in Mexico through 2020. And soda giants have lobbied
against the tax through various industry groups, like ConMéxico, which
represents Coca-Cola and PepsiCo.

Lorena Cerdán, director of ConMéxico, said the group had no knowledge of, or
part in, the mobile hacking. ''This is the first we're hearing of it,'' Ms.
Cerdán said. ''And frankly, it scares us, too.''

The timing of the hacking coincided with a planned effort by advocacy
organizations and health researchers -- including Dr. Barquera, Mr. Calvillo and
Mr. Encarnación -- to coordinate a mass media campaign to build support for
doubling the soda tax, an effort that stalled in Mexico's Congress in November.
The three men also opposed a failed effort by Mexican legislators and soda
lobbyists in 2015 to cut the tax in half.

One week after health researchers and advocates announced their campaign in a
news conference last summer, their phones began to buzz with the spyware-laced
messages.

''This is proof that surveillance in Mexico is out of control,'' said Luis
Fernando García, the director of the Red en Defensa de los Derechos Digitales, a
Mexican digital rights nonprofit better known by the acronym R3D. ''When we have
proof that this surveillance is being used against nutritional activists, it's
clear Mexico should not be given these technologies.''

NSO Group's motto is ''Make the World a Safer Place.'' But its spyware is
increasingly turning up on the phones of journalists, dissidents and human
rights activists.

NSO spyware was discovered on the phone of a human-rights activist in the United
Arab Emirates and a prominent Mexican journalist in August. Researchers at the
Citizen Lab at the University of Toronto's Munk School of Global Affairs
discovered NSO had exploited flaws in Apple software -- since patched -- to
infiltrate the phones of the Emirati activist and the Mexican journalist, Rafael
Cabrera.

In 2015, Mr. Cabrera reported that a luxury home that had been custom-built for
President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico and his wife was owned by the subsidiary
of a Chinese company that had been awarded hundreds of millions of dollars in
government contracts. Mr. Cabrera's report forced the presidential couple to
forgo its stake in the home and the government to rescind contracts.

The discovery of spyware on Mr. Cabrera's phone prompted digital rights
activists to warn more journalists and activists in Mexico to look out for
similarly suspicious text messages. In the process, they uncovered a new class
of targets: nutrition policy makers and activists, some of whom were government
employees.

Each had been targeted by NSO's main product, a tracking system called Pegasus,
that could extract their text messages, contact lists, calendar records, emails,
instant messages and location. It turned their phones into recording devices and
secretly captured live footage off their cameras. Its full range of capabilities
was detailed in an NSO Group marketing proposal leaked to The Times last year.

In interviews and statements, NSO Group -- whose headquarters are in Herzliya,
Israel, but which sold a controlling stake in 2014 to Francisco Partners, a San
Francisco-based private equity firm -- claims to sell its spyware only to law
enforcement agencies to track terrorists, criminals and drug lords. NSO
executives point to technical safeguards that prevent clients from sharing its
spy tools.

An NSO spokesman reiterated those restrictions in a statement on Thursday, and
said the company had no knowledge of the tracking of health researchers and
advocates inside Mexico.

It is not clear why any Mexican government agency would deploy the spyware to
track those on the front lines of the fight to battle obesity in Mexico -- where
diabetes was recently declared a national emergency -- nor is it clear which
Mexican government agency could be behind the surveillance.

''Mexico's intelligence systems are subject to federal relevant legislation and
have legal authorization,'' Ricardo Alday, a spokesman for the Mexican Embassy
in Washington, said in a statement. ''They are not used against journalists or
activists. All contracts with the federal government are done in accordance with
the law.''

The NSO emails leaked to The Times referred to multimillion-dollar, continuing
NSO Group contracts with several government agencies inside Mexico, and the
Mexican government has been an enthusiastic buyer of foreign spy tools.

Mexico was listed as the biggest client of Hacking Team, the Italian cyber
-surveillance firm, which was itself hacked in 2015. Hacked internal documents
published online showed that at least 14 Mexican states and government agencies
had paid $6.3 million to Hacking Team for its spy tools since 2010.

Mexico's Interior Ministry, which operates Cisen, the civil national security
intelligence service, was listed as Hacking Team's highest-paying client. Other
clients included the Mexican Navy, federal police and attorney general's office,
as well as several Mexican states.

The leaked Hacking Team emails also revealed that the firm was increasingly
facing competition from NSO Group to procure contracts with Cisen, the Mexican
attorney general's office and Sedena, an acronym for the office of Mexico's
secretary of national defense.

The health researchers did not discover their phones had been targeted with NSO
spyware until August. That month, SocialTIC, a Mexican digital security
nonprofit, and R3D warned its contacts to look for suspicious messages. A
subsequent forensics investigation by Citizen Lab of the messages sent to Mr.
Calvillo, Dr. Barquera, Mr. Encarnación and others confirmed that they were
laced with NSO Group spyware.

NSO Group executives say they have a strict vetting process to determine the
countries with which they will do business, which includes an ethics committee
comprising employees and an outside counsel that vets potential government
clients based on human rights rankings set by the World Bank and other bodies.
Executives said they had pulled contracts when they uncovered human rights
violations.

But it is unclear how the Mexican spy efforts made it through the vetting
process.

''This is one of the most brazen cases of abuse we have ever seen,'' said John
Scott-Railton, a senior researcher at Citizen Lab. ''It points to a total
breakdown of government oversight in Mexico, and a complete failure of due
diligence by the NSO Group.''

The legal case for the use of spyware in Mexico is uncertain. Only the federal
and justice authorities can lawfully intercept private communications in Mexico,
but require a court order to do so. However, Mr. García and others argue that
spyware is more invasive than traditional forms of interception, and they say it
is not clear what case the government would have to monitor the communications
of health researchers and activists.

''I doubt these intrusions were approved by any judge,'' Mr. García, of R3D,
said.

In interviews, Dr. Barquera, Mr. Encarnación and Mr. Calvillo all said they were
not sure which government agency could be behind the hacking. Each said he was
wary of using his phone for sensitive communications. And yet they insist they
are undeterred.

''Suddenly, you are aware of everything you say,'' Dr. Barquera said.
''Everything you say feels like a potential threat, that it could come back to
haunt you.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/11/technology/hack-mexico-soda-tax-advocates.html

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Last summer, some vocal proponents of Mexico's 2014 soda tax
were sent text messages laced with spyware. Those affected included, clockwise
from top left: Alejandro Calvillo of El Poder del Consumidor, which battles
childhood obesity
Luis Manuel Encarnación, then of Fundación Mídete
 and Dr. Simón Barquera of Mexico's National Institute of Public Health. Luis
Fernando García, bottom left, director of a digital rights nonprofit, called the
episodes ''proof that surveillance in Mexico is out of control.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS
BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       February 19, 2017 Sunday 00:00 EST

Who Are the Richest of the Rich?

BYLINE: PAUL SULLIVAN

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 2381 words



HIGHLIGHT: There are 2,473 billionaires in the world by a new count, and how
they got their money and what they plan to do with it are matters of global
importance.


Sitting at a table, grinding his pinkie into the corner of his mouth and staring
at the screen, Dr. Evil announces he is holding the world ransom for $1 million.
Having been cryogenically frozen for 30 years, the comic villain created by the
actor Mike Myers is shocked when he is told that $1 million isn't a lot of money
in 1997.

Trying to regain his composure, he turns to the screen, voice cracking with
uncertainty, and says, "O.K. then, we hold the world ransom for $100 billion."

Twenty years after the movie "Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery" was
released, billions of dollars aren't what they used to be, either.

Bill Gates alone is just $10 billion shy of Dr. Evil's ransom demand, according
to a list of the world's top 10 billionaires compiled by Wealth-X, a financial
research firm. Mr. Gates, the Microsoft founder, tops the list at $89.3 billion,
followed by his friend Warren Buffett at $73.5 billion.

The top 10 -- nine from the United States, one from Spain -- have a combined net
worth of $582 billion. While their wealth would certainly be enough to save the
world from Dr. Evil, what they do with it in real life is the subject of great
interest and debate.

That is true now more than ever. Issues around money -- like wealth inequality
and talk of tax cuts for the rich -- are among the hottest topics of the day.
And the richest president in history is sitting in the Oval Office, with
billionaires sprinkled throughout his cabinet.

To some, today's billionaires are like Dr. Evil: selfish, rapacious and bent on
world domination. To others, billionaires are worthy of respect for having put
their names and fortunes behind an array of philanthropic endeavors, many aimed
at improving the lives of people at the very base of the wealth pyramid.

There were 2,473 billionaires in the world, as of Wealth-X's last count through
2015. That was a 6.4 percent increase in billionaires from the year before.

But who these billionaires are and what they're like is more difficult to
discern. Many may seem as ordinary as the guy sitting next to you on the train
-- or in Michael Bloomberg's case, standing beside you on the subway, when he
was mayor of New York. (Mr. Bloomberg is No. 9 on Wealth-X's list.)

There are certainly billionaires who want to save the world, like Mr. Gates, Mr.
Buffett and Mr. Bloomberg, who have pledged to give their fortunes away. Others
in the top 10 are also philanthropic, but they are still focusing on their day
jobs, like Jeff Bezos of Amazon, Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook and Larry Page of
Alphabet (the parent of Google) -- Nos. 4, 5 and 10.

Yet many of the billionaires beyond the top 10 or 20 have a much lower profile.
Who outside of finance or hockey knew of Vincent Viola, a former oil trader and
current owner of the Florida Panthers, before President Trump nominated him to
be secretary of the Army? Now that he has withdrawn, he can return to relative
anonymity.

For that matter, Wilbur L. Ross, Mr. Trump's choice for commerce secretary, is
the wealthiest of the president's billionaire cabinet picks. He would pop up in
the headlines every few years for a deal he was making but then return to what
could be called the quiet opulence of the billionaire class.

"We know that things are quite different for a billionaire individual or a
billionaire family than they are for even a very wealthy ultra-high-net-worth
family," said Belinda Sneddon, national practice executive in the family office
group at U.S. Trust.

"They're different in how they can invest their assets and what their portfolio
may look like," Ms. Sneddon said. "In many ways, they face different risks, both
personal risks and cyber risks, than the average individual does. They often
think about structuring decisions differently from a succession-planning
standpoint as well as the structure they create around themselves and their
family."

Yet for most people, billionaires are just wealthy beyond belief. And these
days, they are also much wealthier (and getting even more so) than the broader
ultra-high-net-worth population.

That group is defined as anyone with more than $30 million. In 2015, there were
212,615 of them. On the lower end, the 155,050 people worth between $30 million
and $99 million had a combined $8.4 trillion. At the top, the world's 2,473
billionaires were worth $7.68 trillion.

"There is growing inequality around the world, but there is also inequality
among the ultrawealthy," said Maya Imberg, director of custom research at
Wealth-X.

Billionaires also matter because of the outsize influence they have, or believe
they can have, on policy and public life. They can give millions to a political
campaign, as Peter Thiel, a founder of PayPal and a director of Facebook, did
with Mr. Trump, or as George Soros, the hedge fund manager and philanthropist,
has done with liberal causes.

They can also give millions to combat disease, as the industrialist Jon Huntsman
Sr. has done with cancer, or to start schools in Africa, as Pierre Omidyar, a
founder of eBay, has done.

But billionaires are as different from one another as members of any other
economic group. How they amassed their billions, and how that pile is growing,
tells a lot about the economy today.

Road to Billions

Just as the best teacher in the country is going to earn less money than a
mediocre investment banker, the industries in which future billionaires begin
their careers determine the magnitude of their wealth and how quickly it is
going to grow.

Six of the top 10 billionaires made their money in technology. But in Wealth-X's
research, technology ranks sixth overall for the number of billionaires on the
list, with 114 around the world.

Finance has created the most billionaires, with 377, or 15 percent of the
world's billionaires. It is followed by industrial conglomerates, with 317, or
13 percent.

After that, the concentration in particular industries drops. Real estate is
third with 141. The group of people who identify their industry as nonprofits
(meaning they made their money some other way or inherited it) is fourth, with
122. Manufacturing, in fifth place, has 120.

"Globalization has been a big trend," said Benjamin Kinnard, a research analyst
at Wealth-X. "The market is now seven billion people, not just the size of your
domestic country."

He added that finance had a bigger lead in first place several years ago, but it
has been losing ground as industries like technology boom.

A tougher route to becoming a billionaire is through keeping track of other
people's billions. Accountants have just one person on the list, who was not
identified.

The railroad sector, a source of so much wealth in the last Gilded Age, has but
two billionaires, the same number those in as consumer finance.

And while billionaires in the United States are often better known than those
elsewhere, there are more billionaires in Europe (though they have less total
wealth than their American counterparts).

Asia is gaining ground quickly. Research from UBS calculated that a new
billionaire is created every three days in Asia, with 65 percent of the region's
billionaires in China.

While the number of billionaires in China is rising at a fast clip, the pace of
growth in billionaires worldwide is slowing. Wealth-X said the number will be
3,250 by 2020, down 16 percent from an earlier prediction of 3,873. This is
because economic growth is expected to slow around the world.

From $1 Billion to $100 Billion

Across the billionaire spectrum, the biggest proportion of billionaires' wealth
-- about half -- is in the business that created the wealth in the first place,
according to Wealth-X's research. After that, they have about a quarter of their
money in public securities and a little less than a quarter in cash. Just 4
percent is in real estate and luxury assets, the research found.

There are common strains to how they cross the billionaire line, regardless of
industry: 57 percent are self-made, according to Wealth-X, and another 31
percent received an inheritance and grew it into billions.

"Timing has a lot to do with it," said John Mathews, head of private wealth
management and the ultra-high-net-worth group at UBS. "If we looked back 100
years, it would have been a really great time to be in steel, railroad or
infrastructure businesses. Today, it's a good time to be in technology and
finance."

But there is a difference from the bottom of the billionaire ladder to the top:
Most are on that first rung.

Over half of all billionaires are worth between $1 billion and $2 billion. Go up
to $5 billion and there are 2,101.

And not all billionaires are household names.

Ma Jianrong, executive chairman of Shenzhou International Group Holdings, which
is the leading textile company in China and manufactures clothing for Nike,
Adidas, Puma and Uniqlo, is worth $4.3 billion.

Patrice Motsepe, executive chairman of African Rainbow Minerals, built his
wealth through mining in South Africa after starting his career as a lawyer in
the United States. He is now worth $2.1 billion.

Kevin Systrom, chief executive of Instagram, is surely well known in Silicon
Valley -- and among students at Stanford University (his alma mater) who want to
emulate his route to a net worth of $1.2 billion by age 33. But he is not as
recognizable as Mr. Zuckerberg of Facebook.

But being a billionaire, as opposed to a very wealthy millionaire, can make a
huge difference in the loss of privacy for a family. "It's a lot more difficult
to be anonymous," Ms. Sneddon said.

And being known as billionaires opens them up to risks, she said, like
cybersecurity breaches and attacks on their families.

How single-digit billionaires add additional billions isn't always up to them.

One way to become even wealthier is to have picked the right global industry in
which to make your billions and hang on to your stake in your company as it
booms -- and avoids busts. Right now, the technology and finance industries are
leading the growth. Another way is to make your money in the right region, which
is Asia.

Then, of course, there are the investment opportunities that only get presented
to the wealthiest people, and that only they have the resources to take a chance
on. "They can diversify their holdings to protect themselves," Mr. Kinnard said.

And the big investments that are needed in private equity deals, for example,
are a smaller portion of overall wealth for billionaires than for someone with,
say, $100 million.

"The common thread with billionaires is the incredibly focused drive these
people have in whatever business they go into," Mr. Mathews said. "It's dogged
determination. You can say everyone is like that, but with billionaires
everything else gets blocked out. You see it today with tech the way you saw it
with steel barons 100 years ago."

Ups and Downs

Yet getting across the billionaire line does not mean a person will always be
there.

"Once a billionaire doesn't mean you'll stay a billionaire," Mr. Mathews of UBS
said. "Last year alone there were 41 new billionaires created in the United
States, but 36 also dropped out of billionaire status in the U.S. Our
billionaire population is growing but only by a net of five."

In the United States, Mr. Mathews said, most people fall off the billionaire
list because they sell the company that created their wealth. "When you sell it,
there are tax issues," he said. "There are estate-planning issues."

The latter results in chunks of money being given to heirs to get it out of the
wealth creator's estate.

Selling family firms happens less often in Europe and Asia. People end up
holding on to them and creating family holding companies to continue to operate
that original business and expand into others.

Of course, people who sell their $1 billion company and end up with $500 million
after taxes -- or whose wealth tops out at $800 million -- aren't scraping by.
But being a billionaire gives you entry into an exclusive club that being a
millionaire does not. After all, in Mr. Trump's cabinet, Secretary of State Rex
W. Tillerson's wealth from his career at Exxon Mobil looks positively modest.
He's worth just a few hundred million.

Expectations and Obligations

What is expected of people who have more money than they could spend in several
lifetimes? It depends on whom you ask.

A recent report from Oxfam International, the antipoverty charity, argued that
eight billionaires had as much wealth as half of the world's population -- or
3.6 billion people -- and that that was a travesty.

"It is obscene for so much wealth to be held in the hands of so few when one in
10 people survive on less than $2 a day," Winnie Byanyima, executive director of
Oxfam, said in a statement. "Inequality is trapping hundreds of millions in
poverty. It is fracturing our societies and undermining democracy."

Yet the anger against the superrich has abated since the Occupy Wall Street
protests in 2011. Protesters seem to be more concerned with the actions of Mr.
Trump (who is likely a billionaire, although he has provided little proof of his
real wealth) than with his cabinet of plutocrats.

One of his tax proposals would keep billionaires from having to part with more
of their wealth, by eliminating the estate tax. Without it, generational wealth
would be easier to preserve and perpetuate.

Philanthropy has become important to many billionaires, and not just through the
Giving Pledge, Mr. Buffett's compact to get the wealthiest to give away at least
half of their fortunes. Nor is it confined to the United States, with its
tradition of charitable giving.

"You're starting to see where philanthropy is becoming more and more important
to billionaires regardless of where they live," Mr. Mathews said. "I don't know
if 10, 12 years ago, it was much of a conversation in Asia. Now all
billionaires, regardless of where they live, are worried about the next
generation."

But there are limits to what even a billionaire can do. Mr. Bloomberg, in an
interview in 2014, recalled the time he was approached at a conference in Sun
Valley, Idaho, by a hedge fund manager offering him $1 billion over five years
to change public education in New York.

"When I explained to him that New York City's annual school budget was $22
billion a year," Mr. Bloomberg said, "that was the last time we ever heard from
him."

DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID PLUNKERT) (F6-F7)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       February 24, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

In Kim Jong-nam's Death, North Korea Lets Loose a Weapon of Mass Destruction

BYLINE: RICHARD C. PADDOCK, CHOE SANG-HUN and NICHOLAS WADE

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1292 words



HIGHLIGHT: The assassination by VX nerve agent is a stark reminder that in
addition to nuclear arms, Pyongyang has an arsenal of chemical and biological
weapons.


KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia -- For years, North Korea has rattled the world with its
nuclear tests and its threats to visit a nuclear holocaust upon the United
States. Now, the finding by the Malaysian police that Kim Jong-nam was
assassinated with VX nerve agent is a stark reminder of the North's lesser-known
weapons of mass destruction: a stockpile of chemical and biological weapons.

Mr. Kim, the estranged elder brother of North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un, was
killed on Feb. 13 when two women rubbed his face with the nerve agent at Kuala
Lumpur International Airport, the police said on Friday.

If North Korean citizens were behind the killing, as Malaysian officials
suggest, the use of VX raises several questions: Was the North Korean government
using the attack to signal to the world its fearsome arsenal of such dangerous
weapons? Or was the toxin simply an attempt to avoid detection in carrying out a
brazen killing at one of the world's busiest airports?

"By using VX in an international airport in the heart of Asia, North Korea has
sent a very clear message to the world that it will strike its enemies anywhere
in the world," said Rohan Gunaratna, an expert on terrorism at the S. Rajaratnam
School of International Studies in Singapore. "It also demonstrates the North
Korean response in the event of an attack against North Korea."

North Korea's nuclear program has long been the most urgent concern of the
United States and its allies, and the now-dormant six-party talks to curb the
program did not address chemical and biological weapons.

"The reported use of VX reminds us that not only is the North's nuclear-missile
threat serious but so are its asymmetric threats, including biochemical weapons
and cyber that are all part of the regime's W.M.D. tool kit," said Duyeon Kim, a
Seoul-based nonresident fellow at Georgetown University's Institute for the
Study of Diplomacy.

South Korea's Foreign Ministry issued a statement on Friday expressing "shock"
at the use of a chemical weapon and vowed to work with the international society
to deal "strongly" with the violation of the Chemical Weapons Convention.

The deadly use of a chemical weapon banned by international conventions in such
a public manner could strengthen calls for the United States to put North Korea
back on a list of terrorism-sponsoring countries, analysts said.

The North was first put on the terrorist list after its bombing of a South
Korean airliner near Myanmar in 1987, killing all 115 people onboard. But the
United States delisted the country in 2008 as part of an agreement aimed at
ending North Korea's nuclear programs -- a deal that has since disintegrated
with the North's subsequent missile and nuclear weapons tests.

After his announcement that Mr. Kim had been killed by VX nerveagent, Khalid Abu
Bakar, the inspector general of the Malaysian police, said on Friday that small
amounts of the poison could have been brought into the country without being
discovered.

"If the amount of the chemical brought in was small, it would be difficult for
us to detect," Mr. Khalid told reporters.

The airport terminal, which handles more than two million passengers a month,
will be decontaminated despite the passage of time since the killing, he said.

Two women have been arrested in the killing, one from Indonesia and the other
from Vietnam. Their defenders say they were duped into carrying out the attack
and thought it was a prank, but Mr. Khalid said they had trained for it and
practiced at two major shopping malls. The women used their bare hands to apply
the poison on Mr. Kim's face and washed them immediately afterward, he said.

One drop of VX, or about 10 milligrams, can be fatal. But the attackers could
have used a safety-enhancing battlefield form of the agent. Known as VX2, it is
divided into two compounds that are harmless individually but become lethal when
mixed together.

Each component also could have been made in slow-release form, as is done with
many drugs.

If Mr. Kim's two assassins had each applied one component of VX, this would
explain why two people were needed, how they survived the attack, and perhaps
why it took 15 minutes or more for Mr. Kim to die.

"Use of a binary nerve agent lends itself to this method and allows for a
potentially highly targeted hit," said Vipin Narang, an associate professor of
political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who has two
degrees in chemical engineering.

The woman who applied the second compound would have risked exposing herself to
the first component, which could explain why, as Mr. Khalid said on Friday, one
of the women became ill and began vomiting after the attack.

This scenario raises the possibility that Mr. Kim could have saved his own life
by immediately washing his face rather than going to airport staff members, as
he did, to report the attack.

Professor Narang said it was clear that North Korea wanted the West to know what
it is capable of -- but without causing mass casualties.

"They wanted everyone, especially the U.S., to know it was VX and that they can
make it or have it," he said. "Doing it publicly but not killing anyone else is
a pretty good way to reveal that capability and deterrent."

In 2014, the South Korean Defense Ministry said the North had stockpiled 2,500
to 5,000 tons of chemical weapons and had a capacity to produce a variety of
biological weapons.

Kim Jong-un has a history of resorting to extreme measures against his enemies.

Since taking power after the death of his father, Kim Jong-il, in 2011, he has
executed at least 140 senior officials, sometimes killing them with antiaircraft
machine guns and even incinerating some of their bodies with flamethrowers,
according to the Institute for National Security Strategy, a think tank
affiliated with South Korea's National Intelligence Service. Such measures were
designed as a warning to others, South Korean officials said.

Lee Byong-chul, a nonproliferation expert at the Institute for Peace and
Cooperation in Seoul, said the use of VX nerve agent highlights the
proliferation threat posed by North Korea, noting that it has been accused of
providing chemical weapons technology to Syria since the 1990s.

Shipments of gas masks, gas detectors and other protective gear bound for Syria
from North Korea were intercepted in 2009 and 2013.

If confirmed, Mr. Lee said, the use of VX nerve agent by North Korea will very
likely weaken the Trump administration's appetite for reopening nuclear
disarmament talks, especially after its recent test of what it called a new type
of intermediate-range ballistic missile.

China has been the most vocal proponent of new negotiations, but its relations
with North Korea have deteriorated sharply. Pyongyang criticized Beijing this
week as "dancing to the tune of the U.S."

Steve Vickers, a security consultant based in Hong Kong, said that Mr. Kim's
assassination would be seen as a further insult to China, which had protected
him for years by allowing him to live in the Chinese territory of Macau.

"This is clearly an embarrassment for the Chinese state security and to a lesser
extent to the Malaysian government," Mr. Vickers said.

Follow Richard C. Paddock on Twitter @RCPaddock. Richard C. Paddock reported
from Kuala Lumpur; Choe Sang-Hung from Seoul, South Korea; and Nicholas Wade
from New York.

PHOTO: Kuala Lumpur International Airport on Friday in Malaysia, where the North
Korean leader's half brother was attacked on Feb. 13. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED
PRESS)

Related Articles


     ·    Kim Jong-nam Was Killed by VX Nerve Agent, Malaysians Say
     ·    What Is VX Nerve Agent? A Deadly Weapon, Rarely Seen
     ·    China and North Korea Reveal Sudden, and Deep, Cracks in Their
          Friendship
     ·    North Korea Accuses China of 'Mean Behavior' After It Tightens
          Sanctions


LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      February 25, 2017 Saturday 00:00 EST

What Does Steve Bannon Want?;
Opinion

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER CALDWELL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2249 words



HIGHLIGHT: There may be good reasons to worry, but they're not the ones everyone
is giving.


President Trump presents a problem to those who look at politics in terms of
systematic ideologies. He is either disinclined or unable to lay out his agenda
in that way. So perhaps it was inevitable that Mr. Trump's chief strategist,
Stephen K. Bannon, who does have a gift for thinking systematically, would be so
often invoked by Mr. Trump's opponents. They need him not just as a hate object
but as a heuristic, too. There may never be a "Trumpism," and unless one
emerges, the closest we may come to understanding this administration is as an
expression of "Bannonism."

Mr. Bannon, 63, has won a reputation for abrasive brilliance at almost every
stop in his unorthodox career -- as a naval officer, Goldman Sachs mergers
specialist, entertainment-industry financier, documentary screenwriter and
director, Breitbart News cyber-agitprop impresario and chief executive of Mr.
Trump's presidential campaign. One Harvard Business School classmate described
him to The Boston Globe as "top three in intellectual horsepower in our class --
perhaps the smartest." Benjamin Harnwell of the Institute for Human Dignity, a
Catholic organization in Rome, calls him a "walking bibliography." Perhaps
because Mr. Bannon came late to conservatism, turning his full-time energy to
political matters only after the Sept. 11 attacks, he radiates an excitement
about it that most of his conservative contemporaries long ago lost.

One month into the Trump administration, Mr. Bannon has already made his
influence felt. He helped draft the president's Inaugural Address, acquired a
seat on the National Security Council and reportedly was the main force behind
the president's stalled ban on travel from seven predominantly Muslim countries.
Reports that the administration has considered designating the Muslim
Brotherhood a terrorist organization echo Mr. Bannon's own longtime
preoccupation with the group, as both a screenwriter and a talk-radio host.

Many accounts of Mr. Bannon paint him as a cartoon villain or internet troll
come to life, as a bigot, an anti-Semite, a misogynist, a crypto-fascist. The
former House speaker Nancy Pelosi and Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of
New York, have even called him a "white nationalist." While he is certainly a
hard-line conservative of some kind, the evidence that he is an extremist of a
more troubling sort has generally been either massaged, misread or hyped up.

There may be good reasons to worry about Mr. Bannon, but they are not the ones
everyone is giving. It does not make Mr. Bannon a fascist that he happens to
know who the 20th-century Italian extremist Julius Evola is. It does not make
Mr. Bannon a racist that he described Breitbart as "the platform for the
alt-right" -- a broad and imprecise term that applies to a wide array of
radicals, not just certain white supremacist groups.

Nor does it make Mr. Bannon a fringe character that during the meetings of the
Conservative Political Action Conference in 2013 and 2014, he hosted rival panel
discussions called the Uninvited -- although it did show a relish for the role
of ideological bad boy. Mr. Bannon's panels included such mainstream figures as
the former House speaker Newt Gingrich and the former Bush administration
attorney general Michael Mukasey, and discussed such familiar Republican
preoccupations as military preparedness and the 2012 attacks on the United
States mission in Benghazi, Libya. It wasn't much different from watching Fox
News.

Where Mr. Bannon does veer sharply from recent mainstream Republicanism is in
his all-embracing nationalism. He speaks of sovereignty, economic nationalism,
opposition to globalization and finding common ground with Brexit supporters and
other groups hostile to the transnational European Union. On Thursday, at this
year's Conservative Political Action Conference, he described the "center core"
of Trump administration philosophy as the belief that the United States is more
than an economic unit in a borderless world. It is "a nation with a culture" and
"a reason for being."

So some of the roots of Mr. Bannon's ideology, like the roots of Mr. Trump's
popularity, are to be found in the disappointed hopes of the global economy. But
Mr. Bannon, unlike Mr. Trump, has a detailed idea, an explanation, of how
American sovereignty was lost, and of what to do about it. It is the same idea
that Tea Party activists have: A class of regulators in the government has
robbed Americans of their democratic prerogatives. That class now constitutes an
"administrative state" that operates to empower itself and enrich its
crony-capitalist allies.

When Mr. Bannon spoke on Thursday of "deconstructing the administrative state,"
it may have sounded like gobbledygook outside the hall, but it was an
electrifying profession of faith for the attendees. It is through Mr. Bannon
that Trumpism can be converted from a set of nostalgic laments and complaints
into a program for overhauling the government.

Mr. Bannon adds something personal and idiosyncratic to this Tea Party mix. He
has a theory of historical cycles that can be considered elegantly simple or
dangerously simplistic. It is a model laid out by William Strauss and Neil Howe
in two books from the 1990s. Their argument assumes an 80- to 100-year cycle
divided into roughly 20-year "highs," "awakenings," "unravelings" and "crises."
The American Revolution, the Civil War, the New Deal, World War II -- Mr. Bannon
has said for years that we're due for another crisis about now. His documentary
about the 2008 financial collapse, "Generation Zero," released in 2010, uses the
Strauss-Howe model to explain what happened, and concludes with Mr. Howe himself
saying, "History is seasonal, and winter is coming."

Mr. Bannon's views reflect a transformation of conservatism over the past decade
or so. You can trace this transformation in the films he has made. His 2004
documentary, "In the Face of Evil," is an orthodox tribute to the Republican
Party hero Ronald Reagan. But "Generation Zero," half a decade later, is a
strange hybrid. The financial crash has intervened. Mr. Bannon's film features
predictable interviews with think-tank supply siders and free marketers fretting
about big government. But new, less orthodox voices creep in, too, from the
protectionist newscaster Lou Dobbs to the investment manager Barry Ritholtz.
They question whether the free market is altogether free. Mr. Ritholtz says that
the outcome of the financial crisis has been "socialism for the wealthy but
capitalism for everybody else."

By 2014, Mr. Bannon's own ideology had become centered on this distrust. He was
saying such things about capitalism himself. "Think about it," he said in a talk
hosted by the Institute for Human Dignity. "Not one criminal charge has ever
been brought to any bank executive associated with 2008 crisis." He warned
against "the Ayn Rand or the Objectivist School of libertarian capitalism," by
which he meant "a capitalism that really looks to make people commodities, and
to objectify people." Capitalism, he said, ought to rest on a "Judeo-Christian"
foundation.

If so, this was bad news for the Republican Party. By the time Mr. Bannon spoke,
Ayn Rand-style capitalism was all that remained of its Reagan-era agenda.
Free-market thinking had swallowed the party whole, and its Judeo-Christian
preoccupations -- "a nation with a culture" and "a reason for being" -- along
with it. A business orientation was what donors wanted.

But voters never more than tolerated it. It was Pat Buchanan who in his 1992 run
for president first called on Republicans to value jobs and communities over
profits. An argument consumed the party over whether this was a better-rounded
vision of society or just the grousing of a reactionary. After a generation, Mr.
Buchanan has won that argument. By 2016 his views on trade and migration, once
dismissed as crackpot, were spreading so fast that everyone in the party had
embraced them -- except its elected officials and its establishment presidential
candidates.

Mr. Bannon does not often go into detail about what Judeo-Christian culture is,
but he knows one thing it is not: Islam. Like most Americans, he believes that
Islamism -- the extremist political movement -- is a dangerous adversary. More
controversially he holds that, since this political movement is generated within
the sphere of Islam, the growth of Islam -- the religion -- is itself a problem
with which American authorities should occupy themselves. This is a view that
was emphatically repudiated by Presidents Obama and George W. Bush.

Mr. Bannon has apparently drawn his own views on the subject from intensive, if
not necessarily varied, reading. The thinkers he has engaged with in this area
tend to be hot and polemical rather than cool and detached. They include the
provocateur Pamela Geller, a campaigner against the "Ground Zero Mosque" who
once suggested the State Department was "essentially being run by Islamic
supremacists"; her sometime collaborator Robert Spencer, the director of the
website Jihad Watch, with whom she heads an organization called Stop
Islamization of America; and the former Department of Homeland Security official
Philip Haney, who has argued that officials in the Obama administration had
compromised "the security of citizens for the ideological rigidity of political
correctness."

President Trump being unpopular among intellectuals, any thinker in his cabinet
will be, at some level, a nonconformist, a rebel or an individualist. That may
yet make things interesting for the country. It will certainly make Washington a
hostile environment for Mr. Bannon. Many policy intellectuals in the capital
have paid a steep price in swallowed misgivings and trimmed convictions to get
to the place that Mr. Bannon has somehow blown into town and usurped. He never
had to compromise or even modify his principles. His boss didn't even get a
majority of the popular vote. Establishment conservatives may be prone to
mistake their jealousy for a principled conviction that Mr. Bannon is
unsocialized and dangerous.

Is he? Last summer the historian Ronald Radosh contributed to this image with
his (later contested) recollection that, years ago, Mr. Bannon, in the only
conversation the two ever had, described himself as a "Leninist" who wanted to
"bring everything crashing down."

But Mr. Bannon's ideology, whatever it may be, does not wholly capture what
drives him, says the screenwriter Julia Jones. Starting in the early 1990s, Ms.
Jones and Mr. Bannon began writing screenplays together, and did so for a decade
and a half. She is one of the few longtime collaborators in his otherwise
peripatetic career. As Ms. Jones sees it, a more reliable key to his worldview
lies in his military service. "He has a respect for duty," she said in early
February. "The word he has used a lot is 'dharma.' " Mr. Bannon found the
concept of dharma in the Bhagavad Gita, she recalls. It can describe one's path
in life or one's place in the universe.

When Mr. Bannon came to Hollywood, Ms. Jones says, he was less political. For
two years, according to Ms. Jones, the two of them worked on the outline of a
26-part television series about seekers after the secrets of the human self,
from Arthur Conan Doyle to Nietzsche to Madame Blavatsky to Ramakrishna to the
Baal Shem Tov to Geronimo. "It was his idea," she said. "He assembled all the
people."

But the Sept. 11 attacks, Ms. Jones says, changed him, and their collaboration
did not survive his growing engagement with politics. Speaking of his films, she
says, "He developed a kind of propaganda-type tone of voice that I found
offensive." Ms. Jones is a literary person, left-liberal in politics. She
regrets that Mr. Bannon "has found a home in nationalism." But she does not
believe he is any kind of anarchist, let alone a racist.

Those focused on Mr. Bannon's ideology are probably barking up the wrong tree.
There are plenty of reasons for concern about Mr. Bannon, but they have less to
do with where he stands on the issues than with who he is as a person. He is a
newcomer to political power and, in fact, relatively new to an interest in
politics. He is willing to break with authority. While he does not embrace any
of the discredited ideologies of the last century, he is attached to a theory of
history's cycles that is, to put it politely, untested. Most ominously, he is an
intellectual in politics excited by grand theories -- a combination that has
produced unpredictable results before.

We'll see how it works out. Barack Obama, in a similar way, used to allude to
the direction and the "arc" of history. Some may find the two theories of
history equally naïve and unrealistic. Others may see a mitigating element in
the cyclical nature of Mr. Bannon's view. A progressive who believes history is
more or less linear is fighting for immortality when he enters the political
arena. A conservative who believes history is cyclical is fighting only for a
role in managing, say, the next 20 or 80 years. Then his work will be undone, as
everyone's is eventually.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for theOpinion Today newsletter.

Christopher Caldwell, a senior editor at The Weekly Standard, is at work on a
book about the rise and fall of the post-1960s political order.

PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY DOUG CHAYKA)

Related Articles


     ·    Stephen K. Bannon's CPAC Comments, Annotated and Explained


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 25, 2017 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Killing of North Korean Offers Blunt Warning on Nation's Deadly Arsenal

BYLINE: By RICHARD C. PADDOCK, CHOE SANG-HUN and NICHOLAS WADE; Richard C.
Paddock reported from Kuala Lumpur; Choe Sang-Hung from Seoul, South Korea; and
Nicholas Wade from New York..

Follow Richard C. Paddock on Twitter @RCPaddock .

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1205 words


KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia -- For years, North Korea has rattled the world with its
nuclear tests and its threats to visit a nuclear holocaust upon the United
States. Now, the finding by the Malaysian police that Kim Jong-nam was
assassinated with VX nerve agent is a stark reminder of the North's lesser-known
weapons of mass destruction: a stockpile of chemical and biological weapons.

Mr. Kim, the estranged elder brother of North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un, was
killed on Feb. 13 when two women rubbed his face with the nerve agent at Kuala
Lumpur International Airport, the police said on Friday.

If North Korean citizens were behind the killing, as Malaysian officials
suggest, the use of VX raises several questions: Was the North Korean government
using the attack to signal to the world its fearsome arsenal of such dangerous
weapons? Or was the toxin simply an attempt to avoid detection in carrying out a
brazen killing at one of the world's busiest airports?

''By using VX in an international airport in the heart of Asia, North Korea has
sent a very clear message to the world that it will strike its enemies anywhere
in the world,'' said Rohan Gunaratna, an expert on terrorism at the S.
Rajaratnam School of International Studies in Singapore. ''It also demonstrates
the North Korean response in the event of an attack against North Korea.''

North Korea's nuclear program has long been the most urgent concern of the
United States and its allies, and the now-dormant six-party talks to curb the
program did not address chemical and biological weapons.

''The reported use of VX reminds us that not only is the North's nuclear-missile
threat serious but so are its asymmetric threats, including biochemical weapons
and cyber that are all part of the regime's W.M.D. tool kit,'' said Duyeon Kim,
a Seoul-based nonresident fellow at Georgetown University's Institute for the
Study of Diplomacy.

South Korea's Foreign Ministry issued a statement on Friday expressing ''shock''
at the use of a chemical weapon and vowed to work with the international society
to deal ''strongly'' with the violation of the Chemical Weapons Convention.

The deadly use of a chemical weapon banned by international conventions in such
a public manner could strengthen calls for the United States to put North Korea
back on a list of terrorism-sponsoring countries, analysts said.

The North was first put on the terrorist list after its bombing of a South
Korean airliner near Myanmar in 1987, killing all 115 people onboard. But the
United States delisted the country in 2008 as part of an agreement aimed at
ending North Korea's nuclear programs -- a deal that has since disintegrated
with the North's subsequent missile and nuclear weapons tests.

After his announcement that Mr. Kim had been killed by VX nerve agent, Khalid
Abu Bakar, the inspector general of the Malaysian police, said on Friday that
small amounts of the poison could have been brought into the country without
being discovered.

''If the amount of the chemical brought in was small, it would be difficult for
us to detect,'' Mr. Khalid told reporters.

The airport terminal, which handles more than two million passengers a month,
will be decontaminated despite the passage of time since the killing, he said.

Two women have been arrested in the killing, one from Indonesia and the other
from Vietnam. Their defenders say they were duped into carrying out the attack
and thought it was a prank, but Mr. Khalid said they had trained for it and
practiced at two major shopping malls. The women used their bare hands to apply
the poison on Mr. Kim's face and washed them immediately afterward, he said.

One drop of VX, or about 10 milligrams, can be fatal. But the attackers could
have used a safety-enhancing battlefield form of the agent. Known as VX2, it is
divided into two compounds that are harmless individually but become lethal when
mixed together.

Each component also could have been made in slow-release form, as is done with
many drugs.

If Mr. Kim's two assassins had each applied one component of VX, this would
explain why two people were needed, how they survived the attack, and perhaps
why it took 15 minutes or more for Mr. Kim to die.

''Use of a binary nerve agent lends itself to this method and allows for a
potentially highly targeted hit,'' said Vipin Narang, an associate professor of
political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who has two
degrees in chemical engineering.

The woman who applied the second compound would have risked exposing herself to
the first component, which could explain why, as Mr. Khalid said on Friday, one
of the women became ill and began vomiting after the attack.

This scenario raises the possibility that Mr. Kim could have saved his own life
by immediately washing his face rather than going to airport staff members, as
he did, to report the attack.

Professor Narang said it was clear that North Korea wanted the West to know what
it is capable of -- but without causing mass casualties.

''They wanted everyone, especially the U.S., to know it was VX and that they can
make it or have it,'' he said. ''Doing it publicly but not killing anyone else
is a pretty good way to reveal that capability and deterrent.''

In 2014, the South Korean Defense Ministry said the North had stockpiled 2,500
to 5,000 tons of chemical weapons and had a capacity to produce a variety of
biological weapons.

Kim Jong-un has a history of resorting to extreme measures against his enemies.

Since taking power after the death of his father, Kim Jong-il, in 2011, he has
executed at least 140 senior officials, sometimes killing them with antiaircraft
machine guns and even incinerating some of their bodies with flamethrowers,
according to the Institute for National Security Strategy, a think tank
affiliated with South Korea's National Intelligence Service. Such measures were
designed as a warning to others, South Korean officials said.

Lee Byong-chul, a nonproliferation expert at the Institute for Peace and
Cooperation in Seoul, said the use of VX nerve agent highlights the
proliferation threat posed by North Korea, noting that it has been accused of
providing chemical weapons technology to Syria since the 1990s.

Shipments of gas masks, gas detectors and other protective gear bound for Syria
from North Korea were intercepted in 2009 and 2013.

If confirmed, Mr. Lee said, the use of VX nerve agent by North Korea will very
likely weaken the Trump administration's appetite for reopening nuclear
disarmament talks, especially after its recent test of what it called a new type
of intermediate-range ballistic missile.

China has been the most vocal proponent of new negotiations, but its relations
with North Korea have deteriorated sharply. Pyongyang criticized Beijing this
week as ''dancing to the tune of the U.S.''

Steve Vickers, a security consultant based in Hong Kong, said that Mr. Kim's
assassination would be seen as a further insult to China, which had protected
him for years by allowing him to live in the Chinese territory of Macau.

''This is clearly an embarrassment for the Chinese state security and to a
lesser extent to the Malaysian government,'' Mr. Vickers said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/24/world/asia/north-korea-kim-jong-nam-vx-nerve-a
gent.html

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kuala Lumpur International Airport on Friday in Malaysia, where
the North Korean leader's half brother was attacked on Feb. 13. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       February 26, 2017 Sunday 00:00 EST

'Homeland,' Season 6, Episode 6: Carrie Needs a Powerful Ally;
Homeland

BYLINE: JUDITH WARNER

SECTION: ARTS; television

LENGTH: 895 words



HIGHLIGHT: Carrie's partners have been duped or sidelined. And of course, there
was that faked suicide. But Quinn, at least, seems to have ended up in good
hands.


Astrid!

Thank god.

We really do need a grown-up right now to step in, make some sense of things,
and get everyone on track.

Quinn has gone over the edge. It's heartbreaking. He did all he could to
"protect Franny" -- as requested. And for thanks, he's treated by Carrie to a
big dose of condescension -- "This is really important" -- plus a return to the
interrogatory tone that we remember so painfully from Berlin, when she woke him
out of his medically induced coma to try to extract some intel.

He gave her a mouthful of black blood back then. And he has nothing more to
share now that he's been beaten by New York's finest and subjected to
god-knows-what-else in the bowels of Bellevue.

The poor man's mind has snapped. He thinks that Carrie is "with them" -- and
bites her to get her to go away. This is no good at all.

You sort of can't blame him, though, even if his misinterpretation of Carrie's
effort to save his life in the police raid of her basement - "You took me down
... when my back was turned" -- is clearly delusional. On an emotional level, it
rings true.

Let's just hope that Carrie manages not to alienate Max. Or, for that matter, to
get him killed. Conlin's unfortunate fate came awfully fast once he declared
himself and Carrie "practically partners" - though it's comforting to know that
Carrie foiled the faux-suicide setup by taking the gun that had been left in his
hand.

(But will she be accused of his murder? Let's hope not. It also strikes me that
the bowlegged man in what I've been advised is a "watch cap," not a "beanie,"
probably could have killed her in Conlin's house, had he been so inclined.)

Carrie needs powerful allies right now. Reda never really had much use for her.
The president-elect, though clearly finding her voice and winning over the
media, thanks to the unexpected help of Mrs. Diehl, is still in limbo. And Saul
is learning the hard way just how out of the loop he has become.

"It's obvious you're on the outside looking in. Maybe you're not much use to me
after all," said the reptilian Viktor of the SVR, another of Homeland's
delicious Russians, who, I hope, will bring us a few more rounds of the
linguistic parrying we enjoyed so much last season.

"Even after all these years I have no idea what you're talking about half the
time," Saul tells him, after a long parable about a squirrel on a wire wheel
with broken feet.

"What kind of trouble are you in?" Viktor translates into simple American.

When erstwhile allies prove tricksters, and erstwhile partners are scheming
liars, what is an old spy chief to do? Seeking help from the enemy of your
enemies isn't quite the same thing as getting by with a little help from your
friends.

All that said, as others have commented, Dar Adal's relentless and back-stabbing
pursuit of policy he believes to be in the national interest has not, as far as
we know, extended in the past to the killing of government agents. Conlin's
murder doesn't feel to me like his handiwork. It seems to belong more to the
sinister world of the private sector intelligence firm that Conlin clumsily
infiltrated before meeting his sorry end.

What is that company, with its burgeoning army of dark-suited, high-clearance,
government intelligence geeks looking to cash in and get their hands on masses
of data that were previously off-limits?

"We're a node on the parallel backbone, sitting on the biggest fiber optic cable
transit in the world," says the pleasant fellow from Tailored Access Operations,
the N.S.A. top hacking team responsible for breaking into the computer systems
of foreign governments. "96.8 percent of the world's data."

Could John le Carré -- the muse of "Homeland"'s creative team -- ever have built
a writing career in the age of cyber-speak? Give me Saul's low-tech lyricism --
"We don't hold each other for ransom. Or ask what we cannot give" -- any day
over this bloodless chatter.

Speaking of the need for more authentic communication: It's interesting that
Marjorie Diehl's lack of "trust" of Elizabeth Keane is based upon Keane's
silence about her son Andrew's death in Iraq. Once again, it's a misperception.
Where Diehl hears disrespect -- that Keane is "ashamed" of her son -- Keane
actually feels awful guilt for having voted for the war that sent both Andrew
and Diehl's son, John, to their deaths in the first place. Keane's longtime
refusal to speak about Andrew on the campaign trail -- "I didn't want to 'use'
him like that," the president-elect explains -- has made all the American
combatants who lost their lives in the war "invisible," Diehl says.

It's an interesting commentary on the political liabilities of circumspection.
And the very fine line between political disagreement and all-out personal
invalidation.

I'm glad Diehl and Keane's unexpected partnership wound down to a happy ending.
And even more glad that Quinn seems to have ended up in good hands.

I will admit that, when he was first set upon by shadowy figures, given an
injection and loaded on to a gurney, I was afraid he was about to be carted off
for some short-term-memory-erasing electroshock therapy. Then I worried he was
to be dumped, still shackled, into the East River. But, for once, the imagined
dangers passed, and he was able to close his eyes in peace.

Sitting by her daughter's bedside with her gun, Carrie looks like she's being
triggered. Let's hope we get a double-dose of Astrid next week.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 26, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Most Exclusive Club

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; SpecialSections; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2406 words


Sitting at a table, grinding his pinkie into the corner of his mouth and staring
at the screen, Dr. Evil announces he is holding the world ransom for $1 million.
Having been cryogenically frozen for 30 years, the comic villain created by the
actor Mike Myers is shocked when he is told that $1 million isn't a lot of money
in 1997.

Trying to regain his composure, he turns to the screen, voice cracking with
uncertainty, and says, ''O.K. then, we hold the world ransom for $100 billion.''

Twenty years after the movie ''Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery'' was
released, billions of dollars aren't what they used to be, either.

Bill Gates alone is just $10 billion shy of Dr. Evil's ransom demand, according
to a list of the world's top 10 billionaires compiled by Wealth-X, a financial
research firm. Mr. Gates, the Microsoft founder, tops the list at $89.3 billion,
followed by his friend Warren Buffett at $73.5 billion.

The top 10 -- nine from the United States, one from Spain -- have a combined net
worth of $582 billion. While their wealth would certainly be enough to save the
world from Dr. Evil, what they do with it in real life is the subject of great
interest and debate.

That is true now more than ever. Issues around money -- like wealth inequality
and talk of tax cuts for the rich -- are among the hottest topics of the day.
And the richest president in history is sitting in the Oval Office, with
billionaires sprinkled throughout his cabinet.

To some, today's billionaires are like Dr. Evil: selfish, rapacious and bent on
world domination. To others, billionaires are worthy of respect for having put
their names and fortunes behind an array of philanthropic endeavors, many aimed
at improving the lives of people at the very base of the wealth pyramid.

There were 2,473 billionaires in the world, as of Wealth-X's last count through
2015. That was a 6.4 percent increase in billionaires from the year before.

But who these billionaires are and what they're like is more difficult to
discern. Many may seem as ordinary as the guy sitting next to you on the train
-- or in Michael Bloomberg's case, standing beside you on the subway, when he
was mayor of New York. (Mr. Bloomberg is No. 9 on Wealth-X's list.)

There are certainly billionaires who want to save the world, like Mr. Gates, Mr.
Buffett and Mr. Bloomberg, who have pledged to give their fortunes away. Others
in the top 10 are also philanthropic, but they are still focusing on their day
jobs, like Jeff Bezos of Amazon, Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook and Larry Page of
Alphabet (the parent of Google) -- Nos. 4, 5 and 10.

Yet many of the billionaires beyond the top 10 or 20 have a much lower profile.
Who outside of finance or hockey knew of Vincent Viola, a former oil trader and
current owner of the Florida Panthers, before President Trump nominated him to
be secretary of the Army? Now that he has withdrawn, he can return to relative
anonymity.

For that matter, Wilbur L. Ross, Mr. Trump's choice for commerce secretary, is
the wealthiest of the president's billionaire cabinet picks. He would pop up in
the headlines every few years for a deal he was making but then return to what
could be called the quiet opulence of the billionaire class.

''We know that things are quite different for a billionaire individual or a
billionaire family than they are for even a very wealthy ultra-high-net-worth
family,'' said Belinda Sneddon, national practice executive in the family office
group at U.S. Trust.

''They're different in how they can invest their assets and what their portfolio
may look like,'' Ms. Sneddon said. ''In many ways, they face different risks,
both personal risks and cyber risks, than the average individual does. They
often think about structuring decisions differently from a succession-planning
standpoint as well as the structure they create around themselves and their
family.''

Yet for most people, billionaires are just wealthy beyond belief. And these
days, they are also much wealthier (and getting even more so) than the broader
ultra-high-net-worth population.

That group is defined as anyone with more than $30 million. In 2015, there were
212,615 of them. On the lower end, the 155,050 people worth between $30 million
and $99 million had a combined $8.4 trillion. At the top, the world's 2,473
billionaires were worth $7.68 trillion.

''There is growing inequality around the world, but there is also inequality
among the ultrawealthy,'' said Maya Imberg, director of custom research at
Wealth-X.

Billionaires also matter because of the outsize influence they have, or believe
they can have, on policy and public life. They can give millions to a political
campaign, as Peter Thiel, a founder of PayPal and a director of Facebook, did
with Mr. Trump, or as George Soros, the hedge fund manager and philanthropist,
has done with liberal causes.

They can also give millions to combat disease, as the industrialist Jon Huntsman
Sr. has done with cancer, or to start schools in Africa, as Pierre Omidyar, a
founder of eBay, has done.

But billionaires are as different from one another as members of any other
economic group. How they amassed their billions, and how that pile is growing,
tells a lot about the economy today.

Road to Billions

Just as the best teacher in the country is going to earn less money than a
mediocre investment banker, the industries in which future billionaires begin
their careers determine the magnitude of their wealth and how quickly it is
going to grow.

Six of the top 10 billionaires made their money in technology. But in Wealth-X's
research, technology ranks sixth overall for the number of billionaires on the
list, with 114 around the world.

Finance has created the most billionaires, with 377, or 15 percent of the
world's billionaires. It is followed by industrial conglomerates, with 317, or
13 percent.

After that, the concentration in particular industries drops. Real estate is
third with 141. The group of people who identify their industry as nonprofits
(meaning they made their money some other way or inherited it) is fourth, with
122. Manufacturing, in fifth place, has 120.

''Globalization has been a big trend,'' said Benjamin Kinnard, a research
analyst at Wealth-X. ''The market is now seven billion people, not just the size
of your domestic country.''

He added that finance had a bigger lead in first place several years ago, but it
has been losing ground as industries like technology boom.

A tougher route to becoming a billionaire is through keeping track of other
people's billions. Accountants have just one person on the list, who was not
identified.

The railroad sector, a source of so much wealth in the last Gilded Age, has but
two billionaires, the same number those in as consumer finance.

And while billionaires in the United States are often better known than those
elsewhere, there are more billionaires in Europe (though they have less total
wealth than their American counterparts).

Asia is gaining ground quickly. Research from UBS calculated that a new
billionaire is created every three days in Asia, with 65 percent of the region's
billionaires in China.

While the number of billionaires in China is rising at a fast clip, the pace of
growth in billionaires worldwide is slowing. Wealth-X said the number will be
3,250 by 2020, down 16 percent from an earlier prediction of 3,873. This is
because economic growth is expected to slow around the world.

From $1 Billion to $100 Billion

Across the billionaire spectrum, the biggest proportion of billionaires' wealth
-- about half -- is in the business that created the wealth in the first place,
according to Wealth-X's research. After that, they have about a quarter of their
money in public securities and a little less than a quarter in cash. Just 4
percent is in real estate and luxury assets, the research found.

There are common strains to how they cross the billionaire line, regardless of
industry: 57 percent are self-made, according to Wealth-X, and another 31
percent received an inheritance and grew it into billions.

''Timing has a lot to do with it,'' said John Mathews, head of private wealth
management and the ultra-high-net-worth group at UBS. ''If we looked back 100
years, it would have been a really great time to be in steel, railroad or
infrastructure businesses. Today, it's a good time to be in technology and
finance.''

But there is a difference from the bottom of the billionaire ladder to the top:
Most are on that first rung.

Over half of all billionaires are worth between $1 billion and $2 billion. Go up
to $5 billion and there are 2,101.

And not all billionaires are household names.

Ma Jianrong, executive chairman of Shenzhou International Group Holdings, which
is the leading textile company in China and manufactures clothing for Nike,
Adidas, Puma and Uniqlo, is worth $4.3 billion.

Patrice Motsepe, executive chairman of African Rainbow Minerals, built his
wealth through mining in South Africa after starting his career as a lawyer in
the United States. He is now worth $2.1 billion.

Kevin Systrom, chief executive of Instagram, is surely well known in Silicon
Valley -- and among students at Stanford University (his alma mater) who want to
emulate his route to a net worth of $1.2 billion by age 33. But he is not as
recognizable as Mr. Zuckerberg of Facebook.

But being a billionaire, as opposed to a very wealthy millionaire, can make a
huge difference in the loss of privacy for a family. ''It's a lot more difficult
to be anonymous,'' Ms. Sneddon said.

And being known as billionaires opens them up to risks, she said, like
cybersecurity breaches and attacks on their families.

How single-digit billionaires add additional billions isn't always up to them.

One way to become even wealthier is to have picked the right global industry in
which to make your billions and hang on to your stake in your company as it
booms -- and avoids busts. Right now, the technology and finance industries are
leading the growth. Another way is to make your money in the right region, which
is Asia.

Then, of course, there are the investment opportunities that only get presented
to the wealthiest people, and that only they have the resources to take a chance
on. ''They can diversify their holdings to protect themselves,'' Mr. Kinnard
said.

And the big investments that are needed in private equity deals, for example,
are a smaller portion of overall wealth for billionaires than for someone with,
say, $100 million.

''The common thread with billionaires is the incredibly focused drive these
people have in whatever business they go into,'' Mr. Mathews said. ''It's dogged
determination. You can say everyone is like that, but with billionaires
everything else gets blocked out. You see it today with tech the way you saw it
with steel barons 100 years ago.''

Ups and Downs

Yet getting across the billionaire line does not mean a person will always be
there.

''Once a billionaire doesn't mean you'll stay a billionaire,'' Mr. Mathews of
UBS said. ''Last year alone there were 41 new billionaires created in the United
States, but 36 also dropped out of billionaire status in the U.S. Our
billionaire population is growing but only by a net of five.''

In the United States, Mr. Mathews said, most people fall off the billionaire
list because they sell the company that created their wealth. ''When you sell
it, there are tax issues,'' he said. ''There are estate-planning issues.''

The latter results in chunks of money being given to heirs to get it out of the
wealth creator's estate.

Selling family firms happens less often in Europe and Asia. People end up
holding on to them and creating family holding companies to continue to operate
that original business and expand into others.

Of course, people who sell their $1 billion company and end up with $500 million
after taxes -- or whose wealth tops out at $800 million -- aren't scraping by.
But being a billionaire gives you entry into an exclusive club that being a
millionaire does not. After all, in Mr. Trump's cabinet, Secretary of State Rex
W. Tillerson's wealth from his career at Exxon Mobil looks positively modest.
He's worth just a few hundred million.

Expectations and Obligations

What is expected of people who have more money than they could spend in several
lifetimes? It depends on whom you ask.

A recent report from Oxfam International, the antipoverty charity, argued that
eight billionaires had as much wealth as half of the world's population -- or
3.6 billion people -- and that that was a travesty.

''It is obscene for so much wealth to be held in the hands of so few when one in
10 people survive on less than $2 a day,'' Winnie Byanyima, executive director
of Oxfam, said in a statement. ''Inequality is trapping hundreds of millions in
poverty. It is fracturing our societies and undermining democracy.''

Yet the anger against the superrich has abated since the Occupy Wall Street
protests in 2011. Protesters seem to be more concerned with the actions of Mr.
Trump (who is likely a billionaire, although he has provided little proof of his
real wealth) than with his cabinet of plutocrats.

One of his tax proposals would keep billionaires from having to part with more
of their wealth, by eliminating the estate tax. Without it, generational wealth
would be easier to preserve and perpetuate.

Philanthropy has become important to many billionaires, and not just through the
Giving Pledge, Mr. Buffett's compact to get the wealthiest to give away at least
half of their fortunes. Nor is it confined to the United States, with its
tradition of charitable giving.

''You're starting to see where philanthropy is becoming more and more important
to billionaires regardless of where they live,'' Mr. Mathews said. ''I don't
know if 10, 12 years ago, it was much of a conversation in Asia. Now all
billionaires, regardless of where they live, are worried about the next
generation.''

But there are limits to what even a billionaire can do. Mr. Bloomberg, in an
interview in 2014, recalled the time he was approached at a conference in Sun
Valley, Idaho, by a hedge fund manager offering him $1 billion over five years
to change public education in New York.

''When I explained to him that New York City's annual school budget was $22
billion a year,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, ''that was the last time we ever heard
from him.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/19/your-money/who-are-the-richest-of-the-rich.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID PLUNKERT) (F6-F7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 26, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

What Does Steve Bannon Want?

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CALDWELL.

Christopher Caldwell, a senior editor at The Weekly Standard, is at work on a
book about the rise and fall of the post-1960s political order.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2221 words


President Trump presents a problem to those who look at politics in terms of
systematic ideologies. He is either disinclined or unable to lay out his agenda
in that way. So perhaps it was inevitable that Mr. Trump's chief strategist,
Stephen K. Bannon, who does have a gift for thinking systematically, would be so
often invoked by Mr. Trump's opponents. They need him not just as a hate object
but as a heuristic, too. There may never be a ''Trumpism,'' and unless one
emerges, the closest we may come to understanding this administration is as an
expression of ''Bannonism.''

Mr. Bannon, 63, has won a reputation for abrasive brilliance at almost every
stop in his unorthodox career -- as a naval officer, Goldman Sachs mergers
specialist, entertainment-industry financier, documentary screenwriter and
director, Breitbart News cyber-agitprop impresario and chief executive of Mr.
Trump's presidential campaign. One Harvard Business School classmate described
him to The Boston Globe as ''top three in intellectual horsepower in our class
-- perhaps the smartest.'' Benjamin Harnwell of the Institute for Human Dignity,
a Catholic organization in Rome, calls him a ''walking bibliography.'' Perhaps
because Mr. Bannon came late to conservatism, turning his full-time energy to
political matters only after the Sept. 11 attacks, he radiates an excitement
about it that most of his conservative contemporaries long ago lost.

One month into the Trump administration, Mr. Bannon has already made his
influence felt. He helped draft the president's Inaugural Address, acquired a
seat on the National Security Council and reportedly was the main force behind
the president's stalled ban on travel from seven predominantly Muslim countries.
Reports that the administration has considered designating the Muslim
Brotherhood a terrorist organization echo Mr. Bannon's own longtime
preoccupation with the group, as both a screenwriter and a talk-radio host.

Many accounts of Mr. Bannon paint him as a cartoon villain or internet troll
come to life, as a bigot, an anti-Semite, a misogynist, a crypto-fascist. The
former House speaker Nancy Pelosi and Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of
New York, have even called him a ''white nationalist.'' While he is certainly a
hard-line conservative of some kind, the evidence that he is an extremist of a
more troubling sort has generally been either massaged, misread or hyped up.

There may be good reasons to worry about Mr. Bannon, but they are not the ones
everyone is giving. It does not make Mr. Bannon a fascist that he happens to
know who the 20th-century Italian extremist Julius Evola is. It does not make
Mr. Bannon a racist that he described Breitbart as ''the platform for the
alt-right'' -- a broad and imprecise term that applies to a wide array of
radicals, not just certain white supremacist groups.

Nor does it make Mr. Bannon a fringe character that during the meetings of the
Conservative Political Action Conference in 2013 and 2014, he hosted rival panel
discussions called the Uninvited -- although it did show a relish for the role
of ideological bad boy. Mr. Bannon's panels included such mainstream figures as
the former House speaker Newt Gingrich and the former Bush administration
attorney general Michael Mukasey, and discussed such familiar Republican
preoccupations as military preparedness and the 2012 attacks on the United
States mission in Benghazi, Libya. It wasn't much different from watching Fox
News.

Where Mr. Bannon does veer sharply from recent mainstream Republicanism is in
his all-embracing nationalism. He speaks of sovereignty, economic nationalism,
opposition to globalization and finding common ground with Brexit supporters and
other groups hostile to the transnational European Union. On Thursday, at this
year's Conservative Political Action Conference, he described the ''center
core'' of Trump administration philosophy as the belief that the United States
is more than an economic unit in a borderless word. It is ''a nation with a
culture'' and ''a reason for being.''

So some of the roots of Mr. Bannon's ideology, like the roots of Mr. Trump's
popularity, are to be found in the disappointed hopes of the global economy. But
Mr. Bannon, unlike Mr. Trump, has a detailed idea, an explanation, of how
American sovereignty was lost, and of what to do about it. It is the same idea
that Tea Party activists have: A class of regulators in the government has
robbed Americans of their democratic prerogatives. That class now constitutes an
''administrative state'' that operates to empower itself and enrich its
crony-capitalist allies.

When Mr. Bannon spoke on Thursday of ''deconstructing the administrative
state,'' it may have sounded like gobbledygook outside the hall, but it was an
electrifying profession of faith for the attendees. It is through Mr. Bannon
that Trumpism can be converted from a set of nostalgic laments and complaints
into a program for overhauling the government.

Mr. Bannon adds something personal and idiosyncratic to this Tea Party mix. He
has a theory of historical cycles that can be considered elegantly simple or
dangerously simplistic. It is a model laid out by William Strauss and Neil Howe
in two books from the 1990s. Their argument assumes an 80- to 100-year cycle
divided into roughly 20-year ''highs,'' ''awakenings,'' ''unravelings'' and
''crises.'' The American Revolution, the Civil War, the New Deal, World War II
-- Mr. Bannon has said for years that we're due for another crisis about now.
His documentary about the 2008 financial collapse, ''Generation Zero,'' released
in 2010, uses the Strauss-Howe model to explain what happened, and concludes
with Mr. Howe himself saying, ''History is seasonal, and winter is coming.''

Mr. Bannon's views reflect a transformation of conservatism over the past decade
or so. You can trace this transformation in the films he has made. His 2004
documentary, ''In the Face of Evil,'' is an orthodox tribute to the Republican
Party hero Ronald Reagan. But ''Generation Zero,'' half a decade later, is a
strange hybrid. The financial crash has intervened. Mr. Bannon's film features
predictable interviews with think-tank supply siders and free marketers fretting
about big government. But new, less orthodox voices creep in, too, from the
protectionist newscaster Lou Dobbs to the investment manager Barry Ritholtz.
They question whether the free market is altogether free. Mr. Ritholtz says that
the outcome of the financial crisis has been ''socialism for the wealthy but
capitalism for everybody else.''

By 2014, Mr. Bannon's own ideology had become centered on this distrust. He was
saying such things about capitalism himself. ''Think about it,'' he said in a
talk hosted by the Institute for Human Dignity. ''Not one criminal charge has
ever been brought to any bank executive associated with 2008 crisis.'' He warned
against ''the Ayn Rand or the Objectivist School of libertarian capitalism,'' by
which he meant ''a capitalism that really looks to make people commodities, and
to objectify people.'' Capitalism, he said, ought to rest on a
''Judeo-Christian'' foundation.

If so, this was bad news for the Republican Party. By the time Mr. Bannon spoke,
Ayn Rand-style capitalism was all that remained of its Reagan-era agenda.
Free-market thinking had swallowed the party whole, and its Judeo-Christian
preoccupations -- ''a nation with a culture'' and ''a reason for being'' --
along with it. A business orientation was what donors wanted.

But voters never more than tolerated it. It was Pat Buchanan who in his 1992 run
for president first called on Republicans to value jobs and communities over
profits. An argument consumed the party over whether this was a better-rounded
vision of society or just the grousing of a reactionary. After a generation, Mr.
Buchanan has won that argument. By 2016 his views on trade and migration, once
dismissed as crackpot, were spreading so fast that everyone in the party had
embraced them -- except its elected officials and its establishment presidential
candidates.

Mr. Bannon does not often go into detail about what Judeo-Christian culture is,
but he knows one thing it is not: Islam. Like most Americans, he believes that
Islamism -- the extremist political movement -- is a dangerous adversary. More
controversially he holds that, since this political movement is generated within
the sphere of Islam, the growth of Islam -- the religion -- is itself a problem
with which American authorities should occupy themselves. This is a view that
was emphatically repudiated by Presidents Obama and George W. Bush.

Mr. Bannon has apparently drawn his own views on the subject from intensive, if
not necessarily varied, reading. The thinkers he has engaged with in this area
tend to be hot and polemical rather than cool and detached. They include the
provocateur Pamela Geller, a campaigner against the ''Ground Zero Mosque'' who
once suggested the State Department was ''essentially being run by Islamic
supremacists''; her sometime collaborator Robert Spencer, the director of the
website Jihad Watch, with whom she heads an organization called Stop
Islamization of America; and the former Department of Homeland Security official
Philip Haney, who has argued that officials in the Obama administration had
compromised ''the security of citizens for the ideological rigidity of political
correctness.''

President Trump being unpopular among intellectuals, any thinker in his cabinet
will be, at some level, a nonconformist, a rebel or an individualist. That may
yet make things interesting for the country. It will certainly make Washington a
hostile environment for Mr. Bannon. Many policy intellectuals in the capital
have paid a steep price in swallowed misgivings and trimmed convictions to get
to the place that Mr. Bannon has somehow blown into town and usurped. He never
had to compromise or even modify his principles. His boss didn't even get a
majority of the popular vote. Establishment conservatives may be prone to
mistake their jealousy for a principled conviction that Mr. Bannon is
unsocialized and dangerous.

Is he? Last summer the historian Ronald Radosh contributed to this image with
his (later contested) recollection that, years ago, Mr. Bannon, in the only
conversation the two ever had, described himself as a ''Leninist'' who wanted to
''bring everything crashing down.''

But Mr. Bannon's ideology, whatever it may be, does not wholly capture what
drives him, says the screenwriter Julia Jones. Starting in the early 1990s, Ms.
Jones and Mr. Bannon began writing screenplays together, and did so for a decade
and a half. She is one of the few longtime collaborators in his otherwise
peripatetic career. As Ms. Jones sees it, a more reliable key to his worldview
lies in his military service. ''He has a respect for duty,'' she said in early
February. ''The word he has used a lot is 'dharma.' '' Mr. Bannon found the
concept of dharma in the Bhagavad Gita, she recalls. It can describe one's path
in life or one's place in the universe.

When Mr. Bannon came to Hollywood, Ms. Jones says, he was less political. For
two years, according to Ms. Jones, the two of them worked on the outline of a
26-part television series about seekers after the secrets of the human self,
from Arthur Conan Doyle to Nietzsche to Madame Blavatsky to Ramakrishna to the
Baal Shem Tov to Geronimo. ''It was his idea,'' she said. ''He assembled all the
people.''

But the Sept. 11 attacks, Ms. Jones says, changed him, and their collaboration
did not survive his growing engagement with politics. Speaking of his films, she
says, ''He developed a kind of propaganda-type tone of voice that I found
offensive.'' Ms. Jones is a literary person, left-liberal in politics. She
regrets that Mr. Bannon ''has found a home in nationalism.'' But she does not
believe he is any kind of anarchist, let alone a racist.

Those focused on Mr. Bannon's ideology are probably barking up the wrong tree.
There are plenty of reasons for concern about Mr. Bannon, but they have less to
do with where he stands on the issues than with who he is as a person. He is a
newcomer to political power and, in fact, relatively new to an interest in
politics. He is willing to break with authority. While he does not embrace any
of the discredited ideologies of the last century, he is attached to a theory of
history's cycles that is, to put it politely, untested. Most ominously, he is an
intellectual in politics excited by grand theories -- a combination that has
produced unpredictable results before.

We'll see how it works out. Barack Obama, in a similar way, used to allude to
the direction and the ''arc'' of history. Some may find the two theories of
history equally naïve and unrealistic. Others may see a mitigating element in
the cyclical nature of Mr. Bannon's view. A progressive who believes history is
more or less linear is fighting for immortality when he enters the political
arena. A conservative who believes history is cyclical is fighting only for a
role in managing, say, the next 20 or 80 years. Then his work will be undone, as
everyone's is eventually.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/25/opinion/what-does-steve-bannon-want.html

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) DRAWING
(DRAWING BY DOUG CHAYKA)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        March 2, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Democracy, Disrupted;
Contributing Op-Ed Writer

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1953 words



HIGHLIGHT: "Someone looking at the United States would have to be worried about
democratic failure."


As the forces of reaction outpace movements predicated on the ideal of progress,
and as traditional norms of political competition are tossed aside, it's clear
that the internet and social media have succeeded in doing what many feared and
some hoped they would. They have disrupted and destroyed institutional
constraints on what can be said, when and where it can be said and who can say
it.

Even though in one sense President Trump's victory in 2016 fulfilled
conventional expectations -- because it prevented a third straight Democratic
term in the White House -- it also revealed that the internet and its offspring
have overridden the traditional American political system of alternating
left-right advantage. They are contributing -- perhaps irreversibly -- to the
decay of traditional moral and ethical constraints in American politics.

Matthew Hindman, a professor of media and public affairs at George Washington
University and the author of "The Myth of Digital Democracy," said in a phone
interview that "if you took the label off, someone looking at the United States
would have to be worried about democratic failure or transitioning toward a
hybrid regime."

Such a regime, in his view, would keep the trappings of democracy, including
seemingly free elections, while leaders would control the election process, the
media and the scope of permissible debate. "What you get is a country that is de
facto less free."

Scott Goodstein, the C.E.O. of Revolution Messaging, has run online messaging
for both the Obama and Sanders campaigns. When I spoke to him in a phone
interview, he argued that the internet has been

a great thing for getting additional layers of transparency. It was true for
Donald Trump as it was for Bernie Sanders; the internet ended smoke-filled back
rooms, deal-cutting moved from back room to a true campaign, with a more general
population. Maybe an unwashed population, but that's the beauty of American
politics with 350 million people.

Goodstein noted, however, "a horrible development on the internet" last year:

In this cycle you saw hate speech retweeted and echoed, by partisan hacks, the
Jewish star used in neo-Nazi posts. There is no governing body, so I think it's
going to get worse, more people jumping into the gutter.

The use of digital technology in the 2016 election "represents the latest
chapter in the disintegration of legacy institutions that had set bounds for
American politics in the postwar era," Nathaniel Persily, a law professor at
Stanford, writes in a forthcoming paper, "Can American Democracy Survive the
Internet?"

According to Persily, the Trump campaign was "totally unprecedented in its
breaking of established norms of politics." He argues that

this type of campaign is only successful in a context in which certain
established institutions -- particularly, the mainstream media and political
party organizations -- have lost most of their power, both in the United States
and around the world.

The Trump campaign is the most recent beneficiary of the collapse of
once-dominant organizations:

The void these eroding institutions have left was filled by an unmediated,
populist nationalism tailor-made for the internet age. We see it in the rise of
the Five Star Movement in Italy and the Pirate Party in Iceland. We see it in
the successful use of social media in the Brexit referendum, in which supporters
were seven times more numerous on Twitter and five times more active on
Instagram. And we see it in the pervasive fears of government leaders throughout
Europe, who worried well before the American election that Russian propaganda
and other internet tactics might sway their electorates.

The influence of the internet is the latest manifestation of the weakening of
the two major American political parties over the past century, with the Civil
Service undermining patronage, the rise of mass media altering communication,
campaign finance law empowering donors independent of the parties, and the
ascendance of direct primaries gutting the power of party bosses to pick
nominees.

In a forthcoming paper "Outsourcing Politics: The Hostile Takeovers of Our
Hollowed Out Political Parties," Samuel Issacharoff, a law professor at New York
University, writes about how the erosion of political parties played out in
2016:

Neither party appeared to have a mechanism of internal correction. Neither could
muster the wise elders to steer a more conventional course. Neither could use
its congressional leadership to regain control of the party through its powers
of governance. Neither could lay claim to financial resources that would compel
a measure of candidate loyalty. Neither could even exert influence though party
endorsements.

The result:

The parties proved hollow vehicles that offered little organizational resistance
to capture by outsiders. And what was captured appeared little more than a
brand, certainly not the vibrant organizations that are heralded as the
indispensable glue of democratic politics.

Issacharoff was even more concerned about the future of democratic politics in a
talk, "Anxieties of Democracy," that he gave in February at the University of
Texas law school.

"We are witnessing a period of deep challenge to the core claims of democracy to
be the superior form of political organization of civilized peoples," he told
his audience:

The current moment of democratic uncertainty draws from four central
institutional challenges, each one a compromise of how democracy was
consolidated over the past few centuries. First, the accelerated decline of
political parties and other institutional forms of engagement; second, the
weakness of the legislative branches; third, the loss of a sense of social
cohesion; and fourth, the decline in democratic state competence.

In a phone interview, Issacharoff cited the emergence of internet-based methods
of communication as a major contributing factor in the deterioration of
political parties.

"Technology has overtaken one of the basic functions you needed political
parties for in the past, communication with voters," he said. "Social media has
changed all of that, candidates now have direct access through email, blogs and
Twitter," along with Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and other platforms.

Two developments in the 2016 campaign provided strong evidence of the
vulnerability of democracies in the age of the internet: the alleged effort of
the Russian government to secretly intervene on behalf of Trump, and the
discovery by internet profiteers of how to monetize the distribution of fake
news stories, especially stories damaging to Hillary Clinton.

In an email, Samuel Greene, the director of the Russia Institute at King's
College London, described his "best estimate" of Russian cyber hacking under
Putin's guidance:

Teams of hackers, operating with varying levels of resources and at various
distances from the central chain of command, had a lot of license to poke and
prod and see what they could come up with. Some of these people found it easier
to do certain kinds of things -- like break into Podesta's emails -- than they
had expected. Having obtained a windfall, they were then given license to push
it even further.

The question now is who benefits more from the digital revolution and the
ubiquity of social media, the left or the right?

Andreas Jungherr, an expert in social and computer science at the University of
Konstanz in Germany, argues that the internet is particularly helpful to
opposition movements. He emailed me:

It seems to me this is not a question about ideological placement but more about
organizational or movement strategy. As long as I am in opposition, the payoff
is higher in investing in digital infrastructure and thereby channeling the
activities and enthusiasm of my supporters than when in power. So I would expect
a re-emergence of political activity, for example in the form of alternative
news sources, on the liberal side in the coming years.

Along parallel lines, Cristian Vaccari, a reader in politics at Royal Holloway,
University of London, argued in an email that social media have contributed to
the sudden emergence of candidates and parties running the ideological gamut:

By qualitatively expanding the pool of participants, social media may thus be
substantially contributing to some of the vivid examples of political disruption
that we have witnessed over the past few years across and beyond the Western
world: from the spread of protest movements to the sudden rise of new parties
such as the Five Star Movement in Italy and Podemos in Spain, from the ascent of
populist leaders all across Europe to electoral upheavals such as the Brexit
referendum and the surge of Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump in the United States
2016 Presidential elections.

Clay Shirky is a professor in the Interactive Telecommunications Program at
N.Y.U. In a 2009 TED talk -- the full political significance of which has only
become clear over the past eight years -- he described some of the implications
of the digital revolution:

The internet is the first medium in history that has native support for groups
and conversation at the same time. Whereas the phone gave us the one-to-one
pattern, and television, radio, magazines, books, gave us the one-to-many
pattern, the internet gives us the many-to-many pattern.

Shirky continues:

The second big change is that, as all media gets digitized, the internet also
becomes the mode of carriage for all other media, meaning that phone calls
migrate to the internet, magazines migrate to the internet, movies migrate to
the internet. And that means that every medium is right next door to every other
medium. Put another way, media is increasingly less just a source of
information, and it is increasingly more a site of coordination, because groups
that see or hear or watch or listen to something can now gather around and talk
to each other as well.

And the third big change, according to Shirky, is that members of the former
audience

can now also be producers and not consumers. Every time a new consumer joins
this media landscape a new producer joins as well, because the same equipment --
phones, computers -- let you consume and produce. It's as if, when you bought a
book, they threw in the printing press for free; it's like you had a phone that
could turn into a radio if you pressed the right buttons.

There is good reason to think that the disruptive forces at work in the United
States -- as they expand the universe of the politically engaged and open the
debate to millions who previously paid little or no attention -- may do more to
damage the left than strengthen it. In other words, just as the use of negative
campaign ads and campaign finance loopholes to channel suspect contributions
eventually became routine, so too will be the use of social media to confuse and
mislead the electorate.

Of course, this problem goes much deeper than the internet. Sam Greene of King's
College London put it this way in an email:

Our politics are vulnerable to nefarious influences -- whether of the Kremlin
variety or the Breitbart variety -- not because our information landscape is
open and fluid, but because voters' perceptions have become untethered from
reality. For reasons that are both complex and debatable, very many voters have
stopped seeing government as a tool for the production of the common good, and
have instead turned to politicians (and others) who at least make them feel
good. Thus, the news we consume has become as much about emotion and identity as
about facts. That's where the vulnerability comes in, and its roots are in our
politics -- not in the internet.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        March 2, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Russia's Attack, an Alternate History;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 461 words



HIGHLIGHT: Lamenting Obama's low-key response to Russia's attack obviously
depends on 20/20 hindsight.


This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to
receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox.

It's the summer of 2016, and President Obama is delivering a surprise address
from the stately East Room, the same place where he announced the death of Osama
bin Laden, among other events.

"I'm speaking to you tonight to inform you that the United States is under
attack," the president says. "The Russian government at the highest levels is
trying to influence our most precious asset, our democracy."

Russia had hacked into the computers of the Democratic National Committee, and
was releasing the contents of its cyber-theft, in an attempt to influence the
election, Obama explained. He was careful to present the behavior of the Trump
campaign itself in the best light and to say that it deserved every benefit of
the doubt.

But the president wanted the American people to sit up and take notice of the
attack. He wanted them to understand why the drip-drip-drip of WikiLeaks was
happening. He wanted to call out the media for breathlessly reporting on
WikiLeaks as if it were the product of great investigative reporting, rather
than theft by a hostile foreign country. He wanted to put Russia on very public
notice.

None of this happened, of course. It's a piece of alternate history, dreamed up
by a top adviser to Hillary Clinton's campaign and described briefly in an
excellent New Yorker article this week. The article tells the story of Russia's
campaign against the United States --under the all-star triple byline of Evan
Osnos, David Remnick and Joshua Yaffa -- and I recommend you set aside the time
to read it.

Lamenting the Obama administration's low-key passive response to Russia's attack
obviously depends on 20/20 hindsight. Obama had reason to play it safe: As a
Democratic president, he was rightly worried about politicizing national
security and using his power to hurt the Republican nominee. But it seems likely
that the administration would have nonetheless chosen a different route if it
had realized that Donald Trump was a serious threat to win the election.

There is also one lesson that remains very relevant today: The country is still
not taking Russia's actions nearly seriously enough. As Tom Friedman has
written, Nov. 8, 2016, deserves to join Sept. 11, 2001, and Dec. 7, 1941, as
infamous dates of attacks on America.

We still need to learn the full story, through investigations by the F.B.I.,
Congress, the Trump administration and, especially now, an independent
prosecutor. If you haven't already read the latestnews this morning, be sure to
do so.

You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        March 2, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Review: Pursuing (Cyber) Connections in 'The Human Surge'

BYLINE: GLENN KENNY

SECTION: MOVIES

LENGTH: 271 words



HIGHLIGHT: Eduardo Williams's film blurs the lines between narrative and
documentary, adding cryptic observations while navigating Buenos Aires and the
Web.


The director Eduardo Williams is quite aggressive about pushing at the
boundaries between documentary and fiction film in his debut feature, "The Human
Surge." His camera follows its subjects, initially young people in impoverished
areas around Buenos Aires, from a respectful distance and records, it seems, the
most quotidian details of their lives. (It was shot in two formats, Super
16-millimeter film and digital.)

A young man wades through a flooded area, then drops in on a house full of
friends, or perhaps relatives; he wanders into a bedroom, where he chats with a
teenage girl about the house's lack of Wi-Fi. Logging on is a leitmotif in the
film, which ends with a young woman, in a village halfway around the world from
the movie's starting point, repeatedly asking (it's very annoying) where she can
find a "cybercafe."

The action is all relatively realistic, but then someone will drop a cryptic or
surreal observation. (For instance, "In the future the noise level of the food
court will be accepted as silence.") A scene of teenage boys engaging in
tentative sex play with one another for a webcam show is presented with
sufficient flatness of affect to make a viewer suspect that Mr. Williams is also
interested in blurring the lines between verisimilitude and tedium. Just when
you think you've got the movie pegged, it pulls a daring switch of perspective.
While the thrill of that little coup is short-lived, it suggests that Mr.
Williams may come up with something more substantial with his next feature.

Not rated. In Spanish, Portuguese and Tagalog, with English subtitles. Running
time: 1 hour 37 minutes.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        March 2, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Under Trump, an Already Depleted I.R.S. Could Face Deep Cuts

BYLINE: ALAN RAPPEPORT

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1122 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Trump administration is proposing a 14 percent decline in
spending for the tax agency, which is bleeding staff, auditing fewer returns and
making taxpayers wait longer for help.


WASHINGTON -- President Trump has a rocky history with the Internal Revenue
Service, which he has complained audits him with unfair ferocity. Now he wants
to significantly cut the tax agency's funding at a time when it has already been
bleeding staff and struggling to keep up with a flood of returns ahead of Tax
Day.

The plans, revealed this week in documents associated with the White House
budget outline, put Mr. Trump at odds with his Treasury secretary, Steven
Mnuchin, who has argued that the I.R.S. needs more money and a larger staff.

Another round of cuts, tax experts say, could put one of the few federal
departments that pay for themselves on life support.

"This is an agency that has had every last drop squeezed out of it," said Dennis
J. Ventry Jr., a member of the I.R.S. advisory council and a law professor at
the University of California, Davis. "I don't know how it's going to sustain
itself."

The White House budget office has proposed a 14.1 percent cut to the I.R.S. for
the fiscal year that begins in October, reducing the agency's budget to $9.65
billion; six years ago, it stood at $12.1 billion ($13.6 billion when adjusted
for inflation).

If approved, the cuts would happen when the number of audits is down and
customer service complaints are up as a result of the drop in funding.

Mr. Mnuchin surprised some Republicans at his Senate confirmation hearing in
January when he said that one of his priorities as Treasury secretary would be
to rebuild the I.R.S.'s staff.

Promising to modernize a Treasury unit that many conservatives have threatened
to abolish, Mr. Mnuchin said he was certain that Mr. Trump understood the
concept of "we add people, we make money." Investing in the I.R.S., Mr. Mnuchin
suggested, was a smart move because the agency's work ultimately paid for itself
through the revenue that it brought in.

The White House, it seems, has other ideas.

The potential reduction in I.R.S. funding is the latest example of potential
division within the Trump administration's economic team, which has wrestled
with how to cut taxes, invest in the military and lower the debt at the same
time.

New internal data released by the agency this week underscored the pressure it
is under. The number of individual tax return audits fell last year to its
lowest level since 2004, and enforcement staffing levels were down by nearly 30
percent from 2010, to just below 16,000. Criminal investigations related to
tax-related identity theft, money laundering, public corruption, cybercrime and
terrorist financing also are on the decline, and I.R.S. officials cited budget
constraints as the reason.

"This is only going to continue that trend," Roberton C. Williams, a fellow at
the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center, says of the potential cuts the agency is
facing. "Audits are really a necessary function in the sense that it maintains
the integrity of the system."

There is the issue of unpaid taxes, an enormous cost to America's finances. The
federal budget deficit in fiscal 2016 was $587 billion, while the "tax gap" --
the gulf between taxes owed and taxes paid -- averaged $458 billion from 2008
from 2010, according to an analysis conducted by the I.R.S. last year.
Collecting even half that sum could make up a significant chunk of the
government's budget shortfall, without increasing taxes or cutting spending.

Handicapping the agency with additional budget cuts will make matters worse,
experts say, emboldening scofflaws to take their chances against an increasingly
toothless tax collector. And as funding continues to fall, honest taxpayers are
suffering from a lack of attention.

The I.R.S. Taxpayer Advocate's most recent annual report to Congress detailed
how stretched the agency had become, citing the closing of dozens of walk-in
assistance centers and longer waits to speak to customer service agents on the
telephone.

In 2004, a taxpayer with a problem could speak to someone in less than three
minutes, according to the report. Last year, it took nearly 20 minutes to
navigate a maze of automation and hold times to reach someone.

Security is also a worry, with cyber-threats on the rise around the world. In
2015, the I.R.S. computer systems were hacked. As a result, personal data
connected to more than 700,000 taxpayer accounts was stolen. With hackers
showing increased skill and even a willingness to meddle in American elections,
the agency is under pressure to keep its defenses on high alert to prevent
further breaches.

But help does not appear to be on the way.

Republicans have been at odds with the I.R.S. over accusations that the agency
unfairly targeted conservative groups. John Koskinen, who was appointed
commissioner in 2013 to help stabilize the agency in the aftermath of those
accusations, has instead emerged as a boogeyman to its critics. He still faces
calls for his impeachment over claims that he covered up information about the
I.R.S.'s handling of conservative groups.

The agency's fate was a hot topic in last year's presidential campaign. The
Republican candidate Ted Cruz, senator of Texas, suggested that the I.R.S.
should be abolished altogether. Mr. Cruz proposed dispatching its remaining
staff members to police the country's southern border.

Mr. Trump has his own fraught history with the I.R.S., accusing it of unfairly
auditing him year after year and citing a pending audit as a reason he would not
publicly release his tax returns. While the president praised Mr. Koskinen in
2014 as "a very good man," Mr. Trump also fights hard, he has said, to keep his
tax bill as low as possible.

Mr. Koskinen, who declined to be interviewed, has argued forcefully that those
who would cut the I.R.S. budget in the name of fiscal conservatism misunderstood
the agency's value. At hearings around Washington, he regularly reminds members
of Congress that every dollar of investment in the I.R.S. yields $4 in revenue.

That revenue will have added importance as congressional Republicans and Mr.
Trump embark on plans to cut taxes while increasing military spending and
investing more in the nation's crumbling infrastructure.

Still, I.R.S. critics are unlikely to lavish money on an agency whose mission
many of them loathe, even as its workload shows no signs of letting up.

"The confluence of a 14 percent reduction, on top of a string of reductions of
$900 million over the last eight years, with a promise of major tax reform later
this year is a recipe for disaster at the country's most significant
revenue-producing agency," said Lawrence B. Gibbs, a former I.R.S. commissioner.

Patricia Cohen contributed reporting.

PHOTO: John Koskinen, the Internal Revenue Service commissioner, has been a
target for Republicans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABRIELLA DEMCZUK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        March 2, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Military Expects More Shopping Money, if Not All Trump Seeks

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER DREW

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1274 words



HIGHLIGHT: With the budget request likely to meet headwinds, any expansion will
probably add personnel and supplement existing arms programs, not start new
ones.


Over the next two weeks, the military services will be scrambling to get their
wish lists in front of top defense officials, hoping their requests for more
troops, planes, ships and missiles will be stuffed into President Trump's
proposed $54 billion increase in the Pentagon budget.

Never mind that Congress is unlikely to approve the full amount. Or that it is
not clear if the Pentagon, which views Russia as the biggest threat, and the new
president, who is mainly focused on defeating the Islamic State, agree on the
priorities.

The services are betting that Mr. Trump will eventually win a large enough chunk
of the money so that they can do a bit of everything, like reversing recent
declines in the number of soldiers and Marines and breaking logjams over how
many high-tech jets and ships they can afford to build.

But there are no guarantees, and the battle over next year's federal budget will
be ferocious. Democrats have vowed to block the president's proposal to strip
the $54 billion from domestic programs and shift it to the military. Nearly
everyone expects the fight to drag on for months.

On Thursday, Mr. Trump helped set the stage, traveling to a shipyard in Newport
News, Va., for an action-movie-like backdrop to tout his plans to build the
armed forces. Speaking in the hangar bay of the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier
Gerald R. Ford, which this year will become the nation's largest and most
powerful floating fortress, Mr. Trump said the Navy -- and other military
services -- must grow and modernize. The 100,000-ton vessel, the first of a new,
more technologically advanced carrier class, cost about $13 billion after cost
overruns and years of delay.

"We will make it easier for the Navy to plan for the future and thus to control
costs and get the best deals for the taxpayer," the president said. "The same
boat for less money, the same ship for less money, the same airplanes for less
money."

Mr. Trump has complained about the cost estimates for new Air Force One planes
to be built by Boeing, and he has pressed executives at Lockheed Martin to lower
the cost of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. Whether that personal negotiating
strategy can be applied across the breadth of the military's shopping is
untested.

The president's aides have told the services to turn in their wish lists by
March 16, and Defense Department and White House officials will plug in the
final breakdown before submitting a budget to Congress, probably in May.

In a speech last September, Mr. Trump complained that President Barack Obama had
cut the number of soldiers and Marines too sharply as the Pentagon shifted to
special operations troops and armed drones to hunt terrorists. He also lamented
that the Navy had fewer than half the ships it had under President Reagan.

He said then that the Army should hire 50,000 soldiers to get back to 540,000,
and he supports a Navy plan to increase its fleet to 355 ships from 276. That
plan calls for the Navy to buy more destroyers and start building three
nuclear-powered attack submarines a year instead of two.

But Mr. Trump has also called for a more isolationist foreign policy and has
said that American allies should pick up more of the bill for defending
themselves. And even central tenets of military strategy are in question. At the
same time Mr. Trump has been criticized by lawmakers from both parties for
cozying up to Russia, his defense secretary, James Mattis, a retired Marine
general, has described that country as America's "principal threat."

As a result, independent analysts said, it is hard to square the president's
foreign and defense policies or know what his final priorities would be if
Congress only approved part of the money he is seeking.

"It is not clear to me why we would need 355 ships if our foreign policy says we
are going to reduce our commitments around the world and let allies do more for
their own defense," said Todd Harrison, a military budget expert at the Center
for Strategic and International Studies, a bipartisan Washington research group.

"And if you want to build a military more suited to deter Russia and China than
to deter terrorists, it is a very different capability that you want to buy,"
Mr. Harrison said. "That is something that the Trump administration has not
really rationalized yet."

Mr. Obama approved a series of sophisticated new weapons projects, including a
new long-range bomber for the Air Force and massive ballistic missile submarines
for the Navy. So the debate within the Pentagon now is not so much about pitting
the services against one another to see whose pet project will survive as it is
about determining how much money is needed to keep all the big projects going.

The Air Force, for instance, has been trying to expand production of the F-35
while also building new aerial-refueling tankers, modernizing nuclear missile
systems and building the new stealth bombers.

Mr. Obama's last budget plan had forecast a $35 billion increase in Pentagon
spending in the 2018 fiscal year to pay for all these programs. Mr. Trump's
proposal, which would increase the defense budget to $603 billion, is $19
billion, or about 3 percent, higher than Mr. Obama's.

Other Republicans, such as Senator John McCain of Arizona, the chairman of the
Senate Armed Services Committee, contend that even more is needed to maintain a
technological edge over Russia and China. He recently released a report calling
for a broader "high/low" mix in weapons capabilities and greater spending on
research into space, cyber and artificial intelligence technologies.

But analysts say that the ultimate figure will be decided less by the Pentagon's
support for particular programs than in overall budget negotiations between
Congress and Mr. Trump, who is trying to change the kind of deals that have been
struck since a deficit-reduction law required cuts in federal spending.

Under the law, the Budget Control Act of 2011, the cuts had to be divided evenly
between defense and nondefense programs. Mr. Obama and Congress agreed several
times after that on annual budgets that exceeded the caps and split the
increases 50-50 between defense and domestic programs.

But Mr. Trump's proposal on Monday to increase military spending by $54 billion
and cut nonmilitary programs by the same amount would shatter that truce. It
also would require changes in the budget law, and that would give Senate
Democrats, who want to protect domestic programs, leverage to force Mr. Trump to
compromise. They could filibuster any bill attempting to change that 50-50
split, and the Republicans would have difficulty assembling the 60 votes needed
to stop the filibuster.

Given those dynamics, political analysts say the president will have to accept a
smaller increase in military spending and provide more money than he wants for
domestic programs.

Gordon Adams, who oversaw military budgets in the Clinton White House, said that
while Mr. Trump would not get as much as he was asking for, he might still be
able to tilt the spending balance toward the military.

"In the end, I think the budget caps will be adjusted upward again," he said,
"and we might get an uneven deal where the caps are higher for defense than for
the domestic programs."

Michael D. Shear contributed reporting from Newport News, Va.

PHOTO: President Trump on Thursday in Newport News, Va., where the aircraft
carrier Gerald R. Ford is being completed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Trump May Give the Pentagon More Authority to Conduct Raids
     ·    Trump to Seek $54 Billion Increase in Military Spending
     ·    Critics Assail Cuts in Foreign Spending as Trump Moves to Boost
          Military


LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 3, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Military Expects More Shopping Money, if Not All Trump Seeks

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW; Michael D. Shear contributed reporting from Newport
News, Va.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1213 words


Over the next two weeks, the military services will be scrambling to get their
wish lists in front of top defense officials, hoping their requests for more
troops, planes, ships and missiles will be stuffed into President Trump's
proposed $54 billion increase in the Pentagon budget.

Never mind that Congress is unlikely to approve the full amount. Or that it is
not clear if the Pentagon, which views Russia as the biggest threat, and the new
president, who is mainly focused on defeating the Islamic State, agree on the
priorities.

The services are betting that Mr. Trump will eventually win a large enough chunk
of the money so that they can do a bit of everything, like reversing recent
declines in the number of soldiers and Marines and breaking logjams over how
many high-tech jets and ships they can afford to build.

But there are no guarantees, and the battle over next year's federal budget will
be ferocious. Democrats have vowed to block the president's proposal to strip
the $54 billion from domestic programs and shift it to the military. Nearly
everyone expects the fight to drag on for months.

On Thursday, Mr. Trump helped set the stage, traveling to a shipyard in Newport
News, Va., for an action-movie-like backdrop to tout his plans to build the
armed forces. Speaking in the hangar bay of the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier
Gerald R. Ford, which this year will become the nation's largest and most
powerful floating fortress, Mr. Trump said the Navy -- and other military
services -- must grow and modernize. The 100,000-ton vessel, the first of a new,
more technologically advanced carrier class, cost about $13 billion after cost
overruns and years of delay.

''We will make it easier for the Navy to plan for the future and thus to control
costs and get the best deals for the taxpayer,'' the president said. ''The same
boat for less money, the same ship for less money, the same airplanes for less
money.''

Mr. Trump has complained about the cost estimates for new Air Force One planes
to be built by Boeing, and he has pressed executives at Lockheed Martin to lower
the cost of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. Whether that personal negotiating
strategy can be applied across the breadth of the military's shopping is
untested.

The president's aides have told the services to turn in their wish lists by
March 16, and Defense Department and White House officials will plug in the
final breakdown before submitting a budget to Congress, probably in May.

In a speech last September, Mr. Trump complained that President Barack Obama had
cut the number of soldiers and Marines too sharply as the Pentagon shifted to
special operations troops and armed drones to hunt terrorists. He also lamented
that the Navy had fewer than half the ships it had under President Reagan.

He said then that the Army should hire 50,000 soldiers to get back to 540,000,
and he supports a Navy plan to increase its fleet to 355 ships from 276. That
plan calls for the Navy to buy more destroyers and start building three
nuclear-powered attack submarines a year instead of two.

But Mr. Trump has also called for a more isolationist foreign policy and has
said that American allies should pick up more of the bill for defending
themselves. And even central tenets of military strategy are in question. At the
same time Mr. Trump has been criticized by lawmakers from both parties for
cozying up to Russia, his defense secretary, James Mattis, a retired Marine
general, has described that country as America's ''principal threat.''

As a result, independent analysts said, it is hard to square the president's
foreign and defense policies or know what his final priorities would be if
Congress only approved part of the money he is seeking.

''It is not clear to me why we would need 355 ships if our foreign policy says
we are going to reduce our commitments around the world and let allies do more
for their own defense,'' said Todd Harrison, a military budget expert at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies, a bipartisan Washington research
group.

''And if you want to build a military more suited to deter Russia and China than
to deter terrorists, it is a very different capability that you want to buy,''
Mr. Harrison said. ''That is something that the Trump administration has not
really rationalized yet.''

Mr. Obama approved a series of sophisticated new weapons projects, including a
new long-range bomber for the Air Force and massive ballistic missile submarines
for the Navy. So the debate within the Pentagon now is not so much about pitting
the services against one another to see whose pet project will survive as it is
about determining how much money is needed to keep all the big projects going.

The Air Force, for instance, has been trying to expand production of the F-35
while also building new aerial-refueling tankers, modernizing nuclear missile
systems and building the new stealth bombers.

Mr. Obama's last budget plan had forecast a $35 billion increase in Pentagon
spending in the 2018 fiscal year to pay for all these programs. Mr. Trump's
proposal, which would increase the defense budget to $603 billion, is $19
billion, or about 3 percent, higher than Mr. Obama's.

Other Republicans, such as Senator John McCain of Arizona, the chairman of the
Senate Armed Services Committee, contend that even more is needed to maintain a
technological edge over Russia and China. He recently released a report calling
for a broader ''high/low'' mix in weapons capabilities and greater spending on
research into space, cyber and artificial intelligence technologies.

But analysts say that the ultimate figure will be decided less by the Pentagon's
support for particular programs than in overall budget negotiations between
Congress and Mr. Trump, who is trying to change the kind of deals that have been
struck since a deficit-reduction law required cuts in federal spending.

Under the law, the Budget Control Act of 2011, the cuts had to be divided evenly
between defense and nondefense programs. Mr. Obama and Congress agreed several
times after that on annual budgets that exceeded the caps and split the
increases 50-50 between defense and domestic programs.

But Mr. Trump's proposal on Monday to increase military spending by $54 billion
and cut nonmilitary programs by the same amount would shatter that truce. It
also would require changes in the budget law, and that would give Senate
Democrats, who want to protect domestic programs, leverage to force Mr. Trump to
compromise. They could filibuster any bill attempting to change that 50-50
split, and the Republicans would have difficulty assembling the 60 votes needed
to stop the filibuster.

Given those dynamics, political analysts say the president will have to accept a
smaller increase in military spending and provide more money than he wants for
domestic programs.

Gordon Adams, who oversaw military budgets in the Clinton White House, said that
while Mr. Trump would not get as much as he was asking for, he might still be
able to tilt the spending balance toward the military.

''In the end, I think the budget caps will be adjusted upward again,'' he said,
''and we might get an uneven deal where the caps are higher for defense than for
the domestic programs.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/02/business/trump-pentagon-budget.html

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Trump on Thursday in Newport News, Va., where the
aircraft carrier Gerald R. Ford is being completed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN
CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 3, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

I.R.S., Already Depleted, Is Facing Deep Cuts Under Trump

BYLINE: By ALAN RAPPEPORT; Patricia Cohen contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1101 words


WASHINGTON -- President Trump has a rocky history with the Internal Revenue
Service, which he has complained audits him with unfair ferocity. Now he wants
to significantly cut the tax agency's funding at a time when it has already been
bleeding staff and struggling to keep up with a flood of returns ahead of Tax
Day.

The plans, revealed this week in documents associated with the White House
budget outline, put Mr. Trump at odds with his Treasury secretary, Steven
Mnuchin, who has argued that the I.R.S. needs more money and a larger staff.

Another round of cuts, tax experts say, could put one of the few federal
departments that pay for themselves on life support.

''This is an agency that has had every last drop squeezed out of it,'' said
Dennis J. Ventry Jr., a member of the I.R.S. advisory council and a law
professor at the University of California, Davis. ''I don't know how it's going
to sustain itself.''

The White House budget office has proposed a 14.1 percent cut to the I.R.S. for
the fiscal year that begins in October, reducing the agency's budget to $9.65
billion; six years ago, it stood at $12.1 billion ($13.6 billion when adjusted
for inflation).

If approved, the cuts would happen when the number of audits is down and
customer service complaints are up as a result of the drop in funding.

Mr. Mnuchin surprised some Republicans at his Senate confirmation hearing in
January when he said that one of his priorities as Treasury secretary would be
to rebuild the I.R.S.'s staff.

Promising to modernize a Treasury unit that many conservatives have threatened
to abolish, Mr. Mnuchin said he was certain that Mr. Trump understood the
concept of ''we add people, we make money.'' Investing in the I.R.S., Mr.
Mnuchin suggested, was a smart move because the agency's work ultimately paid
for itself through the revenue that it brought in.

The White House, it seems, has other ideas.

The potential reduction in I.R.S. funding is the latest example of potential
division within the Trump administration's economic team, which has wrestled
with how to cut taxes, invest in the military and lower the debt at the same
time.

New internal data released by the agency this week underscored the pressure it
is under. The number of individual tax return audits fell last year to its
lowest level since 2004, and enforcement staffing levels were down by nearly 30
percent from 2010, to just below 16,000. Criminal investigations related to
tax-related identity theft, money laundering, public corruption, cybercrime and
terrorist financing also are on the decline, and I.R.S. officials cited budget
constraints as the reason.

''This is only going to continue that trend,'' Roberton C. Williams, a fellow at
the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center, says of the potential cuts the agency is
facing. ''Audits are really a necessary function in the sense that it maintains
the integrity of the system.''

There is the issue of unpaid taxes, an enormous cost to America's finances. The
federal budget deficit in fiscal 2016 was $587 billion, while the ''tax gap'' --
the gulf between taxes owed and taxes paid -- averaged $458 billion from 2008
from 2010, according to an analysis conducted by the I.R.S. last year.
Collecting even half that sum could make up a significant chunk of the
government's budget shortfall, without increasing taxes or cutting spending.

Handicapping the agency with additional budget cuts will make matters worse,
experts say, emboldening scofflaws to take their chances against an increasingly
toothless tax collector. And as funding continues to fall, honest taxpayers are
suffering from a lack of attention.

The I.R.S. Taxpayer Advocate's most recent annual report to Congress detailed
how stretched the agency had become, citing the closing of dozens of walk-in
assistance centers and longer waits to speak to customer service agents on the
telephone.

In 2004, a taxpayer with a problem could speak to someone in less than three
minutes, according to the report. Last year, it took nearly 20 minutes to
navigate a maze of automation and hold times to reach someone.

Security is also a worry, with cyber-threats on the rise around the world. In
2015, the I.R.S. computer systems were hacked. As a result, personal data
connected to more than 700,000 taxpayer accounts was stolen. With hackers
showing increased skill and even a willingness to meddle in American elections,
the agency is under pressure to keep its defenses on high alert to prevent
further breaches.

But help does not appear to be on the way.

Republicans have been at odds with the I.R.S. over accusations that the agency
unfairly targeted conservative groups. John Koskinen, who was appointed
commissioner in 2013 to help stabilize the agency in the aftermath of those
accusations, has instead emerged as a boogeyman to its critics. He still faces
calls for his impeachment over claims that he covered up information about the
I.R.S.'s handling of conservative groups.

The agency's fate was a hot topic in last year's presidential campaign. The
Republican candidate Ted Cruz, senator of Texas, suggested that the I.R.S.
should be abolished altogether. Mr. Cruz proposed dispatching its remaining
staff members to police the country's southern border.

Mr. Trump has his own fraught history with the I.R.S., accusing it of unfairly
auditing him year after year and citing a pending audit as a reason he would not
publicly release his tax returns. While the president praised Mr. Koskinen in
2014 as ''a very good man,'' Mr. Trump also fights hard, he has said, to keep
his tax bill as low as possible.

Mr. Koskinen, who declined to be interviewed, has argued forcefully that those
who would cut the I.R.S. budget in the name of fiscal conservatism misunderstood
the agency's value. At hearings around Washington, he regularly reminds members
of Congress that every dollar of investment in the I.R.S. yields $4 in revenue.

That revenue will have added importance as congressional Republicans and Mr.
Trump embark on plans to cut taxes while increasing military spending and
investing more in the nation's crumbling infrastructure.

Still, I.R.S. critics are unlikely to lavish money on an agency whose mission
many of them loathe, even as its workload shows no signs of letting up.

''The confluence of a 14 percent reduction, on top of a string of reductions of
$900 million over the last eight years, with a promise of major tax reform later
this year is a recipe for disaster at the country's most significant
revenue-producing agency,'' said Lawrence B. Gibbs, a former I.R.S.
commissioner.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/02/us/politics/trump-mnuchin-irs.html

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Koskinen, the Internal Revenue Service commissioner, has
been a target for Republicans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABRIELLA DEMCZUK FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        March 4, 2017 Saturday 00:00 EST

Howard Schmidt, Cybersecurity Adviser to Two Presidents, Dies at 67

BYLINE: SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 805 words



HIGHLIGHT: A computer crime expert, Mr. Schmidt was recruited by Presidents
George W. Bush and Barack Obama and drafted safeguards that were approved by
Congress.


Howard A. Schmidt, a computer crime expert who advised two presidents and
drafted cybersecurity safeguards that were approved by Congress in 2015, died on
Thursday at his home in Muskego, Wis. He was 67.

The cause was brain cancer, his wife, Raemarie, said.

The legislation, which evolved from precautions Mr. Schmidt proposed several
years earlier, enabled government and industry to share information about
potential risks from attackers' codes and techniques, shielded companies from
liability lawsuits for trading data and provided privacy protections for
consumers.

By the time the legislation was finally approved, though, critics complained
that it had been diluted in response to corporate concerns and was already
technologically anachronistic.

Recruited by President George W. Bush after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks, Mr. Schmidt returned to the White House under President Barack Obama.

He also oversaw the creation of the National Strategy for Trusted Identities in
Cyberspace, an online authentication program less vulnerable than ordinary
passwords to hackers engaged in identity theft or in stealing secrets from
private industry or government.

Mr. Schmidt won the trust of much of the business community, which was fending
off a barrage of cyberattacks but which also feared government intrusion and a
damper on innovation. At the same time, he suggested that the threat of
full-scale cyberwarfare between governments was exaggerated and that any such
conflict would be unwinnable.

With the United States portraying itself as a victim of cyberwarfare and much of
the world viewing Washington as a perpetrator -- citing attacks on Iran's
nuclear program as examples -- the White House proclaimed its first formal
international cyberspace strategy during Mr. Schmidt's tenure.

That strategy mirrored the planned response to other security threats, in which
the United States reserved the right to use all necessary diplomatic and
military means to defend itself in the event of a hostile cyberincident.
Meanwhile, Mr. Schmidt said, nations were already acting defensively.

"Governments are starting to say, 'In order to best protect my country, I need
to find vulnerabilities in other countries,' " he told The New York Times in
2013. "The problem is that we all fundamentally become less secure."

He said hackers exploited the fear that if one buyer failed to pay for secret
information about a computer coding flaw, another would.

"If someone comes to you with a bug that could affect millions of devices and
says, 'You would be the only one to have this if you pay my fee,' there will
always be someone inclined to pay it," he said. "Unfortunately, dancing with the
devil in cyberspace has been pretty common."

For much of his 40-year career, Mr. Schmidt was in the forefront of information
technology and computer security for the military, government agencies and
private industry. Most recently he was a partner with Tom Ridge, the former
Homeland Security secretary, in Ridge Schmidt Cyber, a security consultancy.

In the mid-1990s, while working for the Air Force Office of Special
Investigations, Mr. Schmidt was credited with helping to establish the federal
government's first full-time computer forensic laboratory. He also served as
chief security officer at Microsoft and chief information security officer at
eBay.

Mr. Schmidt was the president's special adviser for cyberspace security in the
Bush administration from late 2001 to 2003. He was also chairman of the
president's Critical Infrastructure Protection Board.

The Obama administration recruited him in late 2009 to be its computer security
adviser. He reported to the National Security Council.

Mr. Schmidt was the first president of the Information Security Forum, an
industry and government coalition, and was chief security strategist for a
partnership between the Department of Homeland Security and a cybersecurity
program at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh.

Howard Anthony Schmidt was born on Oct. 5, 1949, in Philadelphia to Anthony and
Edith Schmidt. He served three tours in the Air Force in Vietnam from 1968 to
1974; was a police officer in Chandler, Ariz.; and worked for the F.B.I. at the
National Drug Intelligence Center.

He graduated from the University of Phoenix in 1994 with a bachelor of science
degree in business administration and earned a master's degree from that
university.

In addition to his wife, the former Raemarie Lange, a forensic scientist, Mr.
Schmidt is survived by his mother, Edith Curtis; his stepmother, Gloria Schmidt;
his sons, Kyle, David, Andrew and Anthony; and eight grandchildren.

Read more obituaries and follow our coverage on Twitter.

PHOTO: Mr. Schmidt wrote safeguards approved by Congress in 2015. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)

Related Articles


     ·    Obama to Name Chief of Cybersecurity


LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        March 4, 2017 Saturday 00:00 EST

U.S. Strategy to Hobble North Korea Was Hidden in Plain Sight

BYLINE: WILLIAM J. BROAD and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 833 words



HIGHLIGHT: Officials have spoken openly, if vaguely, of using cyberstrikes and
exotic forms of sabotage to redefine antimissile defense for the United States.


Washington usually cloaks its most critical defense programs in secrecy.

But in the case of using cyberstrikes, electronic warfare and other exotic forms
of sabotage to redefine antimissile defense for the United States, many
high-ranking officials and officers have been talking openly, often to persuade
Congress to fund the secretive efforts.

The public conversation about the new antimissile approach, known as "left of
launch," has been careful. Typically, military leaders and contractors have
spoken vaguely about technologies and targets. But at moments they have also
declared that it is all about North Korea and Iran, at least for now.

The idea is to strike an enemy missile before liftoff or during the first
seconds of flight. The old approach waited until much later -- after swarms of
warheads had been released, had traveled thousands of miles and were racing
toward targets at speeds in excess of four miles a second.

Officials have praised left-of-launch strikes as a novel way of knocking out
enemy missiles at a tiny fraction of the usual cost. In presentations and
congressional testimony, senior officials have described the method as a
potentially revolutionary way to strengthen the defenses of the United States.

The public unveiling began in late 2013 when Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the nation's highest-ranking military officer, warned
of falling budgets and rising missile threats. That dilemma, he wrote in a
policy guidance documentfor American troops, called for the development of
unconventional defenses that would be far cheaper than traditional rocket
interceptors.

In 2014, Adm. James A. Winnefeld Jr., vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs, told
the Atlantic Council that left-of-launch strikes would, by definition, remain a
novel adjunct to wider antimissile efforts.

"While we would still obviously prefer to take a threat missile out while it's
still on the ground," he said, "we won't always have the luxury of doing so."
The result, he added, would be the continuing need for "solid right-of-launch
capability" -- in other words, the traditional methods.

In 2015, top antimissile experts gathered at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a Washington think tank. Archer M. Macy Jr., a retired
Navy rear admiral, said the Defense Department was developing ways not only of
preventing successful missile launches but of interfering in their flights and
navigation.

Kenneth E. Todorov, a retired Air Force brigadier general, raised the question
of how to authorize what would amount to pre-emptive war -- of attacking first
to gain a strategic advantage. "Are we, as a military and a nation," he asked,
prepared to "go after potential targets in advance?" No consensus emerged.

Raytheon, the nation's top antimissile contractor, went wide rather than deep.
In a conference presentation, it disclosed that the new developments included
not just cyber and electronic strikes but the targeting of enemy factories,
hinting at industrial sabotage. The glossy presentation included a lineup of
"sophisticated adversaries," including Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader.

Last year, the Pentagon's budget request for 2017 said an antimissile program
known as Nimble Fire had advanced General Dempsey's goals by exploring
"electronic attack" and "offensive cyber operations." The details, it said, were
classified secret.

In April, a number of budget hearings in the House and Senate focused on
left-of-launch programs. Some of the most revealing testimony came before
Senator Jeff Sessions, then chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee of the
Senate Armed Services Committee and now attorney general.

Vice Adm. James D. Syring of the Navy, director of the Pentagon's Missile
Defense Agency, described left-of-launch strikes and other unorthodox approaches
as "game changing" because they reduced the need to "rely exclusively on
expensive interceptors."

Brian P. McKeon, then the Pentagon's under secretary of defense for policy, said
the Defense Department sought new and old antimissile arms "to deal with the
threat of missiles from either North Korea or Iran." Of all the nations that
might threaten the United States, he noted in his testimony, those two countries
"are driving our investments."

At a House hearing, Adm. William E. Gortney, then head of the North American
Aerospace Defense Command, which has the responsibility for firing the nation's
antimissile weapons in time of war, was asked what Congress should do "to ensure
our military forces" can execute left-of-launch strikes.

Admiral Gortney said that in the committee's secret session he could discuss the
development of classified technologies where "investments are absolutely
critical."

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Inherits a Secret Cyberwar Against North Korean Missiles
     ·    A Eureka Moment for Two Times Reporters: North Korea's Missile
          Launches Were Failing Too Often


LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        March 4, 2017 Saturday 00:00 EST

Trump Inherits a Secret Cyberwar Against North Korean Missiles

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 2956 words



HIGHLIGHT: The United States has been trying to sabotage North Korea's missile
program. President Trump must decide what to do next.


WASHINGTON -- Three years ago, President Barack Obama ordered Pentagon officials
to step up their cyber and electronic strikes against North Korea's missile
program in hopes of sabotaging test launches in their opening seconds.

Soon a large number of the North's military rockets began to explode, veer off
course, disintegrate in midair and plunge into the sea. Advocates of such
efforts say they believe that targeted attacks have given American antimissile
defenses a new edge and delayed by several years the day when North Korea will
be able to threaten American cities with nuclear weapons launched atop
intercontinental ballistic missiles.

But other experts have grown increasingly skeptical of the new approach, arguing
that manufacturing errors, disgruntled insiders and sheer incompetence can also
send missiles awry. Over the past eight months, they note, the North has managed
to successfully launch three medium-range rockets. And Kim Jong-un, the North
Korean leader, now claims his country is in "the final stage in preparations"
for the inaugural test of his intercontinental missiles -- perhaps a bluff,
perhaps not.

An examination of the Pentagon's disruption effort, based on interviews with
officials of the Obama and Trump administrations as well as a review of
extensive but obscure public records, found that the United States still does
not have the ability to effectively counter the North Korean nuclear and missile
programs. Those threats are far more resilient than many experts thought, The
New York Times's reporting found, and pose such a danger that Mr. Obama, as he
left office, warned President Trump they were likely to be the most urgent
problem he would confront.

Mr. Trump has signaled his preference to respond aggressively against the North
Korean threat. In a Twitter post after Mr. Kim first issued his warning on New
Year's Day, the president wrote, "It won't happen!" Yet like Mr. Obama before
him, Mr. Trump is quickly discovering that he must choose from highly imperfect
options.

He could order the escalation of the Pentagon's cyber and electronic warfare
effort, but that carries no guarantees. He could open negotiations with the
North to freeze its nuclear and missile programs, but that would leave a looming
threat in place. He could prepare for direct missile strikes on the launch
sites, which Mr. Obama also considered, but there is little chance of hitting
every target. He could press the Chinese to cut off trade and support, but
Beijing has always stopped short of steps that could lead to the regime's
collapse.

In two meetings of Mr. Trump's national security deputies in the Situation Room,
the most recent on Tuesday, all those options were discussed, along with the
possibility of reintroducing nuclear weapons to South Korea as a dramatic
warning. Administration officials say those issues will soon go to Mr. Trump and
his top national security aides.

The decision to intensify the cyber and electronic strikes, in early 2014, came
after Mr. Obama concluded that the $300 billion spent since the Eisenhower era
on traditional antimissile systems, often compared to hitting "a bullet with a
bullet," had failed the core purpose of protecting the continental United
States. Flight tests of interceptors based in Alaska and California had an
overall failure rate of 56 percent, under near-perfect conditions. Privately,
many experts warned the system would fare worse in real combat.

So the Obama administration searched for a better way to destroy missiles. It
reached for techniques the Pentagon had long been experimenting with under the
rubric of "left of launch," because the attacks begin before the missiles ever
reach the launchpad, or just as they lift off. For years, the Pentagon's most
senior officers and officials have publicly advocated these kinds of
sophisticated attacks in little-noticed testimony to Congress and at defense
conferences.

The Times inquiry began last spring as the number of the North's missile
failures soared. The investigation uncovered the military documents praising the
new antimissile approach and found some pointing with photos and diagrams to
North Korea as one of the most urgent targets.

After discussions with the office of the director of national intelligence last
year and in recent days with Mr. Trump's national security team, The Times
agreed to withhold details of those efforts to keep North Korea from learning
how to defeat them. Last fall, Mr. Kim was widely reported to have ordered an
investigation into whether the United States was sabotaging North Korea's
launches, and over the past week he has executed senior security officials.

The approach taken in targeting the North Korean missiles has distinct echoes of
the American- and Israeli-led sabotage of Iran's nuclear program, the most
sophisticated known use of a cyberweapon meant to cripple a nuclear threat. But
even that use of the "Stuxnet" worm in Iran quickly ran into limits. It was
effective for several years, until the Iranians figured it out and recovered.
And Iran posed a relatively easy target: an underground nuclear enrichment plant
that could be attacked repeatedly.

In North Korea, the target is much more challenging. Missiles are fired from
multiple launch sites around the country and moved about on mobile launchers in
an elaborate shell game meant to deceive adversaries. To strike them, timing is
critical.

Advocates of the sophisticated effort to remotely manipulate data inside North
Korea's missile systems argue the United States has no real alternative because
the effort to stop the North from learning the secrets of making nuclear weapons
has already failed. The only hope now is stopping the country from developing an
intercontinental missile, and demonstrating that destructive threat to the
world.

"Disrupting their tests," William J. Perry, secretary of defense in the Clinton
administration, said at a recent presentation in Washington, would be "a pretty
effective way of stopping their ICBM program."

Decades in the Making

Three generations of the Kim family have dreamed that their broken, otherwise
failed nation could build its own nuclear weapons, and the missiles to deliver
them, as the ultimate survival strategy. With nukes in hand, the Kims have
calculated, they need not fear being overrun by South Korea, invaded by the
United States or sold out by China.

North Korea began seeking an intercontinental ballistic missile decades ago: It
was the dream of Kim Il-sung, the country's founder, who bitterly remembered the
American threats to use nuclear weapons against the North during the Korean War.

His break came after the collapse of the Soviet Union, when out-of-work Russian
rocket scientists began seeking employment in North Korea. Soon, a new
generation of North Korean missiles began to appear, all knockoffs of Soviet
designs. Though flight tests were sparse, American experts marveled at how the
North seemed to avoid the kinds of failures that typically strike new rocket
programs, including those of the United States in the late 1950s.

The success was so marked that Timothy McCarthy of the Middlebury Institute of
International Studies at Monterey wrote in a 2001 analysisthat Pyongyang's
record "appears completely unique in the history of missile development and
production."

In response, President George W. Bush in late 2002 announced the deployment of
antimissile interceptors in Alaska and California. At the same time, Mr. Bush
accelerated programs to get inside the long supply chain of parts for North
Korean missiles, lacing them with defects and weaknesses, a technique also used
for years against Iran.

Threat Grows in Obama Era

By the time Mr. Obama took office in January 2009, the North had deployed
hundreds of short- and medium-range missiles that used Russian designs, and had
made billions of dollars selling its Scud missiles to Egypt, Libya, Pakistan,
Syria, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen. But it aspired to a new generation of
missiles that could fire warheads over much longer distances.

In secret cables written in the first year of the Obama administration,
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton laid out the emerging threat. Among the most
alarming released by WikiLeaks, the cables described a new path the North was
taking to reach its long-range goal, based on a missile designed by the Soviets
decades ago for their submarines that carried thermonuclear warheads.

It was called the R-27. Unlike the North's lumbering, older rockets and
missiles, these would be small enough to hide in caves and move into position by
truck. The advantage was clear: This missile would be far harder for the United
States to find and destroy.

"North Korea's next goal may be to develop a mobile ICBM that would be capable
of threatening targets around the world," said an October 2009 cable marked
"Secret" and signed by Mrs. Clinton.

The next year, one of the new missiles showed up in a North Korean military
parade, just as the intelligence reports had warned.

By 2013, North Korean rockets thundered with new regularity. And that February,
the North set off a nuclear test that woke up Washington: The monitoring data
told of an explosion roughly the size of the bomb that had leveled Hiroshima.

Days after the explosion, the Pentagon announced an expansion of its force of
antimissile interceptors in California and Alaska. It also began to unveil its
"left of launch" program to disable missiles before liftoff -- hoping to bolster
its chances of destroying them. Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, announced the program, saying that "cyberwarfare,
directed energy and electronic attack," a reference to such things as malware,
lasers and signal jamming, were all becoming important new adjuncts to the
traditional ways of deflecting enemy strikes.

He never mentioned North Korea. But a map accompanying General Dempsey's policy
paper on the subject showed one of the North's missiles streaking toward the
United States. Soon, in testimony before Congress and at public panels in
Washington, current and former officials and a major contractor -- Raytheon --
began talking openly about "left of launch" technologies, in particular cyber
and electronic strikes at the moment of launch.

The North, meanwhile, was developing its own exotic arsenal. It tried repeatedly
to disrupt American and South Korean military exercises by jamming electronic
signals for guided weapons, including missiles. And it demonstrated its
cyberpower in the oddest of places -- Hollywood. In 2014, it attacked Sony
Pictures Entertainment with a strike that destroyed about 70 percent of the
company's computing systems, surprising experts with its technical savvy.

Last month, a report on cybervulnerabilities by the Defense Science Board,
commissioned by the Pentagon during the Obama administration, warned that North
Korea might acquire the ability to cripple the American power grid, and
cautioned that it could never be allowed to "hold vital U.S. strike systems at
risk."

Secret Push, and New Doubts

Not long after General Dempsey made his public announcement, Mr. Obama and his
defense secretary, Ashton B. Carter, began calling meetings focused on one
question: Could a crash program slow the North's march toward an
intercontinental ballistic missile?

There were many options, some drawn from General Dempsey's list. Mr. Obama
ultimately pressed the Pentagon and intelligence agencies to pull out all the
stops, which officials took as encouragement to reach for untested technologies.

The North's missiles soon began to fail at a remarkable pace. Some were
destroyed, no doubt, by accident as well as by design. The technology the North
was pursuing, using new designs and new engines, involved multistage rockets,
introducing all kinds of possibilities for catastrophic mistakes. But by most
accounts, the United States program accentuated the failures.

The evidence was in the numbers. Most flight tests of an intermediate-range
missile called the Musudan, the weapon that the North Koreans showed off in
public just after Mrs. Clinton's warning, ended in flames: Its overall failure
rate is 88 percent.

Nonetheless Kim Jong-un has pressed ahead on his main goal: an intercontinental
ballistic missile. Last April, he was photographed standing next to a giant
test-stand, celebrating after engineers successfully fired off a matched pair of
the potent Russian-designed R-27 engines. The implication was clear: Strapping
two of the engines together at the base of a missile was the secret to building
an ICBM that could ultimately hurl warheads at the United States.

In September, he celebrated the most successful test yet of a North Korean
nuclear weapon -- one that exploded with more than twice the destructive force
of the Hiroshima bomb.

His next goal, experts say, is to combine those two technologies, shrinking his
nuclear warheads to a size that can fit on an intercontinental missile. Only
then can he credibly claim that his isolated country has the know-how to hit an
American city thousands of miles away.

In the last year of his presidency, Mr. Obama often noted publicly that the
North was learning from every nuclear and missile test -- even the failures --
and getting closer to its goal. In private, aides noticed he was increasingly
disturbed by North Korea's progress.

With only a few months left in office, he pushed aides for new approaches. At
one meeting, he declared that he would have targeted the North Korean leadership
and weapons sites if he thought it would work. But it was, as Mr. Obama and his
assembled aides knew, an empty threat: Getting timely intelligence on the
location of North Korea's leaders or their weapons at any moment would be almost
impossible, and the risks of missing were tremendous, including renewed war on
the Korean Peninsula.

Hard Decisions for Trump

As a presidential candidate, Mr. Trump complained that "we're so obsolete in
cyber," a line that grated on officials at the United States Cyber Command and
the National Security Agency, where billions of dollars have been spent to
provide the president with new options for intelligence gathering and
cyberattacks. Now, one of the immediate questions he faces is whether to
accelerate or scale back those efforts.

A decision to go after an adversary's launch ability can have unintended
consequences, experts warn.

Once the United States uses cyberweapons against nuclear launch systems -- even
in a threatening state like North Korea -- Russia and China may feel free to do
the same, targeting fields of American missiles. Some strategists argue that all
nuclear systems should be off limits for cyberattack. Otherwise, if a nuclear
power thought it could secretly disable an adversary's atomic controls, it might
be more tempted to take the risk of launching a pre-emptive attack.

"I understand the urgent threat," said Amy Zegart, a Stanford University
intelligence and cybersecurity expert, who said she had no independent knowledge
of the American effort. "But 30 years from now we may decide it was a very, very
dangerous thing to do."

Mr. Trump's aides say everything is on the table. China recently cut off coal
imports from the North, but the United States is also looking at ways to freeze
the Kim family's assets, some of which are believed held in Chinese-controlled
banks. The Chinese have already opposed the deployment of a high-altitude
missile defense system known as Thaad in South Korea; the Trump team may call
for even more such systems.

The White House is also looking at pre-emptive military strike options, a senior
Trump administration official said, though the challenge is huge given the
country's mountainous terrain and deep tunnels and bunkers. Putting American
tactical nuclear weapons back in South Korea -- they were withdrawn a
quarter-century ago -- is also under consideration, even if that step could
accelerate an arms race with the North.

Mr. Trump's "It won't happen!" post on Twitter about the North's ICBM threat
suggests a larger confrontation could be looming.

"Regardless of Trump's actual intentions," James M. Acton, a nuclear analyst at
the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, recently noted, "the tweet could
come to be seen as a 'red line' and hence set up a potential test of his
credibility."

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

PHOTOS: Kim Jong-un (A1); North Korea released an image in April of the
country's leader, Kim Jong-un, at a missile test center in North Pyongan
Province. Analysts say the engines behind him could power an intercontinental
ballistic missile. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KOREAN CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY, VIA REUTERS) (A14)

 MAP: North Korea's Growing Reach: The potential range of North Korea's current
weapons, particularly the KN-14 and KN-08 missiles, would put most of the world
in reach of its nuclear warheads. (Source: The James Martin Center for
Nonproliferation Studies) (MAP BY TROY GRIGGS/THE NEW YORK TIMES); CHARTS: The
North Korean Arsenal: The rockets currently being tested have a wide range of
sizes and capabilities.; A Rush of Missile and Nuclear Tests: The frequency of
missile tests has risen dramatically under Kim Jong-un, with a recent increase
in nuclear tests as well. (Source: Center for Strategic and International
Studies and The James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies) (CHARTS BY
TROY GRIGGS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)

Related Articles


     ·    U.S. Strategy to Hobble North Korea Was Hidden in Plain Sight
     ·    A Eureka Moment for Two Times Reporters: North Korea's Missile
          Launches Were Failing Too Often
     ·    Kim Jong-un Says North Korea Is Preparing to Test Long-Range Missile
     ·    North Korea, Rebuking Trump, Says It Can Test Long-Range Missile
          'Anytime'


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 4, 2017 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Howard Schmidt, Cybersecurity Adviser to Two Presidents, Dies at 67

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Obituary; Pg.

LENGTH: 787 words


Howard A. Schmidt, a computer crime expert who advised two presidents and
drafted cybersecurity safeguards that were approved by Congress in 2015, died on
Thursday at his home in Muskego, Wis. He was 67.

The cause was brain cancer, his wife, Raemarie, said.

The legislation, which evolved from precautions he proposed several years
earlier, enabled government and industry to share information about potential
risks from attackers' codes and techniques, shielded companies from liability
lawsuits for trading data and provided privacy protections for consumers.

By the time the congressional legislation was finally approved, though, critics
complained that it had been diluted in response to corporate concerns and was
already technologically anachronistic.

Recruited by President George W. Bush after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks, Mr. Schmidt returned to the White House under President Barack Obama.

He also oversaw the creation of the National Strategy for Trusted Identities in
Cyberspace, an online authentication program less vulnerable than ordinary
passwords to hackers engaged in identity theft or in stealing secrets from
private industry or government.

Mr. Schmidt won the trust of much of the business community, which was fending
off a barrage of cyberattacks but which also feared government intrusion and a
damper on innovation. At the same time, he suggested that the threat of
full-scale cyberwarfare between governments was exaggerated and that any such
conflict would be unwinnable.

With the United States portraying itself as a victim of cyberwarfare and much of
the world viewing Washington as a perpetrator -- citing attacks on Iran's
nuclear program as an example -- the White House proclaimed its first formal
international cyberspace strategy during Mr. Schmidt's tenure.

That strategy mirrored the planned response to other security threats, in which
the United States reserved the right to use all necessary diplomatic and
military means to defend itself in the event of a hostile cyberincident.
Meanwhile, Mr. Schmidt said, nations were already acting defensively.

''Governments are starting to say, 'In order to best protect my country, I need
to find vulnerabilities in other countries,''' he told The New York Times in
2013. ''The problem is that we all fundamentally become less secure.''

He said hackers exploited the fear that if one buyer failed to pay for secret
information about a computer coding flaw, another would.

''If someone comes to you with a bug that could affect millions of devices and
says, 'You would be the only one to have this if you pay my fee,' there will
always be someone inclined to pay it,'' he said. ''Unfortunately, dancing with
the devil in cyberspace has been pretty common.''

For much of his 40-year career, Mr. Schmidt was in the forefront of information
technology and computer security for the military, government agencies and
private industry. Most recently he was a partner with Tom Ridge, the former
Homeland Security secretary, in Ridge Schmidt Cyber, a security consultancy.

In the mid-1990s, while working for the Air Force Office of Special
Investigations, Mr. Schmidt was credited with helping to establish the federal
government's first full-time computer forensic laboratory. He also served as
chief security officer at Microsoft and chief information security officer at
eBay.

Mr. Schmidt was the president's special adviser for cyberspace security in the
Bush administration from late 2001 to 2003; he was also chairman of the
president's Critical Infrastructure Protection Board.

The Obama administration recruited him in late 2009 to be its computer security
adviser. He reported to the National Security Council.

Mr. Schmidt was the first president of the Information Security Forum, an
industry and government coalition, and was chief security strategist for a
partnership between the Department of Homeland Security and a cybersecurity
program at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh.

Howard Anthony Schmidt was born on Oct. 5, 1949, in Philadelphia to Anthony and
Edith Schmidt. He served three tours in the Air Force in Vietnam from 1968 to
1974; was a police officer in Chandler, Ariz.; and worked for the F.B.I. at the
National Drug Intelligence Center.

He graduated from the University of Phoenix in 1994 with a bachelor of science
degree in business administration and earned a master's degree from that
university.

In addition to his wife, the former Raemarie Lange, a forensic scientist, Mr.
Schmidt is survived by his mother, Edith Curtis; his stepmother, Gloria Schmidt;
his sons, Kyle, David, Andrew and Anthony; and eight grandchildren.

Read more obituaries and follow our coverage on Twitter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/04/us/howard-schmidt-dead-white-house-cybersecuri
ty-aide.html

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 5, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump Inherits Secret Cyberwar on North Korea

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2757 words


WASHINGTON -- Three years ago, President Barack Obama ordered Pentagon officials
to step up their cyber and electronic strikes against North Korea's missile
program in hopes of sabotaging test launches in their opening seconds.

Soon a large number of the North's military rockets began to explode, veer off
course, disintegrate in midair and plunge into the sea. Advocates of such
efforts say they believe that targeted attacks have given American antimissile
defenses a new edge and delayed by several years the day when North Korea will
be able to threaten American cities with nuclear weapons launched atop
intercontinental ballistic missiles.

But other experts have grown increasingly skeptical of the new approach, arguing
that manufacturing errors, disgruntled insiders and sheer incompetence can also
send missiles awry. Over the past eight months, they note, the North has managed
to successfully launch three medium-range rockets. And Kim Jong-un, the North
Korean leader, now claims his country is in ''the final stage in preparations''
for the inaugural test of his intercontinental missiles -- perhaps a bluff,
perhaps not.

An examination of the Pentagon's disruption effort, based on interviews with
officials of the Obama and Trump administrations as well as a review of
extensive but obscure public records, found that the United States still does
not have the ability to effectively counter the North Korean nuclear and missile
programs. Those threats are far more resilient than many experts thought, The
New York Times's reporting found, and pose such a danger that Mr. Obama, as he
left office, warned President Trump they were likely to be the most urgent
problem he would confront.

Mr. Trump has signaled his preference to respond aggressively against the North
Korean threat. In a Twitter post after Mr. Kim first issued his warning on New
Year's Day, the president wrote, ''It won't happen!'' Yet like Mr. Obama before
him, Mr. Trump is quickly discovering that he must choose from highly imperfect
options.

He could order the escalation of the Pentagon's cyber and electronic warfare
effort, but that carries no guarantees. He could open negotiations with the
North to freeze its nuclear and missile programs, but that would leave a looming
threat in place. He could prepare for direct missile strikes on the launch
sites, which Mr. Obama also considered, but there is little chance of hitting
every target. He could press the Chinese to cut off trade and support, but
Beijing has always stopped short of steps that could lead to the regime's
collapse.

In two meetings of Mr. Trump's national security deputies in the Situation Room,
the most recent on Tuesday, all those options were discussed, along with the
possibility of reintroducing nuclear weapons to South Korea as a dramatic
warning. Administration officials say those issues will soon go to Mr. Trump and
his top national security aides.

The decision to intensify the cyber and electronic strikes, in early 2014, came
after Mr. Obama concluded that the $300 billion spent since the Eisenhower era
on traditional antimissile systems, often compared to hitting ''a bullet with a
bullet,'' had failed the core purpose of protecting the continental United
States. Flight tests of interceptors based in Alaska and California had an
overall failure rate of 56 percent, under near-perfect conditions. Privately,
many experts warned the system would fare worse in real combat.

So the Obama administration searched for a better way to destroy missiles. It
reached for techniques the Pentagon had long been experimenting with under the
rubric of ''left of launch,'' because the attacks begin before the missiles ever
reach the launchpad, or just as they lift off. For years, the Pentagon's most
senior officers and officials have publicly advocated these kinds of
sophisticated attacks in little-noticed testimony to Congress and at defense
conferences.

The Times inquiry began last spring as the number of the North's missile
failures soared. The investigation uncovered the military documents praising the
new antimissile approach and found some pointing with photos and diagrams to
North Korea as one of the most urgent targets.

After discussions with the office of the director of national intelligence last
year and in recent days with Mr. Trump's national security team, The Times
agreed to withhold details of those efforts to keep North Korea from learning
how to defeat them. Last fall, Mr. Kim was widely reported to have ordered an
investigation into whether the United States was sabotaging North Korea's
launches, and over the past week he has executed senior security officials.

The approach taken in targeting the North Korean missiles has distinct echoes of
the American- and Israeli-led sabotage of Iran's nuclear program, the most
sophisticated known use of a cyberweapon meant to cripple a nuclear threat. But
even that use of the ''Stuxnet'' worm in Iran quickly ran into limits. It was
effective for several years, until the Iranians figured it out and recovered.
And Iran posed a relatively easy target: an underground nuclear enrichment plant
that could be attacked repeatedly.

In North Korea, the target is much more challenging. Missiles are fired from
multiple launch sites around the country and moved about on mobile launchers in
an elaborate shell game meant to deceive adversaries. To strike them, timing is
critical.

Advocates of the sophisticated effort to remotely manipulate data inside North
Korea's missile systems argue the United States has no real alternative because
the effort to stop the North from learning the secrets of making nuclear weapons
has already failed. The only hope now is stopping the country from developing an
intercontinental missile, and demonstrating that destructive threat to the
world.

''Disrupting their tests,'' William J. Perry, secretary of defense in the
Clinton administration, said at a recent presentation in Washington, would be
''a pretty effective way of stopping their ICBM program.''

Decades in the Making

Three generations of the Kim family have dreamed that their broken, otherwise
failed nation could build its own nuclear weapons, and the missiles to deliver
them, as the ultimate survival strategy. With nukes in hand, the Kims have
calculated, they need not fear being overrun by South Korea, invaded by the
United States or sold out by China.

North Korea began seeking an intercontinental ballistic missile decades ago: It
was the dream of Kim Il-sung, the country's founder, who bitterly remembered the
American threats to use nuclear weapons against the North during the Korean War.

His break came after the collapse of the Soviet Union, when out-of-work Russian
rocket scientists began seeking employment in North Korea. Soon, a new
generation of North Korean missiles began to appear, all knockoffs of Soviet
designs. Though flight tests were sparse, American experts marveled at how the
North seemed to avoid the kinds of failures that typically strike new rocket
programs, including those of the United States in the late 1950s.

The success was so marked that Timothy McCarthy of the Middlebury Institute of
International Studies at Monterey wrote in a 2001 analysis that Pyongyang's
record ''appears completely unique in the history of missile development and
production.''

In response, President George W. Bush  in late 2002 announced the deployment of
antimissile interceptors in Alaska and California. At the same time, Mr. Bush
accelerated programs to get inside the long supply chain of parts for North
Korean missiles, lacing them with defects and weaknesses, a technique also used
for years against Iran.

Threat Grows in Obama Era

By the time Mr. Obama took office in January 2009, the North had deployed
hundreds of short- and medium-range missiles that used Russian designs, and had
made billions of dollars selling its Scud missiles to Egypt, Libya, Pakistan,
Syria, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen. But it aspired to a new generation of
missiles that could fire warheads over much longer distances.

In secret cables written in the first year of the Obama administration,
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton laid out the emerging threat. Among the most
alarming released by WikiLeaks, the cables described a new path the North was
taking to reach its long-range goal, based on a missile designed by the Soviets
decades ago for their submarines that carried thermonuclear warheads.

It was called the R-27. Unlike the North's lumbering, older rockets and
missiles, these would be small enough to hide in caves and move into position by
truck. The advantage was clear: This missile would be far harder for the United
States to find and destroy.

''North Korea's next goal may be to develop a mobile ICBM that would be capable
of threatening targets around the world,'' said an October 2009 cable marked
''Secret'' and signed by Mrs. Clinton.

The next year, one of the new missiles showed up in a North Korean military
parade, just as the intelligence reports had warned.

By 2013, North Korean rockets thundered with new regularity. And that February,
the North set off a nuclear test that woke up Washington: The monitoring data
told of an explosion roughly the size of the bomb that had leveled Hiroshima.

Days after the explosion, the Pentagon announced an expansion of its force of
antimissile interceptors in California and Alaska. It also began to unveil its
''left of launch'' program to disable missiles before liftoff -- hoping to
bolster its chances of destroying them. Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, announced the program, saying that ''cyberwarfare,
directed energy and electronic attack,'' a reference to such things as malware,
lasers and signal jamming, were all becoming important new adjuncts to the
traditional ways of deflecting enemy strikes.

He never mentioned North Korea. But a map accompanying General Dempsey's policy
paper on the subject showed one of the North's missiles streaking toward the
United States. Soon, in testimony before Congress and at public panels in
Washington, current and former officials and a major contractor -- Raytheon --
began talking openly about ''left of launch'' technologies, in particular cyber
and electronic strikes at the moment of launch.

The North, meanwhile, was developing its own exotic arsenal. It tried repeatedly
to disrupt American and South Korean military exercises by jamming electronic
signals for guided weapons, including missiles. And it demonstrated its
cyberpower in the oddest of places -- Hollywood. In 2014, it attacked Sony
Pictures Entertainment with a strike that destroyed about 70 percent of the
company's computing systems, surprising experts with its technical savvy.

Last month, a report on cybervulnerabilities by the Defense Science Board,
commissioned by the Pentagon during the Obama administration, warned that North
Korea might acquire the ability to cripple the American power grid, and
cautioned that it could never be allowed to ''hold vital U.S. strike systems at
risk.''

Secret Push, and New Doubts

Not long after General Dempsey made his public announcement, Mr. Obama and his
defense secretary, Ashton B. Carter, began calling meetings focused on one
question: Could a crash program slow the North's march toward an
intercontinental ballistic missile?

There were many options, some drawn from General Dempsey's list. Mr. Obama
ultimately pressed the Pentagon and intelligence agencies to pull out all the
stops, which officials took as encouragement to reach for untested technologies.

The North's missiles soon began to fail at a remarkable pace. Some were
destroyed, no doubt, by accident as well as by design. The technology the North
was pursuing, using new designs and new engines, involved multistage rockets,
introducing all kinds of possibilities for catastrophic mistakes. But by most
accounts, the United States program accentuated the failures.

The evidence was in the numbers. Most flight tests of an intermediate-range
missile called the Musudan, the weapon that the North Koreans showed off in
public just after Mrs. Clinton's warning, ended in flames: Its overall failure
rate is 88 percent.

Nonetheless Kim Jong-un has pressed ahead on his main goal: an intercontinental
ballistic missile. Last April, he was photographed standing next to a giant
test-stand, celebrating after engineers successfully fired off a matched pair of
the potent Russian-designed R-27 engines. The implication was clear: Strapping
two of the engines together at the base of a missile was the secret to building
an ICBM that could ultimately hurl warheads at the United States.

In September, he celebrated the most successful test yet of a North Korean
nuclear weapon -- one that exploded with more than twice the destructive force
of the Hiroshima bomb.

His next goal, experts say, is to combine those two technologies, shrinking his
nuclear warheads to a size that can fit on an intercontinental missile. Only
then can he credibly claim that his isolated country has the know-how to hit an
American city thousands of miles away.

In the last year of his presidency, Mr. Obama often noted publicly that the
North was learning from every nuclear and missile test -- even the failures --
and getting closer to its goal. In private, aides noticed he was increasingly
disturbed by North Korea's progress.

With only a few months left in office, he pushed aides for new approaches. At
one meeting, he declared that he would have targeted the North Korean leadership
and weapons sites if he thought it would work. But it was, as Mr. Obama and his
assembled aides knew, an empty threat: Getting timely intelligence on the
location of North Korea's leaders or their weapons at any moment would be almost
impossible, and the risks of missing were tremendous, including renewed war on
the Korean Peninsula.

Hard Decisions for Trump

As a presidential candidate, Mr. Trump complained that ''we're so obsolete in
cyber,'' a line that grated on officials at the United States Cyber Command and
the National Security Agency, where billions of dollars have been spent to
provide the president with new options for intelligence gathering and
cyberattacks. Now, one of the immediate questions he faces is whether to
accelerate or scale back those efforts.

A decision to go after an adversary's launch ability can have unintended
consequences, experts warn.

Once the United States uses cyberweapons against nuclear launch systems -- even
in a threatening state like North Korea -- Russia and China may feel free to do
the same, targeting fields of American missiles. Some strategists argue that all
nuclear systems should be off limits for cyberattack. Otherwise, if a nuclear
power thought it could secretly disable an adversary's atomic controls, it might
be more tempted to take the risk of launching a pre-emptive attack.

''I understand the urgent threat,'' said Amy Zegart, a Stanford University
intelligence and cybersecurity expert, who said she had no independent knowledge
of the American effort. ''But 30 years from now we may decide it was a very,
very dangerous thing to do.''

Mr. Trump's aides say everything is on the table. China recently cut off coal
imports from the North, but the United States is also looking at ways to freeze
the Kim family's assets, some of which are believed held in Chinese-controlled
banks. The Chinese have already opposed the deployment of a high-altitude
missile defense system known as Thaad in South Korea; the Trump team may call
for even more such systems.

The White House is also looking at pre-emptive military strike options, a senior
Trump administration official said, though the challenge is huge given the
country's mountainous terrain and deep tunnels and bunkers. Putting American
tactical nuclear weapons back in South Korea -- they were withdrawn a
quarter-century ago -- is also under consideration, even if that step could
accelerate an arms race with the North.

Mr. Trump's ''It won't happen!'' post on Twitter about the North's ICBM threat
suggests a larger confrontation could be looming.

''Regardless of Trump's actual intentions,'' James M. Acton, a nuclear analyst
at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, recently noted, ''the tweet
could come to be seen as a 'red line' and hence set up a potential test of his
credibility.''

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/04/world/asia/north-korea-missile-program-sabotag
e.html

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kim Jong-un (A1)
North Korea released an image in April of the country's leader, Kim Jong-un, at
a missile test center in North Pyongan Province. Analysts say the engines behind
him could power an intercontinental ballistic missile. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KOREAN
CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY, VIA REUTERS) (A14) MAP: North Korea's Growing Reach: The
potential range of North Korea's current weapons, particularly the KN-14 and
KN-08 missiles, would put most of the world in reach of its nuclear warheads.
(Source: The James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies) (MAP BY TROY
GRIGGS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CHARTS: The North Korean Arsenal: The rockets currently being tested have a wide
range of sizes and capabilities.
 A Rush of Missile and Nuclear Tests: The frequency of missile tests has risen
dramatically under Kim Jong-un, with a recent increase in nuclear tests as well.
(Source: Center for Strategic and International Studies and The James Martin
Center for Nonproliferation Studies) (CHARTS BY TROY GRIGGS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 5, 2017 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

U.S. Strategy to Hobble North Korea Was Hidden in Plain Sight

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg.

LENGTH: 816 words


Washington usually cloaks its most critical defense programs in secrecy.

But in the case of using cyberstrikes, electronic warfare and other exotic forms
of sabotage to redefine antimissile defense for the United States, many
high-ranking officials and officers have been talking openly, often to persuade
Congress to fund the secretive efforts.

The public conversation about the new antimissile approach, known as ''left of
launch,'' has been careful. Typically, military leaders and contractors have
spoken vaguely about technologies and targets. But at moments they have also
declared that it is all about North Korea and Iran, at least for now.

The idea is to strike an enemy missile before liftoff or during the first
seconds of flight. The old approach waited until much later -- after swarms of
warheads had been released, had traveled thousands of miles and were racing
toward targets at speeds in excess of four miles a second.

Officials have praised left-of-launch strikes as a novel way of knocking out
enemy missiles at a tiny fraction of the usual cost. In presentations and
congressional testimony, senior officials have described the method as a
potentially revolutionary way to strengthen the defenses of the United States.

The public unveiling began in late 2013 when Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the nation's highest-ranking military officer, warned
of falling budgets and rising missile threats. That dilemma, he wrote in a
policy guidance document for American troops, called for the development of
unconventional defenses that would be far cheaper than traditional rocket
interceptors.

In 2014, Adm. James A. Winnefeld Jr., vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs, told
the Atlantic Council that left-of-launch strikes would, by definition, remain a
novel adjunct to wider antimissile efforts.

''While we would still obviously prefer to take a threat missile out while it's
still on the ground,'' he said, ''we won't always have the luxury of doing so.''
The result, he added, would be the continuing need for ''solid right-of-launch
capability'' -- in other words, the traditional methods.

In 2015, top antimissile experts gathered at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a Washington think tank. Archer M. Macy Jr., a retired
Navy rear admiral, said the Defense Department was developing ways not only of
preventing successful missile launches but of interfering in their flights and
navigation.

Kenneth E. Todorov, a retired Air Force brigadier general, raised the question
of how to authorize what would amount to pre-emptive war -- of attacking first
to gain a strategic advantage. ''Are we, as a military and a nation,'' he asked,
prepared to ''go after potential targets in advance?'' No consensus emerged.

Raytheon, the nation's top antimissile contractor, went wide rather than deep.
In a conference presentation, it disclosed that the new developments included
not just cyber and electronic strikes but the targeting of enemy factories,
hinting at industrial sabotage. The glossy presentation included a lineup of
''sophisticated adversaries,'' including Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader.

Last year, the Pentagon's budget request for 2017 said an antimissile program
known as Nimble Fire had advanced General Dempsey's goals by exploring
''electronic attack'' and ''offensive cyber operations.'' The details, it said,
were classified secret.

In April, a number of budget hearings in the House and Senate focused on
left-of-launch programs. Some of the most revealing testimony came before
Senator Jeff Sessions, then chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee of the
Senate Armed Services Committee and now attorney general.

Vice Adm. James D. Syring of the Navy, director of the Pentagon's Missile
Defense Agency, described left-of-launch strikes and other unorthodox approaches
as ''game changing'' because they reduced the need to ''rely exclusively on
expensive interceptors.''

Brian P. McKeon, then the Pentagon's under secretary of defense for policy, said
the Defense Department sought new and old antimissile arms ''to deal with the
threat of missiles from either North Korea or Iran.'' Of all the nations that
might threaten the United States, he noted in his testimony, those two countries
''are driving our investments.''

At a House hearing, Adm. William E. Gortney, then head of the North American
Aerospace Defense Command, which has the responsibility for firing the nation's
antimissile weapons in time of war, was asked what Congress should do ''to
ensure our military forces'' can execute left-of-launch strikes.

Admiral Gortney said that in the committee's secret session he could discuss the
development of classified technologies where ''investments are absolutely
critical.''

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/04/world/asia/left-of-launch-missile-defense.html

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         March 6, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

A Eureka Moment for Two Times Reporters: North Korea's Missile Launches Were
Failing Too Often

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: INSIDER

LENGTH: 1333 words



HIGHLIGHT: Anatomy of an eight-month-long cyberwar investigation that spanned
two administrations.


WASHINGTON -- Times Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how news,
features and opinion come together at The New York Times.

WASHINGTON -- The launches were failing too often.

That was the topic of the conversation I was having one day late last spring
with Bill Broad, one of The Times's premier science writers. Just about every
time the North Koreans tried to launch an advanced missile, it seemed to end up
in the ocean seconds later. Maybe it was bad luck, we said to each other, or bad
parts, or bad welding. After all, the North Koreans are not known for quality
control. Or maybe something else was going on.

That was the beginning of an eight-month-long investigation into public and not
so public evidence that the United States was experimenting with a new form of
missile defense, one that didn't rely exclusively on trying to hit a warhead in
midflight with another warhead. It was a fascinating journey that took us from
defense-contractor conferences to the inner sanctum of cyber experimentation to,
in the end, the Trump White House.

Bill specializes in all things nuclear, including missile technology -- he's
written three books on the subject. I specialize in national security policy,
and have a particular interest in cyber conflict and how it is changing the ways
in which countries compete with each other. We have worked together for 30
years, since the cold day in January 1986 when we were both thrown onto a team
that investigated the technological and political roots of the space shuttle
Challenger disaster. (The Times won a Pulitzer the next year for that
investigation.)

Our biggest stories usually live at the intersection of technology and national
security. Back during the last Bush administration we spent 14 months
investigating how Abdul Qadeer Khan, the head of Pakistan's nuclear program,
created a black market for these weapons -- and our reporting helped lead to his
arrest. During that investigation, from the back of a smoky bar in Vienna, we
extracted the story that Libya had obtained an early Chinese blueprint for an
atomic bomb. (Don't ask -- and yes, The Times picked up an impressive bar tab.)
Together, we also plunged into the details of the Iranian nuclear program.

So when we saw what was happening to those North Korean launches, we had a hunch
about what was going on. My last book, "Confront and Conceal," detailed the
secret American- and Israeli-led cyber attacks on Iran's nuclear program using
the Stuxnet worm, a sophisticated self-replicating malware computer program
aimed at the kind of industrial equipment that controls nuclear facilities,
among other sites. That prompted the question: Could there be a Stuxnet for
North Korea? (When a savvy National Public Radio reporter once asked that of
John Brennan, the former director of the C.I.A., he laughed and said, "Next
question.")

So Bill did what Bill always does: He dug into the literature. Soon he showed up
at my desk in Washington with a grin, toting an inch-and-a-half-thick pile of
Pentagon testimony and public documents from companies like Raytheon, which
makes missile defenses, describing a program called "left of launch" that allows
for the sabotage of an adversary's systems before anyone presses the big red
button. These blended old-style electronic warfare and new-style cyber attacks,
with some loud echoes of the techniques used in "Olympic Games," the code name
for the Iran sabotage. At the Republican National Convention in Cleveland in
July, I briefed Dean Baquet, our executive editor, and Matt Purdy, a deputy
managing editor, about our line of reporting, and they immediately urged us to
dig deeper.

So we did. In documents and interviews, we found plenty of evidence that North
Korea was a target; the hard scientific problem was determining whether the
cyber and other electronic attacks -- and not engineering incompetence or
insiders working for the West -- were actually responsible for the failed
launches. With more digging, we arrived at some theories about the mechanics of
how it was all happening.

Then came the sensitive part of these investigations: telling the government
what we had, trying to get official comment (there has been none) and assessing
whether any of our revelations could affect continuing operations. In the last
weeks of the Obama administration, we traveled out to the director of national
intelligence's offices: a huge complex in an unmarked office park a few miles
beyond the C.I.A.'s headquarters in Fairfax County, Va. Such conversations are
always fraught. Understandably, government officials don't want to confirm or
deny anything -- in fact, they can't. But it's still important to listen to any
concerns they might have about the details we are planning to publish so that we
can weigh them with our editors.

I had been distracted by other stories -- including a reconstruction, in
collaboration with my colleagues, of the Russian hack of the election -- so our
reporting continued past Inauguration Day. That meant it would need to
incorporate President Trump's options for dealing with the North Korean threat.
It also meant going through those discussions about the program again, this time
with a new administration whose key officials had barely had time to understand
their new jobs, much less develop a Korea strategy. Like the Obama officials we
dealt with before them, they engaged the subject deeply and professionally.

As Dean often says, we do not take lightly the publication of secret
information, especially in national security cases. We also fully expect that
the government's first reaction will usually be some variant of: "You shouldn't
print anything, because the subject is so sensitive, the diplomacy so delicate
and the reaction of nations like North Korea so unpredictable."

We take a somewhat different view: If America is going to have an informed
public discussion about how to deal with the nation's most looming threats, this
kind of investigative journalism is essential. In this case, that meant
uncovering, and explaining, both the dimensions of North Korea's nuclear program
and the American struggle to defeat it. If America's old concept for missile
defense isn't working and if throwing high-tech malware at the North Koreans
isn't a silver bullet, those are critical facts about the choices a new
president faces.

We've been there before: At the height of the nuclear arms race, The Times
covered the debate over nuclear strategy, including what kind of global rules
should be established to govern how the world's most terrible weapons are
controlled, without delving too deeply into the "how" of building a bomb. The
same careful navigation is necessary when it comes to cyber attacks.

Our story went through dozens of drafts, as we tried to make an enormously
complicated subject clear. In the Washington bureau, Bill Hamilton, who oversees
national security reporting, turned his editing talents to helping us shape a
narrative that mixed news, analysis and a long history of efforts to deal with a
North Korean program that has bedeviled the last five presidents. David McCraw,
the Times lawyer who is a veteran of many big stories on national security
issues, read draft after draft to help us navigate a raft of complex issues. A
talented team of graphics and photo editors put together a powerful package that
helped explain the reach and progress of North Korea's weapons programs.
Translations were prepared in Korean and Chinese, giving the story a broader
reach.

On Sunday, over the phone, Bill Broad said to me what he always says after a big
project: "This was great. Let's never do it again." And then, of course, he
started talking about where we might take the story next.

PHOTO: A military parade in 2013 in the capital of North Korea showcased some of
the ballistic missiles in its weapons program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KYODO NEWS)

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Inherits a Secret Cyberwar Against North Korean Missiles
     ·    U.S. Strategy to Hobble North Korea Was Hidden in Plain Sight


LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 6, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Howard Schmidt, 67, Adviser to Presidents on Cybersecurity

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 786 words


Howard A. Schmidt, a computer crime expert who advised two presidents and
drafted cybersecurity safeguards that were approved by Congress in 2015, died on
Thursday at his home in Muskego, Wis. He was 67.

The cause was brain cancer, his wife, Raemarie, said.

The legislation, which evolved from precautions Mr. Schmidt proposed several
years earlier, enabled government and industry to share information about
potential risks from attackers' codes and techniques, shielded companies from
liability lawsuits for trading data and provided privacy protections for
consumers.

By the time the legislation was finally approved, though, critics complained
that it had been diluted in response to corporate concerns and was already
technologically anachronistic.

Recruited by President George W. Bush after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks, Mr. Schmidt returned to the White House under President Barack Obama.

He also oversaw the creation of the National Strategy for Trusted Identities in
Cyberspace, an online authentication program less vulnerable than ordinary
passwords to hackers engaged in identity theft or in stealing secrets from
private industry or government.

Mr. Schmidt won the trust of much of the business community, which was fending
off a barrage of cyberattacks but which also feared government intrusion and a
damper on innovation. At the same time, he suggested that the threat of
full-scale cyberwarfare between governments was exaggerated and that any such
conflict would be unwinnable.

With the United States portraying itself as a victim of cyberwarfare and much of
the world viewing Washington as a perpetrator -- citing attacks on Iran's
nuclear program as examples -- the White House proclaimed its first formal
international cyberspace strategy during Mr. Schmidt's tenure.

That strategy mirrored the planned response to other security threats, in which
the United States reserved the right to use all necessary diplomatic and
military means to defend itself in the event of a hostile cyberincident.
Meanwhile, Mr. Schmidt said, nations were already acting defensively.

''Governments are starting to say, 'In order to best protect my country, I need
to find vulnerabilities in other countries,' '' he told The New York Times in
2013. ''The problem is that we all fundamentally become less secure.''

He said hackers exploited the fear that if one buyer failed to pay for secret
information about a computer coding flaw, another would.

''If someone comes to you with a bug that could affect millions of devices and
says, 'You would be the only one to have this if you pay my fee,' there will
always be someone inclined to pay it,'' he said. ''Unfortunately, dancing with
the devil in cyberspace has been pretty common.''

For much of his 40-year career, Mr. Schmidt was in the forefront of information
technology and computer security for the military, government agencies and
private industry. Most recently he was a partner with Tom Ridge, the former
Homeland Security secretary, in Ridge Schmidt Cyber, a security consultancy.

In the mid-1990s, while working for the Air Force Office of Special
Investigations, Mr. Schmidt was credited with helping to establish the federal
government's first full-time computer forensic laboratory. He also served as
chief security officer at Microsoft and chief information security officer at
eBay.

Mr. Schmidt was the president's special adviser for cyberspace security in the
Bush administration from late 2001 to 2003. He was also chairman of the
president's Critical Infrastructure Protection Board.

The Obama administration recruited him in late 2009 to be its computer security
adviser. He reported to the National Security Council.

Mr. Schmidt was the first president of the Information Security Forum, an
industry and government coalition, and was chief security strategist for a
partnership between the Department of Homeland Security and a cybersecurity
program at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh.

Howard Anthony Schmidt was born on Oct. 5, 1949, in Philadelphia to Anthony and
Edith Schmidt. He served three tours in the Air Force in Vietnam from 1968 to
1974; was a police officer in Chandler, Ariz.; and worked for the F.B.I. at the
National Drug Intelligence Center.

He graduated from the University of Phoenix in 1994 with a bachelor of science
degree in business administration and earned a master's degree from that
university.

In addition to his wife, the former Raemarie Lange, a forensic scientist, Mr.
Schmidt is survived by his mother, Edith Curtis; his stepmother, Gloria Schmidt;
his sons, Kyle, David, Andrew and Anthony; and eight grandchildren.

Read more obituaries and follow our coverage on Twitter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/04/us/howard-schmidt-dead-white-house-cybersecuri
ty-aide.html

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mr. Schmidt wrote safeguards approved by Congress in 2015.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        March 7, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

North Korea Tensions Pose Early, and Perilous, Test for Trump

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER, CHOE SANG-HUN, CHRIS BUCKLEY and MICHAEL R. GORDON

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1807 words



HIGHLIGHT: The North's provocations and Chinese anger over the deployment of a
missile defense system in South Korea are creating a difficult balancing act for
the new administration.


When the United States began deploying a missile defense system in South Korea
this week, it was to protect an ally long threatened by North Korean
provocations. But it was instantly met by angry Chinese warnings that the United
States is setting off a new arms race in a region already on edge over the
North's drive to build a nuclear arsenal.

China condemned the new antimissile system as a dangerous opening move in what
it called America's grand strategy to set up similar defenses across Asia,
threatening to tilt the balance of power there against Beijing.

The tensions are testing the new Trump administration and its uneasy allies
South Korea and Japan, which have complained for years that China has
simultaneously chastised and coddled the North, refusing to enact stiff enough
measures to force it to abandon its nuclear and missile programs.

But with the beginning of work to install the antimissile system, the delicate
international cooperation against North Korea is splintering: Beijing is
expressing more concern about American intentions in the region than about the
dangers of the North's latest surge in nuclear and missile testing.

The dual approach seemed evident on Wednesday when China's foreign minister,
Wang Yi, said, "The two sides are like two accelerating trains coming toward
each other, and neither side is willing to give way."

"Our priority now is to flash the red light and apply brakes," Mr. Wang said at
a news conference in Beijing. He said that North Korea should suspend its
nuclear and missile activities and that in exchange, South Korea and the United
States should suspend large-scale joint military exercises, laying the way to
new negotiations with North Korea.

President Trump got personally engaged in the problem on Monday night, after
North Korea launched four ballistic missiles, aimed toward Japan, that the North
Koreans later described as practice for hitting American bases there.

Japan's prime minister, Shinzo Abe, said he spoke with Mr. Trump for 25 minutes,
adding, "I appreciate that the United States is showing that all the options are
on the table," usually code words for raising the possibility of a military
response.

To conservatives in South Korea's crisis-racked government, the antimissile
system is exactly the kind of strong action needed to counter the North's
belligerence and demonstrate unity with Mr. Trump, who had suggested during the
campaign that Asian nations needed to do far more to defend themselves.

But South Korea remains deeply divided about the one response already underway:
the deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense System, or Thaad. It
is designed to intercept short- and medium-range missiles, but not the kind of
intercontinental missiles that the North says it is developing to reach the
United States.

Many South Koreans oppose it and worry about China's moves to block South Korean
imports because of Beijing's continued insistence that Thaad is aimed at
containing Chinese power, not the missile capabilities of Kim Jong-un, the North
Korean leader.

Japan is urging stronger American action, but remains uncertain about how much
it wants to commit when a conflict with the North -- deliberate or accidental --
once again looks like a real possibility.

The combination of military and diplomatic tensions suddenly unleashed in Asia
comes before Mr. Trump's full national security team is in place, and before it
has a well-thought-out strategy.

Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, who will travel to the region next week --
stopping in Tokyo; Seoul, South Korea; and Beijing -- has never dealt with a
proliferation problem like this one. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis has already
been to Seoul on one visit, but was there mostly to reassure the country that,
despite Mr. Trump's statements last year, the United States remains committed to
its defense.

The new national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, has focused more on
counterinsurgency than dealing with the peculiar problem of a nuclear-armed
failing state.

In three meetings at the White House -- more than on any other foreign policy
problem -- the National Security Council deputies have considered a range of
options, and have already come to the predictable conclusion that a dramatic
show of force, like attacks on the North's missile and nuclear sites, would
probably start a war.

The New York Times reported this weekend that the Obama administration had
created a cyber- and electronic-warfare program to slow the North's missile
tests, but that it was unclear how effective it had been, particularly in recent
months.

The North Koreans have made the most of this period of uncertainty and
transition. Their sped-up testing seems intended to send a message that they can
overwhelm antimissile defenses, deploying missiles faster than the United States
and its allies can put countermeasures in place.

And they hold an ace card: an ability to destroy Seoul with artillery buried in
the mountains just north of the Demilitarized Zone, a remnant of the Korean War.

In the North's view, the American rush to put missile defenses around it only
splits the global community, pushing China and Russia closer to Pyongyang, as
American officials acknowledge when speaking on the condition of anonymity.

Mr. Tillerson is focused on ways to pressure China, while trying to set up a
first meeting between President Xi Jinping and Mr. Trump. But the two nations'
leaders are conducting a balancing act. Mr. Xi's is the hardest, trying to weigh
his opposition to North Korea's nuclear program against his conviction that a
North Korean collapse would be far worse.

The Trump administration is measuring how hard it can press Beijing. It is
mulling negotiations to "freeze" the North's nuclear arsenal, but that would
also acknowledge it as a fact.

"You may not want to acknowledge that North Korea has 12 or 20 weapons," said
Robert Litwak of the Woodrow Wilson Center for International Scholars, the
author of the new study "Preventing North Korea's Nuclear Breakout," "but
wouldn't a freeze be better than looking at 100 weapons a few years from now?"

That is exactly the debate taking place in the White House, as Mr. Trump's aides
try to figure out their alternatives, including changing the security landscape
with a major military buildup or, if needed, an open conflict with North Korea.

The current, slow-burning crisis arose not from one episode, but from Mr. Kim's
broader strategy over the past year: to accelerate the pace of nuclear and
missile tests so his arsenal becomes a fait accompli, something the United
States cannot hope to reverse.

When North Korea launched four Scud-ER ballistic missiles on Monday, it tried to
demonstrate an ability to simultaneously launch multiple missiles at American
bases in Japan and at American aircraft carriers around the Korean Peninsula,
South Korean military officials said Tuesday.

The ability to launch a barrage of missiles increases the chances of breaching
an antimissile shield. But the types of midrange missiles North Korea has
launched in recent months -- including the Scud-ERs, with a 620-mile range --
pose another problem for South Korea. Some of the missiles have been launched at
a steep angle to achieve a higher altitude and return to earth at high speed,
techniques that appear intended to complicate intercepting them.

American military officials said the recent tests were a particular concern
because they illustrated Pyongyang's ability to carry out a salvo of launches
and on very short notice.

"What we saw this weekend was demonstration of a near-term simultaneous launch,"
said Vice Adm. James D. Syring, the director of the Pentagon's Missile Defense
Agency. "That is something beyond what we have seen in the past."

For Washington and Seoul, the rush to field Thaad is as much about politics as
missile interception. American officials have repeatedly warned China that its
failure to rein in North Korea's nuclear and missile programs would force the
United States to deploy missile defenses in the region.

Seoul's interim government wants to deploy the antimissile system before a
progressive leader, skeptical of the deployment, can take power in a coming
presidential election.

But progressives have held deep reservations about the Thaad deployment, seeing
it as part of the United States' effort to wrap the South into an anti-China
coalition and arms race. They have already mounted a case against it.

On Tuesday, Woo Sang-ho, the floor leader of the main opposition Democratic
Party, warned, "Our business are dying; our people residing in China are being
threatened."

Hong Ik-pyo, a senior policy maker in the opposition, said the Thaad deployment
would do more harm than good for South Korea, whose economy depends on exports
for growth and reaps a huge annual trade surplus with China.

"They say this is only to defend us from North Korea, but everyone knows this is
part of the American missile defense plan," Mr. Hong said. "China sees the Thaad
deployment in South Korea the way the Americans saw the Cuban missile crisis in
the 1960s."

The Chinese government said Tuesday that it continued to oppose the deployment
of Thaad.

Chinese leaders have struggled to grapple with the unpredictable styles of Mr.
Kim and Mr. Trump. Now there are fears that the North might take advantage of
the political discord to move ahead with its nuclear weapons program.

"They have seized this opportunity, knowing that U.S. and China are clashing,"
said Cheng Xiaohe, an associate professor of international studies at Renmin
University in Beijing.

In recent weeks, China has shown signs of toughening its stance on North Korea,
including banningimports of coal from the North. Criticism of the North has also
sharpened. On Tuesday, a state-run newspaper warned that North Korea should give
up its weapons or "face long-lasting isolation and pressure."

Yet policy makers in Beijing failed to grasp how Washington and its allies
regarded North Korea's nuclear program as getting closer to a dangerous
threshold of being able to place a warhead on an intercontinental ballistic
missile, said Paul Haenle, the director of the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center at
Tsinghua University in Beijing.

"That's a game-changer," he added.

Javier C. Hernández and Motoko Rich contributed reporting.

PHOTOS: This photograph distributed by North Korea's state news agency on
Tuesday purports to show the launch of four ballistic missiles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
KOREAN CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY); Equipment for a Thaad missile defense system
arriving Monday at a base in South Korea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY U.S. FORCES KOREA, VIA
ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A8)

Related Articles


     ·    China Warns of Arms Race After U.S. Deploys Missile Defense in South
          Korea
     ·    U.S. Starts Deploying Thaad Antimissile System in South Korea, After
          North's Tests
     ·    Trump Inherits a Secret Cyberwar Against North Korean Missiles


LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        March 7, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

WikiLeaks Reignites Tensions Between Silicon Valley and Spy Agencies

BYLINE: VINDU GOEL and NICK WINGFIELD

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1164 words



HIGHLIGHT: Leaked documents appear to indicate that the C.I.A. was collecting
cyberweapons that can break into smartphones and even internet-connected
televisions.


SAN FRANCISCO -- Four years ago, Edward J. Snowden's disclosures that the
federal government was hacking America's leading technology companies threw the
industry into turmoil.

Now WikiLeaks has shaken the tech world again by releasing documents Tuesday
that appear to showthat the Central Intelligence Agencyhad acquired an array of
cyberweapons that could be used to break into Apple and Android smartphones,
Windows computers, automotive computer systems, and even smart televisions to
conduct surveillance on unwitting users.

Major technology companies, including Apple, Google and Microsoft, were trying
to assess how badly their core products had been compromised. But one thing
clearly had been ruptured yet again: trust between intelligence agencies and
Silicon Valley.

"After the Snowden disclosures, the Obama administration worked hard to
re-establish relationships and government-industry partnerships," said David
Gutelius, chief executive of the marketing technology company Motiva, who has
worked with the federal government on national security projects. "This leak
will challenge those ties to some extent. But I don't see companies simply
walking away from the table as a result of this. Government and industry still
need one another."

The tense relationship between the technology industry and government agencies
has been well documented. After the disclosures by Mr. Snowden, a former
contractor for the National Security Agency, the government appeared to give
some ground to the industry, which was angered by previously unknown snooping on
their products and embarrassed by disclosures of their cooperation with
intelligence agencies.

The government allowed companies to describe in broad terms the number of secret
court orders for access to customer information that they receive. President
Barack Obama also promised that the government would share knowledge of security
flaws so that they could be fixed.

But last year, relations soured again after Apple resisted a Justice Department
request for help accessing the iPhone of one of the attackers in the 2015
shooting in San Bernardino, Calif. As the company's chief executive, Timothy D.
Cook, explained in a letter to customers at the time, "The government is asking
Apple to hack our own users and undermine decades of security advancements that
protect our customers."

In that case, the government eventually found a way into the phone without
Apple's assistance.

The documents posted by WikiLeaks suggest that the C.I.A. had obtained
information on 14 security flaws in Apple's iOS operating system for phones and
tablets.

Apple said Tuesday night that many of those security issues had already been
patched in the latest version of its software and it was working to address
remaining vulnerabilities.

The leaked documents also identified at least two dozen flaws in Android, the
most popular operating system for smartphones, which was developed by Alphabet's
Google division.

Google said it was studying the flaws identified by WikiLeaks. Android is more
difficult to secure than Apple's software because many phone makers and carriers
use older or customized versions of the software.

The documents released by WikiLeaks reveal numerous efforts by the C.I.A. to
take control of Microsoft Windows, the dominant operating system for personal
computers, using malware. They include techniques for infecting DVDs and USB
storage devices with malware that can be spread to computers when they are
plugged in.

"We're aware of the report and are looking into it," Microsoft said in a
statement.

Security experts said it was not surprising that the government had stockpiled
flaws in major technology products to use for spying. "The real scandal and
damaging thing is not knowing these things exist, but that the C.I.A. could be
so careless with them that they leaked out," said Matthew D. Green, an assistant
professor in the department of computer science at Johns Hopkins University.

Inside technology companies, the revelations set off a scramble to assess the
potential damage to the security of their products.

The vulnerabilities, some of which were already known in the security community,
could leave individual users of computers, mobile phones and other devices open
to being snooped on. Technology companies are likely to plug the holes, however,
even as new ones are discovered by spy agencies and others.

The more serious near-term effect could be on the reputation of the C.I.A. and
the relationship between the technology industry and the intelligence community.

Denelle Dixon, chief legal and business officer at Mozilla, which makes the
Firefox web browser and was mentioned in the WikiLeaks trove, said that if the
reports were accurate, the C.I.A. and WikiLeaks were undermining the security of
the internet.

"The C.I.A. seems to be stockpiling vulnerabilities, and WikiLeaks seems to be
using that trove for shock value rather than coordinating disclosure to the
affected companies to give them a chance to fix it and protect users," Ms. Dixon
said in a statement. "Although today's disclosures are jarring, we hope this
raises awareness of the severity of these issues and the urgency of
collaborating on reforms."

Oren Falkowitz, a former N.S.A. official and the chief executive of the
cyberdefense firm Area 1 Security, said that WikiLeaks, run by Julian Assange,
had again succeeded in disrupting the status quo, as it did during last year's
presidential election with the release of emails from the Democratic National
Committee. "If you understand the Assange playbook," Mr. Falkowitz said, "a lot
of it is just to create chaos."

But Mr. Falkowitz added that perhaps the most important message behind Tuesday's
leaks was that neither government agencies nor companies can trust their
employees to keep their most precious information secret.

"We expect governments to be involved in espionage," he said. "What we don't
expect is that the people within these organizations would create
vulnerabilities by disclosing them."

In a statement accompanying the documents, WikiLeaks said that the security
flaws could easily fall into the wrong hands.

"Once a single cyber 'weapon' is 'loose' it can spread around the world in
seconds, to be used by rival states, cyber mafia and teenage hackers alike," the
organization said. It said it was still reviewing whether to release any of the
underlying software code.

The security flaws described by WikiLeaks are intended to target individual
phones. They do not appear to give the intelligence agencies the ability to
intercept electronic communications en masse.

"What can you do as a user to defend?" he asked. "Boring stuff. Keep your
software up to date. Don't run unneeded apps. Don't become a C.I.A. target."

Daisuke Wakabayashi contributed reporting.

Related Articles


     ·    With WikiLeaks Claims of C.I.A. Hacking, How Vulnerable Is Your
          Smartphone?
     ·    In a Global Market for Hacking Talent, Argentines Stand Out
     ·    WikiLeaks Releases Trove of Alleged C.I.A. Hacking Documents


LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        March 7, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

WikiLeaks Releases Trove of Alleged C.I.A. Hacking Documents

BYLINE: SCOTT SHANE, MATTHEW ROSENBERG and ANDREW W. LEHREN

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 1832 words



HIGHLIGHT: The documents describe agency tools used to hack into smartphones and
TVs, as well as to bypass encryption on programs like Signal and WhatsApp.


WASHINGTON -- In what appears to be the largest leak of C.I.A documents in
history, WikiLeaksreleased on Tuesday thousands of pages describing
sophisticated software tools and techniques used by the agency to break into
smartphones, computers and even Internet-connected televisions.

The documents amount to a detailed, highly technical catalog of tools. They
include instructions for compromising a wide range of common computer tools for
use in spying: the online calling service Skype; Wi-Fi networks; documents in
PDF format; and even commercial antivirus programs of the kind used by millions
of people to protect their computers.

A program called Wrecking Crew explains how to crash a targeted computer, and
another tells how to steal passwords using the autocomplete function on Internet
Explorer. Other programs were called CrunchyLimeSkies, ElderPiggy, AngerQuake
and McNugget.

The document dump was the latest coup for the antisecrecy organization and a
serious blow to the C.I.A., which uses its hacking abilities to carry out
espionage against foreign targets.

The initial release, which WikiLeaks said was only the first installment in a
larger collection of secret C.I.A. material, included 7,818 web pages with 943
attachments, many of them partly redacted by WikiLeaks editors to avoid
disclosing the actual code for cyberweapons. The entire archive of C.I.A.
material consists of several hundred million lines of computer code, the group
claimed.

In one revelation that may especially trouble the tech world if confirmed,
WikiLeaks said that the C.I.A. and allied intelligence services have managed to
compromise both Apple and Android smartphones, allowing their officers to bypass
the encryption on popular services such as Signal, WhatsApp and Telegram.
According to WikiLeaks, government hackers can penetrate smartphones and collect
"audio and message traffic before encryption is applied."

Unlike the National Security Agency documents Edward J. Snowden gave to
journalists in 2013, they do not include examples of how the tools have been
used against actual foreign targets. That could limit the damage of the leak to
national security. But the breach was highly embarrassing for an agency that
depends on secrecy.

Robert M. Chesney, a specialist in national security law at the University of
Texas at Austin, likened the C.I.A. trove to National Security Agency hacking
tools disclosed last year by a group calling itself the Shadow Brokers.

"If this is true, it says that N.S.A. isn't the only one with an advanced,
persistent problem with operational security for these tools," Mr. Chesney said.
"We're getting bit time and again."

There was no public confirmation of the authenticity of the documents, which
were produced by the C.I.A.'s Center for Cyber Intelligence and are mostly dated
from 2013 to 2016. But one government official said the documents were real, and
a former intelligence officer said some of the code names for C.I.A. programs,
an organization chart and the description of a C.I.A. hacking base appeared to
be genuine.

The agency appeared to be taken by surprise by the document dump on Tuesday
morning. A C.I.A. spokesman, Dean Boyd, said, "We do not comment on the
authenticity or content of purported intelligence documents."

In some regard, the C.I.A. documents confirmed and filled in the details on
abilities that have long been suspected in technical circles.

"The people who know a lot about security and hacking assumed that the C.I.A.
was at least investing in these capabilities, and if they weren't, then somebody
else was -- China, Iran, Russia, as well as a lot of other private actors," said
Beau Woods, the deputy director of the Cyber Statecraft Initiative at the
Atlantic Council in Washington. He said the disclosures may raise concerns in
the United States and abroad about "the trustworthiness of technology where
cybersecurity can impact human life and public safety."

There is no evidence that the C.I.A. hacking tools have been used against
Americans. But Ben Wizner, the director of the American Civil Liberties Union's
Speech, Privacy, and Technology Project, said the documents suggest that the
government has deliberately allowed vulnerabilities in phones and other devices
to persist to make spying easier.

"Those vulnerabilities will be exploited not just by our security agencies, but
by hackers and governments around the world," Mr. Wizner said. "Patching
security holes immediately, not stockpiling them, is the best way to make
everyone's digital life safer."

WikiLeaks did not identify the source of the documents, which it called Vault 7,
but said they had been "circulated among former U.S. government hackers and
contractors in an unauthorized manner, one of whom has provided WikiLeaks with
portions of the archive."

WikiLeaks said the source, in a statement, set out policy questions that
"urgently need to be debated in public, including whether the C.I.A.'s hacking
capabilities exceed its mandated powers and the problem of public oversight of
the agency." The source, the group said, "wishes to initiate a public debate
about the security, creation, use, proliferation and democratic control of
cyberweapons."

But James Lewis, an expert on cybersecurity at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington, raised another possibility: that a foreign
state, most likely Russia, stole the documents by hacking or other means and
delivered them to WikiLeaks, which may not know how they were obtained. Mr.
Lewis noted that, according to American intelligence agencies, Russia hacked
Democratic targets during the presidential campaign and gave thousands of emails
to WikiLeaks for publication.

"I think a foreign power is much more likely the source of these documents than
a conscience-stricken C.I.A. whistle-blower," Mr. Lewis said.

At a time of increasing concern about the privacy of calls and messages, the
revelations did not suggest that the C.I.A. can actually break the encryption
used by popular messaging apps. Instead, by penetrating the user's phone, the
agency can make the encryption irrelevant by intercepting messages and calls
before their content is encrypted, or, on the other end, after messages are
decrypted.

WikiLeaks, which has sometimes been accused of recklessly leaking information
that could do harm, said it had redacted names and other identifying information
from the collection. It said it was not releasing the computer code for actual,
usable weapons "until a consensus emerges on the technical and political nature
of the C.I.A.'s program and how such 'weapons' should be analyzed, disarmed and
published."

The codes names used for projects revealed in the WikiLeaks documents appear to
reflect the likely demographic of the cyberexperts employed by the C.I.A. --
that is, young and male. There are numerous references to "Harry Potter,"
Pokémon and Adderall, the drug used to treat hyperactivity.

A number of projects were named after whiskey brands. Some were high-end single
malt scotches, such as Laphroaig and Ardbeg. Others were from more pedestrian
labels, such as Wild Turkey, which was described by its programmers, in mock
dictionary style, as "(n.) A animal of the avian variety that has not been
domesticated. Also a type of alcohol with a high proof (151)."

Some of the details of the C.I.A. programs might have come from the plot of a
spy novel for the cyberage, revealing numerous highly classified -- and, in some
cases, exotic -- hacking programs. One program, code-named Weeping Angel, uses
Samsung "smart" televisions as covert listening devices. According to the
WikiLeaks news release, even when it appears to be turned off, the television
"operates as a bug, recording conversations in the room and sending them over
the internet to a covert C.I.A. server."

The release said the program was developed in cooperation with British
intelligence.

If C.I.A. agents did manage to hack the smart TVs, they would not be the only
ones. Since their release, internet-connected televisions have been a focus for
hackers and cybersecurity experts, many of whom see the sets' ability to record
and transmit conversations as a potentially dangerous vulnerability.

In early 2015, Samsung started to include in the fine print terms of service for
its smart TVs a warning that the television sets could capture background
conversations. "Please be aware that if your spoken words include personal or
other sensitive information, that information will be among the data captured
and transmitted to a third party through your use of Voice Recognition," the
warning said.

Another program described in the documents, named Umbrage, is a voluminous
library of cyberattack techniques that the C.I.A. has collected from malware
produced by other countries, including Russia. According to the WikiLeaks
release, the large number of techniques allows the C.I.A. to mask the origin of
some of its attacks and confuse forensic investigators.

The WikiLeaks material includes lists of software tools that the C.I.A. uses to
create exploits and malware to carrying out hacking. Many of the tools are those
used by developers around the world: coding languages, such as Python, and tools
like Sublime Text, a program used to write code, and Git, a tool that helps
developers collaborate.

But the agency also appears to rely on software designed specifically for spies,
such as Ghidra, which in one of the documents is described as "a reverse
engineering environment created by the N.S.A."

The Vault 7 release marks the latest in a series of huge leaks that have changed
the landscape for government and corporate secrecy.

In scale, the Vault 7 archive appears to fall into the same category as the
biggest leaks of classified information in recent years, including the
quarter-million diplomatic cables taken by Chelsea Manning, the former Army
intelligence analyst, and given to WikiLeaks in 2010, and the hundreds of
thousands of National Security Agency documents taken by Mr. Snowden in 2013.

In the business world, the so-called Panama Papers and several other
large-volume leaks have laid bare the details of secret offshore companies used
by wealthy and corrupt people to hide their assets.

Both government and corporate leaks have been made possible by the ease of
downloading, storing and transferring millions of documents in seconds or
minutes, a sea change from the use of slow photocopying for some earlier leaks,
including the Pentagon Papers in 1971.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Follow Matthew Rosenberg on Twitter at @AllMattNYTScott Shane and Matthew
Rosenberg reported from Washington, and Andrew W. Lehren from New York. Mark
Mazzetti contributed reporting.

PHOTO: The C.I.A. headquarters in Langley, Va. If the WikiLeaks documents are
authentic, the release would be a blow to the agency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON
REED/REUTERS) (A10)

Related Articles


     ·    Julian Assange's Fate Could Be Decided by Ecuador's Election


LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 7, 2017 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Too Many Failed Tests Leads to Aha! Moment

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1269 words


WASHINGTON -- The launches were failing too often.

That was the topic of the conversation I was having one day late last spring
with Bill Broad, one of The Times's premier science writers. Just about every
time the North Koreans tried to launch an advanced missile, it seemed to end up
in the ocean seconds later. Maybe it was bad luck, we said to each other, or bad
parts, or bad welding. After all, the North Koreans are not known for
quality-control. Or maybe something else was going on.

That was the beginning of an eight-month-long investigation into public and not
so public evidence that the United States was experimenting with a new form of
missile defense, one that didn't rely exclusively on trying to hit a warhead in
midflight with another warhead. It was a fascinating journey that took us from
defense-contractor conferences to the inner sanctum of cyber experimentation to,
in the end, the Trump White House.

Bill specializes in all things nuclear, including missile technology -- he's
written three books on the subject. I specialize in national security policy,
and have a particular interest in cyber conflict and how it is changing the ways
in which countries compete with each other. We have worked together for 30
years, since the cold day in January 1986 when we were both thrown onto a team
that investigated the technological and political roots of the space shuttle
Challenger disaster. (The Times won a Pulitzer the next year for that
investigation.)

Our biggest stories usually live at the intersection of technology and national
security. Back during the last Bush administration we spent 14 months
investigating how Abdul Qadeer Khan, the head of Pakistan's nuclear program,
created a black market for these weapons -- and our reporting helped lead to his
arrest. During that investigation, from the back of a smoky bar in Vienna, we
extracted the story that Libya had obtained an early Chinese blueprint for an
atomic bomb. (Don't ask -- and yes, The Times picked up an impressive bar tab.)
Together, we also plunged into the details of the Iranian nuclear program.

So when we saw what was happening to those North Korean launches, we had a hunch
about what was going on. My last book, ''Confront and Conceal,'' detailed the
secret American- and Israeli-led cyber attacks on Iran's nuclear program using
the Stuxnet worm, a sophisticated self-replicating malware computer program
aimed at the kind of industrial equipment that controls nuclear facilities,
among other sites. That prompted the question: Could there be a Stuxnet for
North Korea? (When a savvy National Public Radio reporter once asked that of
John Brennan, the former director of the C.I.A., he laughed and said, ''Next
question.'')

So Bill did what Bill always does: He dug into the literature. Soon he showed up
at my desk in Washington with a grin, toting an inch-and-a-half-thick pile of
Pentagon testimony and public documents from companies like Raytheon, which
makes missile defenses, describing a program called ''left of launch'' that
allows for the sabotage of an adversary's systems before anyone presses the big
red button. These blended old-style electronic warfare and new-style cyber
attacks, with some loud echoes of the techniques used in ''Olympic Games,'' the
code name for the Iran sabotage. At the Republican National Convention in
Cleveland in July, I briefed Dean Baquet, our executive editor, and Matt Purdy,
a deputy managing editor, about our line of reporting, and they immediately
urged us to dig deeper.

So we did. In documents and interviews, we found plenty of evidence that North
Korea was a target; the hard scientific problem was determining whether the
cyber and other electronic attacks -- and not engineering incompetence or
insiders working for the West -- were actually responsible for the failed
launches. With more digging, we arrived at some theories about the mechanics of
how it was all happening.

Then came the sensitive part of these investigations: telling the government
what we had, trying to get official comment (there has been none) and assessing
whether any of our revelations could affect continuing operations. In the last
weeks of the Obama administration, we traveled out to the director of national
intelligence's offices: a huge complex in an unmarked office park a few miles
beyond the C.I.A.'s headquarters in Fairfax, Va. Such conversations are always
fraught. Understandably, government officials don't want to confirm or deny
anything -- in fact, they can't. But it's still important to listen to any
concerns they might have about the details we are planning to publish so that we
can weigh them with our editors.

I had been distracted by other stories -- including a reconstruction, in
collaboration with my colleagues, of the Russian hack of the election -- so our
reporting continued past Inauguration Day. That meant it would need to
incorporate President Trump's options for dealing with the North Korean threat.
It also meant going through those discussions about the program again, this time
with a new administration whose key officials had barely had time to understand
their new jobs, much less develop a Korea strategy. Like the Obama officials we
dealt with before them, they engaged the subject deeply and professionally.

As Dean often says, we do not take lightly the publication of secret
information, especially in national security cases. We also fully expect that
the government's first reaction will usually be some variant of: ''You shouldn't
print anything, because the subject is so sensitive, the diplomacy so delicate
and the reaction of nations like North Korea so unpredictable.''

We take a somewhat different view: If America is going to have an informed
public discussion about how to deal with the nation's most looming threats, this
kind of investigative journalism is essential. In this case, that meant
uncovering, and explaining, both the dimensions of North Korea's nuclear program
and the American struggle to defeat it. If America's old concept for missile
defense isn't working and if throwing high-tech malware at the North Koreans
isn't a silver bullet, those are critical facts about the choices a new
president faces.

We've been there before: At the height of the nuclear arms race, The Times
covered the debate over nuclear strategy, including what kind of global rules
should be established to govern how the world's most terrible weapons are
controlled, without delving too deeply into the ''how'' of building a bomb. The
same careful navigation is necessary when it comes to cyber attacks.

Our story went through dozens of drafts, as we tried to make an enormously
complicated subject clear. In the Washington bureau, Bill Hamilton, who oversees
national security reporting, turned his editing talents to helping us shape a
narrative that mixed news, analysis and a long history of efforts to deal with a
North Korean program that has bedeviled the last five presidents. David McCraw,
the Times lawyer who is a veteran of many big stories on national security
issues, read draft after draft to help us navigate a raft of complex issues. A
talented team of graphics and photo editors put together a powerful package that
helped explain the reach and progress of North Korea's weapons programs.
Translations were prepared in Korean and Chinese, giving the story a broader
reach.

On Sunday, over the phone, Bill Broad said to me what he always says after a big
project: ''This was great. Let's never do it again.'' And then, of course, he
started talking about where we might take the story next.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/06/insider/a-eureka-moment-for-two-times-reporter
s-north-koreas-missile-launches-were-failing-too-often.html

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A military parade in 2013 in the capital of North Korea
showcased some of the ballistic missiles in its weapons program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
KYODO NEWS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       March 8, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Rising Tensions With North Korea;
Editorial

BYLINE: THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 619 words



HIGHLIGHT: The nuclear-capable country has taken a number of provocative
actions, and it is unclear how President Trump will respond.


The world has been wondering where President Trump will face his first national
security crisis. This week it has looked as if North Korea might be the first
hot spot. A series of ballistic missile tests and other provocative actions by
North Korea, a nuclear-capable country, have heightened regional anxieties and
stirred speculation about America's reaction.

The most recent tests involved the simultaneous launch on Monday of four
missiles, which landed off Japan's coast. The North Koreans have described the
tests as drills for striking American bases in Japan, but the ultimate goal is
assumed to be a strike on the United States. Some experts expect Pyongyang to
have that capability within four years.

This use of multiple missiles raised concerns that the North was trying out a
new attack strategy that could overwhelm Japan's limited defenses, analysts
said. The tests almost certainly were a reaction to annual United States-South
Korea military exercises, which began last week and which the North considers a
threat. It is just three weeks since the North crossed another milestone by
launching a solid-rocket missile, which is more efficient than the liquid-fueled
missiles it had previously relied on; there were also tests in August and
September.

North Korea now possesses the fissile material for perhaps 21 nuclear weapons
and is steadily improving its ability to deliver them with missiles. The country
also has chemical weapons, which may have been used when the half brother of
North Korea's dictator, Kim Jong-un, was assassinated in Malaysia last month.
Malaysia has accused several North Korean citizens of using VX nerve agent to
kill him, which seems plausible and underscores the lengths to which Mr. Kim is
willing to go to eliminate perceived rivals.

Adding to the tension is a decision to install an American-made antimissile
system in South Korea. Although the system has been under discussion for some
time, the two countries have expedited its deployment, which began on Monday and
is expected to take two months.

The move angered North Korea and China, the North's main food and fuel supplier,
which said it could lead to a break in relations with South Korea and force an
arms race.

The Obama administration had long warned China that the United States and South
Korea would have no choice but to deploy the antimissile system if China didn't
pressure North Korea to end its nuclear program. Beijing seemed not to take the
warning seriously, although it recently restricted imports of North Korean coal.

How Mr. Trump intends to handle this brewing crisis is unclear, but he has shown
an inclination to respond aggressively. On Monday, the White House denounced the
missile tests and warned of "very dire consequences."

One possibility is intensifying the cyber and electronic warfare effort against
North Korea undertaken by the Obama administration and first reported by The
Times on Sunday. Other options include some kind of military action, presumably
against missile launch sites, and continuing to press China to cut off support.
The Trump administration has also discussed reintroducing nuclear weapons into
South Korea, an extremely dangerous idea.

Granted, negotiating with the North Koreans has long proved frustrating. But the
Obama and Bush administrations got nowhere by further isolating the
already-reclusive nation. At this point, only a new round of engagement aimed at
getting North Korea to freeze its nuclear and missile programs, and tougher
sanctions to back that up, holds any reasonable promise of working.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY AJ DUNGO)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 8, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Korea Tensions Present Trump With Early Test

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, CHOE SANG-HUN, CHRIS BUCKLEY and MICHAEL R. GORDON;
Javier C. Hernández and Motoko Rich contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1724 words


When the United States began deploying a missile defense system in South Korea
this week, it was to protect an ally long threatened by North Korean
provocations. But it was instantly met by angry Chinese warnings that the United
States is setting off a new arms race in a region already on edge over the
North's drive to build a nuclear arsenal.

China condemned the new antimissile system as a dangerous opening move in what
it called America's grand strategy to set up similar defenses across Asia,
threatening to tilt the balance of power there against Beijing.

The tensions are testing the new Trump administration and its uneasy allies
South Korea and Japan, which have complained for years that China has
simultaneously chastised and coddled the North, refusing to enact stiff enough
measures to force it to abandon its nuclear and missile programs.

But with the beginning of work to install the antimissile system, the delicate
international cooperation against North Korea is splintering: Beijing is
expressing more concern about American intentions in the region than about the
dangers of the North's latest surge in nuclear and missile testing.

The dual approach seemed evident on Wednesday when China's foreign minister,
Wang Yi, said, ''The two sides are like two accelerating trains coming toward
each other, and neither side is willing to give way.''

''Our priority now is to flash the red light and apply brakes,'' Mr. Wang said
at a news conference in Beijing. He said that North Korea should suspend its
nuclear and missile activities and that in exchange, South Korea and the United
States should suspend large-scale joint military exercises, laying the way to
new negotiations with North Korea.

President Trump got personally engaged in the problem on Monday night, after
North Korea launched four ballistic missiles, aimed toward Japan, that the North
Koreans later described as practice for hitting American bases there.

Japan's prime minister, Shinzo Abe, said he spoke with Mr. Trump for 25 minutes,
adding, ''I appreciate that the United States is showing that all the options
are on the table,'' usually code words for raising the possibility of a military
response.

To conservatives in South Korea's crisis-racked government, the antimissile
system is exactly the kind of strong action needed to counter the North's
belligerence and demonstrate unity with Mr. Trump, who had suggested during the
campaign that Asian nations needed to do far more to defend themselves.

But South Korea remains deeply divided about the one response already underway:
the deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense System, or Thaad. It
is designed to intercept short- and medium-range missiles, but not the kind of
intercontinental missiles that the North says it is developing to reach the
United States.

Many South Koreans oppose it and worry about China's moves to block South Korean
imports because of Beijing's continued insistence that Thaad is aimed at
containing Chinese power, not the missile capabilities of Kim Jong-un, the North
Korean leader.

Japan is urging stronger American action, but remains uncertain about how much
it wants to commit when a conflict with the North -- deliberate or accidental --
once again looks like a real possibility.

The combination of military and diplomatic tensions suddenly unleashed in Asia
comes before Mr. Trump's full national security team is in place, and before it
has a well-thought-out strategy.

Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, who will travel to the region next week --
stopping in Tokyo; Seoul, South Korea; and Beijing -- has never dealt with a
proliferation problem like this one. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis has already
been to Seoul on one visit, but was there mostly to reassure the country that,
despite Mr. Trump's statements last year, the United States remains committed to
its defense.

The new national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, has focused more on
counterinsurgency than dealing with the peculiar problem of a nuclear-armed
failing state.

In three meetings at the White House -- more than on any other foreign policy
problem -- the National Security Council deputies have considered a range of
options, and have already come to the predictable conclusion that a dramatic
show of force, like attacks on the North's missile and nuclear sites, would
probably start a war.

The New York Times reported this weekend that the Obama administration had
created a cyber- and electronic-warfare program to slow the North's missile
tests, but that it was unclear how effective it had been, particularly in recent
months.

The North Koreans have made the most of this period of uncertainty and
transition. Their sped-up testing seems intended to send a message that they can
overwhelm antimissile defenses, deploying missiles faster than the United States
and its allies can put countermeasures in place.

And they hold an ace card: an ability to destroy Seoul with artillery buried in
the mountains just north of the Demilitarized Zone, a remnant of the Korean War.

In the North's view, the American rush to put missile defenses around it only
splits the global community, pushing China and Russia closer to Pyongyang, as
American officials acknowledge when speaking on the condition of anonymity.

Mr. Tillerson is focused on ways to pressure China, while trying to set up a
first meeting between President Xi Jinping and Mr. Trump. But the two nations'
leaders are conducting a balancing act. Mr. Xi's is the hardest, trying to weigh
his opposition to North Korea's nuclear program against his conviction that a
North Korean collapse would be far worse.

The Trump administration is measuring how hard it can press Beijing. It is
mulling negotiations to ''freeze'' the North's nuclear arsenal, but that would
also acknowledge it as a fact.

''You may not want to acknowledge that North Korea has 12 or 20 weapons,'' said
Robert Litwak of the Woodrow Wilson Center for International Scholars, the
author of the new study ''Preventing North Korea's Nuclear Breakout,'' ''but
wouldn't a freeze be better than looking at 100 weapons a few years from now?''

That is exactly the debate taking place in the White House, as Mr. Trump's aides
try to figure out their alternatives, including changing the security landscape
with a major military buildup or, if needed, an open conflict with North Korea.

The current, slow-burning crisis arose not from one episode, but from Mr. Kim's
broader strategy over the past year: to accelerate the pace of nuclear and
missile tests so his arsenal becomes a fait accompli, something the United
States cannot hope to reverse.

When North Korea launched four Scud-ER ballistic missiles on Monday, it tried to
demonstrate an ability to simultaneously launch multiple missiles at American
bases in Japan and at American aircraft carriers around the Korean Peninsula,
South Korean military officials said Tuesday.

The ability to launch a barrage of missiles increases the chances of breaching
an antimissile shield. But the types of midrange missiles North Korea has
launched in recent months -- including the Scud-ERs, with a 620-mile range --
pose another problem for South Korea. Some of the missiles have been launched at
a steep angle to achieve a higher altitude and return to earth at high speed,
techniques that appear intended to complicate intercepting them.

American military officials said the recent tests were a particular concern
because they illustrated Pyongyang's ability to carry out a salvo of launches
and on very short notice.

''What we saw this weekend was demonstration of a near-term simultaneous
launch,'' said Vice Adm. James D. Syring, the director of the Pentagon's Missile
Defense Agency. ''That is something beyond what we have seen in the past.''

For Washington and Seoul, the rush to field Thaad is as much about politics as
missile interception. American officials have repeatedly warned China that its
failure to rein in North Korea's nuclear and missile programs would force the
United States to deploy missile defenses in the region.

Seoul's interim government wants to deploy the antimissile system before a
progressive leader, skeptical of the deployment, can take power in a coming
presidential election.

But progressives have held deep reservations about the Thaad deployment, seeing
it as part of the United States' effort to wrap the South into an anti-China
coalition and arms race. They have already mounted a case against it.

On Tuesday, Woo Sang-ho, the floor leader of the main opposition Democratic
Party, warned, ''Our business are dying; our people residing in China are being
threatened.''

Hong Ik-pyo, a senior policy maker in the opposition, said the Thaad deployment
would do more harm than good for South Korea, whose economy depends on exports
for growth and reaps a huge annual trade surplus with China.

''They say this is only to defend us from North Korea, but everyone knows this
is part of the American missile defense plan,'' Mr. Hong said. ''China sees the
Thaad deployment in South Korea the way the Americans saw the Cuban missile
crisis in the 1960s.''

The Chinese government said Tuesday that it continued to oppose the deployment
of Thaad.

Chinese leaders have struggled to grapple with the unpredictable styles of Mr.
Kim and Mr. Trump. Now there are fears that the North might take advantage of
the political discord to move ahead with its nuclear weapons program.

''They have seized this opportunity, knowing that U.S. and China are clashing,''
said Cheng Xiaohe, an associate professor of international studies at Renmin
University in Beijing.

In recent weeks, China has shown signs of toughening its stance on North Korea,
including banning  imports of coal from the North. Criticism of the North has
also sharpened. On Tuesday, a state-run newspaper warned that North Korea should
give up its weapons or ''face long-lasting isolation and pressure.''

Yet policy makers in Beijing failed to grasp how Washington and its allies
regarded North Korea's nuclear program as getting closer to a dangerous
threshold of being able to place a warhead on an intercontinental ballistic
missile, said Paul Haenle, the director of the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center at
Tsinghua University in Beijing.

''That's a game-changer,'' he added.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/07/world/asia/korea-missile-defense-china-trump.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: This photograph distributed by North Korea's state news agency
on Tuesday purports to show the launch of four ballistic missiles. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY KOREAN CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY)
 Equipment for a Thaad missile defense system arriving Monday at a base in South
Korea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY U.S. FORCES KOREA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 8, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

North Korea's Scary Show of Strength

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 618 words


The world has been wondering where President Trump will face his first national
security crisis. This week it has looked as if North Korea might be the first
hot spot. A series of ballistic missile tests and other provocative actions by
North Korea, a nuclear-capable country, have heightened regional anxieties and
stirred speculation about America's reaction.

The most recent tests involved the simultaneous launch on Monday of four
missiles, which landed off Japan's coast. The North Koreans have described the
tests as drills for striking American bases in Japan, but the ultimate goal is
assumed to be a strike on the United States. Some experts expect Pyongyang to
have that capability within four years.

This use of multiple missiles raised concerns that the North was trying out a
new attack strategy that could overwhelm Japan's limited defenses, analysts
said. The tests almost certainly were a reaction to annual United States-South
Korea military exercises, which began last week and which the North considers a
threat. It is just three weeks since the North crossed another milestone by
launching a solid-rocket missile, which is more efficient than the liquid-fueled
missiles it had previously relied on; there were also tests in August and
September.

North Korea now possesses the fissile material for perhaps 21 nuclear weapons
and is steadily improving its ability to deliver them with missiles. The country
also has chemical weapons, which may have been used when the half brother of
North Korea's dictator, Kim Jong-un, was assassinated in Malaysia last month.
Malaysia has accused several North Korean citizens of using VX nerve agent to
kill him, which seems plausible and underscores the lengths to which Mr. Kim is
willing to go to eliminate perceived rivals.

Adding to the tension is a decision to install an American-made antimissile
system in South Korea. Although the system has been under discussion for some
time, the two countries have expedited its deployment, which began on Monday and
is expected to take two months.

The move angered North Korea and China, the North's main food and fuel supplier,
which said it could lead to a break in relations with South Korea and force an
arms race.

The Obama administration had long warned China that the United States and South
Korea would have no choice but to deploy the antimissile system if China didn't
pressure North Korea to end its nuclear program. Beijing seemed not to take the
warning seriously, although it recently restricted imports of North Korean coal.

How Mr. Trump intends to handle this brewing crisis is unclear, but he has shown
an inclination to respond aggressively. On Monday, the White House denounced the
missile tests and warned of ''very dire consequences.''

One possibility is intensifying the cyber and electronic warfare effort against
North Korea undertaken by the Obama administration and first reported by The
Times on Sunday. Other options include some kind of military action, presumably
against missile launch sites, and continuing to press China to cut off support.
The Trump administration has also discussed reintroducing nuclear weapons into
South Korea, an extremely dangerous idea.

Granted, negotiating with the North Koreans has long proved frustrating. But the
Obama and Bush administrations got nowhere by further isolating the
already-reclusive nation. At this point, only a new round of engagement aimed at
getting North Korea to freeze its nuclear and missile programs, and tougher
sanctions to back that up, holds any reasonable promise of working.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/08/opinion/rising-tensions-with-north-korea.html

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY AJ DUNGO)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 8, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Documents Said to Reveal Hacking Secrets of C.I.A.

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE, MATTHEW ROSENBERG and ANDREW W. LEHREN; Scott Shane and
Matthew Rosenberg reported from Washington, and Andrew W. Lehren from New York.
Mark Mazzetti contributed reporting..

Follow Matthew Rosenberg on Twitter at @AllMattNYT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1779 words


WASHINGTON -- In what appears to be the largest leak of C.I.A documents in
history, WikiLeaks released on Tuesday thousands of pages describing
sophisticated software tools and techniques used by the agency to break into
smartphones, computers and even Internet-connected televisions.

The documents amount to a detailed, highly technical catalog of tools. They
include instructions for compromising a wide range of common computer tools for
use in spying: the online calling service Skype; Wi-Fi networks; documents in
PDF format; and even commercial antivirus programs of the kind used by millions
of people to protect their computers.

A program called Wrecking Crew explains how to crash a targeted computer, and
another tells how to steal passwords using the autocomplete function on Internet
Explorer. Other programs were called CrunchyLimeSkies, ElderPiggy, AngerQuake
and McNugget.

The document dump was the latest coup for the antisecrecy organization and a
serious blow to the C.I.A., which uses its hacking abilities to carry out
espionage against foreign targets.

The initial release, which WikiLeaks said was only the first installment in a
larger collection of secret C.I.A. material, included 7,818 web pages with 943
attachments, many of them partly redacted by WikiLeaks editors to avoid
disclosing the actual code for cyberweapons. The entire archive of C.I.A.
material consists of several hundred million lines of computer code, the group
claimed.

In one revelation that may especially trouble the tech world if confirmed,
WikiLeaks said that the C.I.A. and allied intelligence services have managed to
compromise both Apple and Android smartphones, allowing their officers to bypass
the encryption on popular services such as Signal, WhatsApp and Telegram.
According to WikiLeaks, government hackers can penetrate smartphones and collect
''audio and message traffic before encryption is applied.''

Unlike the National Security Agency documents Edward J. Snowden gave to
journalists in 2013, they do not include examples of how the tools have been
used against actual foreign targets. That could limit the damage of the leak to
national security. But the breach was highly embarrassing for an agency that
depends on secrecy.

Robert M. Chesney, a specialist in national security law at the University of
Texas at Austin, likened the C.I.A. trove to National Security Agency hacking
tools disclosed last year by a group calling itself the Shadow Brokers.

''If this is true, it says that N.S.A. isn't the only one with an advanced,
persistent problem with operational security for these tools,'' Mr. Chesney
said. ''We're getting bit time and again.''

There was no public confirmation of the authenticity of the documents, which
were produced by the C.I.A.'s Center for Cyber Intelligence and are mostly dated
from 2013 to 2016. But one government official said the documents were real, and
a former intelligence officer said some of the code names for C.I.A. programs,
an organization chart and the description of a C.I.A. hacking base appeared to
be genuine.

The agency appeared to be taken by surprise by the document dump on Tuesday
morning. A C.I.A. spokesman, Dean Boyd, said, ''We do not comment on the
authenticity or content of purported intelligence documents.''

In some regard, the C.I.A. documents confirmed and filled in the details on
abilities that have long been suspected in technical circles.

''The people who know a lot about security and hacking assumed that the C.I.A.
was at least investing in these capabilities, and if they weren't, then somebody
else was -- China, Iran, Russia, as well as a lot of other private actors,''
said Beau Woods, the deputy director of the Cyber Statecraft Initiative at the
Atlantic Council in Washington. He said the disclosures may raise concerns in
the United States and abroad about ''the trustworthiness of technology where
cybersecurity can impact human life and public safety.''

There is no evidence that the C.I.A. hacking tools have been used against
Americans. But Ben Wizner, the director of the American Civil Liberties Union's
Speech, Privacy, and Technology Project, said the documents suggest that the
government has deliberately allowed vulnerabilities in phones and other devices
to persist to make spying easier.

''Those vulnerabilities will be exploited not just by our security agencies, but
by hackers and governments around the world,'' Mr. Wizner said. ''Patching
security holes immediately, not stockpiling them, is the best way to make
everyone's digital life safer.''

WikiLeaks did not identify the source of the documents, which it called Vault 7,
but said they had been ''circulated among former U.S. government hackers and
contractors in an unauthorized manner, one of whom has provided WikiLeaks with
portions of the archive.''

WikiLeaks said the source, in a statement, set out policy questions that
''urgently need to be debated in public, including whether the C.I.A.'s hacking
capabilities exceed its mandated powers and the problem of public oversight of
the agency.'' The source, the group said, ''wishes to initiate a public debate
about the security, creation, use, proliferation and democratic control of
cyberweapons.''

But James Lewis, an expert on cybersecurity at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington, raised another possibility: that a foreign
state, most likely Russia, stole the documents by hacking or other means and
delivered them to WikiLeaks, which may not know how they were obtained. Mr.
Lewis noted that, according to American intelligence agencies, Russia hacked
Democratic targets during the presidential campaign and gave thousands of emails
to WikiLeaks for publication.

''I think a foreign power is much more likely the source of these documents than
a conscience-stricken C.I.A. whistle-blower,'' Mr. Lewis said.

At a time of increasing concern about the privacy of calls and messages, the
revelations did not suggest that the C.I.A. can actually break the encryption
used by popular messaging apps. Instead, by penetrating the user's phone, the
agency can make the encryption irrelevant by intercepting messages and calls
before their content is encrypted, or, on the other end, after messages are
decrypted.

WikiLeaks, which has sometimes been accused of recklessly leaking information
that could do harm, said it had redacted names and other identifying information
from the collection. It said it was not releasing the computer code for actual,
usable weapons ''until a consensus emerges on the technical and political nature
of the C.I.A.'s program and how such 'weapons' should be analyzed, disarmed and
published.''

The codes names used for projects revealed in the WikiLeaks documents appear to
reflect the likely demographic of the cyberexperts employed by the C.I.A. --
that is, young and male. There are numerous references to ''Harry Potter,''
Pokémon and Adderall, the drug used to treat hyperactivity.

A number of projects were named after whiskey brands. Some were high-end single
malt scotches, such as Laphroaig and Ardbeg. Others were from more pedestrian
labels, such as Wild Turkey, which was described by its programmers, in mock
dictionary style, as ''(n.) A animal of the avian variety that has not been
domesticated. Also a type of alcohol with a high proof (151).''

Some of the details of the C.I.A. programs might have come from the plot of a
spy novel for the cyberage, revealing numerous highly classified -- and, in some
cases, exotic -- hacking programs. One program, code-named Weeping Angel, uses
Samsung ''smart'' televisions as covert listening devices. According to the
WikiLeaks news release, even when it appears to be turned off, the television
''operates as a bug, recording conversations in the room and sending them over
the internet to a covert C.I.A. server.''

The release said the program was developed in cooperation with British
intelligence.

If C.I.A. agents did manage to hack the smart TVs, they would not be the only
ones. Since their release, internet-connected televisions have been a focus for
hackers and cybersecurity experts, many of whom see the sets' ability to record
and transmit conversations as a potentially dangerous vulnerability.

In early 2015, Samsung started to include in the fine print terms of service for
its smart TVs a warning that the television sets could capture background
conversations. ''Please be aware that if your spoken words include personal or
other sensitive information, that information will be among the data captured
and transmitted to a third party through your use of Voice Recognition,'' the
warning said.

Another program described in the documents, named Umbrage, is a voluminous
library of cyberattack techniques that the C.I.A. has collected from malware
produced by other countries, including Russia. According to the WikiLeaks
release, the large number of techniques allows the C.I.A. to mask the origin of
some of its attacks and confuse forensic investigators.

The WikiLeaks material includes lists of software tools that the C.I.A. uses to
create exploits and malware to carrying out hacking. Many of the tools are those
used by developers around the world: coding languages, such as Python, and tools
like Sublime Text, a program used to write code, and Git, a tool that helps
developers collaborate.

But the agency also appears to rely on software designed specifically for spies,
such as Ghidra, which in one of the documents is described as ''a reverse
engineering environment created by the N.S.A.''

The Vault 7 release marks the latest in a series of huge leaks that have changed
the landscape for government and corporate secrecy.

In scale, the Vault 7 archive appears to fall into the same category as the
biggest leaks of classified information in recent years, including the
quarter-million diplomatic cables taken by Chelsea Manning, the former Army
intelligence analyst, and given to WikiLeaks in 2010, and the hundreds of
thousands of National Security Agency documents taken by Mr. Snowden in 2013.

In the business world, the so-called Panama Papers and several other
large-volume leaks have laid bare the details of secret offshore companies used
by wealthy and corrupt people to hide their assets.

Both government and corporate leaks have been made possible by the ease of
downloading, storing and transferring millions of documents in seconds or
minutes, a sea change from the use of slow photocopying for some earlier leaks,
including the Pentagon Papers in 1971.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/07/world/europe/wikileaks-cia-hacking.html

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The C.I.A. headquarters in Langley, Va. If the WikiLeaks
documents are authentic, the release would be a blow to the agency. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY JASON REED/REUTERS) (A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 8, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Documents Reignite Tensions Between Tech World and Spy Agencies

BYLINE: By VINDU GOEL and NICK WINGFIELD; Daisuke Wakabayashi contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1151 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Four years ago, Edward J. Snowden's disclosures that the
federal government was hacking America's leading technology companies threw the
industry into turmoil.

Now WikiLeaks has shaken the tech world again by releasing documents Tuesday
that appear to show that the Central Intelligence Agency had acquired an array
of cyberweapons that could be used to break into Apple and Android smartphones,
Windows computers, automotive computer systems, and even smart televisions to
conduct surveillance on unwitting users.

Major technology companies, including Apple, Google and Microsoft, were trying
to assess how badly their core products had been compromised. But one thing
clearly had been ruptured yet again: trust between intelligence agencies and
Silicon Valley.

''After the Snowden disclosures, the Obama administration worked hard to
re-establish relationships and government-industry partnerships,'' said David
Gutelius, chief executive of the marketing technology company Motiva, who has
worked with the federal government on national security projects. ''This leak
will challenge those ties to some extent. But I don't see companies simply
walking away from the table as a result of this. Government and industry still
need one another.''

The tense relationship between the technology industry and government agencies
has been well documented. After the disclosures by Mr. Snowden, a former
contractor for the National Security Agency, the government appeared to give
some ground to the industry, which was angered by previously unknown snooping on
their products and embarrassed by disclosures of their cooperation with
intelligence agencies.

The government allowed companies to describe in broad terms the number of secret
court orders for access to customer information that they receive. President
Barack Obama also promised that the government would share knowledge of security
flaws so that they could be fixed.

But last year, relations soured again after Apple resisted a Justice Department
request for help accessing the iPhone of one of the attackers in the 2015
shooting in San Bernardino, Calif. As the company's chief executive, Timothy D.
Cook, explained in a letter to customers at the time, ''The government is asking
Apple to hack our own users and undermine decades of security advancements that
protect our customers.''

In that case, the government eventually found a way into the phone without
Apple's assistance.

The documents posted by WikiLeaks suggest that the C.I.A. had obtained
information on 14 security flaws in Apple's iOS operating system for phones and
tablets.

Apple said Tuesday night that many of those security issues had already been
patched in the latest version of its software and it was working to address
remaining vulnerabilities.

The leaked documents also identified at least two dozen flaws in Android, the
most popular operating system for smartphones, which was developed by Alphabet's
Google division.

Google said it was studying the flaws identified by WikiLeaks. Android is more
difficult to secure than Apple's software because many phone makers and carriers
use older or customized versions of the software.

The documents released by WikiLeaks reveal numerous efforts by the C.I.A. to
take control of Microsoft Windows, the dominant operating system for personal
computers, using malware. They include techniques for infecting DVDs and USB
storage devices with malware that can be spread to computers when they are
plugged in.

''We're aware of the report and are looking into it,'' Microsoft said in a
statement.

Security experts said it was not surprising that the government had stockpiled
flaws in major technology products to use for spying. ''The real scandal and
damaging thing is not knowing these things exist, but that the C.I.A. could be
so careless with them that they leaked out,'' said Matthew D. Green, an
assistant professor in the department of computer science at Johns Hopkins
University.

Inside technology companies, the revelations set off a scramble to assess the
potential damage to the security of their products.

The vulnerabilities, some of which were already known in the security community,
could leave individual users of computers, mobile phones and other devices open
to being snooped on. Technology companies are likely to plug the holes, however,
even as new ones are discovered by spy agencies and others.

The more serious near-term effect could be on the reputation of the C.I.A. and
the relationship between the technology industry and the intelligence community.

Denelle Dixon, chief legal and business officer at Mozilla, which makes the
Firefox web browser and was mentioned in the WikiLeaks trove, said that if the
reports were accurate, the C.I.A. and WikiLeaks were undermining the security of
the internet.

''The C.I.A. seems to be stockpiling vulnerabilities, and WikiLeaks seems to be
using that trove for shock value rather than coordinating disclosure to the
affected companies to give them a chance to fix it and protect users,'' Ms.
Dixon said in a statement. ''Although today's disclosures are jarring, we hope
this raises awareness of the severity of these issues and the urgency of
collaborating on reforms.''

Oren Falkowitz, a former N.S.A. official and the chief executive of the
cyberdefense firm Area 1 Security, said that WikiLeaks, run by Julian Assange,
had again succeeded in disrupting the status quo, as it did during last year's
presidential election with the release of emails from the Democratic National
Committee. ''If you understand the Assange playbook,'' Mr. Falkowitz said, ''a
lot of it is just to create chaos.''

But Mr. Falkowitz added that perhaps the most important message behind Tuesday's
leaks was that neither government agencies nor companies can trust their
employees to keep their most precious information secret.

''We expect governments to be involved in espionage,'' he said. ''What we don't
expect is that the people within these organizations would create
vulnerabilities by disclosing them.''

In a statement accompanying the documents, WikiLeaks said that the security
flaws could easily fall into the wrong hands.

''Once a single cyber 'weapon' is 'loose' it can spread around the world in
seconds, to be used by rival states, cyber mafia and teenage hackers alike,''
the organization said. It said it was still reviewing whether to release any of
the underlying software code.

The security flaws described by WikiLeaks are intended to target individual
phones. They do not appear to give the intelligence agencies the ability to
intercept electronic communications en masse.

''What can you do as a user to defend?'' he asked. ''Boring stuff. Keep your
software up to date. Don't run unneeded apps. Don't become a C.I.A. target.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/07/technology/wikileaks-silicon-valley-spy-agenci
es.html

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       March 15, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

U.S. May Soon Increase Pressure on China to Constrain North Korea

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER and MICHAEL R. GORDON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1194 words



HIGHLIGHT: A senior administration official said Secretary of State Rex
Tillerson would warn China to restrain North Korea's nuclear and missile
programs.


Correction Appended

WASHINGTON -- Secretary of State Rex Tillerson will warn China's leaders that
the United States is prepared to step up missile defenses and pressure on
Chinese financial institutions if they fail to use their influence to restrain
North Korea's nuclear and missile programs, according to several officials
involved in planning his first mission to Asia.

China has complained vociferously about the Trump administration's recent
decision to speed up the deployment of the Thaad antimissile system in South
Korea, charging that it will undermine regional stability.

But the Trump administration's message is that the United States has run out of
time to respond to North Korea's military advances, and that the party the
Chinese needs to complain to is in Pyongyang.

One senior administration official involved in the planning called it
"responsible" to increase the defenses of the United States and its allies
against growing threats from North Korea. The official acknowledged that doing
so would displease Beijing, but noted that China has the option of helping
constrain and pressure the North.

The official agreed to discuss the internal deliberations of Mr. Tillerson's
trip on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to be identified.

The tough message was shaped in a series of White House meetings before Mr.
Tillerson's departure for Japan on Tuesday. It also followed more proposals at
both ends of the spectrum -- including opening up talks with North Korea and
preparing for military action against its key missile and nuclear sites -- that
were set aside, at least for now.

The result is that Mr. Tillerson is essentially adopting variants of the
approaches that the Bush and Obama administrations took, though guided by Mr.
Trump's declarations that, unlike his predecessors, he will stop the North
Korean program from developing a new intercontinental missile.

Against the waves of nuclear and missile tests in the past year, and Pyongyang's
declaration that it is in the "final stages" of preparations for the test of an
intercontinental ballistic missile, the White House recognizes it has little
time for debate, the senior administration official said.

This is not the first time that a secretary of state has sought to play the
missile defense card. Mr. Tillerson's immediate predecessor in the job, John
Kerry, told the Chinese that if China succeeded in constraining Pyongyang's
military ambitions, the United States could limit and perhaps even withdraw some
of its antimissile systems in the region.

"The president of the United States deployed some additional missile defense
capacity precisely because of the threat of North Korea," Mr. Kerry said after
an April 2013 visit to Beijing. "And it is logical that if the threat of North
Korea disappears because the peninsula denuclearizes, then obviously that threat
no longer mandates that kind of posture."

But there is no evidence that China, perhaps fearing instability on the Korean
Peninsula, ever applied the sort of pressure that would have prompted North
Korea to shelve its military programs.

It is not clear how explicitly Mr. Tillerson, a diplomatic novice with no past
experience in proliferation issues, will deliver the message to the Chinese at a
moment that he will also be trying to set up the first meeting between President
Trump and President Xi Jinping, at the Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida early next
month.

During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump said he was willing to sit down with
North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un, and negotiate with him directly, perhaps over
a hamburger. Since then, Mr. Trump has taken an increasingly hard line, and
suggested that he would link China's use of its influence over the North to
other issues, including trade relations.

Last week, the Chinese repeated a proposal they knew the United States would
reject, calling for a freeze in North Korea's nuclear and missile programs in
return for a cessation of American and South Korean annual military exercises,
which are just now beginning. The Trump administration immediately rejected that
call, saying that it would reward the North if it complied with United Nations
resolutions it had long ignored, and would make the United States' defense
arrangements with South Korea a subject of bargaining.

Reinforcing military ties, Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, conducted a 30-minute phone call on Tuesday with his South
Korean counterpart, Gen. Lee Sun-jin. A Pentagon statement said the generals
discussed the possibility that North Korea could carry out "provocative actions"
during the joint American and South Korean exercises now underway, or in April
when North Korean authorities commemorate the birthday of Kim Il-sung, the
founder and first leader of the country.

The New York Times reported earlier this month that in addition to bolstering
traditional missile defenses, former President Barack Obama had ordered
stepped-up cyber and electronic warfare attacks on the North's
intermediate-range missiles. In some of the tests, those missiles have had a
remarkably high failure rate, though it is impossible to say how much those
problems are rooted in American sabotage. More recently, however, North Korea
has achieved some notable advances, including the test of a solid fueled
intermediate-range missile and the recent launch of four medium range missiles
into the Sea of Japan.

During the administration's deliberations, there has also been discussion of
putting more pressure on Chinese banks, perhaps through "secondary sanctions,"
that would make it difficult for any bank that did business with North Korea to
also deal in American dollars. The technique worked effectively against Iran
before it reached a nuclear agreement in the summer of 2015.

But Daniel L. Glaser, a former Treasury official who constructed many of the
sanctions, and now a principal at the Financial Integrity Network, said in an
interview that the largest Chinese banks often shun dealings with North Korea
and that some of the smaller ones have little exposure to the American banking
system.

"It's not easy to execute," he said. "The North Koreans have hidden these
relationships, and directed them, with care."

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Follow David E. Sanger @SangerNYT and Michael R. Gordon @gordonnyt on Twitter.


Correction: March 15, 2017, Wednesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article misstated the title of Daniel Glaser, a former Treasury
official. He is now a principal at the Financial Integrity Network, not a
partner.

PHOTO: Missile defenses in Tokyo. The United States wants China to do more to
rein in North Korea's nuclear and missile programs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAZUHIRO
NOGI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

Related Articles


     ·    China Warns of Arms Race After U.S. Deploys Missile Defense in South
          Korea
     ·    North Korea Launch Could Be Test of New Attack Strategy, Japan
          Analysts Say
     ·    Trump Inherits a Secret Cyberwar Against North Korean Missiles
     ·    North and South Korea Give China a Double Headache


LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       March 15, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Twitter Accounts Hacked With Pro-Erdogan Messages

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT and MILAN SCHREUER

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 647 words



HIGHLIGHT: The breach by unidentified intruders came amid a bitter standoff
between Turkey and European Union countries, and as Dutch voters cast ballots in
a general election.


Twitter accounts belonging to high-profile news outlets, international brands
and politicians were hacked on Wednesday, briefly showing posts in support of
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Turkish president who is in a bitter standoff with
several European Union countries.

The dispute involves several countries, including the Netherlands and Germany,
where Turkish politicians wish to hold rallies and campaign for a referendum on
Turkey's proposed Constitution. The Twitter breaches on Wednesday, however, came
as Dutch voters were casting ballots in their general election. Separately,
websites in the Netherlands that help people decide how to vote were hit by
online attacks on Tuesday.

Mr. Erdogan criticized the governments of Germany and the Netherlands, accusing
them of Nazi practices, after Turkish politicians were prevented from attending
events in those countries. Over the weekend, the Dutch authorities stopped the
Turkishforeign minister from landing in the Netherlands, where he was to attend
a rally, and they ordered the Turkish minister for families to be escorted out
of the country, citing risks to public order and security.

The Twitter hacking on Wednesday appeared to be related to that growing dispute.
The defamatory messages, in Turkish, accused Germany and the Netherlands of
having Nazi ties, and they linked to a video of a speech by Mr. Erdogan.

While the online messages were quickly removed and control of the accounts
returned to their owners, many of the targeted organizations and policy makers
moved to distance themselves from what had been posted.

"We temporarily lost control of this account, but normal service has resumed,"
the British Broadcasting Corporation wrote on Twitter after one of its accounts
was breached.

Hi everyone - we temporarily lost control of this account, but normal service
has resumed. Thanks. -- BBC North America (@BBCNorthAmerica) March 15, 2017

It was unclear who had carried out the digital attacks.

The problem may have originated with a hack to Twitter Counter, a third-party
application employed by some account holders to keep track of their online
followers. The start-up, which is based in the Netherlands, said on Wednesday
that it was aware of the hacking, and that it had blocked its service's ability
to post from users' Twitter handles.

In response, Twitter said that it was aware that the intrusion may have resulted
from a third-party app.

"We quickly located the source," Twitter said in a statement. "No additional
accounts are impacted."

On Tuesday, a separate attack affected two websites set up to help voters choose
among Dutch political parties in the general election. Known as a distributed
denial of service, or DDoS, which typically involves flooding computer servers
with online messages until they collapse, the attack took the Kieskompas and
Stemwijzer sites offline on Tuesday afternoon.

The voter-aid websites are not part of the official electoral process.

Concerned about the role hackers and so-called fake news might have played in
the American presidential election, the Dutch government announced on Feb. 1
that all ballots in the general election would be counted by hand. Previously,
some votes were electronic.

"We don't know where it is coming from, but it is an organized attack coming
from abroad," said Anita de Jong, a spokeswoman for ProDemos, an independent
government-financed organization that runs Stemwijzer. She said the geographic
origin of the attack was unclear.

Engineers from the National Cyber Security Center in The Hague and from Google
offered to help the organizations that run the two websites. Wednesday morning,
as voting was underway, the sites were still struggling to function and were not
consistently available.

Related Articles


     ·    Turkey's Relations With Europe Sink Amid Quarrel With Netherlands
     ·    Turkish Referendum Has Country Trading Barbs With Germany Over Free
          Speech


LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 16, 2017 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pressure Builds on China to Hold Back North Korea

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and MICHAEL R. GORDON.

Follow David E. Sanger @SangerNYT and Michael R. Gordon @gordonnyt on Twitter.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1062 words


WASHINGTON -- Secretary of State Rex Tillerson will warn China's leaders that
the United States is prepared to step up missile defenses and pressure on
Chinese financial institutions if they fail to use their influence to restrain
North Korea's nuclear and missile programs, according to several officials
involved in planning his first mission to Asia.

China has complained vociferously about the Trump administration's recent
decision to speed up the deployment of the Thaad antimissile system in South
Korea, charging that it will undermine regional stability.

But the Trump administration's message is that the United States has run out of
time to respond to North Korea's military advances, and that the party the
Chinese needs to complain to is in Pyongyang.

One senior administration official involved in the planning called it
''responsible'' to increase the defenses of the United States and its allies
against growing threats from North Korea. The official acknowledged that doing
so would displease Beijing, but noted that China has the option of helping
constrain and pressure the North.

The official agreed to discuss the internal deliberations of Mr. Tillerson's
trip on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to be identified.

The tough message was shaped in a series of White House meetings before Mr.
Tillerson's departure for Japan on Tuesday. It also followed more proposals at
both ends of the spectrum -- including opening up talks with North Korea and
preparing for military action against its key missile and nuclear sites -- that
were set aside, at least for now.

The result is that Mr. Tillerson is essentially adopting variants of the
approaches that the Bush and Obama administrations took, though guided by Mr.
Trump's declarations that, unlike his predecessors, he will stop the North
Korean program from developing a new intercontinental missile.

Against the waves of nuclear and missile tests in the past year, and Pyongyang's
declaration that it is in the ''final stages'' of preparations for the test of
an intercontinental ballistic missile, the White House recognizes it has little
time for debate, the senior administration official said.

This is not the first time that a secretary of state has sought to play the
missile defense card. Mr. Tillerson's immediate predecessor in the job, John
Kerry, told the Chinese that if China succeeded in constraining Pyongyang's
military ambitions, the United States could limit and perhaps even withdraw some
of its antimissile systems in the region.

''The president of the United States deployed some additional missile defense
capacity precisely because of the threat of North Korea,'' Mr. Kerry said after
an April 2013 visit to Beijing. ''And it is logical that if the threat of North
Korea disappears because the peninsula denuclearizes, then obviously that threat
no longer mandates that kind of posture.''

But there is no evidence that China, perhaps fearing instability on the Korean
Peninsula, ever applied the sort of pressure that would have prompted North
Korea to shelve its military programs.

It is not clear how explicitly Mr. Tillerson, a diplomatic novice with no past
experience in proliferation issues, will deliver the message to the Chinese at a
moment that he will also be trying to set up the first meeting between President
Trump and President Xi Jinping, at the Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida early next
month.

During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump said he was willing to sit down with
North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un, and negotiate with him directly, perhaps over
a hamburger. Since then, Mr. Trump has taken an increasingly hard line, and
suggested that he would link China's use of its influence over the North to
other issues, including trade relations.

Last week, the Chinese repeated a proposal they knew the United States would
reject, calling for a freeze in North Korea's nuclear and missile programs in
return for a cessation of American and South Korean annual military exercises,
which are just now beginning. The Trump administration immediately rejected that
call, saying that it would reward the North if it complied with United Nations
resolutions it had long ignored, and would make the United States' defense
arrangements with South Korea a subject of bargaining.

Reinforcing military ties, Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, conducted a 30-minute phone call on Tuesday with his South
Korean counterpart, Gen. Lee Sun-jin. A Pentagon statement said the generals
discussed the possibility that North Korea could carry out ''provocative
actions'' during the joint American and South Korean exercises now underway, or
in April when North Korean authorities commemorate the birthday of Kim Il-sung,
the founder and first leader of the country.

The New York Times reported earlier this month that in addition to bolstering
traditional missile defenses, former President Barack Obama had ordered
stepped-up cyber and electronic warfare attacks on the North's
intermediate-range missiles. In some of the tests, those missiles have had a
remarkably high failure rate, though it is impossible to say how much those
problems are rooted in American sabotage. More recently, however, North Korea
has achieved some notable advances, including the test of a solid fueled
intermediate-range missile and the recent launch of four medium range missiles
into the Sea of Japan.

During the administration's deliberations, there has also been discussion of
putting more pressure on Chinese banks, perhaps through ''secondary sanctions,''
that would make it difficult for any bank that did business with North Korea to
also deal in American dollars. The technique worked effectively against Iran
before it reached a nuclear agreement in the summer of 2015.

But Daniel L. Glaser, a former Treasury official who constructed many of the
sanctions, and now a principal at the Financial Integrity Network, said in an
interview that the largest Chinese banks often shun dealings with North Korea
and that some of the smaller ones have little exposure to the American banking
system.

''It's not easy to execute,'' he said. ''The North Koreans have hidden these
relationships, and directed them, with care.''

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/15/us/politics/united-states-china-north-korea-nu
clear-missiles.html

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Missile defenses in Tokyo. The United States wants China to do
more to rein in North Korea's nuclear and missile programs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
KAZUHIRO NOGI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 16, 2017 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hackers Post Pro-Erdogan Messages in Twitter Breach

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT and MILAN SCHREUER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 628 words


Twitter accounts belonging to high-profile news outlets, international brands
and politicians were hacked on Wednesday, briefly showing posts in support of
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Turkish president who is in a bitter standoff with
several European Union countries.

The dispute involves several countries, including the Netherlands and Germany,
where Turkish politicians wish to hold rallies and campaign for a referendum on
Turkey's proposed Constitution. The Twitter breaches on Wednesday, however, came
as Dutch voters were casting ballots in their general election. Separately,
websites in the Netherlands that help people decide how to vote were hit by
online attacks on Tuesday.

Mr. Erdogan criticized the governments of Germany and the Netherlands, accusing
them of Nazi practices, after Turkish politicians were prevented from attending
events in those countries. Over the weekend, the Dutch authorities stopped the
Turkish foreign minister from landing in the Netherlands, where he was to attend
a rally, and they ordered the Turkish minister for families to be escorted out
of the country, citing risks to public order and security.

The Twitter hacking on Wednesday appeared to be related to that growing dispute.
The defamatory messages, in Turkish, accused Germany and the Netherlands of
having Nazi ties, and they linked to a video of a speech by Mr. Erdogan.

While the online messages were quickly removed and control of the accounts
returned to their owners, many of the targeted organizations and policy makers
moved to distance themselves from what had been posted.

''We temporarily lost control of this account, but normal service has resumed,''
the British Broadcasting Corporation wrote on Twitter after one of its accounts
was breached.

Hi everyone - we temporarily lost control of this account, but normal service
has resumed. Thanks. -- BBC North America (@BBCNorthAmerica) March 15, 2017

It was unclear who had carried out the digital attacks.

The problem may have originated with a hack to Twitter Counter, a third-party
application employed by some account holders to keep track of their online
followers. The start-up, which is based in the Netherlands, said on Wednesday
that it was aware of the hacking, and that it had blocked its service's ability
to post from users' Twitter handles.

In response, Twitter said that it was aware that the intrusion may have resulted
from a third-party app.

''We quickly located the source,'' Twitter said in a statement. ''No additional
accounts are impacted.''

On Tuesday, a separate attack affected two websites set up to help voters choose
among Dutch political parties in the general election. Known as a distributed
denial of service, or DDoS, which typically involves flooding computer servers
with online messages until they collapse, the attack took the Kieskompas and
Stemwijzer sites offline on Tuesday afternoon.

The voter-aid websites are not part of the official electoral process.

Concerned about the role hackers and so-called fake news might have played in
the American presidential election, the Dutch government announced on Feb. 1
that all ballots in the general election would be counted by hand. Previously,
some votes were electronic.

''We don't know where it is coming from, but it is an organized attack coming
from abroad,'' said Anita de Jong, a spokeswoman for ProDemos, an independent
government-financed organization that runs Stemwijzer. She said the geographic
origin of the attack was unclear.

Engineers from the National Cyber Security Center in The Hague and from Google
offered to help the organizations that run the two websites. Wednesday morning,
as voting was underway, the sites were still struggling to function and were not
consistently available.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/15/world/europe/hacking-erdogan-twitter.html

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        March 20, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

Excerpts From the House Intelligence Committee Hearing on Russia

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1238 words



HIGHLIGHT: The F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, and the N.S.A. director, Michael
S. Rogers, answered questions from House lawmakers.


The F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, and the director of the N.S.A., Adm.
Michael S. Rogers, appeared in front of the House Intelligence Committee on
Monday. Following are excerpts from their testimony, as transcribed by the
Federal News Service.

For more coverage, follow our live briefing.

On an investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election

COMEY: Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Schiff, members of the committee, thank you
for including me in today's hearing. I'm honored to be here representing the
people of the FBI.

I hope we have shown you through our actions and our words how much we at the
FBI value your oversight of our work and how much we respect your responsibility
to investigate those things are important to the American people. Thank you for
showing that both are being taken very seriously.

As you know, our practice is not to confirm the existence of ongoing
investigations, especially those investigations that involve classified matters,
but in unusual circumstances where it is in the public interest, it may be
appropriate to do so as Justice Department policies recognize. This is one of
those circumstances.

I have been authorized by the Department of Justice to confirm that the FBI, as
part of our counterintelligence mission, is investigating the Russian
government's efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election and that
includes investigating the nature of any links between individuals associated
with the Trump campaign and the Russian government and whether there was any
coordination between the campaign and Russia's efforts. As with any
counterintelligence investigation, this will also include an assessment of
whether any crimes were committed.

Because it is an open ongoing investigation and is classified, I cannot say more
about what we are doing and whose conduct we are examining. At the request of
congressional leaders, we have taken the extraordinary step in coordination with
the Department of Justice of briefing this Congress' leaders, including the
leaders of this committee, in a classified setting in detail about the
investigation but I can't go into those details here. I know that is extremely
frustrating to some folks. I hope you and the American people can understand.
The FBI is very careful in how we handle information about our cases and about
the people we are investigating.

On President Trump's claims that President Barack Obama tapped phones in Trump
Tower

SCHIFF: Director Comey, I want to begin by attempting to put to rest several
claims made by the president about his predecessor, namely that President Obama
wiretapped his phones. So that we can be precise, I want to refer you to exactly
what the president said and ask you whether there is any truth to it.

First, the president claimed, quote, "Terrible. Just found out that Obama had my
wires tapped in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found. This is
McCarthyism," unquote.

Director Comey, was the president's statement that Obama had his wires tapped in
Trump Tower a true statement?

COMEY: With respect to the president's tweets about alleged wiretapping directed
at him by the prior administration, I have no information that supports those
tweets and we have looked carefully inside the FBI. The Department of Justice
has asked me to share with you that the answer is the same for the Department of
Justice and all its components. The department has no information that supports
those tweets.

Devin Nunes asks about Russian tampering in vote tallies

NUNES: Thank you, Director Comey.

Admiral Rogers, first I wanna go to you. On January 6th, 2017, the intelligence
community assessment assessing Russian activities and intentions in recent U.S.
elections, stated that the types of systems Russian actors targeted or
compromised were not involved in vote tallying.

So my question as of today, Admiral Rogers, do you have any evidence that Russia
cyber actors changed vote tallies in the state of Michigan?

ROGERS: No I do not, but I would highlight we are a foreign intelligence
organization, not a domestic intelligence organization. So it would be fair to
say, we are probably not the best organization to provide a more complete
answer.

NUNES: How about the state of Pennsylvania?

ROGERS: No, sir.

NUNES: The state of Wisconsin?

ROGERS: No, sir.

NUNES: State of Florida?

ROGERS: No, sir.

NUNES: The state of North Carolina?

ROGERS: No, sir.

NUNES: The state of Ohio?

ROGERS: No, sir.

NUNES: So -- so you have no intelligence that suggests, or evidence that
suggests, any votes were changed?

ROGERS: I have nothing generated by the national security industry, sir.

NUNES: Director Comey, do you have any evidence at the FBI that any votes were
changed in the states that I mentioned to Admiral Rogers?

COMEY: No.

Trey Gowdy asks Comey about Obama administration officials who would have had
access to leaked information

GOWDY: I guess what I'm getting at, Director Comey, is you say it's vital, you
say it's critical, you say it's indispensable. We both know it's a threat to the
reauthorization of 702 later on this fall. And by the way, it's also a felony
punishable by up to 10 years.

So how would you begin your investigation, assuming for the sake of argument
that a U.S. citizen's name appeared in the Washington Post and the New York
Times unlawfully. Where would you begin that investigation?

COMEY: Well, I'm not gonna talk about any particular investigation...

GOWDY: That's why I said in theory.

COMEY: You would start by figuring out, so who are the suspects? Who touched the
information that you've concluded ended up unlawfully in the newspaper and start
with that universe and then use investigative tools and techniques to see if you
can eliminate people, or include people as more serious suspects.

GOWDY: Do you know whether Director Clapper knew the name of the U.S. citizen
that appeared in the New York Times and Washington Post?

COMEY: I can't say in this forum because again, I don't wanna confirm that there
was classified information in the newspaper.

GOWDY: Would he have access to an unmasked name?

COMEY: In -- in some circumstances, sure, he was the director of national
intelligence. But I'm not talking about the particular.

GOWDY: Would Director Brennan have access to an unmasked U.S. citizen's name?

COMEY: In some circumstances, yes.

GOWDY: Would National Security Adviser Susan Rice have access to an unmasked
U.S. citizen's name?

COMEY: I think any -- yes, in general, and any other national security adviser
would, I think, as a matter of their ordinary course of their business.

GOWDY: Would former White House Advisor Ben Rhodes have access to an unmasked
U.S. citizen's name?

COMEY: I don't know the answer to that.

GOWDY: Would former Attorney General Loretta Lynch have access to an unmasked
U.S. citizen's name?

COMEY: In general, yes, as would any attorney general.

GOWDY: So that would also include Acting AG Sally Yates?

COMEY: Same answer.

GOWDY: Did you brief President Obama on -- well, I'll just ask you. Did you
brief President Obama on any calls involving Michael Flynn?

COMEY: I'm not gonna get into either that particular case that matter, or any
conversations I had with the president. So I can't answer that.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Related Articles


     ·    Comey Confirms F.B.I. Inquiry on Russia; Sees No Evidence of
          Wiretapping
     ·    What to Expect When Comey Meets With the House Intelligence Committee


LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        March 20, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

Comey Confirms F.B.I. Inquiry on Russia; Sees No Evidence of Wiretapping;
Live Briefing

BYLINE: MATTHEW ROSENBERG, EMMARIE HUETTEMAN and MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2497 words



HIGHLIGHT: The House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence convenes a
hearing on Moscow's meddling in the election -- and on whether the Obama
administration tapped Trump Tower.


[#x25a0] The F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, publicly confirmed an
investigation into Russian interference in the presidential election and whether
associates of the president were in contact with Moscow.

[#x25a0] Mr. Comey also said the F.B.I. had "no information" to support
President Trump's allegation that Barack Obama wiretapped him.

[#x25a0] The hearing's featured witnesses: Mr. Comey and Adm. Michael S. Rogers,
the director of the National Security Agency.

Comey confirms the F.B.I. is investigating Russian election interference.

The F.B.I. is investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election and
possible links between the Trump campaign and the Russian government -- and
whether there was any coordination, Mr. Comey said.

Mr. Comey said that it was unusual for the F.B.I. to confirm or deny the
existence of any investigations, but that in unusual circumstances when it is in
the public interest, the bureau will sometimes discuss such matters.

"This is one of those circumstances," he said.

"The F.B.I., as part of our counterintelligence effort, is investigating the
Russian government's efforts to interfere in the 2016 president election," he
continued, adding that the investigation included looking at whether associates
of Mr. Trump were in contact with Russian officials, and whether they colluded
with them.

Admiral Rogers made it clear that Russian efforts to interfere in democratic
elections were not a one-off intrusion. They continue -- now in Europe.

"We've seen some of the same things we've seen in the U.S. in terms of
disinformation, fakes news," he said.

President Trump, offering commentary on Twitter, put the best spin on it, noting
that the witnesses did not say Russian hackers had changed vote tallies.

The NSA and FBI tell Congress that Russia did not influence electoral process.
pic.twitter.com/d9HqkxYBt5 -- President Trump (@POTUS) March 20, 2017

But Democrats clearly had the advantage, sending out campaign fund-raising
appeals as the hearing unspooled.

Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, responded: "The
possibility of coordination between the Trump campaign and Russian officials is
a serious, serious matter. The investigation must be fair, independent, and
impartial in every way, and the F.B.I. must be allowed to follow the facts
wherever they may lead."

Mr. Comey told lawmakers that the investigation began in July, but he conceded
that he had only "recently" briefed congressional leaders on the existence of
the F.B.I. investigation. Asked why he had waited so long, he said, "Because of
the sensitivity of the matter."

Much of the questioning focused on the Trump confidante Roger J. Stone Jr. and
his public bragging that he was in contact with the hacker Guccifer 2.0,
believed to be a front for Russian intelligence officials. Mr. Comey would not
confirm or deny the subject of the F.B.I.'s investigation, but Mr. Stone, never
a shrinking violet, did speak up on Twitter.

It's only fair that I have a chance to respond 2 any smears or half truths about
alleged "Collusion with Russians" from 2day's Intel Hearing -- Roger Stone
(@RogerJStoneJr) March 20, 2017

Mr. Nunes did seek to bring Hillary Clinton's campaign into the discussion about
Russian election meddling.

"If this committee comes to you with information about the Clinton campaign,
will you add that to your investigation?" Mr. Nunes asked Mr. Comey.

Mr. Comey said he was not prepared to comment on the particulars of contacts
between Russians and any campaigns. But "if people bring us info," he said, "we
will evaluate it."

F.B.I. director says there's 'no information' to support Trump wiretapping
charge.

Mr. Comey told the House Intelligence Committee, "We have no information to
support" President Trump's assertion on Twitter that President Barack Obama
wiretapped Trump Tower.

"We have no information to support those tweets," Mr. Comey said, repeating
moments later, "All I can tell you is that we have no information that supports
them."

The N.S.A. chief, Admiral Rogers, weighed in as well, saying that he had no
knowledge of anyone asking the British or any other ally to wiretap Mr. Trump.
That seemed to refute another claim made by the White House.

"I've seen nothing on the N.S.A. side that we engaged in such activity, nor that
anyone engaged in such activity," Admiral Rogers said.

He then explicitly denied having any indication that Mr. Trump was wiretapped by
British intelligence at the request of Mr. Obama.

The FBI director has now confirmed: Pres Obama wiretapping Trump Tower did not
happen. Pres Trump needs to retract his claim immediately. -- Chuck Schumer
(@SenSchumer) March 20, 2017

Trump and Comey clash over F.B.I. conclusions.

Mr. Trump, watching the House Intelligence Committee closely, has offered a
stream of comments on Twitter, attacking classified leaks and concluding that,
in fact, Russia did not influence the electoral process.

The NSA and FBI tell Congress that Russia did not influence electoral process.
pic.twitter.com/d9HqkxYBt5 -- President Trump (@POTUS) March 20, 2017

Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut, read those tweets to Mr.
Comey, who sought to set the record straight.

"We've offered no opinion, have no view, have no information on potential impact
because it's not something we looked at," Mr. Comey said, clarifying that the
intelligence community was examining what Russia did to interfere with the
election, not the impact of that interference.

Mr. Comey added: "It certainly wasn't our intention to say that today because we
have no information on that subject."

Comey's revelation raises questions about the Clinton email inquiry.

Mr. Comey's statement that the F.B.I. is investigating the Trump campaign is
certain to raise comparisons to his disclosure in October that the bureau had
discovered a new trove of Mrs. Clinton's emails.

"Some folks may want to make comparisons to past instances where the Department
of Justice and the F.B.I. have spoken about the details of some investigations,"
Mr. Comey said. "But please keep in mind that those involved the details of
completed investigations. Our ability to share details with Congress and the
American people is limited when those investigations are still open, which I
hope makes sense. We need to protect people's privacy. We need to make sure we
don't give other people clues as to where we are going."

Mr. Comey said that he had consulted the Justice Department about whether to
disclose the existence of the investigation -- something he had not done before
he held a news conference in July to announce that there was not enough evidence
to charge Mrs. Clinton with a crime.

Mr. Comey's statements on Monday brought immediate criticism from Mrs. Clinton's
allies and former campaign officials. "In refusing to discuss an ongoing
investigation, Director Comey is appropriately adhering to the Justice
Department's standards," said Brian Fallon, the spokesman for Mrs. Clinton's
campaign. "The question he has never satisfactorily answered is why he deviated
from those standards so egregiously in Hillary Clinton's case."

Daniel C. Richman, a longtime confidant of Mr. Comey's and a professor at
Columbia University, defended Mr. Comey. "There is no fair comparison between
announcing a material status change in an investigation that you publicly
declared to be closed -- in an announcement the public can be expected to rely
on -- and speaking about investigative moves, or nonmoves, in a covert national
security investigation," Mr. Richman said.

McCarthyism? Um, no.

Mr. Comey provided a rare moment of levity when asked if he believed the inquiry
into Russian meddling and possible connections to the Trump campaign was a form
of "McCarthyism."

The question came during a stretch of questioning in which both he and Admiral
Rogers unequivocally rejected claims by Mr. Trump that he was wiretapped during
the campaign.

As for McCarthyism, Mr. Comey's reply was similarly definitive: "I try very hard
not to engage in any 'isms' of any kind, including McCarthyism," he said.

But unsubstantiated charges were leveled.

Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, who led the inquiry
into Mrs. Clinton after the 2012 Benghazi attacks, seems to have turned into the
Inspector Javert of intelligence leaks, with the president of the United States
at his side. And who are they blaming? Much of the Obama administration --
including former President Barack Obama himself.

FBI Director Comey admits Obama's White House had ability to "unmask" American
citizens. https://t.co/gIo6it9NcQ -- President Trump (@POTUS) March 20, 2017

Mr. Gowdy, in a question to Mr. Comey, asked: "Unauthorized dissemination is
punishable by felony up to 10 years in federal prison?"

"Yes, as it should be," Mr. Comey said.

Mr. Gowdy, who led the House Select Committee on Benghazi and helped expose Mrs.
Clinton's use of a private email server, asked if a series of people from the
Obama administration had access to the intelligence information leaked: John O.
Brennan, the former director of the C.I.A.; James R. Clapper Jr., the former
director of national intelligence; Loretta E. Lynch, the former attorney
general; Susan E. Rice, the former national security adviser; Ben Rhodes, a
former National Security Council official; and ... Mr. Obama.

He also listed a series of news reports from The New York Times and The
Washington Post that detailed information gleaned from classified intercepts of
calls between the Trump adviser Michael T. Flynn and Sergey I. Kislyak, the
Russian ambassador.

Mr. Gowdy concluded by asking: "I thought it was against the law to disseminate
classified information. Is it?"

"Yes, for sure," Mr. Comey said. "It is a serious crime."

The president himself chimed in on the issue via Twitter, again hinting that the
leaks came straight from his predecessor:

FBI Director Comey refuses to deny he briefed President Obama on calls made by
Michael Flynn to Russia. pic.twitter.com/cUZ5KgBSYP -- President Trump (@POTUS)
March 20, 2017

The president also joined the Republican effort to steer the hearing away from
Russian interference to the danger of classified leaks.

NSA Director Rogers tells Congress unmasking individuals endangers national
security. pic.twitter.com/jTwjPINvNh -- President Trump (@POTUS) March 20, 2017

FBI Director Comey says classified leaks to the media have been "unusually
active" recently. pic.twitter.com/WumDJSqaFA -- President Trump (@POTUS) March
20, 2017

Nunes: 'There was not a physical wiretap of Trump Tower.'

The first hearing of the House Intelligence Committee's investigation into
Russia's meddling in the election opened with Representative Devin Nunes of
California, the committee's chairman and a Trump ally, trying to split the
difference between his hawkish view of Russia and his desire to deflect
accusations that Mr. Trump's campaign benefited from Russian interference in the
election -- or, worse, possibly colluded with Moscow.

Shortly after the witnesses -- Mr. Comey and Admiral Rogers -- took their seats,
Mr. Nunes opened by stating that Russia had a long track record of aggressive
actions against its neighbors, and that "its hostile acts take many forms aside
from direct military assaults."

Russia "has a long history of meddling in other countries' election systems and
launching cyber-attacks on a wide range of countries," he said. "The fact that
Russia hacked U.S. election-related databases comes as no shock to this
committee."

But in a nod to a claim pushed by Mr. Trump that he was wiretapped, Mr. Nunes
said he wanted to know if there was improper surveillance of campaign officials.
And he said it was important to find out "who has leaked classified
information."

"Numerous current and former officials have leaked purportedly classified
information in connection to these questions," Mr. Nunes said. "We aim to
determine who has leaked or facilitated leaks of classified information so that
these individuals can be brought to justice."

House Intel Chair Nunes: "We know there was not a physical wiretap of Trump
Tower" but it's possible other surveillance methods were used.
pic.twitter.com/cSUBNxZqQB -- ABC News (@ABC) March 20, 2017

Schiff: Collusion with Russia would be a 'shocking' betrayal of democracy.

Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the committee's ranking Democrat,
laid out the case that the Trump campaign was, at best, far too close to Russia
-- and far too eager to appease Moscow on Ukraine and other issues.

"If the Trump campaign, or anybody associated with it, aided or abetted the
Russians, it would not only be a serious crime, it would also represent one of
the most shocking betrayals of our democracy in history," he said.

Mr. Schiff said the committee also planned to examine whether the raw
intelligence substantiated intelligence officials' assessment and whether the
government had reacted quickly and appropriately to revelations of Russia's
efforts to influence the election.

It is "unknowable" whether Russian meddling altered the outcome of the election,
Mr. Schiff said, emphasizing that it mattered more that Moscow succeeded in
intervening and would do it again.

"If we do not do our very best to understand how the Russians accomplished this
unprecedented attack on our democracy and what we need to do to protect
ourselves in the future," he said, "we will have only ourselves to blame."

The president doth protest.

With the House Intelligence Committee convening for its first public hearing on
Russian election meddling, the president is posting his protests on Twitter --
again.

James Clapper and others stated that there is no evidence Potus colluded with
Russia. This story is FAKE NEWS and everyone knows it! -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) March 20, 2017

The Democrats made up and pushed the Russian story as an excuse for running a
terrible campaign. Big advantage in Electoral College & lost! -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) March 20, 2017

The real story that Congress, the FBI and all others should be looking into is
the leaking of Classified information. Must find leaker now! -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) March 20, 2017

The search for the real "leaker" is likely to be part of the questioning of the
F.B.I. director, since Mr. Nunes has seconded the president's opinion.

But Mr. Schiff asserted on Sunday that there was circumstantial evidence of
collusion between Russian intelligence and Trump associates during the campaign.
So protest as he might, Mr. Trump is not going to head off that line of
questioning.

None of that is sitting well with the president of the United States. In a later
offering, he went back to an oldie but goodie: Mrs. Clinton.

What about all of the contact with the Clinton campaign and the Russians? Also,
is it true that the DNC would not let the FBI in to look? -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) March 20, 2017

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Related Articles


     ·    What to Expect When Comey Meets With the House Intelligence Committee


LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 21, 2017 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Comey Confirms F.B.I. Inquiry on Russia; Sees No Evidence of Wiretapping

BYLINE: By MATTHEW ROSENBERG, EMMARIE HUETTEMAN and MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; LIVE BRIEFING; Pg.

LENGTH: 2528 words


â-  The F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, publicly confirmed an investigation
into Russian interference in the presidential election and whether associates of
the president were in contact with Moscow.

â-  Mr. Comey also said the F.B.I. had ''no information'' to support President
Trump's allegation that Barack Obama wiretapped him.

â-  The hearing's featured witnesses: Mr. Comey and Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the
director of the National Security Agency.

Comey confirms the F.B.I. is investigating Russian election interference.

The F.B.I. is investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election and
possible links between the Trump campaign and the Russian government -- and
whether there was any coordination, Mr. Comey said.

Mr. Comey said that it was unusual for the F.B.I. to confirm or deny the
existence of any investigations, but that in unusual circumstances when it is in
the public interest, the bureau will sometimes discuss such matters.

''This is one of those circumstances,'' he said.

''The F.B.I., as part of our counterintelligence effort, is investigating the
Russian government's efforts to interfere in the 2016 president election,'' he
continued, adding that the investigation included looking at whether associates
of Mr. Trump were in contact with Russian officials, and whether they colluded
with them.

Admiral Rogers made it clear that Russian efforts to interfere in democratic
elections were not a one-off intrusion. They continue -- now in Europe.

''We've seen some of the same things we've seen in the U.S. in terms of
disinformation, fakes news,'' he said.

President Trump, offering commentary on Twitter, put the best spin on it, noting
that the witnesses did not say Russian hackers had changed vote tallies.

The NSA and FBI tell Congress that Russia did not influence electoral process.
pic.twitter.com/d9HqkxYBt5 -- President Trump (@POTUS) March 20, 2017

But Democrats clearly had the advantage, sending out campaign fund-raising
appeals as the hearing unspooled.

Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, responded: ''The
possibility of coordination between the Trump campaign and Russian officials is
a serious, serious matter. The investigation must be fair, independent, and
impartial in every way, and the F.B.I. must be allowed to follow the facts
wherever they may lead.''

Mr. Comey told lawmakers that the investigation began in July, but he conceded
that he had only ''recently'' briefed congressional leaders on the existence of
the F.B.I. investigation. Asked why he had waited so long, he said, ''Because of
the sensitivity of the matter.''

Much of the questioning focused on the Trump confidante Roger J. Stone Jr. and
his public bragging that he was in contact with the hacker Guccifer 2.0,
believed to be a front for Russian intelligence officials. Mr. Comey would not
confirm or deny the subject of the F.B.I.'s investigation, but Mr. Stone, never
a shrinking violet, did speak up on Twitter.

It's only fair that I have a chance to respond 2 any smears or half truths about
alleged ''Collusion with Russians'' from 2day's Intel Hearing -- Roger Stone
(@RogerJStoneJr) March 20, 2017

Mr. Nunes did seek to bring Hillary Clinton's campaign into the discussion about
Russian election meddling.

''If this committee comes to you with information about the Clinton campaign,
will you add that to your investigation?'' Mr. Nunes asked Mr. Comey.

Mr. Comey said he was not prepared to comment on the particulars of contacts
between Russians and any campaigns. But ''if people bring us info,'' he said,
''we will evaluate it.''

F.B.I. director says there's 'no information' to support Trump wiretapping
charge.

Mr. Comey told the House Intelligence Committee, ''We have no information to
support'' President Trump's assertion on Twitter that President Barack Obama
wiretapped Trump Tower.

''We have no information to support those tweets,'' Mr. Comey said, repeating
moments later, ''All I can tell you is that we have no information that supports
them.''

The N.S.A. chief, Admiral Rogers, weighed in as well, saying that he had no
knowledge of anyone asking the British or any other ally to wiretap Mr. Trump.
That seemed to refute another claim made by the White House.

''I've seen nothing on the N.S.A. side that we engaged in such activity, nor
that anyone engaged in such activity,'' Admiral Rogers said.

He then explicitly denied having any indication that Mr. Trump was wiretapped by
British intelligence at the request of Mr. Obama.

The FBI director has now confirmed: Pres Obama wiretapping Trump Tower did not
happen. Pres Trump needs to retract his claim immediately. -- Chuck Schumer
(@SenSchumer) March 20, 2017

Trump and Comey clash over F.B.I. conclusions.

Mr. Trump, watching the House Intelligence Committee closely, has offered a
stream of comments on Twitter, attacking classified leaks and concluding that,
in fact, Russia did not influence the electoral process.

The NSA and FBI tell Congress that Russia did not influence electoral process.
pic.twitter.com/d9HqkxYBt5 -- President Trump (@POTUS) March 20, 2017

Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut, read those tweets to Mr.
Comey, who sought to set the record straight.

''We've offered no opinion, have no view, have no information on potential
impact because it's not something we looked at,'' Mr. Comey said, clarifying
that the intelligence community was examining what Russia did to interfere with
the election, not the impact of that interference.

Mr. Comey added: ''It certainly wasn't our intention to say that today because
we have no information on that subject.''

Comey's revelation raises questions about the Clinton email inquiry.

Mr. Comey's statement that the F.B.I. is investigating the Trump campaign is
certain to raise comparisons to his disclosure in October that the bureau had
discovered a new trove of Mrs. Clinton's emails.

''Some folks may want to make comparisons to past instances where the Department
of Justice and the F.B.I. have spoken about the details of some
investigations,'' Mr. Comey said. ''But please keep in mind that those involved
the details of completed investigations. Our ability to share details with
Congress and the American people is limited when those investigations are still
open, which I hope makes sense. We need to protect people's privacy. We need to
make sure we don't give other people clues as to where we are going.''

Mr. Comey said that he had consulted the Justice Department about whether to
disclose the existence of the investigation -- something he had not done before
he held a news conference in July to announce that there was not enough evidence
to charge Mrs. Clinton with a crime.

Mr. Comey's statements on Monday brought immediate criticism from Mrs. Clinton's
allies and former campaign officials. ''In refusing to discuss an ongoing
investigation, Director Comey is appropriately adhering to the Justice
Department's standards,'' said Brian Fallon, the spokesman for Mrs. Clinton's
campaign. ''The question he has never satisfactorily answered is why he deviated
from those standards so egregiously in Hillary Clinton's case.''

Daniel C. Richman, a longtime confidant of Mr. Comey's and a professor at
Columbia University, defended Mr. Comey. ''There is no fair comparison between
announcing a material status change in an investigation that you publicly
declared to be closed -- in an announcement the public can be expected to rely
on -- and speaking about investigative moves, or nonmoves, in a covert national
security investigation,'' Mr. Richman said.

McCarthyism? Um, no.

Mr. Comey provided a rare moment of levity when asked if he believed the inquiry
into Russian meddling and possible connections to the Trump campaign was a form
of ''McCarthyism.''

The question came during a stretch of questioning in which both he and Admiral
Rogers unequivocally rejected claims by Mr. Trump that he was wiretapped during
the campaign.

As for McCarthyism, Mr. Comey's reply was similarly definitive: ''I try very
hard not to engage in any 'isms' of any kind, including McCarthyism,'' he said.

But unsubstantiated charges were leveled.

Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, who led the inquiry
into Mrs. Clinton after the 2012 Benghazi attacks, seems to have turned into the
Inspector Javert of intelligence leaks, with the president of the United States
at his side. And who are they blaming? Much of the Obama administration --
including former President Barack Obama himself.

FBI Director Comey admits Obama's White House had ability to ''unmask'' American
citizens. https://t.co/gIo6it9NcQ -- President Trump (@POTUS) March 20, 2017

Mr. Gowdy, in a question to Mr. Comey, asked: ''Unauthorized dissemination is
punishable by felony up to 10 years in federal prison?''

''Yes, as it should be,'' Mr. Comey said.

Mr. Gowdy, who led the House Select Committee on Benghazi and helped expose Mrs.
Clinton's use of a private email server, asked if a series of people from the
Obama administration had access to the intelligence information leaked: John O.
Brennan, the former director of the C.I.A.; James R. Clapper Jr., the former
director of national intelligence; Loretta E. Lynch, the former attorney
general; Susan E. Rice, the former national security adviser; Ben Rhodes, a
former National Security Council official; and ... Mr. Obama.

He also listed a series of news reports from The New York Times and The
Washington Post that detailed information gleaned from classified intercepts of
calls between the Trump adviser Michael T. Flynn and Sergey I. Kislyak, the
Russian ambassador.

Mr. Gowdy concluded by asking: ''I thought it was against the law to disseminate
classified information. Is it?''

''Yes, for sure,'' Mr. Comey said. ''It is a serious crime.''

The president himself chimed in on the issue via Twitter, again hinting that the
leaks came straight from his predecessor:

FBI Director Comey refuses to deny he briefed President Obama on calls made by
Michael Flynn to Russia. pic.twitter.com/cUZ5KgBSYP -- President Trump (@POTUS)
March 20, 2017

The president also joined the Republican effort to steer the hearing away from
Russian interference to the danger of classified leaks.

NSA Director Rogers tells Congress unmasking individuals endangers national
security. pic.twitter.com/jTwjPINvNh -- President Trump (@POTUS) March 20, 2017

FBI Director Comey says classified leaks to the media have been ''unusually
active'' recently. pic.twitter.com/WumDJSqaFA -- President Trump (@POTUS) March
20, 2017

Nunes: 'There was not a physical wiretap of Trump Tower.'

The first hearing of the House Intelligence Committee's investigation into
Russia's meddling in the election opened with Representative Devin Nunes of
California, the committee's chairman and a Trump ally, trying to split the
difference between his hawkish view of Russia and his desire to deflect
accusations that Mr. Trump's campaign benefited from Russian interference in the
election -- or, worse, possibly colluded with Moscow.

Shortly after the witnesses -- Mr. Comey and Admiral Rogers -- took their seats,
Mr. Nunes opened by stating that Russia had a long track record of aggressive
actions against its neighbors, and that ''its hostile acts take many forms aside
from direct military assaults.''

Russia ''has a long history of meddling in other countries' election systems and
launching cyber-attacks on a wide range of countries,'' he said. ''The fact that
Russia hacked U.S. election-related databases comes as no shock to this
committee.''

But in a nod to a claim pushed by Mr. Trump that he was wiretapped, Mr. Nunes
said he wanted to know if there was improper surveillance of campaign officials.
And he said it was important to find out ''who has leaked classified
information.''

''Numerous current and former officials have leaked purportedly classified
information in connection to these questions,'' Mr. Nunes said. ''We aim to
determine who has leaked or facilitated leaks of classified information so that
these individuals can be brought to justice.''

House Intel Chair Nunes: "We know there was not a physical wiretap of Trump
Tower" but it's possible other surveillance methods were used.
pic.twitter.com/cSUBNxZqQB -- ABC News (@ABC) March 20, 2017

Schiff: Collusion with Russia would be a 'shocking' betrayal of democracy.

Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the committee's ranking Democrat,
laid out the case that the Trump campaign was, at best, far too close to Russia
-- and far too eager to appease Moscow on Ukraine and other issues.

''If the Trump campaign, or anybody associated with it, aided or abetted the
Russians, it would not only be a serious crime, it would also represent one of
the most shocking betrayals of our democracy in history,'' he said.

Mr. Schiff said the committee also planned to examine whether the raw
intelligence substantiated intelligence officials' assessment and whether the
government had reacted quickly and appropriately to revelations of Russia's
efforts to influence the election.

It is ''unknowable'' whether Russian meddling altered the outcome of the
election, Mr. Schiff said, emphasizing that it mattered more that Moscow
succeeded in intervening and would do it again.

''If we do not do our very best to understand how the Russians accomplished this
unprecedented attack on our democracy and what we need to do to protect
ourselves in the future,'' he said, ''we will have only ourselves to blame.''

The president doth protest.

With the House Intelligence Committee convening for its first public hearing on
Russian election meddling, the president is posting his protests on Twitter --
again.

James Clapper and others stated that there is no evidence Potus colluded with
Russia. This story is FAKE NEWS and everyone knows it! -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) March 20, 2017

The Democrats made up and pushed the Russian story as an excuse for running a
terrible campaign. Big advantage in Electoral College & lost! -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) March 20, 2017

The real story that Congress, the FBI and all others should be looking into is
the leaking of Classified information. Must find leaker now! -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) March 20, 2017

The search for the real ''leaker'' is likely to be part of the questioning of
the F.B.I. director, since Mr. Nunes has seconded the president's opinion.

But Mr. Schiff asserted on Sunday that there was circumstantial evidence of
collusion between Russian intelligence and Trump associates during the campaign.
So protest as he might, Mr. Trump is not going to head off that line of
questioning.

None of that is sitting well with the president of the United States. In a later
offering, he went back to an oldie but goodie: Mrs. Clinton.

What about all of the contact with the Clinton campaign and the Russians? Also,
is it true that the DNC would not let the FBI in to look? -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) March 20, 2017

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/20/us/politics/intelligence-committee-russia-dona
ld-trump.html

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 21, 2017 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Excerpts From the House Intelligence Committee Hearing on Russia

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg.

LENGTH: 1231 words


The F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, and the director of the N.S.A., Adm.
Michael S. Rogers, appeared in front of the House Intelligence Committee on
Monday. Following are excerpts from their testimony, as transcribed by the
Federal News Service.

For more coverage, follow our live briefing.

On an investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election

COMEY: Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Schiff, members of the committee, thank you
for including me in today's hearing. I'm honored to be here representing the
people of the FBI.

I hope we have shown you through our actions and our words how much we at the
FBI value your oversight of our work and how much we respect your responsibility
to investigate those things are important to the American people. Thank you for
showing that both are being taken very seriously.

As you know, our practice is not to confirm the existence of ongoing
investigations, especially those investigations that involve classified matters,
but in unusual circumstances where it is in the public interest, it may be
appropriate to do so as Justice Department policies recognize. This is one of
those circumstances.

I have been authorized by the Department of Justice to confirm that the FBI, as
part of our counterintelligence mission, is investigating the Russian
government's efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election and that
includes investigating the nature of any links between individuals associated
with the Trump campaign and the Russian government and whether there was any
coordination between the campaign and Russia's efforts. As with any
counterintelligence investigation, this will also include an assessment of
whether any crimes were committed.

Because it is an open ongoing investigation and is classified, I cannot say more
about what we are doing and whose conduct we are examining. At the request of
congressional leaders, we have taken the extraordinary step in coordination with
the Department of Justice of briefing this Congress' leaders, including the
leaders of this committee, in a classified setting in detail about the
investigation but I can't go into those details here. I know that is extremely
frustrating to some folks. I hope you and the American people can understand.
The FBI is very careful in how we handle information about our cases and about
the people we are investigating.

On President Trump's claims that President Barack Obama tapped phones in Trump
Tower

SCHIFF: Director Comey, I want to begin by attempting to put to rest several
claims made by the president about his predecessor, namely that President Obama
wiretapped his phones. So that we can be precise, I want to refer you to exactly
what the president said and ask you whether there is any truth to it.

First, the president claimed, quote, ''Terrible. Just found out that Obama had
my wires tapped in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found. This is
McCarthyism,'' unquote.

Director Comey, was the president's statement that Obama had his wires tapped in
Trump Tower a true statement?

COMEY: With respect to the president's tweets about alleged wiretapping directed
at him by the prior administration, I have no information that supports those
tweets and we have looked carefully inside the FBI. The Department of Justice
has asked me to share with you that the answer is the same for the Department of
Justice and all its components. The department has no information that supports
those tweets.

Devin Nunes asks about Russian tampering in vote tallies

NUNES: Thank you, Director Comey.

Admiral Rogers, first I wanna go to you. On January 6th, 2017, the intelligence
community assessment assessing Russian activities and intentions in recent U.S.
elections, stated that the types of systems Russian actors targeted or
compromised were not involved in vote tallying.

So my question as of today, Admiral Rogers, do you have any evidence that Russia
cyber actors changed vote tallies in the state of Michigan?

ROGERS: No I do not, but I would highlight we are a foreign intelligence
organization, not a domestic intelligence organization. So it would be fair to
say, we are probably not the best organization to provide a more complete
answer.

NUNES: How about the state of Pennsylvania?

ROGERS: No, sir.

NUNES: The state of Wisconsin?

ROGERS: No, sir.

NUNES: State of Florida?

ROGERS: No, sir.

NUNES: The state of North Carolina?

ROGERS: No, sir.

NUNES: The state of Ohio?

ROGERS: No, sir.

NUNES: So -- so you have no intelligence that suggests, or evidence that
suggests, any votes were changed?

ROGERS: I have nothing generated by the national security industry, sir.

NUNES: Director Comey, do you have any evidence at the FBI that any votes were
changed in the states that I mentioned to Admiral Rogers?

COMEY: No.

Trey Gowdy asks Comey about Obama administration officials who would have had
access to leaked information

GOWDY: I guess what I'm getting at, Director Comey, is you say it's vital, you
say it's critical, you say it's indispensable. We both know it's a threat to the
reauthorization of 702 later on this fall. And by the way, it's also a felony
punishable by up to 10 years.

So how would you begin your investigation, assuming for the sake of argument
that a U.S. citizen's name appeared in the Washington Post and the New York
Times unlawfully. Where would you begin that investigation?

COMEY: Well, I'm not gonna talk about any particular investigation...

GOWDY: That's why I said in theory.

COMEY: You would start by figuring out, so who are the suspects? Who touched the
information that you've concluded ended up unlawfully in the newspaper and start
with that universe and then use investigative tools and techniques to see if you
can eliminate people, or include people as more serious suspects.

GOWDY: Do you know whether Director Clapper knew the name of the U.S. citizen
that appeared in the New York Times and Washington Post?

COMEY: I can't say in this forum because again, I don't wanna confirm that there
was classified information in the newspaper.

GOWDY: Would he have access to an unmasked name?

COMEY: In -- in some circumstances, sure, he was the director of national
intelligence. But I'm not talking about the particular.

GOWDY: Would Director Brennan have access to an unmasked U.S. citizen's name?

COMEY: In some circumstances, yes.

GOWDY: Would National Security Adviser Susan Rice have access to an unmasked
U.S. citizen's name?

COMEY: I think any -- yes, in general, and any other national security adviser
would, I think, as a matter of their ordinary course of their business.

GOWDY: Would former White House Advisor Ben Rhodes have access to an unmasked
U.S. citizen's name?

COMEY: I don't know the answer to that.

GOWDY: Would former Attorney General Loretta Lynch have access to an unmasked
U.S. citizen's name?

COMEY: In general, yes, as would any attorney general.

GOWDY: So that would also include Acting AG Sally Yates?

COMEY: Same answer.

GOWDY: Did you brief President Obama on -- well, I'll just ask you. Did you
brief President Obama on any calls involving Michael Flynn?

COMEY: I'm not gonna get into either that particular case that matter, or any
conversations I had with the president. So I can't answer that.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/20/us/politics/james-comey-mike-rogers-transcript
-excerpts.html

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       March 23, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

London, Syria, Erdogan: Your Thursday Briefing;
Europe Edition

BYLINE: PATRICK BOEHLER

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 1083 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know to start your day.


Good morning.

Here's what you need to know:

The  authorities in Britain said today that they had detained seven people
across the country, a day after an attacker killed three people in London.

The assailant appeared to have acted alone, inspired by international terrorism,
the police said.

On Wednesday, Prime Minister Theresa May denounced "the sick and depraved
terrorist attack," in which the assailant mowed down pedestrians in a sport
utility vehicle, crashing outside Parliament. He then fatally stabbed a police
officer before being shot and killed.

Here's a look at what we know and don't know about the attack.

_____

U.S. forces in Syria airlifted hundreds of Syrian fighters, along with their
U.S. advisers, in a major offensive aimed at cutting off the western approaches
to Raqqa, the self-proclaimed capital of the Islamic State.

Separately, at least 30 civilians were killed in Syria when an airstrike by the
U.S.-led coalition fighting the Islamic State hit a school, according to local
reports.

In Washington, Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson told representatives from all
68 nations in the coalition that "circumstances on the ground require more from
all of you." U.N.-sponsored peace talks resume in Geneva today.

_____

Turkey's president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, issued an awkwardly timed warning
hours before the London attack, saying Europeans should be concerned about their
safety if Western politicians continued with perceived provocations against his
government.

Turkey condemned Norway for granting asylum to Turkish military officers who it
said participated in a failed coup last year. And Frank-Walter Steinmeier used
his first speech as Germany's new president to condemn Mr. Erdogan's crackdown
on the media.

_____

In the U.S., President Trump's budget faces headwinds as Republican governors
rebel against domestic spending cuts. We take a comprehensive look at the size
of the U.S. military, which would enjoy a $54 billion windfall.

House Republicans face an excruciating vote today: A yea vote on the bill to
repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act risks havoc for their poorest
constituents, but a nay vote risks the vengeance of the president.

_____

"This is great news."

That's an infectious disease specialist, reacting to a new vaccine that appears
to work against rotavirus, which kills hundreds of children around the world
every day.

The Indian vaccine performed well in a large trial in Niger and could help
millions of children in some the world's poorest countries.

_____

Business

Hollywood's overseas ticket sales fell flat. Sales in Germany were down 13
percent last year, and in Britain, they slipped 10 percent.

Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the president of the Eurogroup, rejected calls for his
resignation led by Portugal's prime minister after Mr. Dijsselbloem suggested
that southern European countries had splurged on "booze and women."

The Trump Organization is pursuing a hotel project with a globe-trotting
Turkish-born real estate developer. We explore his deep international
connections.

China is encouraging its companies to invest in U.S. start-ups specializing in
technology with potential military applications.

U.S. prosecutors are investigating North Korea's possible role in a cyber bank
heist of $81 million in what security officials fear could be a new front in
digital warfare.

Here's a snapshot of global markets.

In the News

The Arctic's winter sea ice dropped to its lowest recorded level. A summer with
no sea ice coverage could occur as early as 2030, one scientist said. [The New
York Times]

The world has only three to four months to save millions of people in Yemen and
Somalia from starvation, the International Red Cross warned. [Reuters]

Germany's government passed a bill that seeks to compensate the thousands of men
who had been prosecuted for being gay under a law that was repealed in 1969.
[Huffington Post]

Ukraine has barred Russia's participant in the Eurovision Song Contest from
entering the country for this year's competition. [The New York Times]

The tomb of Jesus, which had been safeguarded from collapse by an unsightly iron
cage since the 19th century, was reopened to the public after a monthslong
restoration. [The New York Times]

Smarter Living

Wine is pleasure and conviviality, but it can also be intimidating. Here's our
guide to matching the right bottle with your palate and budget.

Recipe of the day: For an unexpected take on serving steak at home, why not give
this recipe for steak tartare a try?

Noteworthy

A scholarly sting operation shed light on profiteering among sketchy academic
journals: 48 publications accepted a fake applicant whose name meant "fraudster"
in Polish -- and four made her editor in chief.

A computer program took five minutes to possibly upend the dinosaur
classification system that has been used for more than a century.

Lukas Podolski retired from Germany's national soccer team with a decisive goal
against England.

Not quite Hygge: The Danish designer Oliver Gustav takes his gray aesthetic to a
moody extreme at his Copenhagen home.

Back Story

A little William Wordsworth to start the day: "I wandered lonely as a cloud /
That floats on high o'er vales and hills."

For today's celebration of World Meteorological Day, a database of cloud images
is being made digitally available to the public. Users can also submit their own
photos.

The day is sponsored by the World Meteorological Organization, a U.N. agency,
and this year's theme is "Understanding Clouds." The group is hoping to promote
understanding of how clouds affect climate.

The organization is responsible for publishing the scientific names and
descriptions of cloud types.

A similar group, the Cloud Appreciation Society, has set off a debate within the
cloud community over naming rights. In 2008, its founder proposed the naming of
a new cloud type, asperatus, a broad wavy sublime cloud.

The U.N. agency had not named a cloud type since 1953 but eventually accepted
the Cloud Appreciation Society's suggestion in 2014 -- albeit in a modified form
-- for the latest edition of the atlas.

"There's a long history of people finding signs in the sky," the founder of the
society told The New York Times Magazine last year. "We look up for answers."

Remy Tumin contributed reporting.

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.

Read the latest edition of the U.S. briefing here and the latest for Asia and
Australia here.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       March 29, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

What Cold War Intrigue Can Tell Us About the Trump-Russia Inquiry

BYLINE: JAMES RISEN

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1707 words



HIGHLIGHT: Events rooted in 1985, which became known as the Year of the Spy, in
some ways mirror those that were set in motion during the 2016 presidential
election.


WASHINGTON -- It began with evidence of a breach of the Democratic National
Committee's computers and has now evolved into a sprawling counterintelligence
investigation to determine whether there was any coordination between members of
Donald J. Trump's presidential campaign staff and the Russian government,
perhaps even influencing the 2016 election.

When James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, went before Congress on March 20 and
confirmed the existence of the Trump-Russia investigation, it echoed of the Cold
War investigations in which the bureau and the C.I.A. searched for agents hidden
in the government who had spied for Moscow.

A look back at those Cold War cases may reveal lessons for today's
investigators. Above all, those past cases show it could take years before the
new investigation uncovers any answers.

It starts with an unexplained incident.

Spy hunts usually begin with an unexplained incident. In the Trump-Russia case,
there was the hacking of the D.N.C.'s computers. In 1985, there was an arrest on
the streets of Moscow.

In June 1985, Burton Gerber, the chief of the Soviet-East European division of
the Central Intelligence Agency, was about to sit down to dinner at his home in
Washington when he received devastating news. Paul Stombaugh, a C.I.A. case
officer, had just been arrested by the K.G.B. in Moscow. Mr. Stombaugh had been
caught while he was on a clandestine mission to meet the C.I.A.'s most important
Russian spy, Adolf Tolkachev, a scientist at a secret military design facility
who had been providing the Americans with top-secret information about Soviet
weapons systems. Mr. Gerber knew that Mr. Stombaugh's arrest meant that Mr.
Tolkachev, an agent the C.I.A. had code-named GTVANQUISH, had certainly been
arrested as well.

The arrest and subsequent execution of Mr. Tolkachev was the most damaging of a
series of mysterious spy losses suffered by the C.I.A. in 1985. In fact, there
was so much espionage activity between the C.I.A. and the K.G.B. that burst into
public view in 1985 that it became known as the Year of the Spy.

But why?

Debate swirled inside the cloistered world of American counterintelligence.
Could all the spy losses be blamed on C.I.A. incompetence? Or had they resulted
from something more sinister, like a Russian mole inside the agency?

That 1985 debate has in some ways been mirrored in the public debate about the
hacking of the D.N.C. during the 2016 presidential campaign. Did some hacker
simply take advantage of the committee's cyber-incompetence, or was an American
political party the specific and premeditated target of Russian intelligence?

A mosaic of clues creates a trail.

It took years for counterintelligence officials at the C.I.A. and the F.B.I. to
put the pieces together and finally solve the puzzle of 1985. Eventually, they
realized that they had been confused because there were so many investigative
threads to try to follow at once. For example, in August 1985 -- just two months
after Mr. Stombaugh's arrest -- a K.G.B. officer, Vitaly Yurchenko, defected to
the United States, and identified a C.I.A. officer, Edward Lee Howard, as a
Russian spy. Mr. Howard escaped to Russia, and Mr. Yurchenko then redefected to
Moscow.

American officials were left to wonder whether Mr. Howard had been responsible
for the spy losses -- and if Mr. Yurchenko's defection had been genuine or
whether he had been ordered by the K.G.B. to defect in order to point them
toward Mr. Howard and confuse the Americans.

Ultimately, the C.I.A. and the F.B.I. discovered that it had been difficult to
determine what was causing all of the losses because the Russians had more than
one mole hidden in the United States government. Both Aldrich Ames, a C.I.A.
case officer, and Robert Hanssen, an F.B.I. agent, began spying for the Soviets
in 1985. Both gave Moscow the names of Soviets working for the United States,
but Mr. Ames and Mr. Hanssen didn't give the Russians the same exact
information.

It was only after Mr. Ames was arrested in 1994 that counterintelligence
officials realized there had to be another mole, because Mr. Ames had not known
certain things that had been compromised, including the existence of an
espionage investigation of a State Department official, Felix Bloch. After Mr.
Ames was arrested, the United States secretly began a new mole hunt, which
ultimately led to the arrest of Mr. Hanssen in 2001.

Thus, the counterintelligence investigations into the 1985 losses lasted 16
years.

Like their Cold War predecessors, American counterintelligence investigators
today face the daunting task of trying to unravel myriad business and personal
connections between the Russian government and other Russian entities and people
associated with the Trump campaign. It is certain to take officials time to
determine which connections are the most significant to their investigation.

Turf wars ensue.

Counterintelligence investigations are conducted jointly by the C.I.A. and the
F.B.I., with support from other agencies like the National Security Agency.
Today, the new Trump-Russia investigation is being conducted by a joint
interagency task force, as were the spy hunts of the Cold War.

But interagency counterintelligence operations are often bogged down by
competition over jurisdiction, which can lead to frustrating bureaucratic delays
and sometimes missed opportunities.

Turf wars badly slowed the investigation of Mr. Hanssen and allowed him to
continue to spy until long after the Cold War.

For years, the F.B.I. was convinced that the mole they were hunting was another
C.I.A. officer like Mr. Ames, and refused to believe it was possible that an
F.B.I. agent was a traitor.

Their fixation on the C.I.A. led investigators to focus on Brian J. Kelley, a
longtime C.I.A. counterintelligence officer. The F.B.I.'s obsession with Mr.
Kelley was reinforced because of a series of incredible similarities between his
life and Mr. Hanssen's.

Mr. Kelley, like Mr. Hanssen, had known about the investigation of Mr. Bloch.
Mr. Kelley lived on a street in Vienna, Va., where Mr. Hanssen had once lived
while he was a Russian spy, and Mr. Kelley jogged in Nottoway Park in Vienna,
the same park where Mr. Hanssen arranged a series of dead-drops with the K.G.B.
An F.B.I. team covertly broke into Mr. Kelley's house and found a map of
Nottoway Park with X's marked on it, which the F.B.I. was convinced was Mr.
Kelley's spy map.

When they later confronted Mr. Kelley with the map, he asked them, "Where did
you get my jogging map?" It turned out that he liked to time his runs from point
to point in the park.

Defectors play a key role.

Almost every major spy case is finally solved thanks to defectors from the other
side. The lengthy counterintelligence investigation into Mr. Ames was aided by a
Russian spy, code-named AVENGER, who provided critical information that pointed
toward Mr. Ames. The Hanssen case was also finally solved with the help of a
Russian spy who brought out K.G.B. files that helped identify Mr. Hanssen.

The C.I.A. and the F.B.I. do not like to admit that they rely so heavily on
defectors to solve their cases. But it is possible that the Trump-Russia case
may not be cracked until the C.I.A. or the F.B.I. persuades a Russian
intelligence officer to change sides and provide incriminating information.

But in such a highly politicized case that has the potential to change history,
a Russian defector will be met with enormous skepticism, even inside the
counterintelligence world. Probably the closest Cold War parallel is the bitter
case of Yuri Nosenko.

Mr. Nosenko was a K.G.B. officer who defected to the C.I.A. in 1964 and brought
with him the answer to one of the biggest mysteries of modern times: Was the
Soviet Union responsible for the assassination of President John F. Kennedy? At
the time, the C.I.A. was not certain, since Lee Harvey Oswald had defected to
Russia and then returned to the United States before killing Mr. Kennedy.

Mr. Nosenko told the C.I.A. that the K.G.B. was not behind the Kennedy
assassination. In fact, he said that the K.G.B. had been so alarmed after the
Kennedy assassination that it searched its own files and could not find any
evidence that Mr. Oswald had ever worked for the K.G.B.

But C.I.A. officials, led by the counterintelligence chief James Jesus Angleton,
were convinced that Mr. Nosenko was a double agent sent by Moscow to muddy the
waters. An earlier K.G.B. defector, Anatoliy Golitsyn, had convinced Mr.
Angleton that every K.G.B. defector after him would be a double agent. As a
result, Mr. Nosenko was held incommunicado for three years in a secret prison at
"the Farm," the C.I.A.'s training center at Camp Peary, near Williamsburg, Va.
After the C.I.A. finally realized Mr. Nosenko was telling the truth, he was
released in 1967, given $80,000 by the C.I.A. and resettled under a new name.

It ends with damage assessments, political posturing and untold secrets.

Even after an arrest is made, counterintelligence officials can spend several
more years trying to determine exactly how much damage was inflicted. Often that
damage assessment takes on a political tinge, because officials want to either
inflate the damage or play it down, depending on what an official or an agency
or a department stands to win or lose. That will almost certainly be true with
the Trump-Russia investigation.

Frequently, the damage assessment reports remain classified, and the American
public is never told how the story really ends.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

PHOTOS: James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, above left, said his agency was
investigating connections between the Trump campaign and Russia. At left, the
"taxi phone" on Kastanayevskaya Street in the Moscow suburbs where Paul
Stombaugh was ambushed in June 1985. And below, the identification and business
card of the former F.B.I. agent Robert Hanssen. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES; PAUL J. RICHARDS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

Related Articles


     ·    F.B.I. Is Investigating Trump's Russia Ties, Comey Confirms
     ·    Comey Confirms F.B.I. Inquiry on Russia; Sees No Evidence of
          Wiretapping
     ·    Monitoring May Have 'Incidentally' Picked Up Trump Aides, House Member
          Says


LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       March 30, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Trump, Tillerson, Venezuela: Your Thursday Evening Briefing

BYLINE: KAREN ZRAICK and SANDRA STEVENSON

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 876 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know at the end of the day.


(Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the sign-up.)

Good evening. Here's the latest.

1. A new plot twist in a Washington drama: Two White House officials helped
Devin Nunes, the Republican chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, view
the secret reports that showed incidental surveillance of the Trump campaign.

Several U.S. officials identified the pair as Ezra Cohen-Watnick, the senior
director for intelligence at the National Security Council, and Michael Ellis,
who works at the White House Counsel's Office.

In the evening, we learned that Michael Flynn, the short-lived national security
adviser, had offered to talk to congressional investigators, if he is granted
immunity.

_____

2. President Trump spent part of the day inciting fellow Republicans.

"The Freedom Caucus will hurt the entire Republican agenda if they don't get on
the team, & fast," he wrote on Twitter.

The bloc's foiling of the health care bill has rekindled the civil war between
the party's establishment and hard-line conservatives like Representative Dave
Brat of Virginia, above.

In the Senate, Vice President Mike Pence cast the deciding "yea" vote on a
measure to allow states to block funding to clinics that perform abortions.

_____

3. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is heading to his first NATO meeting, after
meeting with the Turkish president.

Mr. Tillerson showered praise on the Turkish government, which has been accused
of authoritarian tactics. But he got an earful over U.S. support for Kurdish
forces in Iraq and Syria.

_____

4. Just two months into the Trump presidency, the U.S. military is becoming more
involved in a string of complex wars that lack clear endgames -- and often
endanger civilians.

In the latest case, Mr. Trump relaxed engagement rules for counterterrorism
strikes in Somalia, preparing to escalate the campaign against the Qaeda-linked
Islamist groupShabab.

Above, a child in a cholera center in Baidoa, Somalia, just a few miles from
Shabab territory.

_____

5. Uproar on opposite sides of the world. In South Korea, the ousted president,
Park Geun-hye, was arrested on criminal charges of bribery and abuse of power.

And in Venezuela, there was a big step toward one-man rule under the leftist
president, Nicolás Maduro, as his loyalists on the Supreme Court effectively
dissolved the elected legislature.

_____

6. North Carolina's legislature passed a bill to repeal its "bathroom bill," and
the governor immediately signed it.

The repeal, ending public bathroom rules aimed at transgender people, does not
satisfy many critics.

And it's not yet clear whether it will reverse a national backlash from
companies, entertainers and sports leagues -- most notably the N.C.A.A. -- that
boycotted the state, calling the law discriminatory.

_____

7. "Sometimes I think they'll come again, even here. I have nightmares --
they're coming to kill me, they're coming to kill me."

That 13-year-old girl is one of 130,000 people who fled the Islamist militants
of Boko Haram, only to find themselves stuck along a barren desert highway in
Niger, near the Nigerian border.

It's a literal road to nowhere. Begun by a Chinese oil company, construction
stopped two years ago after attacks spiked.

_____

8. A vanguard of prosecutors across the country has jettisoned the traditional
lock-'em-up approach and embraced alternatives to harsh punishment.

Some are facing a backlash from law enforcement groups and more conservative
politicians.

Among them is Aramis Ayala, the new chief prosecutor in Orlando, who announced
this month that she would no longer seek the death penalty.

_____

9. A first for the space industry: SpaceX launched a commercial satellite into
space with the boost of a partly used rocket, a feat that may open an era of
cheaper space travel.

And it might be able to be used again, because the rocket returned in one piece,
landing on a floating platform in the Atlantic.

_____

10. A revival of the 1978 musical "Zoot Suit" is a smash hit in Los Angeles,
where fans have been showing up decked out in vintage gear.

The production, which was also adapted for film, is a fantastical reimagining of
the so-called Sleepy Lagoon murder case in 1942, in which Mexican-American
youths were unjustly convicted by a biased judge.

"We still have some of the same problems," said Leka Im, above left with her
twin sister Lekit. "This is something we all need to see to understand L.A."

_____

11. Finally, dive into a futuristic whodunit: "Ghost in the Shell," a
live-action movie adaptation of a Japanese comic book, in theaters this weekend.

The director, Rupert Sanders, discusses a scene featuring Scarlett Johansson,
who plays a cyber-enhanced character who physically walks through a geisha
robot's digital memories to figure out how the robot was hacked.

Have a great night.

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of
the briefing should help.

Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.

And don't miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and
Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.

Want to look back? Here's last night's briefing.

What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at
briefing@nytimes.com.

Related Articles


     ·    Brexit, Chris Christie, Ivanka Trump: Your Wednesday Evening Briefing


LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       March 30, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Rupert Sanders Narrates a Scene From 'Ghost in the Shell'

BYLINE: MEKADO MURPHY

SECTION: MOVIES

LENGTH: 379 words



HIGHLIGHT: The director discusses a sequence from "Ghost in the Shell" featuring
Scarlett Johansson.


A cyborg takes a deep dive in this scene from "Ghost in the Shell," the new
live-action adaptation of a Japanese comic book. Here, the cyber-enhanced Major
(Scarlett Johansson) goes inside the digital information found in a geisha robot
to solve the mystery of how it was hacked. The robot's digital memories are
visualized as Major physically walks through them. The director Rupert Sanders
discussed building robots, visualizing data onscreen and greasing up stuntmen
for the sequence. Here are excerpts from that conversation.

Tell me about the "deep dive" concept.

Major knows that to find where this robot was hacked, her subconscious ghost
needs to dive into the memory of the geisha.

Can you talk about when you use digital effects rather than practical ones here?

My default mode is in-camera as much as possible. So that geisha, for instance,
we built fully practically, and inside were animatronic brass cogs. So it was
kind of like a Swiss watch inside, and outside it was a kind of ceramic doll. It
was based on the face of the actress and model Rila Fukushima, who's got this
incredibly serene and beautiful face.

Tell me about how you wanted to visualize the dive itself, that moment Major
plunges into the digital memories.

We've seen a lot of vaults of zeros and ones in scenes like this, and I just
wanted to do something that was a more organic representation of what data would
be. I wanted to find a way of making it a bit more tactile and metaphoric than
just falling into the internet, which is kind of a hard thing to perceive. It's
historically been done not very effectively. And then "The Matrix" did so much
of it that you can't really go near it.

When she's in the memory, she walks past faded versions of people at the club.
How did you do that?

We did 3-D scans of all the people in the nightclub. And then that data was kind
of eroded. It took a while to get the erosion right.

And then she finds herself caught up in agitated data. Tell me your approach to
that.

I wanted to make that human and organic, so it was represented by stunt men
covered in black goop and translucent clothes who were grabbing and ripping at
Major. Then we digitally multiplied the stunt men, as it was important to us to
feel that it was a kind of infinite sea of agitated data.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2017 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

What Cold War Intrigue Can Tell Us About the Trump-Russia Inquiry

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1621 words


WASHINGTON -- It began with evidence of a breach of the Democratic National
Committee's computers and has now evolved into a sprawling counterintelligence
investigation to determine whether there was any coordination between members of
Donald J. Trump's presidential campaign staff and the Russian government,
perhaps even influencing the 2016 election.

When James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, went before Congress on March 20 and
confirmed the existence of the Trump-Russia investigation, it echoed of the Cold
War investigations in which the bureau and the C.I.A. searched for agents hidden
in the government who had spied for Moscow.

A look back at those Cold War cases may reveal lessons for today's
investigators. Above all, those past cases show it could take years before the
new investigation uncovers any answers.

It starts with an unexplained incident.

Spy hunts usually begin with an unexplained incident. In the Trump-Russia case,
there was the hacking of the D.N.C.'s computers. In 1985, there was an arrest on
the streets of Moscow.

In June 1985, Burton Gerber, the chief of the Soviet-East European division of
the Central Intelligence Agency, was about to sit down to dinner at his home in
Washington when he received devastating news. Paul Stombaugh, a C.I.A. case
officer, had just been arrested by the K.G.B. in Moscow. Mr. Stombaugh had been
caught while he was on a clandestine mission to meet the C.I.A.'s most important
Russian spy, Adolf Tolkachev, a scientist at a secret military design facility
who had been providing the Americans with top-secret information about Soviet
weapons systems. Mr. Gerber knew that Mr. Stombaugh's arrest meant that Mr.
Tolkachev, an agent the C.I.A. had code-named GTVANQUISH, had certainly been
arrested as well.

The arrest and subsequent execution of Mr. Tolkachev was the most damaging of a
series of mysterious spy losses suffered by the C.I.A. in 1985. In fact, there
was so much espionage activity between the C.I.A. and the K.G.B. that burst into
public view in 1985 that it became known as the Year of the Spy.

But why?

Debate swirled inside the cloistered world of American counterintelligence.
Could all the spy losses be blamed on C.I.A. incompetence? Or had they resulted
from something more sinister, like a Russian mole inside the agency?

That 1985 debate has in some ways been mirrored in the public debate about the
hacking of the D.N.C. during the 2016 presidential campaign. Did some hacker
simply take advantage of the committee's cyber-incompetence, or was an American
political party the specific and premeditated target of Russian intelligence?

A mosaic of clues creates a trail.

It took years for counterintelligence officials at the C.I.A. and the F.B.I. to
put the pieces together and finally solve the puzzle of 1985. Eventually, they
realized that they had been confused because there were so many investigative
threads to try to follow at once. For example, in August 1985 -- just two months
after Mr. Stombaugh's arrest -- a K.G.B. officer, Vitaly Yurchenko, defected to
the United States, and identified a C.I.A. officer, Edward Lee Howard, as a
Russian spy. Mr. Howard escaped to Russia, and Mr. Yurchenko then redefected to
Moscow.

American officials were left to wonder whether Mr. Howard had been responsible
for the spy losses -- and if Mr. Yurchenko's defection had been genuine or
whether he had been ordered by the K.G.B. to defect in order to point them
toward Mr. Howard and confuse the Americans.

Ultimately, the C.I.A. and the F.B.I. discovered that it had been difficult to
determine what was causing all of the losses because the Russians had more than
one mole hidden in the United States government. Both Aldrich Ames, a C.I.A.
case officer, and Robert Hanssen, an F.B.I. agent, began spying for the Soviets
in 1985. Both gave Moscow the names of Soviets working for the United States,
but Mr. Ames and Mr. Hanssen didn't give the Russians the same exact
information.

It was only after Mr. Ames was arrested in 1994 that counterintelligence
officials realized there had to be another mole, because Mr. Ames had not known
certain things that had been compromised, including the existence of an
espionage investigation of a State Department official, Felix Bloch. After Mr.
Ames was arrested, the United States secretly began a new mole hunt, which
ultimately led to the arrest of Mr. Hanssen in 2001.

Thus, the counterintelligence investigations into the 1985 losses lasted 16
years.

Like their Cold War predecessors, American counterintelligence investigators
today face the daunting task of trying to unravel myriad business and personal
connections between the Russian government and other Russian entities and people
associated with the Trump campaign. It is certain to take officials time to
determine which connections are the most significant to their investigation.

Turf wars ensue.

Counterintelligence investigations are conducted jointly by the C.I.A. and the
F.B.I., with support from other agencies like the National Security Agency.
Today, the new Trump-Russia investigation is being conducted by a joint
interagency task force, as were the spy hunts of the Cold War.

But interagency counterintelligence operations are often bogged down by
competition over jurisdiction, which can lead to frustrating bureaucratic delays
and sometimes missed opportunities.

Turf wars badly slowed the investigation of Mr. Hanssen and allowed him to
continue to spy until long after the Cold War.

For years, the F.B.I. was convinced that the mole they were hunting was another
C.I.A. officer like Mr. Ames, and refused to believe it was possible that an
F.B.I. agent was a traitor.

Their fixation on the C.I.A. led investigators to focus on Brian J. Kelley, a
longtime C.I.A. counterintelligence officer. The F.B.I.'s obsession with Mr.
Kelley was reinforced because of a series of incredible similarities between his
life and Mr. Hanssen's.

Mr. Kelley, like Mr. Hanssen, had known about the investigation of Mr. Bloch.
Mr. Kelley lived on a street in Vienna, Va., where Mr. Hanssen had once lived
while he was a Russian spy, and Mr. Kelley jogged in Nottoway Park in Vienna,
the same park where Mr. Hanssen arranged a series of dead-drops with the K.G.B.
An F.B.I. team covertly broke into Mr. Kelley's house and found a map of
Nottoway Park with X's marked on it, which the F.B.I. was convinced was Mr.
Kelley's spy map.

When they later confronted Mr. Kelley with the map, he asked them, ''Where did
you get my jogging map?'' It turned out that he liked to time his runs from
point to point in the park.

Defectors play a key role.

Almost every major spy case is finally solved thanks to defectors from the other
side. The lengthy counterintelligence investigation into Mr. Ames was aided by a
Russian spy, code-named AVENGER, who provided critical information that pointed
toward Mr. Ames. The Hanssen case was also finally solved with the help of a
Russian spy who brought out K.G.B. files that helped identify Mr. Hanssen.

The C.I.A. and the F.B.I. do not like to admit that they rely so heavily on
defectors to solve their cases. But it is possible that the Trump-Russia case
may not be cracked until the C.I.A. or the F.B.I. persuades a Russian
intelligence officer to change sides and provide incriminating information.

But in such a highly politicized case that has the potential to change history,
a Russian defector will be met with enormous skepticism, even inside the
counterintelligence world. Probably the closest Cold War parallel is the bitter
case of Yuri Nosenko.

Mr. Nosenko was a K.G.B. officer who defected to the C.I.A. in 1964 and brought
with him the answer to one of the biggest mysteries of modern times: Was the
Soviet Union responsible for the assassination of President John F. Kennedy? At
the time, the C.I.A. was not certain, since Lee Harvey Oswald had defected to
Russia and then returned to the United States before killing Mr. Kennedy.

Mr. Nosenko told the C.I.A. that the K.G.B. was not behind the Kennedy
assassination. In fact, he said that the K.G.B. had been so alarmed after the
Kennedy assassination that it searched its own files and could not find any
evidence that Mr. Oswald had ever worked for the K.G.B.

But C.I.A. officials, led by the counterintelligence chief James Jesus Angleton,
were convinced that Mr. Nosenko was a double agent sent by Moscow to muddy the
waters. An earlier K.G.B. defector, Anatoliy Golitsyn, had convinced Mr.
Angleton that every K.G.B. defector after him would be a double agent. As a
result, Mr. Nosenko was held incommunicado for three years in a secret prison at
''the Farm,'' the C.I.A.'s training center at Camp Peary, near Williamsburg, Va.
After the C.I.A. finally realized Mr. Nosenko was telling the truth, he was
released in 1967, given $80,000 by the C.I.A. and resettled under a new name.

It ends with damage assessments, political posturing and untold secrets.

Even after an arrest is made, counterintelligence officials can spend several
more years trying to determine exactly how much damage was inflicted. Often that
damage assessment takes on a political tinge, because officials want to either
inflate the damage or play it down, depending on what an official or an agency
or a department stands to win or lose. That will almost certainly be true with
the Trump-Russia investigation.

Frequently, the damage assessment reports remain classified, and the American
public is never told how the story really ends.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, above left, said his
agency was investigating connections between the Trump campaign and Russia. At
left, the ''taxi phone'' on Kastanayevskaya Street in the Moscow suburbs where
Paul Stombaugh was ambushed in June 1985. And below, the identification and
business card of the former F.B.I. agent Robert Hanssen. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC
THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 PAUL J. RICHARDS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 31, 2017 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Rupert Sanders Narrates a Scene From 'Ghost in the Shell'

BYLINE: By MEKADO MURPHY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 383 words


A cyborg takes a deep dive in this scene from ''Ghost in the Shell,'' the new
live-action adaptation of a Japanese comic book. Here, the cyber-enhanced Major
(Scarlett Johansson) goes inside the digital information found in a geisha robot
to solve the mystery of how it was hacked. The robot's digital memories are
visualized as Major physically walks through them. The director Rupert Sanders
discussed building robots, visualizing data onscreen and greasing up stuntmen
for the sequence. Here are excerpts from that conversation.

Tell me about the ''deep dive'' concept.

Major knows that to find where this robot was hacked, her subconscious ghost
needs to dive into the memory of the geisha.

Can you talk about when you use digital effects rather than practical ones here?

My default mode is in-camera as much as possible. So that geisha, for instance,
we built fully practically, and inside were animatronic brass cogs. So it was
kind of like a Swiss watch inside, and outside it was a kind of ceramic doll. It
was based on the face of the actress and model Rila Fukushima, who's got this
incredibly serene and beautiful face.

Tell me about how you wanted to visualize the dive itself, that moment Major
plunges into the digital memories.

We've seen a lot of vaults of zeros and ones in scenes like this, and I just
wanted to do something that was a more organic representation of what data would
be. I wanted to find a way of making it a bit more tactile and metaphoric than
just falling into the internet, which is kind of a hard thing to perceive. It's
historically been done not very effectively. And then ''The Matrix'' did so much
of it that you can't really go near it.

When she's in the memory, she walks past faded versions of people at the club.
How did you do that?

We did 3-D scans of all the people in the nightclub. And then that data was kind
of eroded. It took a while to get the erosion right.

And then she finds herself caught up in agitated data. Tell me your approach to
that.

I wanted to make that human and organic, so it was represented by stunt men
covered in black goop and translucent clothes who were grabbing and ripping at
Major. Then we digitally multiplied the stunt men, as it was important to us to
feel that it was a kind of infinite sea of agitated data.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/30/movies/rupert-sanders-narrates-a-scene-from-gh
ost-in-the-shell.html

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         April 3, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

North Korea's Nuclear Strength, Encapsulated in an Online Ad for Lithium

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1502 words



HIGHLIGHT: An ad for the bomb-boosting isotope lithium 6 suggests how far the
North's nuclear program has come, and how difficult President Trump's vow to
halt it will be.


WASHINGTON -- The online ad reads like something only a metallurgist could love:
an offer to sell 22 pounds of highly pure lithium 6 every month, set for
delivery from the port of Dandong, China.

But it caught the attention of intelligence agencies around the world for a
simple reason: Lithium 6 offers a fast way to turn an ordinary atom bomb into a
hydrogen bomb, magnifying its destructive power by up to 1,000 times. The seller
listed in the ad -- who even provided his cellphone number -- was identified in
a recent United Nations report as the third secretary in the North Korean
Embassy in Beijing.

When President Trump meets with President Xi Jinping in Florida this week,
administration officials say, his top agenda item will be pressing China to sign
on to the most powerful set of economic sanctions ever imposed on North Korea
over its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs. Mr. Trump has
repeatedly vowed to stop the North's nuclear efforts, telling The Financial
Times in an interview published on Sunday: "If China is not going to solve North
Korea, we will. That is all that I am telling you."

But experts say the offer to sell excess lithium is evidence that North Korea
has produced so much of the precious material that it is too late to prevent the
nation from becoming an advanced nuclear power.

If that is the case, Mr. Trump may find little success in borrowing from the
playbook of the four presidents before him, who fruitlessly tried, with
differing mixes of negotiations, sanctions, sabotage and threats of unilateral
strikes, to force the North to give up its program. And it remains unclear
exactly what the president meant when he said he would "solve" the problem of
North Korea.

While experts doubt the declaration last year by Kim Jong-un, the North's
leader, that the country had tested a hydrogen bomb, intelligence estimates
provided to Mr. Trump in recent weeks say the mercurial young ruler is working
on it. The acceleration of Mr. Kim's atomic and missile programs -- the North
launched four ballistic missiles in a test last month -- is meant to prove that
the country is, and will remain, a nuclear power to be reckoned with.

For Mr. Trump, that reckoning is coming even as his strategy to halt the North's
program remains incomplete and largely unexplained, and as some experts say the
very idea of stopping Pyongyang's efforts is doomed to failure. Mr. Trump's
budget is expected to include more money for antimissile defenses, and officials
say he is continuing a cyber- and electronic-warfare effort to sabotage North
Korea's missile launches.

The president's insistence that he will solve the North Korea problem makes it
hard to imagine a shift toward acceptance of its arsenal. But in private, even
some of his closest aides have begun to question whether the goal of "complete,
verifiable, irreversible disarmament" -- the policy of the Obama and Bush
administrations -- is feasible anymore.

"We need to change the fundamental objective of our policy, because North Korea
will never willingly give up its program," Michael J. Morell, a former deputy
director of the C.I.A., and James A. Winnefeld Jr., a retired admiral and a
former vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, wrote last week on the
website The Cipher Brief.

"Washington's belief that this was possible was a key mistake in our initial
policy thinking," added the two men, experienced hands at countering the North.
The United States and China, they argue, should abandon the idea of
denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and turn to old-fashioned deterrence.

Similarly, Robert Einhorn, a former senior State Department nonproliferation
expert, writes in a new report for the Brookings Institution that a "dual-track
strategy involving both pressure and negotiations" would be more likely to
"bring China on board." The technique is reminiscent of what was used to push
Iran into nuclear negotiations.

But Mr. Einhorn cautioned that "while the complete denuclearization of North
Korea would be the ultimate goal of negotiations, there is virtually no prospect
that it could be achieved in the near term."

The Chinese appear unlikely to make more than token efforts to squeeze North
Korea, fearing the repercussions if the regime were to collapse, and Mr. Kim has
made it clear that he is not about to negotiate away what he sees as his main
protection against being overthrown by the United States and its allies.

"China will either decide to help us with North Korea, or they won't," Mr. Trump
said in the Financial Times interview. If the Chinese fail to act, he added, "it
won't be good for anyone."

It is unclear how close North Korea is to constructing a hydrogen bomb. But
Siegfried S. Hecker, a Stanford University professor who once directed the Los
Alamos weapons laboratory in New Mexico, and has visited the North's main
nuclear complex, said the ad for lithium 6, while surprising, was a reminder
that North Korea, though a backward country, was still capable of major
technical advances.

"I can't imagine they're not working on true thermonuclear weapons," Dr. Hecker
said in an interview.

As Mr. Trump and Mr. Xi meet on Thursday and Friday, Mr. Kim, on the other side
of the world, may have a plan of his own for the summit meeting: Satellite
photographs suggest he is preparing for a sixth nuclear test. Workers have dug a
deep tunnel, which can block radioactive leaks if carefully sealed, leaving
intelligence experts struggling to estimate the North's progress.

American intelligence officials, and their South Korean and Japanese
counterparts, are debating whether the next blasts will mark major steps down
the road to a true thermonuclear weapon.

The lithium 6 ad is evidence that Mr. Kim is following a road map that the
United States drew up back in 1954. That was when it tested its first
thermonuclear weapon fueled by the isotope. The blast, code-named Bravo, was the
most powerful the United States ever detonated. In minutes, its mushroom cloud
rose to a height of 25 miles.

Though difficult to make, hydrogen bombs became the symbol of Cold War power --
they are awesomely destructive and relatively cheap. The weapon relies on a
small atom bomb, inside a thick metal casing, that works like a match to ignite
the hydrogen fuel. For decades, bomb makers have used lithium 6 as a standard
way of making hydrogen fuel for nuclear arms.

Last month, two Los Alamos scientists argued that the rocky North Korean test
site the United States monitors could confine explosions of up to 282 kilotons
-- roughly 20 times as strong as the Hiroshima blast. Although a hydrogen bomb
can be that powerful, so can large atom bombs. Previously, the largest blasts at
the site were in the Hiroshima range.

When Mr. Kim declared last year that the North had set off a hydrogen bomb,
there was no evidence to back up the claim, such as enormous shock waves felt
around the globe. More likely, experts said, Mr. Kim's scientists had created a
"boosted" atomic bomb in which a tiny bit of thermonuclear fuel resulted in a
slightly higher explosive yield but fell well short of a true hydrogen bomb.

"It's possible that North Korea has already boosted," said Gregory S. Jones, a
scientist at the RAND Corporation who analyzes nuclear issues. Like other
experts, he pointed to the nation's two nuclear blasts last year as possible
tests of small boosted arms.

A next logical step would be for the North to turn the material it was
advertising online, lithium 6, into a more complex kind of thermonuclear fuel
arrangement for a much more powerful bomb. The first Soviet thermonuclear test,
in 1953, used that method. It was more than 25 times as strong as the Hiroshima
bomb.

"It's a big step," Dr. Hecker, the Stanford professor, said of a true hydrogen
bomb, adding that it was perhaps beyond the North's skill. But over all, he
said, the North has shown technical savvy in carefully pacing its nuclear tests,
suggesting that it would eventually learn the main secrets of nuclear arms.

"They've done five tests in 10 years," he said. "You can learn a lot in that
time."

As for the excess lithium 6, any interested buyers may have a hard time
answering the ad.

The street address given in the advertisement does not exist. The phone has been
disconnected or no one answers. But if the operation really is being run out of
the North Korean Embassy in Beijing, it should not be hard for Mr. Xi to find
out: It is about two and a half miles down the road from the compound where he
lives.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

David E. Sanger reported from Washington, and William J. Broad from New York.

Related Articles


     ·    North Korea Launches Missile, but Test Appears to Fail
     ·    A Eureka Moment for Two Times Reporters: North Korea's Missile
          Launches Were Failing Too Often
     ·    Trump Inherits a Secret Cyberwar Against North Korean Missiles
     ·    North Korea's Launch of Ballistic Missiles Raises New Worries
     ·    Kim Jong-un Says North Korea Is Preparing to Test Long-Range Missile


LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        April 4, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Learning to Think Like a Computer

BYLINE: LAURA PAPPANO

SECTION: EDUCATION; edlife

LENGTH: 2879 words



HIGHLIGHT: Computational thinking -- approaching problems the way a programmer
would -- is captivating educators, from kindergarten teachers to college
professors.


In "The Beauty and Joy of Computing," the course he helped conceive for
nonmajors at the University of California, Berkeley, Daniel Garcia explains an
all-important concept in computer science -- abstraction -- in terms of
milkshakes.

"There is a reason when you go to the 'Joy of Cooking' and you want to make a
strawberry milkshake, you don't look under 'strawberry milkshake,' " he said.
Rather, there is a recipe for milkshakes that instructs you to add ice cream,
milk and fruit of your choice. While earlier cookbooks may have had separate
recipes for strawberry milkshakes, raspberry milkshakes and boysenberry
milkshakes, eventually, he imagines, someone said, "Why don't we collapse that
into one milkshake recipe?"

"The idea of abstraction," he said, "is to hide the details." It requires
recognizing patterns and distilling complexity into a precise, clear summary.
It's like the countdown to a space launch that runs through a checklist -- life
support, fuel, payload -- in which each check represents perhaps 100 checks that
have been performed.

Concealing layers of information makes it possible to get at the intersections
of things, improving aspects of a complicated system without understanding and
grappling with each part. Abstraction allows advances without redesigning from
scratch.

It is a cool and useful idea that, along with other cool and useful computer
science ideas, has people itching to know more. It's obvious that computers have
become indispensable problem-solving partners, not to mention personal
companions. But it's suddenly not enough to be a fluent user of software
interfaces. Understanding what lies behind the computer's seeming magic now
seems crucial. In particular, "computational thinking" is captivating educators,
from kindergarten teachers to college professors, offering a new language and
orientation to tackle problems in other areas of life.

This promise -- as well as a job market hungry for coding -- has fed enrollments
in classes like the one at Berkeley, taken by 500 students a year. Since 2011,
the number of computer science majors has more than doubled, according to the
Computing Research Association. At Stanford, Princeton and Tufts, computer
science is now the most popular major. More striking, though, is the appeal
among nonmajors. Between 2005 and 2015, enrollment of nonmajors in introductory,
mid- and upper-level computer science courses grew by 177 percent, 251 percent
and 143 percent, respectively.

In the fall, the College Board introduced a new Advanced Placement course,
Computer Science Principles, focused not on learning to code but on using code
to solve problems. And WGBH, the PBS station in Boston, is using National
Science Foundation money to help develop a program for 3- to 5-year-olds in
which four cartoon monkeys get into scrapes and then "get out of the messes by
applying computational thinking," said Marisa Wolsky, executive producer of
children's media. "We see it as a groundbreaking curriculum that is not being
done yet."

Computational thinking is not new. Seymour Papert, a pioneer in artificial
intelligence and an M.I.T. professor, used the term in 1980 to envision how
children could use computers to learn. But Jeannette M. Wing, in charge of basic
research at Microsoft and former professor at Carnegie Mellon, gets credit for
making it fashionable. In 2006, on the heels of the dot-com bust and plunging
computer science enrollments, Dr. Wing wrote a trade journal piece,
"Computational Thinking." It was intended as a salve for a struggling field.

"Things were so bad that some universities were thinking of closing down
computer science departments," she recalled. Some now consider her article a
manifesto for embracing a computing mind-set.

Like any big idea, there is disagreement about computational thinking -- its
broad usefulness as well as what fits in the circle. Skills typically include
recognizing patterns and sequences, creating algorithms, devising tests for
finding and fixing errors, reducing the general to the precise and expanding the
precise to the general.

It requires reframing research, said Shriram Krishnamurthi, a computer science
professor at Brown, so that "instead of formulating a question to a human being,
I formulate a question to a data set." For example, instead of asking if the
media is biased toward liberals, pose the question as: Are liberals identified
as liberal in major newspapers more often or less often than conservatives are
identified as conservative?

Dr. Krishnamurthi helped create "Introduction to Computation for the Humanities
and Social Sciences" more than a decade ago because he wanted students "early in
their undergrad careers to learn a new mode of thinking that they could take
back to their discipline." Capped at 20 students, the course now has a waitlist
of more than 100.

Just as Charles Darwin's theory of evolution is drafted to explain politics and
business, Dr. Wing argued for broad use of computer ideas. And not just for
work. Applying computational thinking, "we can improve the efficiencies of our
daily lives," she said in an interview, "and make ourselves a little less
stressed out."

Computing practices like reformulating tough problems into ones we know how to
solve, seeing trade-offs between time and space, and pipelining (allowing the
next action in line to begin before the first completes the sequence) have many
applications, she said.

Consider the buffet line. "When you go to a lunch buffet, you see the forks and
knives are the first station," she said. "I find that very annoying. They should
be last. You shouldn't have to balance your plate while you have your fork and
knife." Dr. Wing, who equates a child filling her backpack to caching (how
computers retrieve and store information needed later), sees the buffet's
inefficiency as a failure to apply logical thinking and sequencing.

Computational thinking, she said, can aid a basic task like planning a trip --
breaking it into booking flights, hotels, car rental -- or be used "for
something as complicated as health care or policy decision-making." Identifying
subproblems and describing their relationship to the larger problem allows for
targeted work. "Once you have well-defined interfaces," she said, "you can
ignore the complexity of the rest of the problem."

Can computational thinking make us better at work and life? Dr. Krishnamurthi is
sometimes seduced. "Before I go grocery shopping, I sort my list by aisles in
the store," he said. Sharing the list on the app Trello, his family can "bucket
sort" items by aisle (pasta and oils, canned goods, then baking and spices),
optimizing their path through Whole Foods. It limits backtracking and reduces
spontaneous, "i.e., junk," purchases, he said.

Despite his chosen field, Dr. Krishnamurthi worries about the current cultural
tendency to view computer science knowledge as supreme, better than that gained
in other fields. Right now, he said, "we are just overly intoxicated with
computer science."

It is certainly worth wondering if some applications of computational thinking
are trivial, unnecessary or a Stepford Wife-like abdication of devilishly random
judgment.

Alexander Torres, a senior majoring in English at Stanford, has noted how the
campus's proximity to Google has lured all but the rare student to computer
science courses. He's a holdout. But "I don't see myself as having skills
missing," he said. In earning his degree he has practiced critical thinking,
problem solving, analysis and making logical arguments. "When you are analyzing
a Dickinson or Whitman or Melville, you have to unpack that language and
synthesize it back."

There is no reliable research showing that computing makes one more creative or
more able to problem-solve. It won't make you better at something unless that
something is explicitly taught, said Mark Guzdial, a professor in the School of
Interactive Computing at Georgia Tech who studies computing in education. "You
can't prove a negative," he said, but in decades of research no one has found
that skills automatically transfer.

Still, he added, for the same reasons people should understand biology,
chemistry or physics, "it makes a lot of sense to understand computing in our
lives." Increasing numbers of people must program in their jobs, even if it's
just Microsoft Excel. "Solving problems with computers happens to all of us
every day," he said. How to make the skills available broadly is "an interesting
challenge."

"It's like being a diplomat and learning Spanish; I feel like it's essential,"
said Greer Brigham, a Brown freshman who plans to major in political science.
He's taking the course designed by Dr. Krishnamurthi, which this term is being
taught by a graduate student in robotics named Stephen Brawner.

On a March morning at the Brown computer science center, Mr. Brawner projected a
student's homework assignment on the screen. Did anyone notice a problem? Nary a
humanities hand was raised. Finally, a young woman suggested "centimeters" and
"kilograms" could be abbreviated. Fine, but not enough.

Mr. Brawner broke the silence and pointed out long lines of code reaching the
far side of the screen. With a practiced flurry, he inserted backslashes and hit
"return" repeatedly, which drew the symbols into a neat block. It may all be
directions to a machine, but computer scientists care a great deal about visual
elegance. As Mr. Brawner cut out repeated instructions, he shared that "whenever
we define a constant, we want that at the top of our code." He then explained
the new assignment: write a program to play "rock, paper, scissors" against a
computer.

Mili Mitra, a junior majoring in public policy and economics who sat with a
MacBook on her lap, would not have considered this class a year ago. But seeing
group research projects always being handed off to someone with computing
knowledge, she decided that she "didn't want to keep passing them along." She
has learned to write basic code and fetch data sets through the internet to
analyze things she's interested in, such as how geographic proximity shapes
voting patterns in the United Nations General Assembly.

Despite finding interactions with a computer much like "explaining things to a
toddler," Ms. Mitra credits the class for instilling the habit of "going step by
step and building a solution." She admits to being an impatient learner: "I jump
ahead. In C.S. you don't have a choice. If you miss a step, you mess up
everything."

Just as children are drilled on the scientific method -- turn observations into
a hypothesis, design a control group, do an experiment to test your theory --
the basics of working with computers is being cast as a teachable blueprint. One
thing making this possible is that communicating with computers has become
easier.

"Block" programming languages like Scratch, released by the M.I.T. Media Lab a
decade ago, hide text strings that look like computer keys run amok. That makes
coding look less scary. Instead of keyboard letters and symbols, you might
select from a menu and drag a color-coded block that says "say ( ) for ( ) secs"
or "play note ( ) for ( ) beats." The colors and shapes correspond to categories
like "sound" or "motion"; the blocks can be fit together like stacked puzzle
pieces to order instructions. Students use this to, say, design a game.

One need not be a digital Dr. Doolittle, fluent in hard-core programming
languages like Java or Python, to code. Block languages cut out the need to
memorize commands, which vary depending on the computer language, because the
block "is read just the way you think about it," Dr. Garcia said. Students in
his Berkeley course use the block language Snap! for assignments -- he doesn't
teach Python until the last two weeks, and then just so they can take
higher-level courses. "We tell them, 'You already know how to program,' " he
said, because the steps are the same.

Computer Science A, which teaches Java, is the fastest-growing Advanced
Placement course. (The number of students taking the exam in 2016 rose 18
percent over 2015 and nearly tripled in a decade.) But professors complained
that "Java was not the right way" to attract a diverse group of students, said
Trevor Packer, head of the A.P. program, so a new course was developed.

The course, Computer Science Principles, is modeled on college versions for
nonmajors. It lets teachers pick any coding language and has a gentler vibe.
There is an exam, but students also submit projects "more similar to a studio
art portfolio," Mr. Packer said. The course covers working with data and
understanding the internet and cyber security, and it teaches "transferable
skills," he said, like formulating precise questions. That's a departure from
what the College Board found in many high schools: "They were learning how to
keyboard, how to use Microsoft applications." The goal is that the new course
will be offered in every high school in the country.

President Obama's "Computer Science for All" initiative, officially launched
last year, resulted in educators, lawmakers and computer science advocates
spreading the gospel of coding. It also nudged more states to count computer
science toward high school graduation requirements. Thirty-two states and the
District of Columbia now do, up from 12 in 2013, according to Code.org. It's
what Dr. Wing had hoped for when she advocated in her 2006 article that, along
with reading, writing and arithmetic "we should add computational thinking to
every child's analytical ability."

In an airy kindergarten classroom at Eliot-Pearson Children's School, in the
Tufts University Department of Child Study and Human Development, children
program with actual blocks. Marina Umaschi Bers, a child development and
computer science professor, created wooden blocks that bear bar codes with
instructions such as "forward," "spin" and "shake" that are used to program
robots -- small, wheeled carts with built-in scanners -- by sequencing the
blocks, then scanning them. Each "program" starts with a green "begin" block and
finishes with a red "end."

Coding for the youngest students has become the trendy pedagogy, with plentiful
toys and apps like Dr. Bers's blocks. Dr. Bers, who with M.I.T. collaborators
developed the block language ScratchJr, is evangelical about coding. Learning
the language of machines, she said, is as basic as writing is to being
proficient in a foreign language. "You are able to write a love poem, you are
able to write a birthday card, you are able to use language in many expressive
ways," she said. "You are not just reading; you are producing."

Peer-reviewed studies by Dr. Bers show that after programming the robots,
youngsters are better at sequencing picture stories. Anecdotally, she said, when
they ask children to list steps for brushing teeth, they get just a few, "but
after being exposed to this work, they'll have 15 or 20 steps."

Dr. Bers embeds computing in activities familiar to young children like
inventing stories, doing dances and making art. At the Tufts school on a recent
morning, children puzzled over a question: How does a robot celebrate spring?

"He's going to dance, and then he will pretend that he is wet," offered Hallel
Cohen-Goldberg, a kindergartner with a mane of curls.

Solina Gonzalez, coloring a brown, blue and red circle with markers, peered
soberly through pink-framed glasses: "He just does a lollipop dance." Solina's
partner, Oisin Stephens, fretted about the root beer lollipop drawing she had
taped to a block. "The robot won't be able to read this," he said. (It's an
invalid input.)

As they lurched around the carpet on their knees, the children executed computer
science concepts like breaking instructions into sequenced commands, testing and
debugging. One team used "repeat" and "stop repeat" blocks, forming a
programming "loop," a sequence of instructions that is continually repeated
until a certain condition is reached.

It may be a leap to think of talking to machines as child's play. But when Dr.
Bers chats with students as they sequence blocks, they hardly notice they are
coding. "They say, 'Well, I'm not programming,' " she said.

Consciously or not, this next generation may be effortlessly absorbing the
computational thinking skills so many covet, and in the process refining what we
mean by digital native.

Laura Pappano is author of "Inside School Turnarounds: Urgent Hopes, Unfolding
Stories."

PHOTOS: HANDS-ON PROGRAMMING: A kindergartner organizes blocks into a sequence
of commands at the Eliot-Pearson Children's School at Tufts University.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE MAHONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED18); TOO MANY LAPTOPS
CAN FOIL THE SORTING: In his computer science course for nonmajors at the
University of California, Berkeley, Dan Garcia wants students to understand why
computers are "not magical." Students sort a deck of shuffled cards into ordered
suits while being timed. They sort solo, then in pairs, then fours, then eights.
But more people don't always make it go faster. Amdahl's law offers an equation
to show that even with many computers tackling a problem, the time to complete
it does not decrease linearly. There are bottlenecks. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM
WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED19)

Related Articles


     ·    Where Non-Techies Can Get With the Programming


LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 4, 2017 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ad From North Korea Yields Nuclear Clues

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD; David E. Sanger reported from
Washington, and William J. Broad from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1446 words


WASHINGTON -- The online ad reads like something only a metallurgist could love:
an offer to sell 22 pounds of highly pure lithium 6 every month, set for
delivery from the port of Dandong, China.

But it caught the attention of intelligence agencies around the world for a
simple reason: Lithium 6 offers a fast way to turn an ordinary atom bomb into a
hydrogen bomb, magnifying its destructive power by up to 1,000 times. The seller
listed in the ad -- who even provided his cellphone number -- was identified in
a recent United Nations report as the third secretary in the North Korean
Embassy in Beijing.

When President Trump meets with President Xi Jinping in Florida this week,
administration officials say, his top agenda item will be pressing China to sign
on to the most powerful set of economic sanctions ever imposed on North Korea
over its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs. Mr. Trump has
repeatedly vowed to stop the North's nuclear efforts, telling The Financial
Times in an interview published on Sunday: ''If China is not going to solve
North Korea, we will. That is all that I am telling you.''

But experts say the offer to sell excess lithium is evidence that North Korea
has produced so much of the precious material that it is too late to prevent the
nation from becoming an advanced nuclear power.

If that is the case, Mr. Trump may find little success in borrowing from the
playbook of the four presidents before him, who fruitlessly tried, with
differing mixes of negotiations, sanctions, sabotage and threats of unilateral
strikes, to force the North to give up its program. And it remains unclear
exactly what the president meant when he said he would ''solve'' the problem of
North Korea.

While experts doubt the declaration last year by Kim Jong-un, the North's
leader, that the country had tested a hydrogen bomb, intelligence estimates
provided to Mr. Trump in recent weeks say the mercurial young ruler is working
on it. The acceleration of Mr. Kim's atomic and missile programs -- the North
launched four ballistic missiles in a test last month -- is meant to prove that
the country is, and will remain, a nuclear power to be reckoned with.

For Mr. Trump, that reckoning is coming even as his strategy to halt the North's
program remains incomplete and largely unexplained, and as some experts say the
very idea of stopping Pyongyang's efforts is doomed to failure. Mr. Trump's
budget is expected to include more money for antimissile defenses, and officials
say he is continuing a cyber- and electronic-warfare effort to sabotage North
Korea's missile launches.

The president's insistence that he will solve the North Korea problem makes it
hard to imagine a shift toward acceptance of its arsenal. But in private, even
some of his closest aides have begun to question whether the goal of ''complete,
verifiable, irreversible disarmament'' -- the policy of the Obama and Bush
administrations -- is feasible anymore.

''We need to change the fundamental objective of our policy, because North Korea
will never willingly give up its program,'' Michael J. Morell, a former deputy
director of the C.I.A., and James A. Winnefeld Jr., a retired admiral and a
former vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, wrote last week on the
website The Cipher Brief.

''Washington's belief that this was possible was a key mistake in our initial
policy thinking,'' added the two men, experienced hands at countering the North.
The United States and China, they argue, should abandon the idea of
denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and turn to old-fashioned deterrence.

Similarly, Robert Einhorn, a former senior State Department nonproliferation
expert, writes in a new report for the Brookings Institution that a ''dual-track
strategy involving both pressure and negotiations'' would be more likely to
''bring China on board.'' The technique is reminiscent of what was used to push
Iran into nuclear negotiations.

But Mr. Einhorn cautioned that ''while the complete denuclearization of North
Korea would be the ultimate goal of negotiations, there is virtually no prospect
that it could be achieved in the near term.''

The Chinese appear unlikely to make more than token efforts to squeeze North
Korea, fearing the repercussions if the regime were to collapse, and Mr. Kim has
made it clear that he is not about to negotiate away what he sees as his main
protection against being overthrown by the United States and its allies.

''China will either decide to help us with North Korea, or they won't,'' Mr.
Trump said in the Financial Times interview. If the Chinese fail to act, he
added, ''it won't be good for anyone.''

It is unclear how close North Korea is to constructing a hydrogen bomb. But
Siegfried S. Hecker, a Stanford University professor who once directed the Los
Alamos weapons laboratory in New Mexico, and has visited the North's main
nuclear complex, said the ad for lithium 6, while surprising, was a reminder
that North Korea, though a backward country, was still capable of major
technical advances.

''I can't imagine they're not working on true thermonuclear weapons,'' Dr.
Hecker said in an interview.

As Mr. Trump and Mr. Xi meet on Thursday and Friday, Mr. Kim, on the other side
of the world, may have a plan of his own for the summit meeting: Satellite
photographs suggest he is preparing for a sixth nuclear test. Workers have dug a
deep tunnel, which can block radioactive leaks if carefully sealed, leaving
intelligence experts struggling to estimate the North's progress.

American intelligence officials, and their South Korean and Japanese
counterparts, are debating whether the next blasts will mark major steps down
the road to a true thermonuclear weapon.

The lithium 6 ad is evidence that Mr. Kim is following a road map that the
United States drew up back in 1954. That was when it tested its first
thermonuclear weapon fueled by the isotope. The blast, code-named Bravo, was the
most powerful the United States ever detonated. In minutes, its mushroom cloud
rose to a height of 25 miles.

Though difficult to make, hydrogen bombs became the symbol of Cold War power --
they are awesomely destructive and relatively cheap. The weapon relies on a
small atom bomb, inside a thick metal casing, that works like a match to ignite
the hydrogen fuel. For decades, bomb makers have used lithium 6 as a standard
way of making hydrogen fuel for nuclear arms.

Last month, two Los Alamos scientists argued that the rocky North Korean test
site the United States monitors could confine explosions of up to 282 kilotons
-- roughly 20 times as strong as the Hiroshima blast. Although a hydrogen bomb
can be that powerful, so can large atom bombs. Previously, the largest blasts at
the site were in the Hiroshima range.

When Mr. Kim declared last year that the North had set off a hydrogen bomb,
there was no evidence to back up the claim, such as enormous shock waves felt
around the globe. More likely, experts said, Mr. Kim's scientists had created a
''boosted'' atomic bomb in which a tiny bit of thermonuclear fuel resulted in a
slightly higher explosive yield but fell well short of a true hydrogen bomb.

''It's possible that North Korea has already boosted,'' said Gregory S. Jones, a
scientist at the RAND Corporation who analyzes nuclear issues. Like other
experts, he pointed to the nation's two nuclear blasts last year as possible
tests of small boosted arms.

A next logical step would be for the North to turn the material it was
advertising online, lithium 6, into a more complex kind of thermonuclear fuel
arrangement for a much more powerful bomb. The first Soviet thermonuclear test,
in 1953, used that method. It was more than 25 times as strong as the Hiroshima
bomb.

''It's a big step,'' Dr. Hecker, the Stanford professor, said of a true hydrogen
bomb, adding that it was perhaps beyond the North's skill. But over all, he
said, the North has shown technical savvy in carefully pacing its nuclear tests,
suggesting that it would eventually learn the main secrets of nuclear arms.

''They've done five tests in 10 years,'' he said. ''You can learn a lot in that
time.''

As for the excess lithium 6, any interested buyers may have a hard time
answering the ad.

The street address given in the advertisement does not exist. The phone has been
disconnected or no one answers. But if the operation really is being run out of
the North Korean Embassy in Beijing, it should not be hard for Mr. Xi to find
out: It is about two and a half miles down the road from the compound where he
lives.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/03/us/politics/north-korea-nuclear-trump-china.ht
ml

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       April 5, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Facebook Announces New Ways to Prevent 'Revenge Porn'

BYLINE: NIRAJ CHOKSHI

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 371 words



HIGHLIGHT: The company is trying to address a uniquely modern and pernicious
form of harassment, which is often but not exclusively aimed at women.


The relationship may have faded long ago, but the intimate images you shared
have not. If you're lucky, your ex deleted them. If you're not, the photos have
sprouted up online.

Victims of such nonconsensual posts, often referred to as "revenge porn," now
have some help in preventing their spread: On Wednesday, Facebook announced new
artificial intelligence tools designed to keep such content, once flagged, off
its site for good.

"It's wrong, it's hurtful, and if you report it to us, we will now use A.I. and
image recognition to prevent it from being shared across all of our platforms,"
Mark Zuckerberg, the social network's founder and chief executive, said in a
Facebook post.

The tools announced on Wednesday are intended to address a uniquely modern and
pernicious form of harassment, often but not exclusively aimed at women, that
has attracted increasing attention.

In March, for example, a report that active-duty and veteran Marines had used
Facebook to share naked and private photos of thousands of women in the Marine
Corps prompted a congressional hearing and a Defense Department investigation.

The company has been sued in the past by victims of revenge pornography who
accused it of not doing enough to prevent the spread of their intimate images.

Now, when such content is reported to Facebook, it will be reviewed by a trained
member of a community standards team, most likely resulting in the image being
removed and the account of the user who posted it being disabled, Antigone
Davis, Facebook's head of global safety, said Wednesday in a post on the site.

The photo-matching technology will then work to identify and thwart the future
posting of similar images, not only on Facebook, but also to its instant
messaging service and to Instagram.

The company also published a guide on reporting and removing such intimate
images, and said that it had teamed up with safety organizations such as the
Cyber Civil Rights Initiative, which operates a hotline for victims of
nonconsensual pornography.

Related Articles


     ·    Their Intimate Photos Were Shared. Now the Marine Corps Wants Them to
          Speak Up.
     ·    Facebook Pushes Outside Law Firms to Become More Diverse
     ·    How to Log Off of Facebook Forever, With All Its Perks and Pitfalls


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        April 6, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Soon, Your Car May Be Able to Read Your Expressions;
Wheels

BYLINE: JOHN R. QUAIN

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES; wheels

LENGTH: 1411 words



HIGHLIGHT: Facial recognition and other technology are set to further
personalize the driving experience.


When you shop for cat food online, Amazon knows who you are. When you look for
the best airfares for summer vacation, Google knows who you are. Soon, when you
get behind the wheel, your car may recognize you, too.

Using cameras with facial recognition software and other biometric indicators,
automakers are looking to personalize the driving experience with cars that
stare back at you, quietly adjusting seats and driving modes. They may even
anticipate your wants and desires by playing your favorite music based on your
mood. And it's not only about convenience, but also about the possibility of
improving safety and security.

"It's not just about personalization," said Zachary Bolton, a systems and
technology engineer at Continental Automotive Group, explaining the
sophistication of such systems. "We can use the gleam, the twinkle in your eye
to determine precisely where you're looking." Engineers can then dynamically
adjust the so-called human machine interface, putting critical information, say,
about a stalled car up ahead, or the fact that you are about to exceed the speed
limit, directly in a driver's line of sight on the dashboard or in a display on
the windshield. Conversely, by tracking downward eye movements, the car could
"see" that a driver was distracted and sound a warning.

Continental has already demonstrated in-car systems that allow drivers to
register their faces using something as simple as a driver's license picture. An
interior infrared camera is used to overcome potential obstacles like
sunglasses, which would stymie a conventional video camera. Putting the camera
in the center instrument cluster also helps to pinpoint the driver's eyes, even
if she's wearing a hat. The biggest technical challenge -- glare caused by
sunlight -- can be filtered out using machine learning, Mr. Bolton said.

Once the car knows who you are, systems in vehicles like the Chrysler Portal
concept car would automatically adjust the seat for maximum comfort, select a
driving mode (for example, one driver likes to let the car do most of the work;
another likes taking control in sport mode) and suggest a destination based on
the owner's past behavior.

Watching a driver's face can also give a car important clues about that person's
state of mind. For several years, carmakers like Ford and tech companies like
Intel have been interested in determining whether a driver is happy or sad.
Depending on your mood, a car could change its tune, playing a bouncy Beach Boys
song and changing the interior lighting to improve your attitude.

Honda's NeuV concept car, for example, has a large customizable LCD dashboard
and a cloud-connected, onboard computer that uses artificial intelligence to
interact with drivers. NeuV employs what the company coyly refers to as an
"emotion engine" to grease the wheels of the conversation, and its automated
personal assistant can read "facial skin vibrations" to help it isolate the
driver's voice and better understand spoken commands.

There are practical reasons as well, designers say, for detecting a driver's
emotional state: A calm driver is a safer driver. So cars that recognize when
you are becoming angry and thus prone to road rage could potentially quell
annoying bells and chimes in the car and play some mellow jazz to soothe you.

By replacing keys and remote control fobs, biometrics like facial recognition
could also make cars more difficult to steal. In its prototype FF 91 sport
utility vehicle, the electric car start-up Faraday Future uses an external
camera mounted in the door frame to detect the car's owner and automatically
unlock the vehicle. Such techniques can create new security challenges, however.

In this digital age, our faces are everywhere: in online company profiles, on
Twitter accounts, even tagged in friends' Facebook accounts. Finding an image to
print out and foil a car's facial recognition system would not be very
difficult.

Fortunately, engineers have devised high-tech countermeasures. Stereoscopic
video cameras, for example, can tell the difference between a flat image and a
three-dimensional object. Continental's cameras measure the distance of
reflected light off various parts of a person's face, ensuring that it is a real
object rather than a high-resolution shot of the owner's visage.

"Some systems have added blink detection and aliveness detection," said Steve
Grobman, chief technology officer for security at Intel. But he acknowledged
that it was still possible to thwart such technology. "We had 3-D masks printed
that we ordered and were able to trick some systems," he said. But he said most
thieves would be unlikely to go to such extreme lengths to steal a car.

"It all depends on the level of accuracy you need," said Yoni Heilbronn, chief
marketing officer of Argus Cyber Security, which works with automakers to
short-circuit hacking threats. "Retina scans are even better than facial
recognition" as a potential solution, he said, "but by adding another level of
authentication you lose some of the convenience."

On the other hand, high-tech personalization could be used not only to create
amenities for single owners, but also to instantly adapt a vehicle to suit a
variety of drivers. Valets, for example, could be automatically prevented from
accessing personal information in a navigation system or driving faster than,
say, 30 miles per hour. In a ride-sharing situation, such systems could also be
used to quickly tailor a car's interior to the physical characteristics of
different drivers and passengers.

Rental cars would be easier to operate and safer, Mr. Bolton of Continental
said. "If I know where your head is and where your eyes are," he said, "I can
adjust the position of the steering wheel and the mirrors so you don't have to
fumble looking for the right buttons."

Even airbags could be fine-tuned, reducing the intensity of their deployment
depending on the size and position of a driver or young passenger.

Some elements of the personalized driving experience are already coming to cars.
By the end of the year, Ford plans to add Amazon's Alexa personal assistant to
some of its cars, said Dave Hatton, manager of Ford's mobile applications for
connected vehicles. It will not only allow personalized music stations to play
with a voice command, but also enable drivers to juggle chores like adding items
to an existing grocery list with just a few words.

Such convenience may come with some trade-offs on privacy.

"It's a huge concern," said John Simpson, privacy project director at Consumer
Watchdog, a nonprofit advocacy group. "All that data is in some database without
your consent or knowledge about how it's going to be used," he said, adding that
there was little if any current government regulation to curtail such use.

Using traffic-tracking programs like Waze, some consumers have already signaled
their preference for convenience in return for giving up some information like
their location. Programmers also point out that such services are optional: You
don't have to let the company track you -- but then you may get stuck in traffic
for 45 minutes.

Today, basic biometric technologies like facial recognition software are used
for everything from signing into Windows laptops to thwarting toilet paper
thieves in Beijing. Fingerprint readers are commonly used to unlock smartphones.
As consumers become more accustomed to such systems, the introduction of the
technology in vehicles may seem like a natural evolution rather than a creepy
intrusion.

And it could be fun. Consider the entertainment and social media repercussions
in the vein of James Corden's "Carpool Karaoke" segments. A built-in camera
could record and broadcast your singalong on Facebook or Twitter -- assuming the
car was in autonomous driving mode. Of course, drivers could grab quick selfies
on the road, too.

"It's a novel ideal," Mr. Bolton said, "but remember that an infrared camera
makes your face look a little like a skeleton, so it's not that flattering."

PHOTOS: Matt Dunford, a designer, with the Fiat Chrysler Portal. The concept car
would make automatic adjustments based on a driver's preferences. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
FREDERIC J. BROWN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES); Facial recognition and
voice biometric technologies work together in the Chrysler Portal. Passengers
can set up individual and group settings.

Related Articles


     ·    Sleepy Behind the Wheel? Some Cars Can Tell
     ·    Coming From Automakers: Voice Control That Understands You Better


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 6, 2017 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Facebook Unveils Tools to Root Out Revenge Porn

BYLINE: By NIRAJ CHOKSHI

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 338 words


The relationship may have faded long ago, but the intimate images you shared
have not. If you're lucky, your ex deleted them. If you're not, the photos have
sprouted up online.

Victims of such nonconsensual posts, often referred to as ''revenge porn,'' now
have some help in preventing their spread: On Wednesday, Facebook announced new
artificial intelligence tools designed to keep such content, once flagged, off
its site for good.

''It's wrong, it's hurtful, and if you report it to us, we will now use A.I. and
image recognition to prevent it from being shared across all of our platforms,''
Mark Zuckerberg, the social network's founder and chief executive, said in a
Facebook post.

The tools announced on Wednesday are intended to address a uniquely modern and
pernicious form of harassment, often but not exclusively aimed at women, that
has attracted increasing attention.

In March, for example, a report that active-duty and veteran Marines had used
Facebook to share naked and private photos of thousands of women in the Marine
Corps prompted a congressional hearing and a Defense Department investigation.

The company has been sued in the past by victims of revenge pornography who
accused it of not doing enough to prevent the spread of their intimate images.

Now, when such content is reported to Facebook, it will be reviewed by a trained
member of a community standards team, most likely resulting in the image being
removed and the account of the user who posted it being disabled, Antigone
Davis, Facebook's head of global safety, said Wednesday in a post on the site.

The photo-matching technology will then work to identify and thwart the future
posting of similar images, not only on Facebook, but also to its instant
messaging service and to Instagram.

The company also published a guide on reporting and removing such intimate
images, and said that it had teamed up with safety organizations such as the
Cyber Civil Rights Initiative, which operates a hotline for victims of
nonconsensual pornography.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/05/us/facebook-revenge-porn.html

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         April 7, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Former Interns Tell How They Landed a First Job;
How They Got There

BYLINE: JEFFREY J. SELINGO

SECTION: EDUCATION; edlife

LENGTH: 973 words



HIGHLIGHT: More companies are drawing from their intern pools, making that last
internship the most important. "It's all about trying before you buy."


In recent years, internships have gone from nice-to-have-on-a-résumé to
absolutely critical. Employers today go on to hire about 50 percent of their
interns as full-time workers, according to the Collegiate Employment Research
Instituteat Michigan State University. And the share is growing every year in
industries like construction, consulting, accounting and scientific services.

This new emphasis has upended the traditional recruiting calendar on campuses
nationwide. With more companies drawing from their intern pools, recruiters have
shifted their attention from hiring soon-to-graduate seniors to scoping out
juniors, even as early as the fall term, for summer internships. Postings for
internships now make up a significant proportion of the overall entry-level job
openings in engineering, graphic design, communications, marketing and
information technology, according to Burning Glass Technologies, a data
analytics company that studies the job market.

"There was a time when 50 employers came to recruit for interns," said Patricia
Rose, director of career services at the University of Pennsylvania. "Now we
have 180. They want to wrap up talent before anyone else."

No one wants to be the first full-time employer of new college graduates
anymore. Internships are "a really smart way to recruit," said Adam Ward, head
of recruiting at Pinterest, where about one-third of interns are hired in
permanent jobs. "It's all about trying before you buy."

With so many employers hiring their interns, the last internship before
graduation is perhaps the most important one. "He who gets them last gets them
for good," Mr. Ward said.

So how do students make the most of these short-term experiences? I asked four
recent interns in different industries to share their advice.

START EARLY Matthew C. Pickett now works in the State Department's public
affairs office, where he had his first internship the summer before college.
"Having an internship or working as a teenager gives you a sense of how an
office functions; you learn how to network, and you see what different jobs are
like," he said. "I also learned how to navigate in a group environment with
people of all ages, not just my peers."

He returned to the department every summer, building up the skills that got him
hired after graduating from George Mason University in 2015 with a degree in
history.

SELL YOURSELF In her junior year, Megan Mullen managed to meet most of the 70
employers attending a career fair at Indiana University. "You have 15 seconds to
give an elevator pitch," she said. "You can't just hand them a résumé and expect
them to read it. They won't."

Her advice: "Don't just repeat your résumé. Tell them a story, bring up
experiences that aren't on your résumé and tie together your skills and
experiences to show how you can help them. Getting an internship is a sales
job."

That day, Visa invited Ms. Mullen for an interview. She got the internship.

Once you're there, she said, "don't be afraid to tell people your career goals
and what you want to do. They want to support you. Speak up."

"But also be careful what you say," she added. "I was unsure if I wanted to live
in California," where there was a full-time job with Visa. "I mentioned that
uncertainty to my manager, who misconstrued it as me not wanting any offer that
would place me in California." Ms. Mullen, who graduates in May in informatics,
will start in the fall on Grant Thornton's cyber risk team.

DO YOUR RESEARCH Companies hire interns who show genuine interest in their
businesses, not those who are just looking for a summer job, said Lauren L.
Morrison. She spent hours researching Ford before the carmaker held its
information session at Florida A&M University, where she was majoring in
business administration. "By then, I knew what they were trying to do to improve
customer service," she said. "During a conversation with the recruiter I was
able to connect the company strategy to what I learned in my business classes."

Ms. Morrison landed a marketing stint with Ford in Orlando, Fla., and was the
only intern in the office. "I was laser-focused," she said. "I sat at my desk
every day until my mentor told me that if I did just that for the rest of the
summer, I'd be just a number in a large company. I went around and asked people
what they were working on and if they needed help. I got another project that
way, where I had to present to the regional managers at the end of the summer."
Her managers were impressed. Ford offers jobs to about half its 600 interns
every year. Ms. Morrison was one of those hired.

BE PATIENT Zane MacPhee thought that interning with a minor-league baseball team
before his junior year would get him to the big leagues the following summer,
where he would do big things analyzing player data to improve the team's
performance. "I quickly learned that major league teams only take interns after
graduation." He went back for the summer to the minor league team, the Walla
Walla Sweets of Walla Walla, Wash.

After graduation from Whitman College, he landed an internship with the Los
Angeles Dodgers, but still no moneyball in the front office. Rather, he was a
marketing intern picking subjects for the Kiss Cam. "When that ended, I sent out
résumés to every major league team. I got one bite." It was for another
internship, this one with the Minnesota Twins.

"It was a small front office. I was able to show what I knew, so the Twins hired
me. I never knew it would take so much time and grunt work to get where I am.
You've got to pay your dues."

Jeffrey J. Selingo is author of "There Is Life After College: What Parents and
Students Should Know About Navigating School to Prepare for the Jobs of
Tomorrow," published in paperback this month.

PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW C. PICKETT; LAUREN MORRISON; MEGAN MULLEN; GREG
LEHMAN/WHITMAN COLLEGE)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 7, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Your Car May Soon Be Able to Read Your Face

BYLINE: By JOHN R. QUAIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHEELS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1344 words


When you shop for cat food online, Amazon knows who you are. When you look for
the best airfares for summer vacation, Google knows who you are. Soon, when you
get behind the wheel, your car may recognize you, too.

Using cameras with facial recognition software and other biometric indicators,
automakers are looking to personalize the driving experience with cars that
stare back at you, quietly adjusting seats and driving modes. They may even
anticipate your wants and desires by playing your favorite music based on your
mood. And it's not only about convenience, but also about the possibility of
improving safety and security.

''It's not just about personalization,'' said Zachary Bolton, a systems and
technology engineer at Continental Automotive Group, explaining the
sophistication of such systems. ''We can use the gleam, the twinkle in your eye
to determine precisely where you're looking.'' Engineers can then dynamically
adjust the so-called human machine interface, putting critical information, say,
about a stalled car up ahead, or the fact that you are about to exceed the speed
limit, directly in a driver's line of sight on the dashboard or in a display on
the windshield. Conversely, by tracking downward eye movements, the car could
''see'' that a driver was distracted and sound a warning.

Continental has already demonstrated in-car systems that allow drivers to
register their faces using something as simple as a driver's license picture. An
interior infrared camera is used to overcome potential obstacles like
sunglasses, which would stymie a conventional video camera. Putting the camera
in the center instrument cluster also helps to pinpoint the driver's eyes, even
if she's wearing a hat. The biggest technical challenge -- glare caused by
sunlight -- can be filtered out using machine learning, Mr. Bolton said.

Once the car knows who you are, systems in vehicles like the Chrysler Portal
concept car would automatically adjust the seat for maximum comfort, select a
driving mode (for example, one driver likes to let the car do most of the work;
another likes taking control in sport mode) and suggest a destination based on
the owner's past behavior.

Watching a driver's face can also give a car important clues about that person's
state of mind. For several years, carmakers like Ford and tech companies like
Intel have been interested in determining whether a driver is happy or sad.
Depending on your mood, a car could change its tune, playing a bouncy Beach Boys
song and changing the interior lighting to improve your attitude.

Honda's NeuV concept car, for example, has a large customizable LCD dashboard
and a cloud-connected, onboard computer that uses artificial intelligence to
interact with drivers. NeuV employs what the company coyly refers to as an
''emotion engine'' to grease the wheels of the conversation, and its automated
personal assistant can read ''facial skin vibrations'' to help it isolate the
driver's voice and better understand spoken commands.

There are practical reasons as well, designers say, for detecting a driver's
emotional state: A calm driver is a safer driver. So cars that recognize when
you are becoming angry and thus prone to road rage could potentially quell
annoying bells and chimes in the car and play some mellow jazz to soothe you.

By replacing keys and remote control fobs, biometrics like facial recognition
could also make cars more difficult to steal. In its prototype FF 91 sport
utility vehicle, the electric car start-up Faraday Future uses an external
camera mounted in the door frame to detect the car's owner and automatically
unlock the vehicle. Such techniques can create new security challenges, however.

In this digital age, our faces are everywhere: in online company profiles, on
Twitter accounts, even tagged in friends' Facebook accounts. Finding an image to
print out and foil a car's facial recognition system would not be very
difficult.

Fortunately, engineers have devised high-tech countermeasures. Stereoscopic
video cameras, for example, can tell the difference between a flat image and a
three-dimensional object. Continental's cameras measure the distance of
reflected light off various parts of a person's face, ensuring that it is a real
object rather than a high-resolution shot of the owner's visage.

''Some systems have added blink detection and aliveness detection,'' said Steve
Grobman, chief technology officer for security at Intel. But he acknowledged
that it was still possible to thwart such technology. ''We had 3-D masks printed
that we ordered and were able to trick some systems,'' he said. But he said most
thieves would be unlikely to go to such extreme lengths to steal a car.

''It all depends on the level of accuracy you need,'' said Yoni Heilbronn, chief
marketing officer of Argus Cyber Security, which works with automakers to
short-circuit hacking threats. ''Retina scans are even better than facial
recognition'' as a potential solution, he said, ''but by adding another level of
authentication you lose some of the convenience.''

On the other hand, high-tech personalization could be used not only to create
amenities for single owners, but also to instantly adapt a vehicle to suit a
variety of drivers. Valets, for example, could be automatically prevented from
accessing personal information in a navigation system or driving faster than,
say, 30 miles per hour. In a ride-sharing situation, such systems could also be
used to quickly tailor a car's interior to the physical characteristics of
different drivers and passengers.

Rental cars would be easier to operate and safer, Mr. Bolton of Continental
said. ''If I know where your head is and where your eyes are,'' he said, ''I can
adjust the position of the steering wheel and the mirrors so you don't have to
fumble looking for the right buttons.''

Even airbags could be fine-tuned, reducing the intensity of their deployment
depending on the size and position of a driver or young passenger.

Some elements of the personalized driving experience are already coming to cars.
By the end of the year, Ford plans to add Amazon's Alexa personal assistant  to
some of its cars, said Dave Hatton, manager of Ford's mobile applications for
connected vehicles. It will not only allow personalized music stations to play
with a voice command, but also enable drivers to juggle chores like adding items
to an existing grocery list with just a few words.

Such convenience may come with some trade-offs on privacy.

''It's a huge concern,'' said John Simpson, privacy project director at Consumer
Watchdog, a nonprofit advocacy group. ''All that data is in some database
without your consent or knowledge about how it's going to be used,'' he said,
adding that there was little if any current government regulation to curtail
such use.

Using traffic-tracking programs like Waze, some consumers have already signaled
their preference for convenience in return for giving up some information like
their location. Programmers also point out that such services are optional: You
don't have to let the company track you -- but then you may get stuck in traffic
for 45 minutes.

Today, basic biometric technologies like facial recognition software are used
for everything from signing into Windows laptops to thwarting toilet paper
thieves in Beijing. Fingerprint readers are commonly used to unlock smartphones.
As consumers become more accustomed to such systems, the introduction of the
technology in vehicles may seem like a natural evolution rather than a creepy
intrusion.

And it could be fun. Consider the entertainment and social media repercussions
in the vein of James Corden's ''Carpool Karaoke'' segments. A built-in camera
could record and broadcast your singalong on Facebook or Twitter -- assuming the
car was in autonomous driving mode. Of course, drivers could grab quick selfies
on the road, too.

''It's a novel ideal,'' Mr. Bolton said, ''but remember that an infrared camera
makes your face look a little like a skeleton, so it's not that flattering.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/06/automobiles/wheels/cars-facial-recognition-exp
ressions.html

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Matt Dunford, a designer, with the Fiat Chrysler Portal. The
concept car would make automatic adjustments based on a driver's preferences.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY FREDERIC J. BROWN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Facial recognition and voice biometric technologies work together in the
Chrysler Portal. Passengers can set up individual and group settings.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         April 9, 2017 Sunday 00:00 EST

Tillerson, on Eve of Russia Trip, Takes Hard Line on Syria

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1259 words



HIGHLIGHT: The secretary of state called Russia "incompetent" for allowing Syria
to retain chemical weapons and accused Moscow of trying to meddle in European
elections.


WASHINGTON -- Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson is taking a hard line against
Russia on the eve of his first diplomatic trip to Moscow, calling the country
"incompetent" for allowing Syria to hold on to chemical weapons and accusing
Russia of trying to influence elections in Europe using the same methods it
employed in the United States.

Mr. Tillerson's comments, made in interviews aired on Sunday, were far more
critical of the Russian government than any public statements by President
Trump, who has been an increasingly lonely voice for better ties with Russia.
They seemed to reflect Mr. Tillerson's expectation, which he has expressed
privately to aides and members of Congress, that the American relationship with
Russia is already reverting to the norm: one of friction, distrust and mutual
efforts to undermine each other's reach.

"This was inevitable," said Philip H. Gordon, a former Middle East coordinator
at the National Security Council who is now at the Council on Foreign Relations.
"Trump's early let's-be-friends initiative was incompatible with our interests,
and you knew it would end with tears." The Russians' behavior has not changed,
Mr. Gordon added, and they "are using every means they can -- cyber, economic
arrangements, intimidation -- to reinsert themselves around the Middle East and
Europe."

Mr. Tillerson made it clear he agreed with that view, sweeping past Mr. Trump's
repeated insistence, despite the conclusion of American intelligence agencies,
that there was no evidence of Russian interference in last year's election. The
meddling "undermines any hope of improving relations," Mr. Tillerson said on
ABC's "This Week," "not just with the United States, but it's pretty evident
that they're taking similar tactics into electoral processes throughout Europe."

Such tough talk will make Mr. Tillerson's job even harder when he arrives
Tuesday for the first visit to Moscow by a top Trump administration official.
While he must offer sharp warnings to Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov and to
President Vladimir V. Putin, if they meet -- it was unclear whether such a
meeting had been quietly arranged -- he must also find a way forward with them
to counter the Islamic State and then deal with the Syrian president, Bashar
al-Assad.

Yet as Mr. Tillerson arrived in Italy to meet with foreign ministers before
going to Moscow, the administration was sending conflicting signals about its
policy on Syria and the extent to which it would hold the country's patron
Russia responsible for continued violence.

Mr. Tillerson and the new national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster,
appearing on "Fox News Sunday," said the American attack last week on a Syrian
air base was intended solely to halt future chemical attacks, not to destabilize
or overthrow the Assad government.

"What's significant about the strike is not that it was meant to take out the
Syrian regime's capacity or ability to commit mass murder of its own people,"
said General McMaster, who is new to the Sunday television circuit, "but it was
to be a very strong signal to Assad and his sponsors that the United States
cannot stand idly by as he is murdering innocent civilians."

Neither man would commit to further military action in Syria even if Mr. Assad
continued to kill civilians in large numbers by conventional means rather than
with the chemical weapons that prompted Mr. Trump to reverse his stance on
intervention. Instead, Mr. Tillerson said that defeating the Islamic State
remained the first priority. Only then, he said, would he turn to a cease-fire
process leading to elections, so that "the Syrian people can decide the fate of
Assad."

But the American ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki R. Haley, suggested
that such a process was doomed as long as Mr. Assad was in power. "We know
there's not any sort of option where a political solution is going to happen
with Assad at the head of the regime," she said on CNN. "If you look at his
actions, if you look at the situation, it's going to be hard to see a government
that's peaceful and stable with Assad."

That statement stood in contrast not only to Mr. Tillerson's comments but also
to Ms. Haley's own remarks a week ago -- before Mr. Assad carried out his latest
chemical weapons attack on civilians -- in which she insisted that his departure
from office was not a diplomatic priority for the United States.

Still, the overall tone of suspicion and condemnation of Russia's actions in
Syria indicated that Mr. Trump's top national security advisers were nudging him
back to a more traditional Russia policy. During his days as the chief executive
of Exxon Mobil, Mr. Tillerson received a friendship award from Mr. Putin, and he
is aware of the suspicions surrounding those ties and has gone the furthest in
the administration in separating himself from the Russian leader.

The challenges have only multiplied in recent days. The Russians, angry about
the attack on the air base, have threatened to cut off a communication line that
the American and Russian militaries have used to notify each other about air
operations in Syria. And the attack has forced Mr. Putin into a tighter
relationship with Mr. Assad, perhaps tighter than the Russian leader wants.

Ms. Haley, who, like Mr. Tillerson, is new to diplomacy, has also apparently
concluded that a hard line toward Russia is the safest course. The contrast
between her remarks and Mr. Trump's warm words for Mr. Putin on the campaign
trail -- as well as his refusal to acknowledge Russian meddling in the 2016
presidential election -- has been striking.

The Trump administration's Syria policy has been difficult to parse. Mr.
Tillerson, in his first television appearances since taking office, seemed to
describe two different strategic objectives: halting chemical attacks and
ultimately negotiating a cease-fire. But he made it clear that he had no
intention of backing a military intervention that would overthrow Mr. Assad.
That suggested that as long as the dictator used conventional means to kill his
own people -- barrel bombs instead of sarin gas -- the United States would keep
its distance.

"I think what the United States and our allies want to do is to enable the
Syrian people to make that determination" about Mr. Assad's fate, Mr. Tillerson
said on CBS's "Face the Nation" -- a line that was often used by his predecessor
in the Obama administration, John Kerry. "You know, we've seen what violent
regime change looks like in Libya and the kind of chaos that can be unleashed."

Those remarks indicate that Mr. Trump does not yet have a grander strategy for
Syria. Longtime Middle East experts said that might be a good thing.

"I for one am glad he does not have a fully thought-through strategy on Syria,
because if he did, he'd probably get it wrong," said Ryan C. Crocker, perhaps
the most experienced American career diplomat in the region, and dean of the
George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University.

"There are too many variables, too many unknowns," he said, among them the
expectation of American allies, including Saudi Arabia, that Mr. Trump should
emphasize getting rid of Mr. Assad over defeating the Islamic State.

Noah Weiland contributed reporting from Washington, and Somini Sengupta from New
York.

Related Articles


     ·    For Obama, Syria Chemical Attack Shows Risk of 'Deals With Dictators'
     ·    U.S. Strike on Syria Brings Fleeting Hope to Those Caught in Brutal
          Conflict
     ·    The Emerging Trump Doctrine: Don't Follow Doctrine
     ·    For 2 Advisers, Syria Strike Is a Chance to Step Out of the Shadows


LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 9, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Former Interns on Landing a Real Job

BYLINE: By JEFFREY J. SELINGO.

Jeffrey J. Selingo is author of ''There Is Life After College: What Parents and
Students Should Know About Navigating School to Prepare for the Jobs of
Tomorrow,'' published in paperback this month.

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; HOW THEY GOT THERE;
Pg. 10

LENGTH: 936 words


In recent years, internships have gone from nice-to-have-on-a-résumé to
absolutely critical. Employers today go on to hire about 50 percent of their
interns as full-time workers, according to the Collegiate Employment Research
Institute at Michigan State University. And the share is growing every year in
industries like construction, consulting, accounting and scientific services.

This new emphasis has upended the traditional recruiting calendar on campuses
nationwide. With more companies drawing from their intern pools, recruiters have
shifted their attention from hiring soon-to-graduate seniors to scoping out
juniors, even as early as the fall term, for summer internships. Postings for
internships now make up a significant proportion of the overall entry-level job
openings in engineering, graphic design, communications, marketing and
information technology, according to Burning Glass Technologies, a data
analytics company that studies the job market.

''There was a time when 50 employers came to recruit for interns,'' said
Patricia Rose, director of career services at the University of Pennsylvania.
''Now we have 180. They want to wrap up talent before anyone else.''

No one wants to be the first full-time employer of new college graduates
anymore. Internships are ''a really smart way to recruit,'' said Adam Ward, head
of recruiting at Pinterest, where about one-third of interns are hired in
permanent jobs. ''It's all about trying before you buy.''

With so many employers hiring their interns, the last internship before
graduation is perhaps the most important one. ''He who gets them last gets them
for good,'' Mr. Ward said.

So how do students make the most of these short-term experiences? I asked four
recent interns in different industries to share their advice.

START EARLY Matthew C. Pickett now works in the State Department's public
affairs office, where he had his first internship the summer before college.
''Having an internship or working as a teenager gives you a sense of how an
office functions; you learn how to network, and you see what different jobs are
like,'' he said. ''I also learned how to navigate in a group environment with
people of all ages, not just my peers.''

He returned to the department every summer, building up the skills that got him
hired after graduating from George Mason University in 2015 with a degree in
history.

SELL YOURSELF In her junior year, Megan Mullen managed to meet most of the 70
employers attending a career fair at Indiana University. ''You have 15 seconds
to give an elevator pitch,'' she said. ''You can't just hand them a résumé and
expect them to read it. They won't.''

Her advice: ''Don't just repeat your résumé. Tell them a story, bring up
experiences that aren't on your résumé and tie together your skills and
experiences to show how you can help them. Getting an internship is a sales
job.''

That day, Visa invited Ms. Mullen for an interview. She got the internship.

Once you're there, she said, ''don't be afraid to tell people your career goals
and what you want to do. They want to support you. Speak up.''

''But also be careful what you say,'' she added. ''I was unsure if I wanted to
live in California,'' where there was a full-time job with Visa. ''I mentioned
that uncertainty to my manager, who misconstrued it as me not wanting any offer
that would place me in California.'' Ms. Mullen, who graduates in May in
informatics, will start in the fall on Grant Thornton's cyber risk team.

DO YOUR RESEARCH Companies hire interns who show genuine interest in their
businesses, not those who are just looking for a summer job, said Lauren L.
Morrison. She spent hours researching Ford before the carmaker held its
information session at Florida A&M University, where she was majoring in
business administration. ''By then, I knew what they were trying to do to
improve customer service,'' she said. ''During a conversation with the recruiter
I was able to connect the company strategy to what I learned in my business
classes.''

Ms. Morrison landed a marketing stint with Ford in Orlando, Fla., and was the
only intern in the office. ''I was laser-focused,'' she said. ''I sat at my desk
every day until my mentor told me that if I did just that for the rest of the
summer, I'd be just a number in a large company. I went around and asked people
what they were working on and if they needed help. I got another project that
way, where I had to present to the regional managers at the end of the summer.''
Her managers were impressed. Ford offers jobs to about half its 600 interns
every year. Ms. Morrison was one of those hired.

BE PATIENT Zane MacPhee thought that interning with a minor-league baseball team
before his junior year would get him to the big leagues the following summer,
where he would do big things analyzing player data to improve the team's
performance. ''I quickly learned that major league teams only take interns after
graduation.'' He went back for the summer to the minor league team, the Walla
Walla Sweets of Walla Walla, Wash.

After graduation from Whitman College, he landed an internship with the Los
Angeles Dodgers, but still no moneyball in the front office. Rather, he was a
marketing intern picking subjects for the Kiss Cam. ''When that ended, I sent
out résumés to every major league team. I got one bite.'' It was for another
internship, this one with the Minnesota Twins.

''It was a small front office. I was able to show what I knew, so the Twins
hired me. I never knew it would take so much time and grunt work to get where I
am. You've got to pay your dues.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/07/education/edlife/former-interns-tell-how-they-
landed-a-first-job.html

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW C. PICKETT
LAUREN MORRISON
MEGAN MULLEN
 GREG LEHMAN/WHITMAN COLLEGE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 9, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thinking In Code

BYLINE: By LAURA PAPPANO.

Laura Pappano is author of ''Inside School Turnarounds: Urgent Hopes, Unfolding
Stories.''

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2757 words


In ''The Beauty and Joy of Computing,'' the course he helped conceive for
nonmajors at the University of California, Berkeley, Daniel Garcia explains an
all-important concept in computer science -- abstraction -- in terms of
milkshakes.

''There is a reason when you go to the 'Joy of Cooking' and you want to make a
strawberry milkshake, you don't look under 'strawberry milkshake,' '' he said.
Rather, there is a recipe for milkshakes that instructs you to add ice cream,
milk and fruit of your choice. While earlier cookbooks may have had separate
recipes for strawberry milkshakes, raspberry milkshakes and boysenberry
milkshakes, eventually, he imagines, someone said, ''Why don't we collapse that
into one milkshake recipe?''

''The idea of abstraction,'' he said, ''is to hide the details.'' It requires
recognizing patterns and distilling complexity into a precise, clear summary.
It's like the countdown to a space launch that runs through a checklist -- life
support, fuel, payload -- in which each check represents perhaps 100 checks that
have been performed.

Concealing layers of information makes it possible to get at the intersections
of things, improving aspects of a complicated system without understanding and
grappling with each part. Abstraction allows advances without redesigning from
scratch.

It is a cool and useful idea that, along with other cool and useful computer
science ideas, has people itching to know more. It's obvious that computers have
become indispensable problem-solving partners, not to mention personal
companions. But it's suddenly not enough to be a fluent user of software
interfaces. Understanding what lies behind the computer's seeming magic now
seems crucial. In particular, ''computational thinking'' is captivating
educators, from kindergarten teachers to college professors, offering a new
language and orientation to tackle problems in other areas of life.

This promise -- as well as a job market hungry for coding -- has fed enrollments
in classes like the one at Berkeley, taken by 500 students a year. Since 2011,
the number of computer science majors has more than doubled, according to the
Computing Research Association. At Stanford, Princeton and Tufts, computer
science is now the most popular major. More striking, though, is the appeal
among nonmajors. Between 2005 and 2015, enrollment of nonmajors in introductory,
mid- and upper-level computer science courses grew by 177 percent, 251 percent
and 143 percent, respectively.

In the fall, the College Board introduced a new Advanced Placement course,
Computer Science Principles, focused not on learning to code but on using code
to solve problems. And WGBH, the PBS station in Boston, is using National
Science Foundation money to help develop a program for 3- to 5-year-olds in
which four cartoon monkeys get into scrapes and then ''get out of the messes by
applying computational thinking,'' said Marisa Wolsky, executive producer of
children's media. ''We see it as a groundbreaking curriculum that is not being
done yet.''

Computational thinking is not new. Seymour Papert, a pioneer in artificial
intelligence and an M.I.T. professor, used the term in 1980 to envision how
children could use computers to learn. But Jeannette M. Wing, in charge of basic
research at Microsoft and former professor at Carnegie Mellon, gets credit for
making it fashionable. In 2006, on the heels of the dot-com bust and plunging
computer science enrollments, Dr. Wing wrote a trade journal piece,
''Computational Thinking.'' It was intended as a salve for a struggling field.

''Things were so bad that some universities were thinking of closing down
computer science departments,'' she recalled. Some now consider her article a
manifesto for embracing a computing mind-set.

Like any big idea, there is disagreement about computational thinking -- its
broad usefulness as well as what fits in the circle. Skills typically include
recognizing patterns and sequences, creating algorithms, devising tests for
finding and fixing errors, reducing the general to the precise and expanding the
precise to the general.

It requires reframing research, said Shriram Krishnamurthi, a computer science
professor at Brown, so that ''instead of formulating a question to a human
being, I formulate a question to a data set.'' For example, instead of asking if
the media is biased toward liberals, pose the question as: Are liberals
identified as liberal in major newspapers more often or less often than
conservatives are identified as conservative?

Dr. Krishnamurthi helped create ''Introduction to Computation for the Humanities
and Social Sciences'' more than a decade ago because he wanted students ''early
in their undergrad careers to learn a new mode of thinking that they could take
back to their discipline.'' Capped at 20 students, the course now has a waitlist
of more than 100.

Just as Charles Darwin's theory of evolution is drafted to explain politics and
business, Dr. Wing argued for broad use of computer ideas. And not just for
work. Applying computational thinking, ''we can improve the efficiencies of our
daily lives,'' she said in an interview, ''and make ourselves a little less
stressed out.''

Computing practices like reformulating tough problems into ones we know how to
solve, seeing trade-offs between time and space, and pipelining (allowing the
next action in line to begin before the first completes the sequence) have many
applications, she said.

Consider the buffet line. ''When you go to a lunch buffet, you see the forks and
knives are the first station,'' she said. ''I find that very annoying. They
should be last. You shouldn't have to balance your plate while you have your
fork and knife.'' Dr. Wing, who equates a child filling her backpack to caching
(how computers retrieve and store information needed later), sees the buffet's
inefficiency as a failure to apply logical thinking and sequencing.

Computational thinking, she said, can aid a basic task like planning a trip --
breaking it into booking flights, hotels, car rental -- or be used ''for
something as complicated as health care or policy decision-making.'' Identifying
subproblems and describing their relationship to the larger problem allows for
targeted work. ''Once you have well-defined interfaces,'' she said, ''you can
ignore the complexity of the rest of the problem.''

Can computational thinking make us better at work and life? Dr. Krishnamurthi is
sometimes seduced. ''Before I go grocery shopping, I sort my list by aisles in
the store,'' he said. Sharing the list on the app Trello, his family can
''bucket sort'' items by aisle (pasta and oils, canned goods, then baking and
spices), optimizing their path through Whole Foods. It limits backtracking and
reduces spontaneous, ''i.e., junk,'' purchases, he said.

Despite his chosen field, Dr. Krishnamurthi worries about the current cultural
tendency to view computer science knowledge as supreme, better than that gained
in other fields. Right now, he said, ''we are just overly intoxicated with
computer science.''

It is certainly worth wondering if some applications of computational thinking
are trivial, unnecessary or a Stepford Wife-like abdication of devilishly random
judgment.

Alexander Torres, a senior majoring in English at Stanford, has noted how the
campus's proximity to Google has lured all but the rare student to computer
science courses. He's a holdout. But ''I don't see myself as having skills
missing,'' he said. In earning his degree he has practiced critical thinking,
problem solving, analysis and making logical arguments. ''When you are analyzing
a Dickinson or Whitman or Melville, you have to unpack that language and
synthesize it back.''

There is no reliable research showing that computing makes one more creative or
more able to problem-solve. It won't make you better at something unless that
something is explicitly taught, said Mark Guzdial, a professor in the School of
Interactive Computing at Georgia Tech who studies computing in education. ''You
can't prove a negative,'' he said, but in decades of research no one has found
that skills automatically transfer.

Still, he added, for the same reasons people should understand biology,
chemistry or physics, ''it makes a lot of sense to understand computing in our
lives.'' Increasing numbers of people must program in their jobs, even if it's
just Microsoft Excel. ''Solving problems with computers happens to all of us
every day,'' he said. How to make the skills available broadly is ''an
interesting challenge.''


''It's like being a diplomat and learning Spanish; I feel like it's essential,''
said Greer Brigham, a Brown freshman who plans to major in political science.
He's taking the course designed by Dr. Krishnamurthi, which this term is being
taught by a graduate student in robotics named Stephen Brawner.

On a March morning at the Brown computer science center, Mr. Brawner projected a
student's homework assignment on the screen. Did anyone notice a problem? Nary a
humanities hand was raised. Finally, a young woman suggested ''centimeters'' and
''kilograms'' could be abbreviated. Fine, but not enough.

Mr. Brawner broke the silence and pointed out long lines of code reaching the
far side of the screen. With a practiced flurry, he inserted backslashes and hit
''return'' repeatedly, which drew the symbols into a neat block. It may all be
directions to a machine, but computer scientists care a great deal about visual
elegance. As Mr. Brawner cut out repeated instructions, he shared that
''whenever we define a constant, we want that at the top of our code.'' He then
explained the new assignment: write a program to play ''rock, paper, scissors''
against a computer.

Mili Mitra, a junior majoring in public policy and economics who sat with a
MacBook on her lap, would not have considered this class a year ago. But seeing
group research projects always being handed off to someone with computing
knowledge, she decided that she ''didn't want to keep passing them along.'' She
has learned to write basic code and fetch data sets through the internet to
analyze things she's interested in, such as how geographic proximity shapes
voting patterns in the United Nations General Assembly.

Despite finding interactions with a computer much like ''explaining things to a
toddler,'' Ms. Mitra credits the class for instilling the habit of ''going step
by step and building a solution.'' She admits to being an impatient learner: ''I
jump ahead. In C.S. you don't have a choice. If you miss a step, you mess up
everything.''

Just as children are drilled on the scientific method -- turn observations into
a hypothesis, design a control group, do an experiment to test your theory --
the basics of working with computers is being cast as a teachable blueprint. One
thing making this possible is that communicating with computers has become
easier.

''Block'' programming languages like Scratch, released by the M.I.T. Media Lab a
decade ago, hide text strings that look like computer keys run amok. That makes
coding look less scary. Instead of keyboard letters and symbols, you might
select from a menu and drag a color-coded block that says ''say ( ) for ( )
secs'' or ''play note ( ) for ( ) beats.'' The colors and shapes correspond to
categories like ''sound'' or ''motion''; the blocks can be fit together like
stacked puzzle pieces to order instructions. Students use this to, say, design a
game.

One need not be a digital Dr. Doolittle, fluent in hard-core programming
languages like Java or Python, to code. Block languages cut out the need to
memorize commands, which vary depending on the computer language, because the
block ''is read just the way you think about it,'' Dr. Garcia said. Students in
his Berkeley course use the block language Snap! for assignments -- he doesn't
teach Python until the last two weeks, and then just so they can take
higher-level courses. ''We tell them, 'You already know how to program,' '' he
said, because the steps are the same.

Computer Science A, which teaches Java, is the fastest-growing Advanced
Placement course. (The number of students taking the exam in 2016 rose 18
percent over 2015 and nearly tripled in a decade.) But professors complained
that ''Java was not the right way'' to attract a diverse group of students, said
Trevor Packer, head of the A.P. program, so a new course was developed.

The course, Computer Science Principles, is modeled on college versions for
nonmajors. It lets teachers pick any coding language and has a gentler vibe.
There is an exam, but students also submit projects ''more similar to a studio
art portfolio,'' Mr. Packer said. The course covers working with data and
understanding the internet and cyber security, and it teaches ''transferable
skills,'' he said, like formulating precise questions. That's a departure from
what the College Board found in many high schools: ''They were learning how to
keyboard, how to use Microsoft applications.'' The goal is that the new course
will be offered in every high school in the country.

President Obama's ''Computer Science for All'' initiative, officially launched
last year, resulted in educators, lawmakers and computer science advocates
spreading the gospel of coding. It also nudged more states to count computer
science toward high school graduation requirements. Thirty-two states and the
District of Columbia now do, up from 12 in 2013, according to Code.org. It's
what Dr. Wing had hoped for when she advocated in her 2006 article that, along
with reading, writing and arithmetic ''we should add computational thinking to
every child's analytical ability.''


In an airy kindergarten classroom at Eliot-Pearson Children's School, in the
Tufts University Department of Child Study and Human Development, children
program with actual blocks. Marina Umaschi Bers, a child development and
computer science professor, created wooden blocks that bear bar codes with
instructions such as ''forward,'' ''spin'' and ''shake'' that are used to
program robots -- small, wheeled carts with built-in scanners -- by sequencing
the blocks, then scanning them. Each ''program'' starts with a green ''begin''
block and finishes with a red ''end.''

Coding for the youngest students has become the trendy pedagogy, with plentiful
toys and apps like Dr. Bers's blocks. Dr. Bers, who with M.I.T. collaborators
developed the block language ScratchJr, is evangelical about coding. Learning
the language of machines, she said, is as basic as writing is to being
proficient in a foreign language. ''You are able to write a love poem, you are
able to write a birthday card, you are able to use language in many expressive
ways,'' she said. ''You are not just reading; you are producing.''

Peer-reviewed studies by Dr. Bers show that after programming the robots,
youngsters are better at sequencing picture stories. Anecdotally, she said, when
they ask children to list steps for brushing teeth, they get just a few, ''but
after being exposed to this work, they'll have 15 or 20 steps.''

Dr. Bers embeds computing in activities familiar to young children like
inventing stories, doing dances and making art. At the Tufts school on a recent
morning, children puzzled over a question: How does a robot celebrate spring?

''He's going to dance, and then he will pretend that he is wet,'' offered Hallel
Cohen-Goldberg, a kindergartner with a mane of curls.

Solina Gonzalez, coloring a brown, blue and red circle with markers, peered
soberly through pink-framed glasses: ''He just does a lollipop dance.'' Solina's
partner, Oisin Stephens, fretted about the root beer lollipop drawing she had
taped to a block. ''The robot won't be able to read this,'' he said. (It's an
invalid input.)

As they lurched around the carpet on their knees, the children executed computer
science concepts like breaking instructions into sequenced commands, testing and
debugging. One team used ''repeat'' and ''stop repeat'' blocks, forming a
programming ''loop,'' a sequence of instructions that is continually repeated
until a certain condition is reached.

It may be a leap to think of talking to machines as child's play. But when Dr.
Bers chats with students as they sequence blocks, they hardly notice they are
coding. ''They say, 'Well, I'm not programming,' '' she said.

Consciously or not, this next generation may be effortlessly absorbing the
computational thinking skills so many covet, and in the process refining what we
mean by digital native.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/04/education/edlife/teaching-students-computer-co
de.html

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HANDS-ON PROGRAMMING: A kindergartner organizes blocks into a
sequence of commands at the Eliot-Pearson Children's School at Tufts University.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE MAHONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED18)
 TOO MANY LAPTOPS CAN FOIL THE SORTING: In his computer science course for
nonmajors at the University of California, Berkeley, Dan Garcia wants students
to understand why computers are ''not magical.'' Students sort a deck of
shuffled cards into ordered suits while being timed. They sort solo, then in
pairs, then fours, then eights. But more people don't always make it go faster.
Amdahl's law offers an equation to show that even with many computers tackling a
problem, the time to complete it does not decrease linearly. There are
bottlenecks. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED19)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 10, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tillerson Halts Any Thawing of Russia Ties

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Noah Weiland contributed reporting from Washington,
and Somini Sengupta from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1212 words


WASHINGTON -- Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson is taking a hard line against
Russia on the eve of his first diplomatic trip to Moscow, calling the country
''incompetent'' for allowing Syria to hold on to chemical weapons and accusing
Russia of trying to influence elections in Europe using the same methods it
employed in the United States.

Mr. Tillerson's comments, made in interviews aired on Sunday, were far more
critical of the Russian government than any public statements by President
Trump, who has been an increasingly lonely voice for better ties with Russia.
They seemed to reflect Mr. Tillerson's expectation, which he has expressed
privately to aides and members of Congress, that the American relationship with
Russia is already reverting to the norm: one of friction, distrust and mutual
efforts to undermine each other's reach.

''This was inevitable,'' said Philip H. Gordon, a former Middle East coordinator
at the National Security Council who is now at the Council on Foreign Relations.
''Trump's early let's-be-friends initiative was incompatible with our interests,
and you knew it would end with tears.'' The Russians' behavior has not changed,
Mr. Gordon added, and they ''are using every means they can -- cyber, economic
arrangements, intimidation -- to reinsert themselves around the Middle East and
Europe.''

Mr. Tillerson made it clear he agreed with that view, sweeping past Mr. Trump's
repeated insistence, despite the conclusion of American intelligence agencies,
that there was no evidence of Russian interference in last year's election. The
meddling ''undermines any hope of improving relations,'' Mr. Tillerson said on
ABC's ''This Week,'' ''not just with the United States, but it's pretty evident
that they're taking similar tactics into electoral processes throughout
Europe.''

Such tough talk will make Mr. Tillerson's job even harder when he arrives
Tuesday for the first visit to Moscow by a top Trump administration official.
While he must offer sharp warnings to Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov and to
President Vladimir V. Putin, if they meet -- it was unclear whether such a
meeting had been quietly arranged -- he must also find a way forward with them
to counter the Islamic State and then deal with the Syrian president, Bashar
al-Assad.

Yet as Mr. Tillerson arrived in Italy to meet with foreign ministers before
going to Moscow, the administration was sending conflicting signals about its
policy on Syria and the extent to which it would hold the country's patron
Russia responsible for continued violence.

Mr. Tillerson and the new national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster,
appearing on ''Fox News Sunday,'' said the American attack last week on a Syrian
air base was intended solely to halt future chemical attacks, not to destabilize
or overthrow the Assad government.

''What's significant about the strike is not that it was meant to take out the
Syrian regime's capacity or ability to commit mass murder of its own people,''
said General McMaster, who is new to the Sunday television circuit, ''but it was
to be a very strong signal to Assad and his sponsors that the United States
cannot stand idly by as he is murdering innocent civilians.''

Neither man would commit to further military action in Syria even if Mr. Assad
continued to kill civilians in large numbers by conventional means rather than
with the chemical weapons that prompted Mr. Trump to reverse his stance on
intervention. Instead, Mr. Tillerson said that defeating the Islamic State
remained the first priority. Only then, he said, would he turn to a cease-fire
process leading to elections, so that ''the Syrian people can decide the fate of
Assad.''

But the American ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki R. Haley, suggested
that such a process was doomed as long as Mr. Assad was in power. ''We know
there's not any sort of option where a political solution is going to happen
with Assad at the head of the regime,'' she said on CNN. ''If you look at his
actions, if you look at the situation, it's going to be hard to see a government
that's peaceful and stable with Assad.''

That statement stood in contrast not only to Mr. Tillerson's comments but also
to Ms. Haley's own remarks a week ago -- before Mr. Assad carried out his latest
chemical weapons attack on civilians -- in which she insisted that his departure
from office was not a diplomatic priority for the United States.

Still, the overall tone of suspicion and condemnation of Russia's actions in
Syria indicated that Mr. Trump's top national security advisers were nudging him
back to a more traditional Russia policy. During his days as the chief executive
of Exxon Mobil, Mr. Tillerson received a friendship award from Mr. Putin, and he
is aware of the suspicions surrounding those ties and has gone the furthest in
the administration in separating himself from the Russian leader.

The challenges have only multiplied in recent days. The Russians, angry about
the attack on the air base, have threatened to cut off a communication line that
the American and Russian militaries have used to notify each other about air
operations in Syria. And the attack has forced Mr. Putin into a tighter
relationship with Mr. Assad, perhaps tighter than the Russian leader wants.

Ms. Haley, who, like Mr. Tillerson, is new to diplomacy, has also apparently
concluded that a hard line toward Russia is the safest course. The contrast
between her remarks and Mr. Trump's warm words for Mr. Putin on the campaign
trail -- as well as his refusal to acknowledge Russian meddling in the 2016
presidential election -- has been striking.

The Trump administration's Syria policy has been difficult to parse. Mr.
Tillerson, in his first television appearances since taking office, seemed to
describe two different strategic objectives: halting chemical attacks and
ultimately negotiating a cease-fire. But he made it clear that he had no
intention of backing a military intervention that would overthrow Mr. Assad.
That suggested that as long as the dictator used conventional means to kill his
own people -- barrel bombs instead of sarin gas -- the United States would keep
its distance.

''I think what the United States and our allies want to do is to enable the
Syrian people to make that determination'' about Mr. Assad's fate, Mr. Tillerson
said on CBS's ''Face the Nation'' -- a line that was often used by his
predecessor in the Obama administration, John Kerry. ''You know, we've seen what
violent regime change looks like in Libya and the kind of chaos that can be
unleashed.''

Those remarks indicate that Mr. Trump does not yet have a grander strategy for
Syria. Longtime Middle East experts said that might be a good thing.

''I for one am glad he does not have a fully thought-through strategy on Syria,
because if he did, he'd probably get it wrong,'' said Ryan C. Crocker, perhaps
the most experienced American career diplomat in the region, and dean of the
George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University.

''There are too many variables, too many unknowns,'' he said, among them the
expectation of American allies, including Saudi Arabia, that Mr. Trump should
emphasize getting rid of Mr. Assad over defeating the Islamic State.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/09/us/politics/tillerson-russia-syria-chemical-we
apons.html

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        April 11, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Is Russia Testing Trump?;
Op-Ed Contributors

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. MORELL and EVELYN FARKAS

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 937 words



HIGHLIGHT: Syria is just one place where Putin is pushing the administration.
The White House must push back.


This week Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is making his first diplomatic visit
to Russia, where he's likely to press Moscow on its handling of Syria, which he
has called "incompetent."

But Mr. Tillerson should recognize that Russia's involvement in Syria is only
one example of the increasingly active, and disruptive, role that President
Vladimir Putin has been playing on the world stage since Donald Trump's
inauguration.

In January, Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine, most likely at the
direction of Mr. Putin, ramped up their fight against Ukrainian government
forces, bringing the violence there to its highest level in a year and a half.
This is a direct challenge to the Minsk Agreements -- signed by Russia and
Ukraine, engineered by Germany and France, and backed by the United States --
designed to freeze the war and pave the way to restoring peace.

In mid-February, Mr. Putin decreed that Russia would recognize the passports
issued by two separatist governments in eastern Ukraine. Later that month, in a
move approved or at least condoned by Mr. Putin, the breakaway territory of
Luhansk in Ukraine announced that the Russian ruble would become its official
currency. Both actions are examples of the creeping assertion of Russian
sovereignty over parts of eastern Ukraine.

Again in January, Russia moved troops near the border with Belarus, designed to
pressure Belarus to accept an increased Russian military presence on its
territory. And in March, the Kremlin ordered the incorporation of the armed
forces in South Ossetia, one of two breakaway territories in Georgia, into the
Russian military.

Meanwhile, last month Gen. Curtis Scaparrotti, the top American general in
Europe, told Congress that Russia and the Afghan Taliban are growing
increasingly close, suggesting that the Kremlin is supplying the insurgent group
with weapons. Matériel support would be a significant escalation of Russia's
involvement with the Taliban, and it would undercut American efforts to
stabilize Afghanistan. It would also put the 9,000 American and 5,000 NATO
troops there at increased risk.

Two weeks ago, the commander of American forces in Africa, Gen. Thomas
Waldhauser, observed that Russia's role in Libya is deepening, with its special
forces on the ground in Egypt just over the border with Libya. He noted Russian
support for the powerful Libyan commander Khalifa Haftar, who is resisting the
United Nations-recognized government in Tripoli.

And of course, last week Russia denied that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
used sarin gas against his own people. This is the latest in Russia's broad and
deep diplomatic and military support for the Syrian dictator, who has killed
some 200,000 of his people and displaced half his population.

All of these steps have a common thread. Mr. Putin, who wants political control
over neighboring countries and to be seen as a great global power, is testing
President Trump. He wants to see how far he can go until we say "enough." While
Mr. Putin must realize the Trump administration is unlikely to be able to roll
back Western sanctions on Russia, as Mr. Putin originally hoped, he may think
Mr. Trump's still unexplained infatuation with him will allow him to move
aggressively, without American resistance.

What has the Trump administration done to respond to all of the above? There
have been strong words from Vice President Mike Pence and Defense Secretary
James Mattis, and particularly from the American ambassador to the United
Nations, Nikki Haley. But so far there has been no condemnation from Mr. Trump
and, most important, no action.

The administration needs to set out a clear policy toward Russia. It must
communicate clearly what is unacceptable and strengthen its deterrence, and in
that way establish its negotiating position, so that it can effectively and
realistically explore areas for cooperation.

The signaling needs to start with the president. He must deliver a speech
asserting American interest in trans-Atlantic security and speak resolutely on
the right of states to choose democracy, a free-market economy and membership in
NATO or the European Union.

America's Russia policy must include continued funding for troop presence and
exercises on NATO territory, and training and equipment for non-NATO partners at
risk from Moscow. At the same time, it should restart discussions with Russia on
nuclear, conventional and now cyber-arms control to lower the temperature in
areas of potential danger.

The president must also condemn Russia's continued support for Mr. Assad and the
deliberate Russian bombing of civilians in Syria, and press for Russia to
support a transition in Syria. Bombing an airfield isn't enough.

And of course, the administration must denounce Russia's interference in
American elections and make clear that such behavior will not be tolerated
again.

Whether the president likes it or not, Mr. Putin's Russia views the United
States as its adversary, and it is working to undermine America around the
world. Mr. Putin has accomplished a great deal in only a few weeks. President
Trump needs to say "enough." He can start by having his secretary of state
deliver that message when he visits Moscow this week.

Michael J. Morell was the deputy director and twice acting director of the
Central Intelligence Agency between 2010 and 2013. He is a senior counselor at
Beacon Global Strategies. Evelyn Farkas (@EvelynNFarkas) served as the deputy
assistant secretary of defense for Russia, Ukraine and Eurasia in the Obama
administration and is a nonresident senior fellow at the Atlantic Council.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2017 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Is Putin Testing Trump?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. MORELL and EVELYN FARKAS.

Michael J. Morell was the deputy director and twice acting director of the
Central Intelligence Agency between 2010 and 2013. He is a senior counselor at
Beacon Global Strategies. Evelyn Farkas served as the deputy assistant secretary
of defense for Russia, Ukraine and Eurasia in the Obama administration and is a
nonresident senior fellow at the Atlantic Council.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 874 words


This week Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is making his first diplomatic visit
to Russia, where he's likely to press Moscow on its handling of Syria, which he
has called ''incompetent.''

But Mr. Tillerson should recognize that Russia's involvement in Syria is only
one example of the increasingly active, and disruptive, role that President
Vladimir Putin has been playing on the world stage since Donald Trump's
inauguration.

In January, Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine, most likely at the
direction of Mr. Putin, ramped up their fight against Ukrainian government
forces, bringing the violence there to its highest level in a year and a half.
This is a direct challenge to the Minsk Agreements -- signed by Russia and
Ukraine, engineered by Germany and France, and backed by the United States --
designed to freeze the war and pave the way to restoring peace.

In mid-February, Mr. Putin decreed that Russia would recognize the passports
issued by two separatist governments in eastern Ukraine. Later that month, in a
move approved or at least condoned by Mr. Putin, the breakaway territory of
Luhansk in Ukraine announced that the Russian ruble would become its official
currency. Both actions are examples of the creeping assertion of Russian
sovereignty over parts of eastern Ukraine.

Again in January, Russia moved troops near the border with Belarus, designed to
pressure Belarus to accept an increased Russian military presence on its
territory. And in March, the Kremlin ordered the incorporation of the armed
forces in South Ossetia, one of two breakaway territories in Georgia, into the
Russian military.

Meanwhile, last month Gen. Curtis Scaparrotti, the top American general in
Europe, told Congress that Russia and the Afghan Taliban are growing
increasingly close, suggesting that the Kremlin is supplying the insurgent group
with weapons. Matériel support would be a significant escalation of Russia's
involvement with the Taliban, and it would undercut American efforts to
stabilize Afghanistan. It would also put the 9,000 American and 5,000 NATO
troops there at increased risk.

Two weeks ago, the commander of American forces in Africa, Gen. Thomas
Waldhauser, observed that Russia's role in Libya is deepening, with its special
forces on the ground in Egypt just over the border with Libya. He noted Russian
support for the powerful Libyan commander Khalifa Haftar, who is resisting the
United Nations-recognized government in Tripoli.

And of course, last week Russia denied that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
used sarin gas against his own people. This is the latest in Russia's broad and
deep diplomatic and military support for the Syrian dictator, who has killed
some 200,000 of his people and displaced half his population.

All of these steps have a common thread. Mr. Putin, who wants political control
over neighboring countries and to be seen as a great global power, is testing
President Trump. He wants to see how far he can go until we say ''enough.''
While Mr. Putin must realize the Trump administration is unlikely to be able to
roll back Western sanctions on Russia, as Mr. Putin originally hoped, he may
think Mr. Trump's still unexplained infatuation with him will allow him to move
aggressively, without American resistance.

What has the Trump administration done to respond to all of the above? There
have been strong words from Vice President Mike Pence and Defense Secretary
James Mattis, and particularly from the American ambassador to the United
Nations, Nikki Haley. But so far there has been no condemnation from Mr. Trump
and, most important, no action.

The administration needs to set out a clear policy toward Russia. It must
communicate clearly what is unacceptable and strengthen its deterrence, and in
that way establish its negotiating position, so that it can effectively and
realistically explore areas for cooperation.

The signaling needs to start with the president. He must deliver a speech
asserting American interest in trans-Atlantic security and speak resolutely on
the right of states to choose democracy, a free-market economy and membership in
NATO or the European Union.

America's Russia policy must include continued funding for troop presence and
exercises on NATO territory, and training and equipment for non-NATO partners at
risk from Moscow. At the same time, it should restart discussions with Russia on
nuclear, conventional and now cyber-arms control to lower the temperature in
areas of potential danger.

The president must also condemn Russia's continued support for Mr. Assad and the
deliberate Russian bombing of civilians in Syria, and press for Russia to
support a transition in Syria. Bombing an airfield isn't enough.

And of course, the administration must denounce Russia's interference in
American elections and make clear that such behavior will not be tolerated
again.

Whether the president likes it or not, Mr. Putin's Russia views the United
States as its adversary, and it is working to undermine America around the
world. Mr. Putin has accomplished a great deal in only a few weeks. President
Trump needs to say ''enough.'' He can start by having his secretary of state
deliver that message when he visits Moscow this week.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/11/opinion/is-russia-testing-trump.html

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        April 14, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Poutine peut-il influencer l'élection française?;
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: CÉCILE VAISSIÉ

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1306 words



HIGHLIGHT: L'entreprise de sape menée par le Kremlin en France est un travail de
longue date.


PARIS -- Jamais, dit-on, une élection présidentielle française n'aura été aussi
incertaine que celle-ci. Et jamais il n'aura été autant question du rôle du
Kremlin et de ses possibles tentatives d'influence -- voire d'ingérence -- sur
les résultats.

Le mois dernier le président François Hollande a dénoncé les «opérations
idéologiques\xC2 et la «stratégie d'influence, de réseaux\xC2 du Kremlin en
France visant en partie à «influencer les opinions publiques\xC2. Ses propos
venaient après que Richard Ferrand, secrétaire national du mouvement En Marche!,
eut accusé la Russie d'être responsable de cyber-attaques contre le site du
parti et de vouloir nuire à son candidat à l'élection présidentielle, Emmanuel
Macron, que le Kremlin perçoit comme trop favorable à l'Union européenne, entre
autres. Le Kremlin a démenti.

Le gouvernement français redoute que des attaques ou piratages informatiques ne
soient déclenchés pendant les élections -- une inquiétude qui a justifié la
décision de ne pas autoriser le vote électronique aux Français de l'étranger
pour les élections législatives en juin (ce mode de vote n'existant pas pour les
présidentielles).

Hacking, propagande, désinformation, financement de partis même -- les raisons
d'être méfiant sont multiples. D'autant plus que l'entreprise de sape menée par
le Kremlin en France est un travail de longue date.

Ainsi, les autorités russes ont établi au moins trois structures importantes en
France. L'association le Dialogue franco-russe, créée en 2004 sous le parrainage
de Jacques Chirac, alors président, et l'actuel président russe Vladimir
Poutine, regroupe notamment des entreprises impliquées dans le commerce
franco-russe. Elle annonce vouloir développer «la coopération économique et des
relations d'affaires\xC2, mais promeut surtout la suppression des sanctions
visant la Russie et défend les points de vue géopolitiques du Kremlin. Par
exemple, le Dialogue a participé à l'organisation d'un colloque sur la Syrie le
11 avril dans lequel est intervenu le ministre-adjoint des affaires étrangères
syrien. D'après les services secrets français, l'organisation serait
«vérolée\xC2 par les services secrets extérieurs russes.

L'Institut de la démocratie et de la coopération a vu le jour à Paris en 2008.
Il assure vouloir créer «un pont d'amitié solide entre les deux grandes nations
européennes, la Russie et la France\xC2. Toutefois, sa directrice Natalia
Narotchnitskaïa développe dans de nombreuses interviews un discours très hostile
: l'Occident voudrait soumettre la Russie, lui imposer ses règles, voire la
«démembrer\xC2, et à ces fins il instrumentaliserait la question de droits de
l'homme. Pour Mme Narotchnitskaïa, la Russie propose «une alternative à
l'Occident\xC2.

La troisième structure via laquelle le Kremlin est présent en France, plus
informelle celle-ci, est le Forum des compatriotes. Il s'est réuni pour la
première fois en 2011 et regroupe, dans les locaux de l'ambassade de Russie à
Paris, des émigrés russophones et des descendants d'émigrés. La création de tels
forums en France et ailleurs dans le monde est au coeur du projet politique
lancé sous M. Poutine intitulé «Monde russe\xC2: il s'agit de mobiliser les
diasporas russophones afin de développer, dans chaque pays, une force d'action
pour les initiatives linguistiques, culturelles ou économiques russes, mais
aussi un soutien au Kremlin sur des questions géopolitiques, comme par exemple
le conflit russo-ukrainienne.

Des dirigeants de ces trois structures interviennent régulièrement dans les
médias français et dans des médias que le Kremlin a créés, en français et dans
d'autres langues, et qu'il finance intégralement. Les deux plus importants,
présents sur les réseaux sociaux, sont Sputnik et RT (Russia Today), qui va
lancer sa chaîne en français en 2017.

Sputnik et RT ont consacré de nombreux articles aux problèmes que créeraient les
immigrants, par exemple, et essayé ainsi de renforcer les peurs et les rejets
engendrés par les récents attentats terroristes. Ils n'hésitent pas à déformer
les faits, voire à en inventer. Cette technique, qui était enseignée dans
certaines facultés de journalisme en U.R.S.S., vise à créer un choc émotionnel
et supprimer toute capacité d'analyse. En insinuant que les faits ne comptent
pas vraiment, elle alimente aussi le conspirationnisme.

Dans l'élection présidentielle française, Sputnik et RT soutiennent les
candidatures de Marine Le Pen, représentante de l'extrême droite, et François
Fillon, d'une droite de plus en plus dure, alors qu'ils attaquent M. Macron.
C'est sur Sputnik News (en anglais) que le député français Nicolas Dhuicq,
membre du bureau du Dialogue franco-russe et de Les Républicains, le parti de M.
Fillon, a accusé M. Macron d'avoir été «un agent du grand système bancaire
américain\xC2 et d'être soutenu par «un très riche lobby gay\xC2.

Plus concrètement, le soutien russe peut être financier - et, si un seul cas a
été démontré jusqu'à présent en France, il n'est peut-être pas unique. Ainsi,
Mme Le Pen, présidente du Front National, a obtenu 9 millions d'euros de la
First Czech Russian Bank en 2014. (Aujourd'hui en faillite, cette banque
comptait parmi ses principaux responsables Viatcheslav Baboussenko, un ancien
dirigeant du K.G.B.) Une société chypriote a versé 2 millions d'euros à la
Cotelec, le micro-parti de Jean-Marie Le Pen, le père de Marine et l'ancien
leader du Front National. Elle semble appartenir à un Russe qui doit sa
carrière, selon le magazine Forbes russe, à ses liens avec les services secrets.

S'agissait-il de prêts ou d'échanges de bons procédés ? En effet, ces derniers
temps, le Front National soutient activement le Kremlin et se dit «opposé aux
sanctions contre la Russie\xC2. M. Putin a accueilli Mme Le Pen à Moscou il a
quelques semaines, se disant «très heureux \xC2 de la voir. Elle l'a décrit
comme «un homme attaché aux valeurs\xC2, notamment à «l'héritage chrétien de la
civilisation européenne\xC2.

Les Français, eux, restent sceptiques apparemment: 85% des personnes interrogées
pour un sondage en 2015 (le dernier en date sur ce sujet) ne faisaient pas
confiance à M. Poutine et disaient ne pas croire qu'il saurait agir au mieux
dans les affaires internationales. Leur taux de confiance en lui s'est écroulé
entre 2003 et 2015, passant de 48% à 15%.

Mais pour Moscou peu importe. Comme l'a très bien démontré récemment un article
du journal Die Zeit pour le cas allemand, les réseaux et médias du Kremlin
cherchent surtout à développer les peurs et les méfiances à l'étranger, et à
saper la foi qu'ont les Occidentaux en la sécurité de leurs pays, l'intégrité de
leurs institutions et la stabilité de leur quotidien.

Une résolution du Parlement européen en novembre mettait en garde contre la
«guerre de désinformation et de propagande russe\xC2, l'appelant une «partie
intégrante de la guerre hybride moderne, combinaison de mesures militaires et
non militaires, secrètes et ouvertes\xC2. Cette guerre est bel et bien en cours.

Son objectif est de construire cet «ordre mondial post-occidental\xC2 que
Sergueï Lavrov, ministre des affaires étrangères russe, appelait de ses voeux à
Munich en février. Et qui connaît la situation intérieure de la Russie -- sa
corruption généralisée, son économie non performante, la misère de larges
segments de la population, la détérioration flagrante des libertés politiques et
civiques -- ne peut que redouter toute influence de M. Poutine sur l'élection
présidentielle en France.

Suivez les pages Opinion du New York Times sur Facebook et Twitter et
abonnez-vous à notre newsletter.

Cécile Vaissié, professeure d'études russes à l'université de Rennes II, est
l'auteure de Les Réseaux du Kremlin en France.

Related Articles


     ·    Can the Kremlin Influence the French Election?
     ·    France in the End of Days
     ·    France's Neither-Nor Election
     ·    En France, une élection ni-ni


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 15, 2017 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

Poutine peut-il influencer l'élection française?

BYLINE: By CÉCILE VAISSIÉ.

Cécile Vaissié, professeure d'études russes à l'université de Rennes II, est
l'auteure de Les Réseaux du Kremlin en France.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg.

LENGTH: 135 words


PARIS -- Jamais, dit-on, une élection présidentielle française n'aura été aussi
incertaine que celle-ci. Et jamais il n'aura été autant question du rôle du
Kremlin et de ses possibles tentatives d'influence -- voire d'ingérence -- sur
les résultats.

Le mois dernier le président François Hollande a dénoncé les «opérations
idéologiques» et la «stratégie d'influence, de réseaux» du Kremlin en France
visant en partie à «influencer les opinions publiques». Ses propos venaient
après que Richard Ferrand, secrétaire national du mouvement En Marche!, eut
accusé la Russie d'être responsable de cyber-attaques contre le site du parti et
de vouloir nuire à son candidat à l'élection présidentielle, Emmanuel Macron,
que le Kremlin perçoit comme trop favorable à l'Union européenne, entre autres.
Le Kremlin a démenti.



URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/14/opinion/poutine-peut-il-influencer-lelection-
francaise.html

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        April 16, 2017 Sunday 00:00 EST

A 'Cuban Missile Crisis in Slow Motion' in North Korea;
News Analysis

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1451 words



HIGHLIGHT: As the standoff grows under a new American president, a mix of
national ambitions, personal ego and deadly weapons is creating opportunities
for miscalculation.


WASHINGTON -- All the elements of the North Korean nuclear crisis -- the
relentless drive by Kim Jong-un to assemble an arsenal, the propaganda and
deception swirling around his progress, the hints of a covert war by the United
States to undermine the effort, rather than be forced into open confrontation --
were on vivid display this weekend.

There was the parade in Pyongyang's main square, with wave after wave of
missiles atop mobile launchers, intended to convey a sense that Mr. Kim's
program is unstoppable. Then came another embarrassing setback, a missile test
that failed seconds after liftoff, the same pattern seen in a surprising number
of launches since President Barack Obama ordered stepped-up cyber- and
electronic-warfare attacks in early 2014. Finally, there was the test that did
not happen, at least yet -- a sixth nuclear explosion. It is primed and ready to
go, satellite images show.

What is playing out, said Robert Litwak of the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars, who tracks this potentially deadly interplay, is "the Cuban
missile crisis in slow motion." But the slow-motion part appears to be speeding
up, as President Trump and his aides have made it clear that the United States
will no longer tolerate the incremental advances that have moved Mr. Kim so
close to his goals.

Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson has said repeatedly that "our policy of
strategic patience has ended," hardening the American position as Mr. Kim makes
steady progress toward two primary goals: shrinking a nuclear weapon to a size
that can fit atop a long-range missile, and developing a hydrogen bomb, with up
to a thousand times the power of the Hiroshima-style weapons he has built so
far.

While all historical analogies are necessarily imprecise -- for starters,
President John F. Kennedy dealt with the Soviets and Fidel Castro in a perilous
13 days in 1962, while the roots of the Korean crisis go back a quarter-century
-- one parallel shines through. When national ambitions, personal ego and deadly
weapons are all in the mix, the opportunities for miscalculation are many.

So far, Mr. Trump has played his hand -- militarily, at least -- as cautiously
as his predecessors: A series of Situation Room meetings has come to the
predictable conclusion that while the United States can be more aggressive, it
should stop just short of confronting the North so frontally that it risks
rekindling the Korean War, nearly 64 years after it came to an uneasy armistice.

Still, the current standoff has grown only more volatile. It pits a new
president's vow never to allow North Korea to put American cities at risk -- "It
won't happen!" he said on Twitter on Jan. 2 -- against a young, insecure North
Korean leader who sees that capability as his only guarantee of survival.

Mr. Trump is clearly new to this kind of dynamic, as he implicitly acknowledged
when he volunteered that Xi Jinping, China's president, had given him what
amounted to a compressed seminar in Chinese-North Korean relations. He emerged
surprised that Beijing did not have the kind of absolute control over its
impoverished neighbor that he insisted it did last year.

"After listening for 10 minutes, I realized it's not so easy," he said. "It's
not what you would think."

Mr. Trump's national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, gave voice to
the difficult balancing act on North Korea on Sunday. General McMaster, himself
a military historian, said on ABC's "This Week" that while the president had not
ruled out any option, it was time for the United States "to take action, short
of armed conflict, so we can avoid the worst" in dealing with "this
unpredictable regime." Translation: Pre-emptive strikes are off the table, at
least for now.

The fact that Mr. Kim did not conduct a nuclear test over the weekend, timed to
the anniversary of the birth of his grandfather, the founder of the country and
its nuclear program, may indicate that Mr. Xi has given him pause. In the White
House's telling, Mr. Xi is responding to pressure by Mr. Trump to threaten a
cutoff of the North's financial links and energy supplies -- its twin lifelines
as a state.

"Why would I call China a currency manipulator when they are working with us on
the North Korean problem?" Mr. Trump asked in a Twitter post on Sunday morning,
making it clear that everything, including the trade issues he vowed to solve as
a candidate, could be a bargaining chip when it comes to defanging the North.

The North is trying to create the sense that it is too late for any such
defanging -- that it has reached a tipping point in its nuclear push. That is
why Mr. Kim stood for hours as so many missiles rolled by on Saturday, carried
on portable launch vehicles that can be hidden in hundreds of tunnels bored into
North Korean mountains.

For all the talk of an eventual intercontinental missile that can reach the
United States, one of the stars of the show was a missile of lesser range -- the
Pukguksong-2, also known as the KN-15. It is a solid-fuel rocket that can be
launched in minutes, unlike liquid-fueled missiles, which take hours of
preparation. That means they are far less vulnerable to a pre-emptive strike
from an American missile launched from a base in Japan or from a carrier strike
group like the one Mr. Trump has put off the Korean coast.

The KN-15 was successfully tested in February. On Saturday, it was paraded in
public for the first time, like a conquering hero fresh from a moon landing.

"The big takeaway is that they're taking this seriously," said Jeffrey Lewis, a
North Korea specialist at the Middlebury Institute for International Studies at
Monterey, in California. "They're trying to develop operational systems that
might actually survive on the ground," perhaps even enduring blows meant to
leave them crippled or destroyed.

But Mr. Kim's otherwise triumphant day took a bad turn when the missile test
failed. North Korea used to be pretty successful at launching missiles, so much
so that its missiles were sold around the world. Then its launches started
failing, suggesting the presence of a hidden Washington hand.

Its big setbacks have revolved around the most threatening missile it has so far
flight-tested, known as the Musudan. Last year, it had a failure rate of 88
percent. Mr. Kim was reported to have ordered an investigation into the
possibility of foreign sabotage, and the missile has remained unseen since.

Asked on Fox News on Sunday whether the United States had played any role in the
latest missile failure, K. T. McFarland, General McMaster's departing deputy,
said, "You know we can't talk about that." Most likely, no one knows for sure,
but the ambiguity feeds North Korea's paranoia, intelligence experts say.

But such programs buy time; they are not solutions. Equally worrisome to
Washington officials and private analysts is the North's steady progress over a
decade in developing nuclear warheads that are small enough to fit atop
long-range missiles. By definition, the atomic work appears to be far less open
to prying eyes and foreign sabotage. The explosive nuclear tests take place in
tunnels dug deep beneath a rugged mountain.

"They've done five tests in 10 years," said Siegfried S. Hecker, a Stanford
professor who once directed the Los Alamos weapons laboratory in New Mexico, a
birthplace of the atomic bomb. "You can learn a lot in that time."

Tempting as the analogies to Cuba may be, Mr. Kim is probably thinking of
another nuclear negotiation -- with Libya, in 2003. Its leader, Col. Muammar
el-Qaddafi, agreed to give up his nascent nuclear program in return for promises
from the West of economic integration and acceptance. It never really happened,
and as soon as Libya's populace turned against the dictator during the Arab
Spring, the United States and its European and Arab allies drove him from power.
Ultimately, he was pulled out of a ditch and shot.

Periodically, the North Koreans write about that experience, noting what a sap
Colonel Qaddafi was to give up the nuclear program that might have saved him.
Mr. Kim, it appears, is not planning to make the same mistake.

David E. Sanger reported from Washington, and William J. Broad from New York.

PHOTO: Ballistic missiles were paraded through Pyongyang, North Korea's capital,
on Saturday as part of the celebration of the 105th anniversary of the birth of
Kim Il-sung, the country's founder. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY
IMAGES) (A5)

Related Articles


     ·    North Korean Missile Launch Fails, and a Show of Strength Fizzles
     ·    China Warns of 'Storm Clouds Gathering' in U.S.-North Korea Standoff
     ·    Xi and Trump Discuss Rising Tensions With North Korea
     ·    South Korea Seeks to Assure Citizens U.S. Won't Strike North
          Pre-emptively


LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 17, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Faces 'Cuban Missile Crisis in Slow Motion'

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD; David E. Sanger reported from
Washington, and William J. Broad from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1364 words


WASHINGTON -- All the elements of the North Korean nuclear crisis -- the
relentless drive by Kim Jong-un to assemble an arsenal, the propaganda and
deception swirling around his progress, the hints of a covert war by the United
States to undermine the effort, rather than be forced into open confrontation --
were on vivid display this weekend.

There was the parade in Pyongyang's main square, with wave after wave of
missiles atop mobile launchers, intended to convey a sense that Mr. Kim's
program is unstoppable. Then came another embarrassing setback, a missile test
that failed seconds after liftoff, the same pattern seen in a surprising number
of launches since President Barack Obama ordered stepped-up cyber- and
electronic-warfare attacks in early 2014. Finally, there was the test that did
not happen, at least yet -- a sixth nuclear explosion. It is primed and ready to
go, satellite images show.

What is playing out, said Robert Litwak of the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars, who tracks this potentially deadly interplay, is ''the
Cuban missile crisis in slow motion.'' But the slow-motion part appears to be
speeding up, as President Trump and his aides have made it clear that the United
States will no longer tolerate the incremental advances that have moved Mr. Kim
so close to his goals.

Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson has said repeatedly that ''our policy of
strategic patience has ended,'' hardening the American position as Mr. Kim makes
steady progress toward two primary goals: shrinking a nuclear weapon to a size
that can fit atop a long-range missile, and developing a hydrogen bomb, with up
to a thousand times the power than the Hiroshima-style weapons he has built so
far.

While all historical analogies are necessarily imprecise -- for starters,
President John F. Kennedy dealt with the Soviets and Fidel Castro in a perilous
13 days in 1962, while the roots of the Korean crisis go back a quarter-century
-- one parallel shines through. When national ambitions, personal ego and deadly
weapons are all in the mix, the opportunities for miscalculation are many.

So far, Mr. Trump has played his hand -- militarily, at least -- as cautiously
as his predecessors: A series of Situation Room meetings has come to the
predictable conclusion that while the United States can be more aggressive, it
should stop just short of confronting the North so frontally that it risks
rekindling the Korean War, nearly 64 years after it came to an uneasy armistice.

Still, the current standoff has grown only more volatile. It pits a new
president's vow never to allow North Korea to put American cities at risk --
''It won't happen!'' he said on Twitter on Jan. 2 -- against a young, insecure
North Korean leader who sees that capability as his only guarantee of survival.

Mr. Trump is clearly new to this kind of dynamic, as he implicitly acknowledged
when he volunteered that Xi Jinping, China's president, had given him what
amounted to a compressed seminar in Chinese-North Korean relations. He emerged
surprised that Beijing did not have the kind of absolute control over its
impoverished neighbor that he insisted it did last year.

''After listening for 10 minutes, I realized it's not so easy,'' he said. ''It's
not what you would think.''

Mr. Trump's national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, gave voice to
the difficult balancing act on North Korea on Sunday. General McMaster, himself
a military historian, said on ABC's ''This Week'' that while the president had
not ruled out any option, it was time for the United States ''to take action,
short of armed conflict, so we can avoid the worst'' in dealing with ''this
unpredictable regime.'' Translation: Pre-emptive strikes are off the table, at
least for now.

The fact that Mr. Kim did not conduct a nuclear test over the weekend, timed to
the anniversary of the birth of his grandfather, the founder of the country and
its nuclear program, may indicate that Mr. Xi has given him pause. In the White
House's telling, Mr. Xi is responding to pressure by Mr. Trump to threaten a
cutoff of the North's financial links and energy supplies -- its twin lifelines
as a state.

''Why would I call China a currency manipulator when they are working with us on
the North Korean problem?'' Mr. Trump asked in a Twitter post on Sunday morning,
making it clear that everything, including the trade issues he vowed to solve as
a candidate, could be a bargaining chip when it comes to defanging the North.

The North is trying to create the sense that it is too late for any such
defanging -- that it has reached a tipping point in its nuclear push. That is
why Mr. Kim stood for hours as so many missiles rolled by on Saturday, carried
on portable launch vehicles that can be hidden in hundreds of tunnels bored into
North Korean mountains.

For all the talk of an eventual intercontinental missile that can reach the
United States, one of the stars of the show was a missile of lesser range -- the
Pukguksong-2, also known as the KN-15. It is a solid-fuel rocket that can be
launched in minutes, unlike liquid-fueled missiles, which take hours of
preparation. That means they are far less vulnerable to a pre-emptive strike
from an American missile launched from a base in Japan or from a carrier strike
group like the one Mr. Trump has put off the Korean coast.

The KN-15 was successfully tested in February. On Saturday, it was paraded in
public for the first time, like a conquering hero fresh from a moon landing.

''The big takeaway is that they're taking this seriously,'' said Jeffrey Lewis,
a North Korea specialist at the Middlebury Institute for International Studies
at Monterey, in California. ''They're trying to develop operational systems that
might actually survive on the ground,'' perhaps even enduring blows meant to
leave them crippled or destroyed.

But Mr. Kim's otherwise triumphant day took a bad turn when the missile test
failed. North Korea used to be pretty successful at launching missiles, so much
so that its missiles were sold around the world. Then its launches started
failing, suggesting the presence of a hidden Washington hand.

Its big setbacks have revolved around the most threatening missile it has so far
flight-tested, known as the Musudan. Last year, it had a failure rate of 88
percent. Mr. Kim was reported to have ordered an investigation into the
possibility of foreign sabotage, and the missile has remained unseen since.

Asked on Fox News on Sunday whether the United States had played any role in the
latest missile failure, K. T. McFarland, General McMaster's departing deputy,
said, ''You know we can't talk about that.'' Most likely, no one knows for sure,
but the ambiguity feeds North Korea's paranoia, intelligence experts say.

But such programs buy time; they are not solutions. Equally worrisome to
Washington officials and private analysts is the North's steady progress over a
decade in developing nuclear warheads that are small enough to fit atop
long-range missiles. By definition, the atomic work appears to be far less open
to prying eyes and foreign sabotage. The explosive nuclear tests take place in
tunnels dug deep beneath a rugged mountain.

''They've done five tests in 10 years,'' said Siegfried S. Hecker, a Stanford
professor who once directed the Los Alamos weapons laboratory in New Mexico, a
birthplace of the atomic bomb. ''You can learn a lot in that time.''

Tempting as the analogies to Cuba may be, Mr. Kim is probably thinking of
another nuclear negotiation -- with Libya, in 2003. Its leader, Col. Muammar
el-Qaddafi, agreed to give up his nascent nuclear program in return for promises
from the West of economic integration and acceptance. It never really happened,
and as soon as Libya's populace turned against the dictator during the Arab
Spring, the United States and its European and Arab allies drove him from power.
Ultimately, he was pulled out of a ditch and shot.

Periodically, the North Koreans write about that experience, noting what a sap
Colonel Qaddafi was to give up the nuclear program that might have saved him.
Mr. Kim, it appears, is not planning to make the same mistake.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/16/us/politics/north-korea-missile-crisis-slow-m
otion.html

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ballistic missiles were paraded through Pyongyang, North Korea's
capital, on Saturday as part of the celebration of the 105th anniversary of the
birth of Kim Il-sung, the country's founder. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
-- GETTY IMAGES) (A5)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        April 18, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

New York Today: A Holocaust Survivor's Story, on Stage;
New York Today

BYLINE: JONATHAN WOLFE

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1248 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tuesday: Performing Holocaust stories, a push for Uber tipping, and
Earth Day events.


Good morning on this lovely Tuesday.

Jacqueline Kimmelstiel didn't have a childhood.

Mrs. Kimmelstiel and her family spent 12 years moving through cities and small
towns throughout France during the Holocaust.

"I had no youth, I had no teen years, and no education," Mrs. Kimmelstiel said
through tears during a recent interview in her tidy apartment in the Bronx. "I'm
89 years old and it bothers me to this day, that I didn't get an education."

She is one of 32 Holocaust survivors whose life stories will be told on a stage
in New York City and in Scarsdale in the coming weeks as part of Witness
Theater, a program that pairs high school students and Holocaust survivors to
create works for the stage.

There are an estimated 50,000 Holocaust survivors in the New York City area,
nearly twice as many as in the rest of the United States, according to Selfhelp
Community Services, a nonprofit organization that conducts research on Holocaust
survivors and is one of the largest providers of services for them.

Born in Frankfurt, Mrs. Kimmelstiel moved through Nice, Limoges and small French
villages to escape the Nazis.

For a brief time in France, she said, she lived a somewhat normal life, and even
received Hebrew instruction.

"Then they started to come," she said of the Germans. Her family moved to Lyon,
where she, her mother and eight other women hid with the nuns in a convent at
night.

"Every day we would see convoys of people being brought to the train station,"
she added. One day, she saw her Hebrew instructor being marched to the station.

"I was pretty stupid and I waved at him," Mrs. Kimmelstiel said. "But he was
smart enough to look away, because if they would have seen it, I would have
joined him."

In August 1947, her family moved to New York.

"When I saw the Statue of Liberty, I said, 'I'm free, I'm free,' " she said.

Here, she worked as a seamstress in the garment center and studied English at
night, where she met her husband, Albert Kimmelstiel, who had been imprisoned at
Auschwitz. He was freed on May 2, 1945, by the American Army, and passed away
last year.

In upcoming performances, the life of the younger Mrs. Kimmelstiel will be
portrayed by Dalia Katz, 16, a student at SAR High School.

"I feel a little nervous because I want to do her story justice," Ms. Katz said,
referring not only to the harrowing events in Mrs. Kimmelstiel's life but also
to her bravery and strength.

"I get to not only help her, with the therapeutic part of the theater, but I get
to share her story with so many others," Ms. Katz added.

For Mrs. Kimmelstiel, the play is personal.

"There's so few of us left, and it's getting less and less every day," Mrs.
Kimmelstiel said. "There are so many people who deny the Holocaust. I mean, my
husband didn't put that number on his arm by himself. It's my duty to do the
performance, and I do it willingly and in my husband's memory."

Ahead of Holocaust Remembrance Day/YomHaShoah on April 24, you can see a
performance based on Mrs. Kimmelstiel's life story at 6:30 p.m. on Sunday at SAR
High School in the Bronx. A full list of performances can be found here.

Here's what else is happening:

Weather

We'll let thebeautiful weather -- 63 and sunny -- speak for itself and note only
that you may need sunglasses and a light jacket as you head out for the day.

Enjoy.

In the News

With a new "don't ask, don't answer" approach, Mayor Bill de Blasio is raising
questions by refusing to take any. [New York Times]

Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey is plagued by low approval ratings as he heads
into the final months of his term. [New York Times]

Officials in New York City announced a proposal that would require Uber to
provide a tipping option in the app. [New York Times]

After years of delay, the bouncy Squibb Bridge, a pedestrian path that connects
Brooklyn Heights to Brooklyn Bridge Park, is set to reopen on Wednesday. [New
York Times]

The first three of 20 new New York City ferry boats have arrived. [NBC]

New Yorkers plan to commemorate the anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto uprising,
on Wednesday. [West Side Rag]

False reports of gunshots at Coney Island sent visitors into a panic. [Bklyner]

Two men robbed a Brooklyn synagogue and attacked its live-in caretaker,
according to the police, during the final days of Passover. [Gothamist]

Following the opening of the Second Avenue subway, yellow taxicab ridership has
plummeted on the formerly cab-dependent Upper East Side. [amNY]

Ten years ago, Sludgie the Whale -- a 15-foot minke whale -- wound up in the
contaminated Gowanus Canal. [DNAinfo]

Today's Metropolitan Diary: "Ode to Mrs. Stahl's"

Scoreboard: Yankees dirty White Sox, 7-4.

For a global look at what's happening, see Your Tuesday Briefing.

Coming Up Today

Learn basic sign language at Poe Park Visitor Center in the Bronx. 11 a.m.
[Free]

Watch a screening of the documentary, "Maya Angelou, And Still I Rise," at the
Jefferson Market Library in Greenwich Village. 6 p.m. [Free]

Learn about the history of Newtown Creek, Gowanus Canal and Wolff-Alport with
Jarrett Murphy, Executive Publisher of City Limits, at the Brooklyn Historical
Society. 6:30 p.m. [$5]

Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, discusses her new book,
"This Fight Is Our Fight: The Battle to Save America's Middle Class," at the
Barnes & Noble in Union Square. 7 p.m. [Book purchase required]

A discussion, "Cyber Insecurity: Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About
Encryption But Were Afraid to Ask," at the New School in Greenwich Village. 7
p.m. [Free]

Rangers host Canadiens, 7 p.m. (NBCS, MSG), in Game 4 of the National Hockey
League playoffs. Yankees host White Sox, 7:05 p.m. (YES). Mets host Phillies,
(SNY).

For more events, see The New York Times's Arts & Entertainment guide.

Commute

Subway  and PATH

Railroads: L.I.R.R., Metro-North, N.J. Transit, Amtrak

Roads: Check traffic map or radio report on the 1s or the 8s.

Alternate-side parking: suspended for Passover.

Ferries: Staten Island Ferry, New York Waterway, East River Ferry

Airports: La Guardia, J.F.K., Newark

And Finally...

Earth Day is this Saturday, but here in the city, we're celebrating all week.

Beginning at noon in Union Square, Earth Day New York kicks off with a festival
of activities, performances and talks.

The Parks Department is hosting dozens of Earth Day events around the city,
including tree giveaways, hikes and music and dance performances.

On Friday, you can join the Earth Day 5K, a tour of our city's green spaces.

On Saturday, you can partake in Weekend Walks, where blocks around the city will
be closed to vehicular traffic.

Or you can celebrate by commuting by bicycle.

In 2016, the city added more miles of bike lanes than any previous year: 80
additional or upgraded miles of lanes, according to the Department of
Transportation. You can now travel across the city on more than 1,100 miles of
bike lanes.

Download the 2017 Bike Map here before you head out.

Look closely at the cover and you'll see a homage to one of our friends, the
late Bill Cunningham, who was a Times fashion photographer and
consummatecitybiker.

New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late
morning. You can receive it via email.

For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at
nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.

Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on
Twitter.

You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        April 18, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Hand of U.S. Leaves North Korea's Missile Program Shaken

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1372 words



HIGHLIGHT: Whether an American program to sabotage North Korean test flights is
behind a string of failures, it has led Pyongyang to hunt for spies and ways to
combat such attacks.


WASHINGTON -- When a North Korean missile test went awry on Sunday, blowing up
seconds after liftoff, there were immediate suspicions that a United States
program to sabotage the test flights had struck again. The odds seem highly
likely: Eighty-eight percent of the launches of the North's most threatening
missiles have self-destructed since the covert American program was accelerated
three years ago.

But even inside the United States Cyber Command and the National Security
Agency, where the operation is centered, it is nearly impossible to tell if any
individual launch is the victim of a new, innovative approach to foil North
Korean missiles with cyber and electronic strikes.

Bad welding, bad parts, bad engineering and bad luck can all play a role in such
failures -- as it did in the United States' own missile program, particularly in
its early days. And it would require a near impossible degree of forensic
investigation to figure out an exact cause, given that the failed North Korean
missiles tend to explode, disintegrate in midair and plunge in fragments into
faraway seas.

But this much is clear, experts say: The existence of the American program, and
whatever it has contributed to North Korea's remarkable string of troubles,
appears to have shaken Pyongyang and led to an internal spyhunt as well as
innovative ways to defeat a wide array of enemy cyberstrikes.

By all accounts, the program that President Barack Obama stepped up in 2014 has
been adopted with enthusiasm by the Trump administration. President Trump's
national security aides are eagerly hoping that the Chinese, among others, will
get North Korea to freeze or reverse its program. Yet they have no compunctions
about using this new class of weapon against missile tests that the United
Nations has already prohibited.

Speaking in Moscow last week, Rex W. Tillerson, the secretary of state, was put
on the defensive by a Russian reporter who challenged American complaints of
interference in the American election, despite Washington's cyber attacks
against Iran's nuclear program and North Korea's missile program. "Cybertools to
disrupt weapons programs -- that's another use of the tools, and I make a
distinction between those two," Mr. Tillerson argued back, without specifically
confirming their use against Pyongyang.

Perhaps taken by surprise at the question, Mr. Tillerson never took the next
step to voice the argument that some of his Trump administration colleagues make
in private: that since the United Nations Security Council has banned North
Korean missile tests, any effort to interfere with them would have some basis in
international law.

"When you look at what is emanating out of North Korea," Michael Chertoff, a
former secretary of homeland security who now runs a cyberconsulting group in
Washington, said Tuesday at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, "I
have sympathy for the argument that anything we can do to stop an unpredictable
person from using nuclear weapons is worth trying."

But the question for the United States' intelligence agencies is whether this
new tool is as effective as many have hoped. While billions of dollars have been
poured into new offensive cyberweapons, touting a success in thwarting North
Korea -- whether it is real or imagined -- can be turned into an argument for
more.

It is a particularly difficult question in light of Sunday's botched test,
because it is still unclear exactly what missile was launched. By nature,
missiles teeter on the brink of failure, and new designs are often accident
prone. At their best, missiles are dense welters of pipes, engines, valves,
pumps, volatile fuels, relays, explosive bolts, wires, sensors and circuit
boards that suddenly emit blistering flames and roar skyward with such
shattering violence that they often quickly hit the breaking point. Things can
easily go wrong, and frequently do.

But even by those measures, the North Koreans are having a rough time, and it
has gotten a lot rougher since the United States accelerated its sabotage
program.

In the annals of rocketry, experts say, roughly 5 to 10 percent of developmental
test flights go awry. That holds even for such high practitioners of the art as
the billionaires Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, and Elon Musk, the founder
of Tesla, who are now racing to redefine the future of spaceflight. (By
contrast, American commercial airline flights have a success rate of more than
99.9999 percent. And when crashes do occur, it can take investigators weeks,
months or even years to identify the cause.)

But the sheer frequency of North Korean missile mishaps suggests that sabotage
lies behind at least some of the recent failures.

So does the timing. Typically, countries encounter high failure rates when they
start their rocket programs. As the programs mature, and engineers gain
experience, spectacular failures decline and success tends to become a habit. In
North Korea, the situation has been the exact reverse.

By and large, the North was a reliable maker of missiles in the 1980s, '90s and
into the 2000s. The government sold its missiles to Pakistan and Iran, among
others.

Then came the effort to launch the Musudan, an intermediate-range missile that
Pyongyang first displayed in a military parade in late 2010. It was 5 feet wide
and 40 feet long -- remarkably small compared with the North's big rockets. But
it represented an enormous threat. Carried on a truck, it could be hauled on
country roads through forested regions or kept in tunnels, making it easy to
hide and, as a target, difficult to find and destroy.

To date, the proven reach of the Musudan makes it the most threatening potential
weapon in the North's emerging arsenal of missiles that might loft nuclear
warheads. It is seen as able to hit targets up to 2,200 miles away -- far enough
to strike the sprawling American base at Guam.

Last year, the North conducted eight flight tests. Only one succeeded, giving
the missile an overall failure rate of 88 percent. It was after the last failure
that the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, was reported to have ordered an
investigation into whether the United States was sabotaging his country's test
flights, searching for spies in his system.

Experts say that the best way to slow a program is to send a country scrambling
for the causes of failures. "Disrupting their tests," William J. Perry, defense
secretary in the Clinton administration, said at a meeting this year in
Washington, would be "a pretty effective way of stopping their ICBM program."

But more recently, the effectiveness of the United States' sabotage has grown
increasingly uncertain. Some new North Korean missile designs, using solid
fuels, have had a higher success rate. Moreover, the North Koreans, as
sophisticated cyberoperators, have grown better at defense.

John Schilling, a technical expert on North Korea's missile program, expressed
skepticism on Tuesday about the efficacy of the foreign cyberattacks against
Pyongyang's missiles.

"We haven't seen anything yet pointing to cyber specifically," Dr. Schilling
said on a conference call organized by 38 North, a think tank specializing in
North Korea at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.

An easier target of sabotage, Dr. Schilling added, would be the parts and
supplies that North Korea imports to feed its factories that make the missiles.

Longtime North Korea watcher Martyn Williams, who runs a California-based blog
called North Korea Tech, recently reported that the North's scientists have
developed a quantum encryption device that could completely secure
communications systems from hackers, eavesdroppers and saboteurs.

The effort, Mr. Williams wrote this month, has the potential to "hamper the
ability of foreign intelligence agencies to monitor and affect North Korean
systems in real time."

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

PHOTO: Soldiers at the birthplace compound of Kim Il-sung, North Korea's
founder, in Pyongyang last week. The 105th anniversary of his birth was
celebrated on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HOW HWEE YOUNG/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO
AGENCY)

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Inherits a Secret Cyberwar Against North Korean Missiles


LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 19, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hand of U.S. Leaves North Korea's Missile Program Shaken

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1333 words


WASHINGTON -- When a North Korean missile test went awry on Sunday, blowing up
seconds after liftoff, there were immediate suspicions that a United States
program to sabotage the test flights had struck again. The odds seem highly
likely: Eighty-eight percent of the launches of the North's most threatening
missiles have self-destructed since the covert American program was accelerated
three years ago.

But even inside the United States Cyber Command and the National Security
Agency, where the operation is centered, it is nearly impossible to tell if any
individual launch is the victim of a new, innovative approach to foil North
Korean missiles with cyber and electronic strikes.

Bad welding, bad parts, bad engineering and bad luck can all play a role in such
failures -- as it did in the United States' own missile program, particularly in
its early days. And it would require a near impossible degree of forensic
investigation to figure out an exact cause, given that the failed North Korean
missiles tend to explode, disintegrate in midair and plunge in fragments into
faraway seas.

But this much is clear, experts say: The existence of the American program, and
whatever it has contributed to North Korea's remarkable string of troubles,
appears to have shaken Pyongyang and led to an internal spyhunt as well as
innovative ways to defeat a wide array of enemy cyberstrikes.

By all accounts, the program that President Barack Obama stepped up in 2014 has
been adopted with enthusiasm by the Trump administration. President Trump's
national security aides are eagerly hoping that the Chinese, among others, will
get North Korea to freeze or reverse its program. Yet they have no compunctions
about using this new class of weapon against missile tests that the United
Nations has already prohibited.

Speaking in Moscow last week, Rex W. Tillerson, the secretary of state, was put
on the defensive by a Russian reporter who challenged American complaints of
interference in the American election, despite Washington's cyber attacks
against Iran's nuclear program and North Korea's missile program. ''Cybertools
to disrupt weapons programs -- that's another use of the tools, and I make a
distinction between those two,'' Mr. Tillerson argued back, without specifically
confirming their use against Pyongyang.

Perhaps taken by surprise at the question, Mr. Tillerson never took the next
step to voice the argument that some of his Trump administration colleagues make
in private: that since the United Nations Security Council has banned North
Korean missile tests, any effort to interfere with them would have some basis in
international law.

''When you look at what is emanating out of North Korea,'' Michael Chertoff, a
former secretary of homeland security who now runs a cyberconsulting group in
Washington, said Tuesday at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, ''I
have sympathy for the argument that anything we can do to stop an unpredictable
person from using nuclear weapons is worth trying.''

But the question for the United States' intelligence agencies is whether this
new tool is as effective as many have hoped. While billions of dollars have been
poured into new offensive cyberweapons, touting a success in thwarting North
Korea -- whether it is real or imagined -- can be turned into an argument for
more.

It is a particularly difficult question in light of Sunday's botched test,
because it is still unclear exactly what missile was launched. By nature,
missiles teeter on the brink of failure, and new designs are often accident
prone. At their best, missiles are dense welters of pipes, engines, valves,
pumps, volatile fuels, relays, explosive bolts, wires, sensors and circuit
boards that suddenly emit blistering flames and roar skyward with such
shattering violence that they often quickly hit the breaking point. Things can
easily go wrong, and frequently do.

But even by those measures, the North Koreans are having a rough time, and it
has gotten a lot rougher since the United States accelerated its sabotage
program.

In the annals of rocketry, experts say, roughly 5 to 10 percent of developmental
test flights go awry. That holds even for such high practitioners of the art as
the billionaires Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, and Elon Musk, the founder
of Tesla, who are now racing to redefine the future of spaceflight. (By
contrast, American commercial airline flights have a success rate of more than
99.9999 percent. And when crashes do occur, it can take investigators weeks,
months or even years to identify the cause.)

But the sheer frequency of North Korean missile mishaps suggests that sabotage
lies behind at least some of the recent failures.

So does the timing. Typically, countries encounter high failure rates when they
start their rocket programs. As the programs mature, and engineers gain
experience, spectacular failures decline and success tends to become a habit. In
North Korea, the situation has been the exact reverse.

By and large, the North was a reliable maker of missiles in the 1980s, '90s and
into the 2000s. The government sold its missiles to Pakistan and Iran, among
others.

Then came the effort to launch the Musudan, an intermediate-range missile that
Pyongyang first displayed in a military parade in late 2010. It was 5 feet wide
and 40 feet long -- remarkably small compared with the North's big rockets. But
it represented an enormous threat. Carried on a truck, it could be hauled on
country roads through forested regions or kept in tunnels, making it easy to
hide and, as a target, difficult to find and destroy.

To date, the proven reach of the Musudan makes it the most threatening potential
weapon in the North's emerging arsenal of missiles that might loft nuclear
warheads. It is seen as able to hit targets up to 2,200 miles away -- far enough
to strike the sprawling American base at Guam.

Last year, the North conducted eight flight tests. Only one succeeded, giving
the missile an overall failure rate of 88 percent. It was after the last failure
that the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, was reported to have ordered an
investigation into whether the United States was sabotaging his country's test
flights, searching for spies in his system.

Experts say that the best way to slow a program is to send a country scrambling
for the causes of failures. ''Disrupting their tests,'' William J. Perry,
defense secretary in the Clinton administration, said at a meeting this year in
Washington, would be ''a pretty effective way of stopping their ICBM program.''

But more recently, the effectiveness of the United States' sabotage has grown
increasingly uncertain. Some new North Korean missile designs, using solid
fuels, have had a higher success rate. Moreover, the North Koreans, as
sophisticated cyberoperators, have grown better at defense.

John Schilling, a technical expert on North Korea's missile program, expressed
skepticism on Tuesday about the efficacy of the foreign cyberattacks against
Pyongyang's missiles.

''We haven't seen anything yet pointing to cyber specifically,'' Dr. Schilling
said on a conference call organized by 38 North, a think tank specializing in
North Korea at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.

An easier target of sabotage, Dr. Schilling added, would be the parts and
supplies that North Korea imports to feed its factories that make the missiles.

Longtime North Korea watcher Martyn Williams, who runs a California-based blog
called North Korea Tech, recently reported that the North's scientists have
developed a quantum encryption device that could completely secure
communications systems from hackers, eavesdroppers and saboteurs.

The effort, Mr. Williams wrote this month, has the potential to ''hamper the
ability of foreign intelligence agencies to monitor and affect North Korean
systems in real time.''

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/18/world/asia/north-korea-missile-program-sabota
ge.html

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Soldiers at the birthplace compound of Kim Il-sung, North
Korea's founder, in Pyongyang last week. The 105th anniversary of his birth was
celebrated on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HOW HWEE YOUNG/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO
AGENCY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        April 21, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Laurie Anderson's Glorious, Chaotic New York;
Lions of New York

BYLINE: JOHN LELAND

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 2751 words



HIGHLIGHT: From performances for "six people in a loft" to "O Superman," MTV
fame, and her time with Lou Reed, the artist reflects on her many years in New
York.


As a teenager in suburban Chicago, Laurie Anderson was a cheerleader, star of
the senior play, an editor on her school paper, runner-up for a Junior Miss
scholarship and the girl voted most likely to succeed. In New York, she studied
sculpture with Sol LeWitt, played the violin while wearing ice skates frozen in
blocks of ice, recorded a song that reached No. 2 on the British charts, was
queen of the Coney Island Mermaid Parade and became NASA's first
artist-in-residence. She once went a year without a winter coat. Philippe Starck
hired her to make his hotel lobbies sound bigger.

She does a very good Laurie Anderson imitation.

It was early February and we were in her Canal Street studio, where she has
worked since 1975. Ms. Anderson, 69, was demonstrating some custom software for
her electronic violin and talking about a new prize for emerging artists that
the Kitchen, the venerable performance space, was introducing. She did not think
it should be called the Laurie Anderson Prize. "I wouldn't want to get the
Laurie Anderson Prize," she said, flattening her voice to that of an
extraterrestrial ingénue. "Because then I'd have. To. Talk. Like. Laurie.
Anderson."

Pause.

"And. Do. Some. Quirky. Thing."

She returned to her conversational cadence. "I wouldn't want to saddle somebody
with that," she said.

For Ms. Anderson, talking like Laurie Anderson has been the basis of a varied
and chimerical career, sustained through six books, a dozen albums, multimedia
performances for human and canine audiences and an acclaimed documentary film.
Her hair no longer has the spiky look she wore for her 1981 oddball hit single,
"O Superman," but she is still doing Laurie Anderson, which is to say, working
on four books; preparing for performances with her friend Philip Glass; creating
virtual reality environments for the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art;
organizing the archives of her husband, Lou Reed, who died in 2013; practicing
Buddhism; and worrying -- truly worrying -- about how to make art during the
presidency of Donald J. Trump.

"I'm a journalist," she said. "It's tough to write something in moments like
this, when people are already on the verge of going crazy trying to patch their
lives back together, mostly through the stories. My fear is that I won't be able
to describe it. I'm teaching myself a lot right now in trying to talk about what
stories are, how you make them up, what the difference is between fiction and
reality. I build those fictions all the time and call them my life."

"I'm not that hopeful about what's going on here," she added. "I was talking to
one of my Buddhist teachers this morning and I said: 'Let's say we do wipe
ourselves off the face of the earth. How does karma work then, if there are no
humans?'"

Ms. Anderson is also grieving: for her mother; her friends David Bowie and
Carrie Fisher; the critic and writer John Berger; Mr. Reed. Also for her dog, a
rat terrier named Lolabelle, who once appeared with her and Mr. Reed on Charlie
Rose's talk show. On the show, Ms. Anderson held the dog in her lap while Mr.
Reed touched Ms. Anderson affectionately -- they were not married yet -- and
told Mr. Rose: "She writes, she paints, she does photography, she sculpts. She's
a tech head. There's nothing she can't do." In 2015, two years after Mr. Reed
had died from liver disease, Ms. Anderson made a documentary film about
Lolabelle's death, "Heart of a Dog," in which Mr. Reed is absent until the very
end. On April 29, she will include one of his guitar drones in a performance at
the Highline Ballroom. He was, she said, still very much a living presence in
her life.

"I learn from him every day now," she said. "I have since he died. Every single
day I see something in my house that he put there for me, a note or a piece of
paper or a book that he had written in, or one of his shirts. He's very, very
present for me. It's not like, 'Oh, my dead husband.'"

On an afternoon in April, Ms. Anderson was drawing and smearing chalk images for
the cover of a book called "All the Things That I Lost in the Flood," which she
described variously as a book about language and loss; about Hurricane Sandy;
and as a career retrospective, going back to her first performance, in the early
1970s, playing a violin filled with water.

It was a time before New York's downtown art world had found its shape or a
market. SoHo had just a few commercial galleries and two restaurants, one of
which was run by artists. She once compared the scene to Paris in the 1920s.

"There was a big party every night," she said. "We talked a lot. We were really
serious. We knew we would change the world. We were probably pretty obnoxious.
Did a lot of drugs. A lot of sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll. Well, not so much
rock 'n' roll. But sex and drugs for sure. Lots."

"I'm always trying to think, did we really have that much fun?" she added. "How
much am I idealizing my childhood as an artist? Probably some. It was tough.
When I got this place, there was no roof. Snow came in here. And holes going
down into other places, big ones. No water and no electricity, so we tapped into
the city for free electricity and we hauled water up and we had wood stoves. It
was really fun."

Ms. Anderson moved to New York in 1966 to attend Barnard College, finishing her
graduate studies at the School of Visual Arts and Columbia just in time to fall
in with a coterie of peers attracted by the cheap rents downtown. Setting the
pattern for her career, she threw together a little bit of everything, working
in sculpture, painting, music, film, literature, computers and gender bending,
all of it layered with wide-eyed curiosity and knowing ambivalence.

"It was a wonderful time," said Mr. Glass, 80, who used to leave his son at Ms.
Anderson's sculpture studio in the East Village while he worked a day job,
mostly doing construction. "There wasn't a lot of money, but there was
constantly something going on. People didn't have careers then, they had work.
We didn't know what a career was. We were artists. It didn't occur to us that
you would make a living at it someday.

"There was very little support for that generation of artists. There was none,
in fact. The big support system was the artist community themselves. So we were
at each other's performances, quite often at empty lofts."

If the artists were poor, Mr. Glass said, they were also able to live very
cheaply. "My first loft was down by the fish market, and I paid $30 a month," he
said. "I don't think I'm fantasizing, but I tell young people it was much easier
then."

For Ms. Anderson, the center of that scene was Gordon Matta-Clark, whose
site-specific work included cutting shapes out of abandoned buildings, even
sawing buildings in half. Mr. Matta-Clark, who died in 1978, organized a group
of artists called Anarchitecture, who held long discussions that often ended in
dance parties and eventually had a group show at 112 Greene Street, a
cooperative gallery where artists were allowed to knock holes in the walls or
floors. Ms. Anderson became a regular.

"Laurie was new in town also and we all started hearing about her," said Richard
Landry, a saxophonist who moved to New York from Louisiana to play with Mr.
Glass and later performed with Ms. Anderson. "It was a communal affair. I had a
place at 10 Chatham Square. I cooked once a week, and the art world came there,
including Laurie. The whole art world would eat and party or whatever."

Through the photographer Marcia Resnick, Ms. Anderson got a large loft at the
western edge of Canal Street with views of the Hudson, above a methadone clinic.
Many of the lofts had no doors, Ms. Resnick said, and the patients would wander
into people's homes. The city was spiraling toward bankruptcy, but for artists,
the chaos offered opportunity.

"I didn't see it as collapse," Ms. Anderson said. "I saw it as a very exciting
thing. I saw it as a pioneering thing. I didn't want to live in a city that was
organized. I left the Midwest so I could leave that kind of organization. I
didn't move here to avoid chaos. I came for the excitement of it, and I was not
disappointed."

After an American military operation to rescue hostages in Iran crashed and
burned in 1980, Ms. Anderson wrote a song about technological failure. Echoing
Jules Massenet's 19th-century aria "O Souverain," she called it "O Superman,"
and got a $500 grant to record it in her loft. It sounded like nothing else from
the era.

"Her work wasn't so different from early Dada performances, or Russian
spectacle, or Happenings," said Bob George, who released "O Superman" on his One
Ten Records, and ran the projectors at Ms. Anderson's early performances. "There
was the idea that you're telling a story and you're making it visual. At first I
don't think it was linked so much to the music. Laurie wouldn't say, 'I'm a
musician.' She's more in that line of the peculiar speaking voice, Jimmy Durante
and Leonard Cohen and Groucho Marx, that kind of recitative talk singing."

When Mr. George played the record on John Peel's popular British radio show, it
became an instant hit.

"That was bizarre," Ms. Anderson said. "I was, 'What are the British charts?' As
soon as I got over there, and several hundred screaming people would follow me
everywhere, outside my limousine, I'm like, this is ridiculous. I never believed
that one. Even at the time, I was: Have a good time with this, be an
anthropologist. It's really bizarre and manufactured. These people didn't know I
existed until last week, and next week they won't again, and that's got to be
fine with me."

It also helped that she had developed a recognizable image, a little
androgynous, a little cyber, said Jane Crawford, the widow of Mr. Matta-Clark,
who arranged work for some of the performance artists, including Ms. Anderson.

"The Dutch and the Belgians didn't respond wholeheartedly to Laurie's work until
she got a haircut," Ms. Crawford said. "She had long hair, and when she got her
spiky punk cut, then suddenly her work became very cool and she was just
embraced with open arms. It's kind of shallow, but that's how it was."

"O Superman" changed everything. Transported from the rarefied world of
avant-garde performance art -- "six people in a loft," as she described it --
Ms. Anderson was suddenly a figure on MTV and in popular music magazines, signed
to a long-term contract with Warner Bros. Records.

By the time she met Mr. Reed, at a 1992 concert commemorating Kristallnacht, the
1938 anti-Jewish pogroms, in Munich, both were established figures in their
spheres. Mr. Reed changed her relationship with the New York City, then changed
it again as he developed hepatitis C, diabetes and liver disease.

"Before I met Lou, I would work at night every night. I'd just go to work. But
the second we got together, we went out every night. We saw things every night:
plays, movies or just a social dinner, music, readings. Every night. At first it
was hard for me. I was more interested in working. But then I began to really
love it. And Lou was completely into that. Even with restaurants, he would want
to try every new kind of thing: Can you believe that opened up, let's go check
that out. He had so many favorite chefs, and he was developing food for
diabetics with different chefs and he would go and check them out. It was
endless. It was the greatest fun. Plus he was much more generous than I was in
terms of watching things. We would go to a play and I would think, Oh man, that
thing was just a dog, and he would go, 'Yeah, but didn't you see the way that
one actor did that thing?' He was so generous about it.

"And if there was nothing new to see, on Friday nights we'd go see the armor
collection at the Met. This city is full of the most amazing things, and we
really used to do it."

They talked about gear and about writing, the solidity of images and elusiveness
of language. He took her to the dog show; they were named king and queen of the
Mermaid Parade. Mr. Reed's abrasive side, she said, was just a stage persona,
conjured when it suited him. "I almost think of it like one of his leather
jackets," she said. "He put it on when he felt like it. If he wanted to get to
the front of a line, jacket comes on, metaphorically, and he's Lou Reed. He knew
what game he was playing. He played it well. I think people assume that
celebrities are trapped by their fame. Some are not. Some are using it, having
fun with it, goofing on it."

During Mr. Reed's last years, she curtailed her travel to care for him, and when
he died, she gathered friends to share thoughts about him for 49 days,
coinciding with the period Tibetan Buddhists believe the dead spend in a
transitional realm called the bardo, when they are sometimes accessible to the
living.

She often saw Mr. Reed in the bardo, she said. "I saw confusion sometimes, and
disorientation," she said. "I saw freedom and great joy. They're intense
pictures, and they're obviously made of desire and intuition. I trust my
intuition, I really do."

She got a new dog, a Border terrier named Little Will, and resumed work, often
in collaboration with very different kinds of artists. She performed with the
Chinese dissident Ai Weiwei using Skype, when Mr. Ai was still under government
surveillance, and this weekend plans to join Devendra Banhart at the Coachella
music festival in Indio, Calif.; in 2015, she had a mock wedding ceremony with
her friend Sophie Calle, the French conceptual artist. In November, along with
Brian Eno, she gathered 1,000 people together in Copenhagen to sing "I Can't
Help Falling in Love With You" one morning. Speaking of her work now, she said
it was the same thing she had done for the talent portion of the Junior Miss
competition: "What I did was stories and drawings," she said. "It's not that
different."

On a recent evening, while leaving her loft on Canal Street to meet a friend for
dinner, she noted how little of the neighborhood that had incubated her early
career remained.

"When I moved to New York, I was going to go to a dark and dangerous place that
was going to be really unpredictable," she said. "Just sitting on this corner
since 1975, just a million things happen around you."

"When I got here, March and April were fishing boat times," she said, meaning
that police boats would fish out bodies that had frozen in the river over the
winter, then floated downstream. "And then there were all the insurance fires.
There's just as much chaos as there ever was. It just looks different. I didn't
expect to see guys in herds running up and down the river, for example. You see
them mostly on their lunch hour, young stockbrokers, and they're running in
herds. This is a big, huge difference from when I got here. New York was a city
you went to alone. You didn't go with your school friends. You came by yourself,
and you started over. I don't get that sense with these guys. They're herd guys:
Oh, you're going to Penn, I'm going to Penn, let's go to New York, we'll room
together, we'll run together, we'll herd together, we'll make a ton of money
together. And then there they are. Go and watch them. It's really wild."

She told this story in other conversations as well. It was classic Laurie
Anderson stuff: gently dystopian, with nods toward both progress and reversion.
She had learned to write in the second person from William S. Burroughs, she
said, and from Jean-Luc Godard that a story needs a beginning, middle and end,
though not necessarily in that order. But as she told the story and retold it,
it remained wholly her own. After 40 years, still, no one tells stories like
Laurie Anderson.

PHOTOS: Laurie Anderson, 69, this month at her home in New York. Ms. Anderson
recalled that when she moved to the city in the 1960s, "I was going to go to a
dark and dangerous place that was going to be really unpredictable." (PHOTOGRAPH
BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1); Clockwise from top: Laurie Anderson
performing in 1983; with her husband, Lou Reed, in 2002; in Hudson River Park
with her dog this month; at Carnegie Hall with Philip Glass in March. Above, Ms.
Anderson in a 1965 high school photo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN RASIC/GETTY IMAGES;
RICHARD CORKERY/DAILY NEWS ARCHIVE, VIA GETTY IMAGES; DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK
TIMES; REBECCA SMEYNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6)

Related Articles


     ·    Norman Podhoretz Still Picks Fights and Drops Names
     ·    Harry Belafonte Knows a Thing or Two About New York
     ·    Showgirls, Pastrami and Candor: Gloria Steinem's New York
     ·    Grandmaster Flash Beats Back Time
     ·    Milton Glaser Still Hearts New York


LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       April 22, 2017 Saturday 00:00 EST

Comey Tried to Shield the F.B.I. From Politics. Then He Shaped an Election.

BYLINE: MATT APUZZO, MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT, ADAM GOLDMAN and ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 8100 words



HIGHLIGHT: As the F.B.I. investigated Hillary Clinton and the Trump campaign,
James B. Comey tried to keep the bureau out of politics but plunged it into the
center of a bitter election.


WASHINGTON -- The day before he upended the 2016 election, James B. Comey, the
director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, summoned agents and lawyers to
his conference room. They had been debating all day, and it was time for a
decision.

Mr. Comey's plan was to tell Congress that the F.B.I. had received new evidence
and was reopening its investigation into Hillary Clinton, the presidential
front-runner. The move would violate the policies of an agency that does not
reveal its investigations or do anything that may influence an election. But Mr.
Comey had declared the case closed, and he believed he was obligated to tell
Congress that had changed.

"Should you consider what you're about to do may help elect Donald Trump
president?" an adviser asked him, Mr. Comey recalled recently at a closed
meeting with F.B.I. agents.

He could not let politics affect his decision, he replied. "If we ever start
considering who might be affected, and in what way, by what we do, we're done,"
he told the agents.

But with polls showing Mrs. Clinton holding a comfortable lead, Mr. Comey ended
up plunging the F.B.I. into the molten center of a bitter election. Fearing the
backlash that would come if it were revealed after the election that the F.B.I.
had been investigating the next president and had kept it a secret, Mr. Comey
sent a letter informing Congress that the case was reopened.

What he did not say was that the F.B.I. was also investigating the campaign of
Donald J. Trump. Just weeks before, Mr. Comey had declined to answer a question
from Congress about whether there was such an investigation. Only in March, long
after the election, did Mr. Comey confirm that there was one.

For Mr. Comey, keeping the F.B.I. out of politics is such a preoccupation that
he once said he would never play basketball with President Barack Obama because
of the appearance of being chummy with the man who appointed him. But in the
final months of the presidential campaign, the leader of the nation's
pre-eminent law enforcement agency shaped the contours, if not the outcome, of
the presidential race by his handling of the Clinton and Trump-related
investigations.

An examination by The New York Times, based on interviews with more than 30
current and former law enforcement, congressional and other government
officials, found that while partisanship was not a factor in Mr. Comey's
approach to the two investigations, he handled them in starkly different ways.
In the case of Mrs. Clinton, he rewrote the script, partly based on the F.B.I.'s
expectation that she would win and fearing the bureau would be accused of
helping her. In the case of Mr. Trump, he conducted the investigation by the
book, with the F.B.I.'s traditional secrecy. Many of the officials discussed the
investigations on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to
speak to reporters.

Mr. Comey made those decisions with the supreme self-confidence of a former
prosecutor who, in a distinguished career, has cultivated a reputation for what
supporters see as fierce independence, and detractors view as media-savvy
arrogance.

The Times found that this go-it-alone strategy was shaped by his distrust of
senior officials at the Justice Department, who he and other F.B.I. officials
felt had provided Mrs. Clinton with political cover. The distrust extended to
his boss, Loretta E. Lynch, the attorney general, who Mr. Comey believed had
subtly helped play down the Clinton investigation.

His misgivings were only fueled by the discovery last year of a document written
by a Democratic operative that seemed -- at least in the eyes of Mr. Comey and
his aides -- to raise questions about her independence. In a bizarre example of
how tangled the F.B.I. investigations had become, the document had been stolen
by Russian hackers.

The examination also showed that at one point, President Obama himself was
reluctant to disclose the suspected Russian influence in the election last
summer, for fear his administration would be accused of meddling.

Mr. Comey, the highest-profile F.B.I. director since J. Edgar Hoover, has not
squarely addressed his decisions last year. He has touched on them only
obliquely, asserting that the F.B.I. is blind to partisan considerations. "We're
not considering whose ox will be gored by this action or that action, whose
fortune will be helped," he said at a public event recently. "We just don't
care. We can't care. We only ask: 'What are the facts? What is the law?'"

But circumstances and choices landed him in uncharted and perhaps unwanted
territory, as he made what he thought were the least damaging choices from even
less desirable alternatives.

"This was unique in the history of the F.B.I.," said Michael B. Steinbach, the
former senior national security official at the F.B.I., who worked closely with
Mr. Comey, describing the circumstances the agency faced last year while
investigating both the Republican and Democratic candidates for president.
"People say, 'This has never been done before.' Well, there never was a before.
Or 'That's not normally how you do it.' There wasn't anything normal about
this."

'Federal Bureau of Matters'

Mr. Comey owes his job and his reputation to the night in 2004 when he rushed to
the Washington hospital room of John Ashcroft, the attorney general, and
prevented Bush administration officials from persuading him to reauthorize a
classified program that had been ruled unconstitutional. At the time, Mr. Comey,
a Republican, was the deputy attorney general.

Years later, when Mr. Obama was looking for a new F.B.I. director, Mr. Comey
seemed an inspired bipartisan choice. But his style eventually grated on his
bosses at the Justice Department.

In 2015, as prosecutors pushed for greater accountability for police misconduct,
Mr. Comey embraced the controversial theory that scrutiny of police officers led
to increases in crime -- the so-called Ferguson effect. "We were really caught
off guard," said Vanita Gupta, the Justice Department's top civil rights
prosecutor at the time. "He lobbed a fairly inflammatory statement, without data
to back it up, and walked away."

On other issues, Mr. Comey bucked the administration but won praise from his
agents, who saw him as someone who did what he believed was right, regardless of
the political ramifications.

"Jim sees his role as apolitical and independent," said Daniel C. Richman, a
longtime confidant and friend of Mr. Comey's. "The F.B.I. director, even as he
reports to the attorney general, often has to stand apart from his boss."

The F.B.I.'s involvement with Mrs. Clinton's emails began in July 2015 when it
received a letter from the inspector general for the intelligence community.

The letter said that classified information had been found on Mrs. Clinton's
home email server, which she had used as secretary of state. The secret email
setup was already proving to be a damaging issue in her presidential campaign.

Mr. Comey's deputies quickly concluded that there was reasonable evidence that a
crime may have occurred in the way classified materials were handled, and that
the F.B.I. had to investigate. "We knew as an organization that we didn't have a
choice," said John Giacalone, a former mob investigator who had risen to become
the F.B.I.'s top national security official.

On July 10, 2015, the F.B.I. opened a criminal investigation, code-named
"Midyear," into Mrs. Clinton's handling of classified information. The Midyear
team included two dozen investigators led by a senior analyst and by an
experienced F.B.I. supervisor, Peter Strzok, a former Army officer who had
worked on some of the most secretive investigations in recent years involving
Russian and Chinese espionage.

There was controversy almost immediately.

Responding to questions from The Times, the Justice Department confirmed that it
had received a criminal referral -- the first step toward a criminal
investigation -- over Mrs. Clinton's handling of classified information.

But the next morning, the department revised its statement.

"The department has received a referral related to the potential compromise of
classified information," the new statement read. "It is not a criminal
referral."

At the F.B.I., this was a distinction without a difference: Despite what
officials said in public, agents had been alerted to mishandled classified
information and in response, records show, had opened a full criminal
investigation.

The Justice Department knew a criminal investigation was underway, but officials
said they were being technically accurate about the nature of the referral. Some
at the F.B.I. suspected that Democratic appointees were playing semantic games
to help Mrs. Clinton, who immediately seized on the statement to play down the
issue. "It is not a criminal investigation," she said, incorrectly. "It is a
security review."

In September of that year, as Mr. Comey prepared for his first public questions
about the case at congressional hearings and press briefings, he went across the
street to the Justice Department to meet with Ms. Lynch and her staff.

Both had been federal prosecutors in New York -- Mr. Comey in the Manhattan
limelight, Ms. Lynch in the lower-wattage Brooklyn office. The 6-foot-8 Mr.
Comey commanded a room and the spotlight. Ms. Lynch, 5 feet tall, was known for
being cautious and relentlessly on message. In her five months as attorney
general, she had shown no sign of changing her style.

At the meeting, everyone agreed that Mr. Comey should not reveal details about
the Clinton investigation. But Ms. Lynch told him to be even more circumspect:
Do not even call it an investigation, she said, according to three people who
attended the meeting. Call it a "matter."

Ms. Lynch reasoned that the word "investigation" would raise other questions:
What charges were being investigated? Who was the target? But most important,
she believed that the department should stick by its policy of not confirming
investigations.

It was a by-the-book decision. But Mr. Comey and other F.B.I. officials regarded
it as disingenuous in an investigation that was so widely known. And Mr. Comey
was concerned that a Democratic attorney general was asking him to be misleading
and line up his talking points with Mrs. Clinton's campaign, according to people
who spoke with him afterward.

As the meeting broke up, George Z. Toscas, a national security prosecutor,
ribbed Mr. Comey. "I guess you're the Federal Bureau of Matters now," Mr. Toscas
said, according to two people who were there.

Despite his concerns, Mr. Comey avoided calling it an investigation. "I am
confident we have the resources and the personnel assigned to the matter," Mr.
Comey told reporters days after the meeting.

The F.B.I. investigation into Mrs. Clinton's email server was the biggest
political story in the country in the fall of 2015. But something much bigger
was happening in Washington. And nobody recognized it.

While agents were investigating Mrs. Clinton, the Democratic National
Committee's computer system was compromised. It appeared to have been the work
of Russian hackers.

The significance of this moment is obvious now, but it did not immediately cause
alarm at the F.B.I. or the Justice Department.

Over the previous year, dozens of think tanks, universities and political
organizations associated with both parties had fallen prey to Russian spear
phishing -- emails that tricked victims into clicking on malicious links. The
D.N.C. intrusion was a concern, but no more than the others.

Months passed before the D.N.C. and the F.B.I. met to address the hacks. And it
would take more than a year for the government to conclude that the Russian
president, Vladimir V. Putin, had an audacious plan to steer the outcome of an
American election.

Missing Emails

Despite moments of tension between leaders of the F.B.I. and the Justice
Department, agents and prosecutors working on the case made progress. "The
investigative team did a thorough job," Mr. Giacalone said. "They left no stone
unturned."

They knew it would not be enough to prove that Mrs. Clinton was sloppy or
careless. To bring charges, they needed evidence that she knowingly received
classified information or set up her server for that purpose.

That was especially important after a deal the Justice Department had made with
David H. Petraeus, the retired general and former director of the Central
Intelligence Agency. Mr. Petraeus had passed classified information to his
biographer, with whom he was having an affair, and the evidence was damning: He
revealed the names of covert agents and other secrets, he was recorded saying
that he knew it was wrong, and he lied to the F.B.I.

But over Mr. Comey's objections, the Justice Department let Mr. Petraeus plead
guilty in April 2015 to a misdemeanor count of mishandling classified
information. Charging Mrs. Clinton with the same crime, without evidence of
intent, would be difficult.

One nagging issue was that Mrs. Clinton had deleted an unknown number of emails
from her early months at the State Department -- before she installed the home
server. Agents believed that those emails, sent from a BlackBerry account, might
be their best hope of assessing Mrs. Clinton's intentions when she moved to the
server. If only they could find them.

In spring last year, Mr. Strzok, the counterintelligence supervisor, reported to
Mr. Comey that Mrs. Clinton had clearly been careless, but agents and
prosecutors agreed that they had no proof of intent. Agents had not yet
interviewed Mrs. Clinton or her aides, but the outcome was coming into focus.

Nine months into the investigation, it became clear to Mr. Comey that Mrs.
Clinton was almost certainly not going to face charges. He quietly began work on
talking points, toying with the notion that in the midst of a bitter
presidential campaign, a Justice Department led by Democrats may not have the
credibility to close the case, and that he alone should explain that decision to
the public.

A Suspicious Document

A document obtained by the F.B.I. reinforced that idea.

During Russia's hacking campaign against the United States, intelligence
agencies could peer, at times, into Russian networks and see what had been
taken. Early last year, F.B.I. agents received a batch of hacked documents, and
one caught their attention.

The document, which has been described as both a memo and an email, was written
by a Democratic operative who expressed confidence that Ms. Lynch would keep the
Clinton investigation from going too far, according to several former officials
familiar with the document.

Read one way, it was standard Washington political chatter. Read another way, it
suggested that a political operative might have insight into Ms. Lynch's
thinking.

Normally, when the F.B.I. recommends closing a case, the Justice Department
agrees and nobody says anything. The consensus in both places was that the
typical procedure would not suffice in this instance, but who would be the
spokesman?

The document complicated that calculation, according to officials. If Ms. Lynch
announced that the case was closed, and Russia leaked the document, Mr. Comey
believed it would raise doubts about the independence of the investigation.

Mr. Comey sought advice from someone he has trusted for many years. He
dispatched his deputy to meet with David Margolis, who had served at the Justice
Department since the Johnson administration and who, at 76, was dubbed the Yoda
of the department.

What exactly was said is not known. Mr. Margolis died of heart problems a few
months later. But some time after that meeting, Mr. Comey began talking to his
advisers about announcing the end of the Clinton investigation himself,
according to a former official.

"When you looked at the totality of the situation, we were leaning toward: This
is something that makes sense to be done alone," said Mr. Steinbach, who would
not confirm the existence of the Russian document.

Former Justice Department officials are deeply skeptical of this account. If Mr.
Comey believed that Ms. Lynch were compromised, they say, why did he not seek
her recusal? Mr. Comey never raised this issue with Ms. Lynch or the deputy
attorney general, Sally Q. Yates, former officials said.

Mr. Comey's defenders regard this as one of the untold stories of the Clinton
investigation, one they say helps explain his decision-making. But former
Justice Department officials say the F.B.I. never uncovered evidence tying Ms.
Lynch to the document's author, and are convinced that Mr. Comey wanted an
excuse to put himself in the spotlight.

As the Clinton investigation headed into its final months, there were two very
different ideas about how the case would end. Ms. Lynch and her advisers thought
a short statement would suffice, probably on behalf of both the Justice
Department and the F.B.I.

Mr. Comey was making his own plans.

A Hot Tarmac

A chance encounter set those plans in motion.

In late June, Ms. Lynch's plane touched down at Phoenix Sky Harbor International
Airport as part of her nationwide tour of police departments. Former President
Bill Clinton was also in Phoenix that day, leaving from the same tarmac.

Ms. Lynch's staff loaded into vans, leaving the attorney general and her husband
on board. Mr. Clinton's Secret Service agents mingled with her security team.
When the former president learned who was on the plane, his aides say, he asked
to say hello.

Mr. Clinton's aides say he intended only to greet Ms. Lynch as she disembarked.
But Ms. Lynch later told colleagues that the message she received -- relayed
from one security team to another -- was that Mr. Clinton wanted to come aboard,
and she agreed.

When Ms. Lynch's staff members noticed Mr. Clinton boarding the plane, a press
aide hurriedly called the Justice Department's communications director, Melanie
Newman, who said to break up the meeting immediately. A staff member rushed to
stop it, but by the time the conversation ended, Mr. Clinton had been on the
plane for about 20 minutes.

The meeting made the local news the next day and was soon the talk of
Washington. Ms. Lynch said they had only exchanged pleasantries about golf and
grandchildren, but Republicans called for her to recuse herself and appoint a
special prosecutor.

Ms. Lynch said she would not step aside but would accept whatever career
prosecutors and the F.B.I. recommended on the Clinton case -- something she had
planned to do all along.

Mr. Comey never suggested that she recuse herself. But at that moment, he knew
for sure that when there was something to say about the case, he alone would say
it.

Calling a Conference

Agents interviewed Mrs. Clinton for more than three and a half hours in
Washington the next day, and the interview did not change the unanimous
conclusion among agents and prosecutors that she should not be charged.

Two days later, on the morning of July 5, Mr. Comey called Ms. Lynch to say that
he was about to hold a news conference. He did not tell her what he planned to
say, and Ms. Lynch did not demand to know.

On short notice, the F.B.I. summoned reporters to its headquarters for the
briefing.

A few blocks away, Mrs. Clinton was about to give a speech. At her campaign
offices in Brooklyn, staff members hurried in front of televisions. And at the
Justice Department and the F.B.I., prosecutors and agents watched anxiously.

"We were very much aware what was about to happen," said Mr. Steinbach, who had
taken over as the F.B.I.'s top national security official earlier that year.
"This was going to be hotly contested."

With a black binder in hand, Mr. Comey walked into a large room on the ground
floor of the F.B.I.'s headquarters. Standing in front of two American flags and
two royal-blue F.B.I. flags, he read from a script.

He said the F.B.I. had reviewed 30,000 emails and discovered 110 that contained
classified information. He said computer hackers may have compromised Mrs.
Clinton's emails. And he criticized the State Department's lax security culture
and Mrs. Clinton directly.

"Any reasonable person in Secretary Clinton's position" should have known
better, Mr. Comey said. He called her "extremely careless."

The criticism was so blistering that it sounded as if he were recommending
criminal charges. Only in the final two minutes did Mr. Comey say that "no
charges are appropriate in this case."

The script had been edited and revised several times, former officials said. Mr.
Strzok, Mr. Steinbach, lawyers and others debated every phrase. Speaking so
openly about a closed case is rare, and the decision to do so was not unanimous,
officials said. But the team ultimately agreed that there was an obligation to
inform American voters.

"We didn't want anyone to say, 'If I just knew that, I wouldn't have voted that
way,'" Mr. Steinbach said. "You can argue that's not the F.B.I.'s job, but there
was no playbook for this. This is somebody who's going to be president of the
United States."

Mr. Comey's criticism -- his description of her carelessness -- was the most
controversial part of the speech. Agents and prosecutors have been reprimanded
for injecting their legal conclusions with personal opinions. But those close to
Mr. Comey say he has no regrets.

By scolding Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Comey was speaking not only to voters but to his
own agents. While they agreed that Mrs. Clinton should not face charges, many
viewed her conduct as inexcusable. Mr. Comey's remarks made clear that the
F.B.I. did not approve.

Former agents and others close to Mr. Comey acknowledge that his reproach was
also intended to insulate the F.B.I. from Republican criticism that it was too
lenient toward a Democrat.

At the Justice Department, frustrated prosecutors said Mr. Comey should have
consulted with them first. Mrs. Clinton's supporters said that Mr. Comey's
condemnations seemed to make an oblique case for charging her, undermining the
effect of his decision.

"He came up with a Rube Goldberg-type solution that caused him more problems
than if he had just played it straight," said Brian Fallon, the Clinton campaign
press secretary and a former Justice Department spokesman.

Furious Republicans saw the legal cloud over Mrs. Clinton lifting and tore into
Mr. Comey.

In the days after the announcement, Mr. Comey and Ms. Lynch each testified
before Congress, with different results. Neither the F.B.I. nor the Justice
Department normally gives Congress a fact-by-fact recounting of its
investigations, and Ms. Lynch spent five hours avoiding doing so.

"I know that this is a frustrating exercise for you," she told the House
Judiciary Committee.

Mr. Comey discussed his decision to close the investigation and renewed his
criticism of Mrs. Clinton.

By midsummer, as Mrs. Clinton was about to accept her party's nomination for
president, the F.B.I. director had seemingly succeeded in everything he had set
out to do. The investigation was over well before the election. He had explained
his decision to the public.

And with both parties angry at him, he had proved yet again that he was willing
to speak his mind, regardless of the blowback. He seemed to have safely piloted
the F.B.I. through the storm of a presidential election.

But as Mr. Comey moved past one tumultuous investigation, another was about to
heat up.

Russia Rising

Days after Mr. Comey's news conference, Carter Page, an American businessman,
gave a speech in Moscow criticizing American foreign policy. Such a trip would
typically be unremarkable, but Mr. Page had previously been under F.B.I.
scrutiny years earlier, as he was believed to have been marked for recruitment
by Russian spies. And he was now a foreign policy adviser to Mr. Trump.

Mr. Page has not said whom he met during his July visit to Moscow, describing
them as "mostly scholars." But the F.B.I. took notice. Mr. Page later traveled
to Moscow again, raising new concerns among counterintelligence agents. A former
senior American intelligence official said that Mr. Page met with a suspected
intelligence officer on one of those trips and there was information that the
Russians were still very interested in recruiting him.

Later that month, the website WikiLeaks began releasing hacked emails from the
D.N.C. Roger J. Stone Jr., another Trump adviser, boasted publicly about his
contact with WikiLeaks and suggested he had inside knowledge about forthcoming
leaks. And Mr. Trump himself fueled the F.B.I.'s suspicions, showering Mr. Putin
with praise and calling for more hacking of Mrs. Clinton's emails.

"Russia, if you're listening," he said, "I hope you'll be able to find the
30,000 emails that are missing."

In late July, the F.B.I. opened an investigation into possible collusion between
members of Mr. Trump's campaign and Russian operatives. Besides Mr. Comey and a
small team of agents, officials said, only a dozen or so people at the F.B.I.
knew about the investigation. Mr. Strzok, just days removed from the Clinton
case, was selected to supervise it.

It was a worrisome time at the F.B.I. Agents saw increased activity by Russian
intelligence officers in the United States, and a former senior American
intelligence official said there were attempts by Russian intelligence officers
to talk to people involved in the campaign. Russian hackers had also been
detected trying to break into voter registration systems, and intelligence
intercepts indicated some sort of plan to interfere with the election.

In late August, Mr. Comey and his deputies were briefed on a provocative set of
documents about purported dealings between shadowy Russian figures and Mr.
Trump's campaign. One report, filled with references to secret meetings, spoke
ominously of Mr. Trump's "compromising relationship with the Kremlin" and
threats of "blackmail."

The reports came from a former British intelligence agent named Christopher
Steele, who was working as a private investigator hired by a firm working for a
Trump opponent. He provided the documents to an F.B.I. contact in Europe on the
same day as Mr. Comey's news conference about Mrs. Clinton. It took weeks for
this information to land with Mr. Strzok and his team.

Mr. Steele had been a covert agent for MI6 in Moscow, maintained deep ties with
Russians and worked with the F.B.I., but his claims were largely unverified. It
was increasingly clear at the F.B.I. that Russia was trying to interfere with
the election.

As the F.B.I. plunged deeper into that investigation, Mr. Comey became convinced
that the American public needed to understand the scope of the foreign
interference and be "inoculated" against it.

He proposed writing an op-ed piece to appear in The Times or The Washington
Post, and showed the White House a draft his staff had prepared, according to
two former officials. (After the Times story was published online on Saturday, a
former White House official said the text of the op-ed had not been given to the
White House.) The op-ed did not mention the investigation of the Trump campaign,
but it laid out how Russia was trying to undermine the vote.

The president replied that going public would play right into Russia's hands by
sowing doubts about the election's legitimacy. Mr. Trump was already saying the
system was "rigged," and if the Obama administration accused Russia of
interference, Republicans could accuse the White House of stoking national
security fears to help Mrs. Clinton.

Mr. Comey argued that he had unique credibility to call out the Russians and
avoid that criticism. After all, he said, he had just chastised Mrs. Clinton at
his news conference.

The White House decided it would be odd for Mr. Comey to make such an accusation
on his own, in a newspaper, before American security agencies had produced a
formal intelligence assessment. The op-ed idea was quashed. When the
administration had something to say about Russia, it would do so in one voice,
through the proper channels.

But John O. Brennan, the C.I.A. director, was so concerned about the Russian
threat that he gave an unusual private briefing in the late summer to Harry
Reid, then the Senate Democratic leader.

Top congressional officials had already received briefings on Russia's meddling,
but the one for Mr. Reid appears to have gone further. In a public letter to Mr.
Comey several weeks later, Mr. Reid said that "it has become clear that you
possess explosive information about close ties and coordination between Donald
Trump, his top advisors, and the Russian government -- a foreign interest openly
hostile to the United States."

Mr. Comey knew the investigation of the Trump campaign was just underway, and
keeping with policy, he said nothing about it.

'Exceptional Circumstances'

Mr. Reid's letter sparked frenzied speculation about what the F.B.I. was doing.
At a congressional hearing in September, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat
of New York, pressed Mr. Comey for an explanation, citing his willingness to
give details about his investigation of Mrs. Clinton.

"After you investigated Secretary Clinton, you made a decision to explain
publicly who you interviewed and why," Mr. Nadler said. "You also disclosed
documents, including those from those interviews. Why shouldn't the American
people have the same level of information about your investigation with those
associated with Mr. Trump?"

But Mr. Comey never considered disclosing the case. Doing so, he believed, would
have undermined an active investigation and cast public suspicion on people the
F.B.I. could not be sure were implicated.

"I'm not confirming that we're investigating people associated with Mr. Trump,"
Mr. Comey said to Mr. Nadler. "In the matter of the email investigation, it was
our judgment -- my judgment and the rest of the F.B.I.'s judgment -- that those
were exceptional circumstances."

Even in classified briefings with House and Senate intelligence committee
members, Mr. Comey repeatedly declined to answer questions about whether there
was an investigation of the Trump campaign.

To Mr. Comey's allies, the two investigations were totally different. One was
closed when he spoke about it. The other was continuing, highly classified and
in its earliest stages. Much of the debate over Mr. Comey's actions over the
last seven months can be distilled into whether people make that same
distinction.

Just a few weeks later, in late September, Mr. Steele, the former British agent,
finally heard back from his contact at the F.B.I. It had been months, but the
agency wanted to see the material he had collected "right away," according to a
person with knowledge of the conversation. What prompted this message remains
unclear.

Mr. Steele met his F.B.I. contact in Rome in early October, bringing a stack of
new intelligence reports. One, dated Sept. 14, said that Mr. Putin was facing
"fallout" over his apparent involvement in the D.N.C. hack and was receiving
"conflicting advice" on what to do.

The agent said that if Mr. Steele could get solid corroboration of his reports,
the F.B.I. would pay him $50,000 for his efforts, according to two people
familiar with the offer. Ultimately, he was not paid.

Around the same time, the F.B.I. began examining a mysterious data connection
between Alfa Bank, one of Russia's biggest, and a Trump Organization email
server. Some private computer scientists said it could represent a secret link
between the Trump Organization and Moscow.

Agents concluded that the computer activity, while odd, probably did not
represent a covert channel.

But by fall, the gravity of the Russian effort to affect the presidential
election had become clear.

The D.N.C. hack and others like it had once appeared to be standard Russian
tactics to tarnish a Western democracy. After the WikiLeaks disclosures and
subsequent leaks by a Russian group using the name DCLeaks, agents and analysts
began to realize that Moscow was not just meddling. It was trying to tip the
election away from Mrs. Clinton and toward Mr. Trump.

Mr. Comey and other senior administration officials met twice in the White House
Situation Room in early October to again discuss a public statement about
Russian meddling. But the roles were reversed: Susan Rice, the national security
adviser, wanted to move ahead. Mr. Comey was less interested in being involved.

At their second meeting, Mr. Comey argued that it would look too political for
the F.B.I. to comment so close to the election, according to several people in
attendance. Officials in the room felt whiplashed. Two months earlier, Mr. Comey
had been willing to put his name on a newspaper article; now he was refusing to
sign on to an official assessment of the intelligence community.

Mr. Comey said that in the intervening time, Russian meddling had become the
subject of news stories and a topic of national discussion. He felt it was no
longer necessary for him to speak publicly about it. So when Jeh Johnson, the
Homeland Security secretary, and James R. Clapper Jr., the national intelligence
director, accused "Russia's senior-most officials" on Oct. 7 of a cyber
operation to disrupt the election, the F.B.I. was conspicuously silent.

That night, WikiLeaks began posting thousands of hacked emails from another
source: the private email account of John D. Podesta, chairman of the Clinton
campaign.

The emails included embarrassing messages between campaign staff members and
excerpts from Mrs. Clinton's speeches to Wall Street. The disclosure further
convinced the F.B.I. that it had initially misread Russia's intentions.

Two days later, Mr. Podesta heard from the F.B.I. for the first time, he said in
an interview.

"You may be aware that your emails have been hacked," an agent told him.

Mr. Podesta laughed. The same agency that had so thoroughly investigated Mrs.
Clinton, he said, seemed painfully slow at responding to Russian hacking.

"Yes," he answered. "I'm aware."

Supplementing the Record

The Daily Mail, a British tabloid, was first with the salacious story: Anthony
D. Weiner, the former New York congressman, had exchanged sexually charged
messages with a 15-year-old girl.

The article, appearing in late September, raised the possibility that Mr. Weiner
had violated child pornography laws. Within days, prosecutors in Manhattan
sought a search warrant for Mr. Weiner's computer.

Even with his notoriety, this would have had little impact on national politics
but for one coincidence. Mr. Weiner's wife, Huma Abedin, was one of Mrs.
Clinton's closest confidantes, and had used an email account on her server.

F.B.I. agents in New York seized Mr. Weiner's laptop in early October. The
investigation was just one of many in the New York office and was not treated
with great urgency, officials said. Further slowing the investigation, the
F.B.I. software used to catalog the computer files kept crashing.

Eventually, investigators realized that they had hundreds of thousands of
emails, many of which belonged to Ms. Abedin and had been backed up to her
husband's computer.

Neither Mr. Comey nor Ms. Lynch was concerned. Agents had discovered devices
before in the Clinton investigation (old cellphones, for example) that turned up
no new evidence.

Then, agents in New York who were searching image files on Mr. Weiner's computer
discovered a State Department document containing the initials H.R.C. -- Hillary
Rodham Clinton. They found messages linked to Mrs. Clinton's home server.

And they made another surprising discovery: evidence that some of the emails had
moved through Mrs. Clinton's old BlackBerry server, the one she used before
moving to her home server. If Mrs. Clinton had intended to conceal something,
agents had always believed, the evidence might be in those emails. But reading
them would require another search warrant, essentially reopening the Clinton
investigation.

The election was two weeks away.

Mr. Comey learned of the Clinton emails on the evening of Oct. 26 and gathered
his team the next morning to discuss the development.

Seeking a new warrant was an easy decision. He had a thornier issue on his mind.

Back in July, he told Congress that the Clinton investigation was closed. What
was his obligation, he asked, to acknowledge that this was no longer true?

It was a perilous idea. It would push the F.B.I. back into the political arena,
weeks after refusing to confirm the active investigation of the Trump campaign
and declining to accuse Russia of hacking.

The question consumed hours of conference calls and meetings. Agents felt they
had two options: Tell Congress about the search, which everyone acknowledged
would create a political furor, or keep it quiet, which followed policy and
tradition but carried its own risk, especially if the F.B.I. found new evidence
in the emails.

"In my mind at the time, Clinton is likely to win," Mr. Steinbach said. "It's
pretty apparent. So what happens after the election, in November or December?
How do we say to the American public: 'Hey, we found some things that might be
problematic. But we didn't tell you about it before you voted'? The damage to
our organization would have been irreparable."

Conservative news outlets had already branded Mr. Comey a Clinton toady. That
same week, the cover of National Review featured a story on "James Comey's
Dereliction," and a cartoon of a hapless Mr. Comey shrugging as Mrs. Clinton
smashed her laptop with a sledgehammer.

Congressional Republicans were preparing for years of hearings during a Clinton
presidency. If Mr. Comey became the subject of those hearings, F.B.I. officials
feared, it would hobble the agency and harm its reputation. "I don't think the
organization would have survived that," Mr. Steinbach said.

The assumption was that the email review would take many weeks or months. "If we
thought we could be done in a week," Mr. Steinbach said, "we wouldn't say
anything."

The spirited debate continued when Mr. Comey reassembled his team later that
day. F.B.I. lawyers raised concerns, former officials said. But in the end, Mr.
Comey said he felt obligated to tell Congress.

"I went back and forth, changing my mind several times," Mr. Steinbach recalled.
"Ultimately, it was the right call."

That afternoon, Mr. Comey's chief of staff called the office of Ms. Yates, the
deputy attorney general, and revealed the plan.

When Ms. Lynch was told, she was both stunned and confused. While the Justice
Department's rules on "election year sensitivities" do not expressly forbid
making comments close to an election, administrations of both parties have
interpreted them as a broad prohibition against anything that may influence a
political outcome.

Ms. Lynch understood Mr. Comey's predicament, but not his hurry. In a series of
phone calls, her aides told Mr. Comey's deputies that there was no need to tell
Congress anything until agents knew what the emails contained.

Either Ms. Lynch or Ms. Yates could have ordered Mr. Comey not to send the
letter, but their aides argued against it. If Ms. Lynch issued the order and Mr.
Comey obeyed, she risked the same fate that Mr. Comey feared: accusations of
political interference and favoritism by a Democratic attorney general.

If Mr. Comey disregarded her order and sent the letter -- a real possibility,
her aides thought -- it would be an act of insubordination that would force her
to consider firing him, aggravating the situation.

So the debate ended at the staff level, with the Justice Department imploring
the F.B.I. to follow protocol and stay out of the campaign's final days. Ms.
Lynch never called Mr. Comey herself.

The next morning, Friday, Oct. 28, Mr. Comey wrote to Congress, "In connection
with an unrelated case, the F.B.I. has learned of the existence of emails that
appear to be pertinent to the investigation."

His letter became public within minutes. Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah,
a Republican and a leading antagonist of Mrs. Clinton's, jubilantly announced on
Twitter, "Case reopened."

'This Changes Everything'

The Clinton team was outraged. Even at the F.B.I., agents who supported their
high-profile director were stunned. They knew the letter would call into
question the F.B.I.'s political independence.

Mr. Trump immediately mentioned it on the campaign trail. "As you might have
heard," Mr. Trump told supporters in Maine, "earlier today, the F.B.I. ... " The
crowd interrupted with a roar. Everyone had heard.

Polls almost immediately showed Mrs. Clinton's support declining. Presidential
races nearly always tighten in the final days, but some political scientists
reported a measurable "Comey effect."

"This changes everything," Mr. Trump said.

Mr. Comey explained in an email to his agents that Congress needed to be
notified. "It would be misleading to the American people were we not to
supplement the record," he wrote.

But many agents were not satisfied.

At the Justice Department, career prosecutors and political appointees privately
criticized not only Mr. Comey for sending the letter but also Ms. Lynch and Ms.
Yates for not stopping him. Many saw the letter as the logical result of years
of not reining him in.

Mr. Comey told Congress that he had no idea how long the email review would
take, but Ms. Lynch promised every resource needed to complete it before
Election Day.

At the F.B.I., the Clinton investigative team was reassembled, and the Justice
Department obtained a warrant to read emails to or from Mrs. Clinton during her
time at the State Department. As it turned out, only about 50,000 emails met
those criteria, far fewer than anticipated, officials said, and the F.B.I. had
already seen many of them.

Mr. Comey was again under fire. Former Justice Department officials from both
parties wrote a Washington Post op-ed piece titled "James Comey Is Damaging Our
Democracy."

At a Justice Department memorial for Mr. Margolis, organizers removed all the
chairs from the stage, avoiding the awkward scene of Mr. Comey sitting beside
some of his sharpest critics.

Jamie S. Gorelick, a deputy attorney general during the Clinton administration,
eulogized Mr. Margolis for unfailingly following the rules, even when facing
unpopular options. Audience members heard it as a veiled critique of both Mr.
Comey and Ms. Lynch.

On Nov. 5, three days before Election Day, Mr. Strzok and his team had 3,000
emails left to review. That night, they ordered pizza and dug in. At about 2
a.m., Mr. Strzok wrote an email to Mr. Comey and scheduled it to send at 6 a.m.
They were finished.

A few hours later, Mr. Strzok and his team were back in Mr. Comey's conference
room for a final briefing: Only about 3,000 emails had been potentially
work-related. A dozen or so email chains contained classified information, but
the F.B.I. had already seen it.

And agents had found no emails from the BlackBerry server during the crucial
period when Mrs. Clinton was at the State Department.

Nothing had changed what Mr. Comey had said in July.

That conclusion was met with a mixture of relief and angst. Everyone at the
meeting knew that the question would quickly turn to whether Mr. Comey's letter
had been necessary.

That afternoon, Mr. Comey sent a second letter to Congress. "Based on our
review," he wrote, "we have not changed our conclusions."

Political Consequences

Mr. Comey did not vote on Election Day, records show, the first time he skipped
a national election, according to friends. But the director of the F.B.I. was a
central story line on every television station as Mr. Trump swept to an upset
victory.

Many factors explained Mr. Trump's success, but Mrs. Clinton blamed just one.
"Our analysis is that Comey's letter -- raising doubts that were groundless,
baseless, proven to be -- stopped our momentum," she told donors a few days
after the election. She pointed to polling data showing that late-deciding
voters chose Mr. Trump in unusually large numbers.

Even many Democrats believe that this analysis ignores other factors, but at the
F.B.I., the accusation stung. Agents are used to criticism and second-guessing.
Rarely has the agency been accused of political favoritism or, worse, tipping an
election.

For all the attention on Mrs. Clinton's emails, history is likely to see Russian
influence as the more significant story of the 2016 election. Questions about
Russian meddling and possible collusion have marred Mr. Trump's first 100 days
in the White House, cost him his national security adviser and triggered two
congressional investigations. Despite Mr. Trump's assertions that "Russia is
fake news," the White House has been unable to escape its shadow.

Mr. Comey has told friends that he has no regrets, about either the July news
conference or the October letter or his handling of the Russia investigation.
Confidants like Mr. Richman say he was constrained by circumstance while
"navigating waters in which every move has political consequences."

But officials and others close to him also acknowledge that Mr. Comey has been
changed by the tumultuous year.

Early on Saturday, March 4, the president accused Mr. Obama on Twitter of
illegally wiretapping Trump Tower in Manhattan. Mr. Comey believed the
government should forcefully denounce that claim. But this time he took a
different approach. He asked the Justice Department to correct the record. When
officials there refused, Mr. Comey followed orders and said nothing publicly.

"Comey should say this on the record," said Tommy Vietor, a National Security
Council spokesman in the Obama administration. "He's already shattered all norms
about commenting on ongoing investigations."

Mr. Richman sees no conflict, but rather "a consistent pattern of someone trying
to act with independence and integrity, but within established channels."

"His approach to the Russia investigation fits this pattern," he added.

But perhaps the most telling sign that Mr. Comey may have had enough of being
Washington's Lone Ranger occurred last month before the House Intelligence
Committee.

Early in the hearing, Mr. Comey acknowledged for the first time what had been
widely reported: The F.B.I. was investigating members of the Trump campaign for
possible collusion with Russia.

Yet the independent-minded F.B.I. director struck a collaborative tone. "I have
been authorized by the Department of Justice to confirm," he began, ushering in
the next phase of his extraordinary moment in national politics.

Mr. Comey was still in the spotlight, but no longer alone.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Emily Baumgaertner and Mark Landler contributed reporting. Kitty Bennett
contributed research.

PHOTOS: James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, testifying in July. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
AL DRAGO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); ONLY THE LAW: Attorney General John Ashcroft
with Mr. Comey in 2002. Mr. Comey later served as the deputy attorney general
and earned a reputation for independence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS)
(A20); THE KREMLIN: The F.B.I. took note of a July trip to Moscow, right, by the
Trump adviser Carter Page, above left. The agency is investigating whether the
Trump campaign had ties to the government of Vladimir V. Putin, above right.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY VASILY MAXIMOV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES); ON HIS OWN:
James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, had a go-it-alone strategy during the
presidential race that was fueled by distrust of Justice Department officials
like Loretta E. Lynch, then the attorney general, pictured far left.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLIFF OWEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS; ZACH GIBSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A20-A21); RUNWAY MEETING: Ms. Lynch and former President Bill Clinton had a
chance encounter at Sky Harbor International Airport in Phoenix, left, in June.
Days later, Mr. Comey held his own news conference on the Hillary Clinton
investigation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) (A21); MORE HACKING:
Emails from John D. Podesta, second from top, campaign manager for Hillary
Clinton, above, were posted in October by WikiLeaks, which had previously
released emails from the D.N.C. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A22); CONTINUED SCRUTINY: James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, appearing on
March 20 at a House Intelligence Committee hearing on Russian interference in
the presidential election. Voters, pictured far left, had cast their ballots on
Nov. 8. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ZACH GIBSON/GETTY IMAGES; ZACH GIBSON/GETTY IMAGES)
(A22-A23); THE OUTCOME: The belief that Mr. Comey's actions were a factor in the
election of President Trump, above, has stung at the F.B.I. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC
THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23)

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Is Said to Keep James Comey as F.B.I. Director
     ·    Why Democrats Now Need the F.B.I. Director, James Comey
     ·    Comey Asks Justice Dept. to Reject Trump's Wiretapping Claim
     ·    F.B.I. Chief James Comey Is in Political Crossfire Again Over Emails
     ·    James Comey Role Recalls Hoover's F.B.I., Fairly or Not


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 23, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

'I Didn't Move Here to Avoid Chaos'

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; LIONS OF NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2627 words


As a teenager in suburban Chicago, Laurie Anderson was a cheerleader, star of
the senior play, an editor on her school paper, runner-up for a Junior Miss
scholarship and the girl voted most likely to succeed. In New York, she studied
sculpture with Sol LeWitt, played the violin while wearing ice skates frozen in
blocks of ice, recorded a song that reached No. 2 on the British charts, was
queen of the Coney Island Mermaid Parade and became NASA's first
artist-in-residence. She once went a year without a winter coat. Philippe Starck
hired her to make his hotel lobbies sound bigger.

She does a very good Laurie Anderson imitation.

It was early February and we were in her Canal Street studio, where she has
worked since 1975. Ms. Anderson, 69, was demonstrating some custom software for
her electronic violin and talking about a new prize for emerging artists that
the Kitchen, the venerable performance space, was introducing. She did not think
it should be called the Laurie Anderson Prize. ''I wouldn't want to get the
Laurie Anderson Prize,'' she said, flattening her voice to that of an
extraterrestrial ingénue. ''Because then I'd have. To. Talk. Like. Laurie.
Anderson.''

Pause.

''And. Do. Some. Quirky. Thing.''

She returned to her conversational cadence. ''I wouldn't want to saddle somebody
with that,'' she said.

For Ms. Anderson, talking like Laurie Anderson has been the basis of a varied
and chimerical career, sustained through six books, a dozen albums, multimedia
performances for human and canine audiences and an acclaimed documentary film.
Her hair no longer has the spiky look she wore for her 1981 oddball hit single,
''O Superman,'' but she is still doing Laurie Anderson, which is to say, working
on four books; preparing for performances with her friend Philip Glass; creating
virtual reality environments for the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art;
organizing the archives of her husband, Lou Reed, who died in 2013; practicing
Buddhism; and worrying -- truly worrying -- about how to make art during the
presidency of Donald J. Trump.

''I'm a journalist,'' she said. ''It's tough to write something in moments like
this, when people are already on the verge of going crazy trying to patch their
lives back together, mostly through the stories. My fear is that I won't be able
to describe it. I'm teaching myself a lot right now in trying to talk about what
stories are, how you make them up, what the difference is between fiction and
reality. I build those fictions all the time and call them my life.''

''I'm not that hopeful about what's going on here,'' she added. ''I was talking
to one of my Buddhist teachers this morning and I said: 'Let's say we do wipe
ourselves off the face of the earth. How does karma work then, if there are no
humans?'''

Ms. Anderson is also grieving: for her mother; her friends David Bowie and
Carrie Fisher; the critic and writer John Berger; Mr. Reed. Also for her dog, a
rat terrier named Lolabelle, who once appeared with her and Mr. Reed on Charlie
Rose's talk show. On the show, Ms. Anderson held the dog in her lap while Mr.
Reed touched Ms. Anderson affectionately -- they were not married yet -- and
told Mr. Rose: ''She writes, she paints, she does photography, she sculpts.
She's a tech head. There's nothing she can't do.'' In 2015, two years after Mr.
Reed had died from liver disease, Ms. Anderson made a documentary film about
Lolabelle's death, ''Heart of a Dog,'' in which Mr. Reed is absent until the
very end. On April 29, she will include one of his guitar drones in a
performance at the Highline Ballroom. He was, she said, still very much a living
presence in her life.

''I learn from him every day now,'' she said. ''I have since he died. Every
single day I see something in my house that he put there for me, a note or a
piece of paper or a book that he had written in, or one of his shirts. He's
very, very present for me. It's not like, 'Oh, my dead husband.'''

On an afternoon in April, Ms. Anderson was drawing and smearing chalk images for
the cover of a book called ''All the Things That I Lost in the Flood,'' which
she described variously as a book about language and loss; about Hurricane
Sandy; and as a career retrospective, going back to her first performance, in
the early 1970s, playing a violin filled with water.

It was a time before New York's downtown art world had found its shape or a
market. SoHo had just a few commercial galleries and two restaurants, one of
which was run by artists. She once compared the scene to Paris in the 1920s.

''There was a big party every night,'' she said. ''We talked a lot. We were
really serious. We knew we would change the world. We were probably pretty
obnoxious. Did a lot of drugs. A lot of sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll. Well, not
so much rock 'n' roll. But sex and drugs for sure. Lots.''

''I'm always trying to think, did we really have that much fun?'' she added.
''How much am I idealizing my childhood as an artist? Probably some. It was
tough. When I got this place, there was no roof. Snow came in here. And holes
going down into other places, big ones. No water and no electricity, so we
tapped into the city for free electricity and we hauled water up and we had wood
stoves. It was really fun.''

Ms. Anderson moved to New York in 1966 to attend Barnard College, finishing her
graduate studies at the School of Visual Arts and Columbia just in time to fall
in with a coterie of peers attracted by the cheap rents downtown. Setting the
pattern for her career, she threw together a little bit of everything, working
in sculpture, painting, music, film, literature, computers and gender bending,
all of it layered with wide-eyed curiosity and knowing ambivalence.

''It was a wonderful time,'' said Mr. Glass, 80, who used to leave his son at
Ms. Anderson's sculpture studio in the East Village while he worked a day job,
mostly doing construction. ''There wasn't a lot of money, but there was
constantly something going on. People didn't have careers then, they had work.
We didn't know what a career was. We were artists. It didn't occur to us that
you would make a living at it someday.

''There was very little support for that generation of artists. There was none,
in fact. The big support system was the artist community themselves. So we were
at each other's performances, quite often at empty lofts.''

If the artists were poor, Mr. Glass said, they were also able to live very
cheaply. ''My first loft was down by the fish market, and I paid $30 a month,''
he said. ''I don't think I'm fantasizing, but I tell young people it was much
easier then.''

For Ms. Anderson, the center of that scene was Gordon Matta-Clark, whose
site-specific work included cutting shapes out of abandoned buildings, even
sawing buildings in half. Mr. Matta-Clark, who died in 1978, organized a group
of artists called Anarchitecture, who held long discussions that often ended in
dance parties and eventually had a group show at 112 Greene Street, a
cooperative gallery where artists were allowed to knock holes in the walls or
floors. Ms. Anderson became a regular.

''Laurie was new in town also and we all started hearing about her,'' said
Richard Landry, a saxophonist who moved to New York from Louisiana to play with
Mr. Glass and later performed with Ms. Anderson. ''It was a communal affair. I
had a place at 10 Chatham Square. I cooked once a week, and the art world came
there, including Laurie. The whole art world would eat and party or whatever.''

Through the photographer Marcia Resnick, Ms. Anderson got a large loft at the
western edge of Canal Street with views of the Hudson, above a methadone clinic.
Many of the lofts had no doors, Ms. Resnick said, and the patients would wander
into people's homes. The city was spiraling toward bankruptcy, but for artists,
the chaos offered opportunity.

''I didn't see it as collapse,'' Ms. Anderson said. ''I saw it as a very
exciting thing. I saw it as a pioneering thing. I didn't want to live in a city
that was organized. I left the Midwest so I could leave that kind of
organization. I didn't move here to avoid chaos. I came for the excitement of
it, and I was not disappointed.''

After an American military operation to rescue hostages in Iran crashed and
burned in 1980, Ms. Anderson wrote a song about technological failure. Echoing
Jules Massenet's 19th-century aria ''O Souverain,'' she called it ''O
Superman,'' and got a $500 grant to record it in her loft. It sounded like
nothing else from the era.

''Her work wasn't so different from early Dada performances, or Russian
spectacle, or Happenings,'' said Bob George, who released ''O Superman'' on his
One Ten Records, and ran the projectors at Ms. Anderson's early performances.
''There was the idea that you're telling a story and you're making it visual. At
first I don't think it was linked so much to the music. Laurie wouldn't say,
'I'm a musician.' She's more in that line of the peculiar speaking voice, Jimmy
Durante and Leonard Cohen and Groucho Marx, that kind of recitative talk
singing.''

When Mr. George played the record on John Peel's popular British radio show, it
became an instant hit.

''That was bizarre,'' Ms. Anderson said. ''I was, 'What are the British charts?'
As soon as I got over there, and several hundred screaming people would follow
me everywhere, outside my limousine, I'm like, this is ridiculous. I never
believed that one. Even at the time, I was: Have a good time with this, be an
anthropologist. It's really bizarre and manufactured. These people didn't know I
existed until last week, and next week they won't again, and that's got to be
fine with me.''

It also helped that she had developed a recognizable image, a little
androgynous, a little cyber, said Jane Crawford, the widow of Mr. Matta-Clark,
who arranged work for some of the performance artists, including Ms. Anderson.

''The Dutch and the Belgians didn't respond wholeheartedly to Laurie's work
until she got a haircut,'' Ms. Crawford said. ''She had long hair, and when she
got her spiky punk cut, then suddenly her work became very cool and she was just
embraced with open arms. It's kind of shallow, but that's how it was.''

''O Superman'' changed everything. Transported from the rarefied world of
avant-garde performance art -- ''six people in a loft,'' as she described it --
Ms. Anderson was suddenly a figure on MTV and in popular music magazines, signed
to a long-term contract with Warner Bros. Records.

By the time she met Mr. Reed, at a 1992 concert commemorating Kristallnacht, the
1938 anti-Jewish pogroms, in Munich, both were established figures in their
spheres. Mr. Reed changed her relationship with the New York City, then changed
it again as he developed hepatitis C, diabetes and liver disease.

''Before I met Lou, I would work at night every night. I'd just go to work. But
the second we got together, we went out every night. We saw things every night:
plays, movies or just a social dinner, music, readings. Every night. At first it
was hard for me. I was more interested in working. But then I began to really
love it. And Lou was completely into that. Even with restaurants, he would want
to try every new kind of thing: Can you believe that opened up, let's go check
that out. He had so many favorite chefs, and he was developing food for
diabetics with different chefs and he would go and check them out. It was
endless. It was the greatest fun. Plus he was much more generous than I was in
terms of watching things. We would go to a play and I would think, Oh man, that
thing was just a dog, and he would go, 'Yeah, but didn't you see the way that
one actor did that thing?' He was so generous about it.

''And if there was nothing new to see, on Friday nights we'd go see the armor
collection at the Met. This city is full of the most amazing things, and we
really used to do it.''

They talked about gear and about writing, the solidity of images and elusiveness
of language. He took her to the dog show; they were named king and queen of the
Mermaid Parade. Mr. Reed's abrasive side, she said, was just a stage persona,
conjured when it suited him. ''I almost think of it like one of his leather
jackets,'' she said. ''He put it on when he felt like it. If he wanted to get to
the front of a line, jacket comes on, metaphorically, and he's Lou Reed. He knew
what game he was playing. He played it well. I think people assume that
celebrities are trapped by their fame. Some are not. Some are using it, having
fun with it, goofing on it.''

During Mr. Reed's last years, she curtailed her travel to care for him, and when
he died, she gathered friends to share thoughts about him for 49 days,
coinciding with the period Tibetan Buddhists believe the dead spend in a
transitional realm called the bardo, when they are sometimes accessible to the
living.

She often saw Mr. Reed in the bardo, she said. ''I saw confusion sometimes, and
disorientation,'' she said. ''I saw freedom and great joy. They're intense
pictures, and they're obviously made of desire and intuition. I trust my
intuition, I really do.''

She got a new dog, a Border terrier named Little Will, and resumed work, often
in collaboration with very different kinds of artists. She performed with the
Chinese dissident Ai Weiwei using Skype, when Mr. Ai was still under government
surveillance, and this weekend plans to join Devendra Banhart at the Coachella
music festival in Indio, Calif.; in 2015, she had a mock wedding ceremony with
her friend Sophie Calle, the French conceptual artist. In November, along with
Brian Eno, she gathered 1,000 people together in Copenhagen to sing ''I Can't
Help Falling in Love With You'' one morning. Speaking of her work now, she said
it was the same thing she had done for the talent portion of the Junior Miss
competition: ''What I did was stories and drawings,'' she said. ''It's not that
different.''

On a recent evening, while leaving her loft on Canal Street to meet a friend for
dinner, she noted how little of the neighborhood that had incubated her early
career remained.

''When I moved to New York, I was going to go to a dark and dangerous place that
was going to be really unpredictable,'' she said. ''Just sitting on this corner
since 1975, just a million things happen around you.''

''When I got here, March and April were fishing boat times,'' she said, meaning
that police boats would fish out bodies that had frozen in the river over the
winter, then floated downstream. ''And then there were all the insurance fires.
There's just as much chaos as there ever was. It just looks different. I didn't
expect to see guys in herds running up and down the river, for example. You see
them mostly on their lunch hour, young stockbrokers, and they're running in
herds. This is a big, huge difference from when I got here. New York was a city
you went to alone. You didn't go with your school friends. You came by yourself,
and you started over. I don't get that sense with these guys. They're herd guys:
Oh, you're going to Penn, I'm going to Penn, let's go to New York, we'll room
together, we'll run together, we'll herd together, we'll make a ton of money
together. And then there they are. Go and watch them. It's really wild.''

She told this story in other conversations as well. It was classic Laurie
Anderson stuff: gently dystopian, with nods toward both progress and reversion.
She had learned to write in the second person from William S. Burroughs, she
said, and from Jean-Luc Godard that a story needs a beginning, middle and end,
though not necessarily in that order. But as she told the story and retold it,
it remained wholly her own. After 40 years, still, no one tells stories like
Laurie Anderson.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/21/nyregion/laurie-anderson-new-york.html

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Laurie Anderson, 69, this month at her home in New York. Ms.
Anderson recalled that when she moved to the city in the 1960s, ''I was going to
go to a dark and dangerous place that was going to be really unpredictable.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
Clockwise from top: Laurie Anderson performing in 1983
with her husband, Lou Reed, in 2002
in Hudson River Park with her dog this month
at Carnegie Hall with Philip Glass in March. Above, Ms. Anderson in a 1965 high
school photo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN RASIC/GETTY IMAGES
RICHARD CORKERY/DAILY NEWS ARCHIVE, VIA GETTY IMAGES
DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 REBECCA SMEYNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 23, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Trying to Avoid Politics, Comey Shaped an Election

BYLINE: By MATT APUZZO, MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT, ADAM GOLDMAN and ERIC LICHTBLAU;
Emily Baumgaertner and Mark Landler contributed reporting. Kitty Bennett
contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 7801 words


WASHINGTON -- The day before he upended the 2016 election, James B. Comey, the
director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, summoned agents and lawyers to
his conference room. They had been debating all day, and it was time for a
decision.

Mr. Comey's plan was to tell Congress that the F.B.I. had received new evidence
and was reopening its investigation into Hillary Clinton, the presidential
front-runner. The move would violate the policies of an agency that does not
reveal its investigations or do anything that may influence an election. But Mr.
Comey had declared the case closed, and he believed he was obligated to tell
Congress that had changed.

''Should you consider what you're about to do may help elect Donald Trump
president?'' an adviser asked him, Mr. Comey recalled recently at a closed
meeting with F.B.I. agents.

He could not let politics affect his decision, he replied. ''If we ever start
considering who might be affected, and in what way, by what we do, we're done,''
he told the agents.

But with polls showing Mrs. Clinton holding a comfortable lead, Mr. Comey ended
up plunging the F.B.I. into the molten center of a bitter election. Fearing the
backlash that would come if it were revealed after the election that the F.B.I.
had been investigating the next president and had kept it a secret, Mr. Comey
sent a letter informing Congress that the case was reopened.

What he did not say was that the F.B.I. was also investigating the campaign of
Donald J. Trump. Just weeks before, Mr. Comey had declined to answer a question
from Congress about whether there was such an investigation. Only in March, long
after the election, did Mr. Comey confirm that there was one.

For Mr. Comey, keeping the F.B.I. out of politics is such a preoccupation that
he once said he would never play basketball with President Barack Obama because
of the appearance of being chummy with the man who appointed him. But in the
final months of the presidential campaign, the leader of the nation's
pre-eminent law enforcement agency shaped the contours, if not the outcome, of
the presidential race by his handling of the Clinton and Trump-related
investigations.

An examination by The New York Times, based on interviews with more than 30
current and former law enforcement, congressional and other government
officials, found that while partisanship was not a factor in Mr. Comey's
approach to the two investigations, he handled them in starkly different ways.
In the case of Mrs. Clinton, he rewrote the script, partly based on the F.B.I.'s
expectation that she would win and fearing the bureau would be accused of
helping her. In the case of Mr. Trump, he conducted the investigation by the
book, with the F.B.I.'s traditional secrecy. Many of the officials discussed the
investigations on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to
speak to reporters.

Mr. Comey made those decisions with the supreme self-confidence of a former
prosecutor who, in a distinguished career, has cultivated a reputation for what
supporters see as fierce independence, and detractors view as media-savvy
arrogance.

The Times found that this go-it-alone strategy was shaped by his distrust of
senior officials at the Justice Department, who he and other F.B.I. officials
felt had provided Mrs. Clinton with political cover. The distrust extended to
his boss, Loretta E. Lynch, the attorney general, who Mr. Comey believed had
subtly helped play down the Clinton investigation.

His misgivings were only fueled by the discovery last year of a document written
by a Democratic operative that seemed -- at least in the eyes of Mr. Comey and
his aides -- to raise questions about her independence. In a bizarre example of
how tangled the F.B.I. investigations had become, the document had been stolen
by Russian hackers.

The examination also showed that at one point, President Obama himself was
reluctant to disclose the suspected Russian influence in the election last
summer, for fear his administration would be accused of meddling.

Mr. Comey, the highest-profile F.B.I. director since J. Edgar Hoover, has not
squarely addressed his decisions last year. He has touched on them only
obliquely, asserting that the F.B.I. is blind to partisan considerations.
''We're not considering whose ox will be gored by this action or that action,
whose fortune will be helped,'' he said at a public event recently. ''We just
don't care. We can't care. We only ask: 'What are the facts? What is the law?'''

But circumstances and choices landed him in uncharted and perhaps unwanted
territory, as he made what he thought were the least damaging choices from even
less desirable alternatives.

''This was unique in the history of the F.B.I.,'' said Michael B. Steinbach, the
former senior national security official at the F.B.I., who worked closely with
Mr. Comey, describing the circumstances the agency faced last year while
investigating both the Republican and Democratic candidates for president.
''People say, 'This has never been done before.' Well, there never was a before.
Or 'That's not normally how you do it.' There wasn't anything normal about
this.''

'Federal Bureau of Matters'

Mr. Comey owes his job and his reputation to the night in 2004 when he rushed to
the Washington hospital room of John Ashcroft, the attorney general, and
prevented Bush administration officials from persuading him to reauthorize a
classified program that had been ruled unconstitutional. At the time, Mr. Comey,
a Republican, was the deputy attorney general.

Years later, when Mr. Obama was looking for a new F.B.I. director, Mr. Comey
seemed an inspired bipartisan choice. But his style eventually grated on his
bosses at the Justice Department.

In 2015, as prosecutors pushed for greater accountability for police misconduct,
Mr. Comey embraced the controversial theory that scrutiny of police officers led
to increases in crime -- the so-called Ferguson effect. ''We were really caught
off guard,'' said Vanita Gupta, the Justice Department's top civil rights
prosecutor at the time. ''He lobbed a fairly inflammatory statement, without
data to back it up, and walked away.''

On other issues, Mr. Comey bucked the administration but won praise from his
agents, who saw him as someone who did what he believed was right, regardless of
the political ramifications.

''Jim sees his role as apolitical and independent,'' said Daniel C. Richman, a
longtime confidant and friend of Mr. Comey's. ''The F.B.I. director, even as he
reports to the attorney general, often has to stand apart from his boss.''

The F.B.I.'s involvement with Mrs. Clinton's emails began in July 2015 when it
received a letter from the inspector general for the intelligence community.

The letter said that classified information had been found on Mrs. Clinton's
home email server, which she had used as secretary of state. The secret email
setup was already proving to be a damaging issue in her presidential campaign.

Mr. Comey's deputies quickly concluded that there was reasonable evidence that a
crime may have occurred in the way classified materials were handled, and that
the F.B.I. had to investigate. ''We knew as an organization that we didn't have
a choice,'' said John Giacalone, a former mob investigator who had risen to
become the F.B.I.'s top national security official.

On July 10, 2015, the F.B.I. opened a criminal investigation, code-named
''Midyear,'' into Mrs. Clinton's handling of classified information. The Midyear
team included two dozen investigators led by a senior analyst and by an
experienced F.B.I. supervisor, Peter Strzok, a former Army officer who had
worked on some of the most secretive investigations in recent years involving
Russian and Chinese espionage.

There was controversy almost immediately.

Responding to questions from The Times, the Justice Department confirmed that it
had received a criminal referral -- the first step toward a criminal
investigation -- over Mrs. Clinton's handling of classified information.

But the next morning, the department revised its statement.

''The department has received a referral related to the potential compromise of
classified information,'' the new statement read. ''It is not a criminal
referral.''

At the F.B.I., this was a distinction without a difference: Despite what
officials said in public, agents had been alerted to mishandled classified
information and in response, records show, had opened a full criminal
investigation.

The Justice Department knew a criminal investigation was underway, but officials
said they were being technically accurate about the nature of the referral. Some
at the F.B.I. suspected that Democratic appointees were playing semantic games
to help Mrs. Clinton, who immediately seized on the statement to play down the
issue. ''It is not a criminal investigation,'' she said, incorrectly. ''It is a
security review.''

In September of that year, as Mr. Comey prepared for his first public questions
about the case at congressional hearings and press briefings, he went across the
street to the Justice Department to meet with Ms. Lynch and her staff.

Both had been federal prosecutors in New York -- Mr. Comey in the Manhattan
limelight, Ms. Lynch in the lower-wattage Brooklyn office. The 6-foot-8 Mr.
Comey commanded a room and the spotlight. Ms. Lynch, 5 feet tall, was known for
being cautious and relentlessly on message. In her five months as attorney
general, she had shown no sign of changing her style.

At the meeting, everyone agreed that Mr. Comey should not reveal details about
the Clinton investigation. But Ms. Lynch told him to be even more circumspect:
Do not even call it an investigation, she said, according to three people who
attended the meeting. Call it a ''matter.''

Ms. Lynch reasoned that the word ''investigation'' would raise other questions:
What charges were being investigated? Who was the target? But most important,
she believed that the department should stick by its policy of not confirming
investigations.

It was a by-the-book decision. But Mr. Comey and other F.B.I. officials regarded
it as disingenuous in an investigation that was so widely known. And Mr. Comey
was concerned that a Democratic attorney general was asking him to be misleading
and line up his talking points with Mrs. Clinton's campaign, according to people
who spoke with him afterward.

As the meeting broke up, George Z. Toscas, a national security prosecutor,
ribbed Mr. Comey. ''I guess you're the Federal Bureau of Matters now,'' Mr.
Toscas said, according to two people who were there.

Despite his concerns, Mr. Comey avoided calling it an investigation. ''I am
confident we have the resources and the personnel assigned to the matter,'' Mr.
Comey told reporters days after the meeting.

The F.B.I. investigation into Mrs. Clinton's email server was the biggest
political story in the country in the fall of 2015. But something much bigger
was happening in Washington. And nobody recognized it.

While agents were investigating Mrs. Clinton, the Democratic National
Committee's computer system was compromised. It appeared to have been the work
of Russian hackers.

The significance of this moment is obvious now, but it did not immediately cause
alarm at the F.B.I. or the Justice Department.

Over the previous year, dozens of think tanks, universities and political
organizations associated with both parties had fallen prey to Russian spear
phishing -- emails that tricked victims into clicking on malicious links. The
D.N.C. intrusion was a concern, but no more than the others.

Months passed before the D.N.C. and the F.B.I. met to address the hacks. And it
would take more than a year for the government to conclude that the Russian
president, Vladimir V. Putin, had an audacious plan to steer the outcome of an
American election.

Missing Emails

Despite moments of tension between leaders of the F.B.I. and the Justice
Department, agents and prosecutors working on the case made progress. ''The
investigative team did a thorough job,'' Mr. Giacalone said. ''They left no
stone unturned.''

They knew it would not be enough to prove that Mrs. Clinton was sloppy or
careless. To bring charges, they needed evidence that she knowingly received
classified information or set up her server for that purpose.

That was especially important after a deal the Justice Department had made with
David H. Petraeus, the retired general and former director of the Central
Intelligence Agency. Mr. Petraeus had passed classified information to his
biographer, with whom he was having an affair, and the evidence was damning: He
revealed the names of covert agents and other secrets, he was recorded saying
that he knew it was wrong, and he lied to the F.B.I.

But over Mr. Comey's objections, the Justice Department let Mr. Petraeus plead
guilty in April 2015 to a misdemeanor count of mishandling classified
information. Charging Mrs. Clinton with the same crime, without evidence of
intent, would be difficult.

One nagging issue was that Mrs. Clinton had deleted an unknown number of emails
from her early months at the State Department -- before she installed the home
server. Agents believed that those emails, sent from a BlackBerry account, might
be their best hope of assessing Mrs. Clinton's intentions when she moved to the
server. If only they could find them.

In spring last year, Mr. Strzok, the counterintelligence supervisor, reported to
Mr. Comey that Mrs. Clinton had clearly been careless, but agents and
prosecutors agreed that they had no proof of intent. Agents had not yet
interviewed Mrs. Clinton or her aides, but the outcome was coming into focus.

Nine months into the investigation, it became clear to Mr. Comey that Mrs.
Clinton was almost certainly not going to face charges. He quietly began work on
talking points, toying with the notion that in the midst of a bitter
presidential campaign, a Justice Department led by Democrats may not have the
credibility to close the case, and that he alone should explain that decision to
the public.

A Suspicious Document

A document obtained by the F.B.I. reinforced that idea.

During Russia's hacking campaign against the United States, intelligence
agencies could peer, at times, into Russian networks and see what had been
taken. Early last year, F.B.I. agents received a batch of hacked documents, and
one caught their attention.

The document, which has been described as both a memo and an email, was written
by a Democratic operative who expressed confidence that Ms. Lynch would keep the
Clinton investigation from going too far, according to several former officials
familiar with the document.

Read one way, it was standard Washington political chatter. Read another way, it
suggested that a political operative might have insight into Ms. Lynch's
thinking.

Normally, when the F.B.I. recommends closing a case, the Justice Department
agrees and nobody says anything. The consensus in both places was that the
typical procedure would not suffice in this instance, but who would be the
spokesman?

The document complicated that calculation, according to officials. If Ms. Lynch
announced that the case was closed, and Russia leaked the document, Mr. Comey
believed it would raise doubts about the independence of the investigation.

Mr. Comey sought advice from someone he has trusted for many years. He
dispatched his deputy to meet with David Margolis, who had served at the Justice
Department since the Johnson administration and who, at 76, was dubbed the Yoda
of the department.

What exactly was said is not known. Mr. Margolis died of heart problems a few
months later. But some time after that meeting, Mr. Comey began talking to his
advisers about announcing the end of the Clinton investigation himself,
according to a former official.

''When you looked at the totality of the situation, we were leaning toward: This
is something that makes sense to be done alone,'' said Mr. Steinbach, who would
not confirm the existence of the Russian document.

Former Justice Department officials are deeply skeptical of this account. If Mr.
Comey believed that Ms. Lynch were compromised, they say, why did he not seek
her recusal? Mr. Comey never raised this issue with Ms. Lynch or the deputy
attorney general, Sally Q. Yates, former officials said.

Mr. Comey's defenders regard this as one of the untold stories of the Clinton
investigation, one they say helps explain his decision-making. But former
Justice Department officials say the F.B.I. never uncovered evidence tying Ms.
Lynch to the document's author, and are convinced that Mr. Comey wanted an
excuse to put himself in the spotlight.

As the Clinton investigation headed into its final months, there were two very
different ideas about how the case would end. Ms. Lynch and her advisers thought
a short statement would suffice, probably on behalf of both the Justice
Department and the F.B.I.

Mr. Comey was making his own plans.

A Hot Tarmac

A chance encounter set those plans in motion.

In late June, Ms. Lynch's plane touched down at Phoenix Sky Harbor International
Airport as part of her nationwide tour of police departments. Former President
Bill Clinton was also in Phoenix that day, leaving from the same tarmac.

Ms. Lynch's staff loaded into vans, leaving the attorney general and her husband
on board. Mr. Clinton's Secret Service agents mingled with her security team.
When the former president learned who was on the plane, his aides say, he asked
to say hello.

Mr. Clinton's aides say he intended only to greet Ms. Lynch as she disembarked.
But Ms. Lynch later told colleagues that the message she received -- relayed
from one security team to another -- was that Mr. Clinton wanted to come aboard,
and she agreed.

When Ms. Lynch's staff members noticed Mr. Clinton boarding the plane, a press
aide hurriedly called the Justice Department's communications director, Melanie
Newman, who said to break up the meeting immediately. A staff member rushed to
stop it, but by the time the conversation ended, Mr. Clinton had been on the
plane for about 20 minutes.

The meeting made the local news the next day and was soon the talk of
Washington. Ms. Lynch said they had only exchanged pleasantries about golf and
grandchildren, but Republicans called for her to recuse herself and appoint a
special prosecutor.

Ms. Lynch said she would not step aside but would accept whatever career
prosecutors and the F.B.I. recommended on the Clinton case -- something she had
planned to do all along.

Mr. Comey never suggested that she recuse herself. But at that moment, he knew
for sure that when there was something to say about the case, he alone would say
it.

Calling a Conference

Agents interviewed Mrs. Clinton for more than three and a half hours in
Washington the next day, and the interview did not change the unanimous
conclusion among agents and prosecutors that she should not be charged.

Two days later, on the morning of July 5, Mr. Comey called Ms. Lynch to say that
he was about to hold a news conference. He did not tell her what he planned to
say, and Ms. Lynch did not demand to know.

On short notice, the F.B.I. summoned reporters to its headquarters for the
briefing.

A few blocks away, Mrs. Clinton was about to give a speech. At her campaign
offices in Brooklyn, staff members hurried in front of televisions. And at the
Justice Department and the F.B.I., prosecutors and agents watched anxiously.

''We were very much aware what was about to happen,'' said Mr. Steinbach, who
had taken over as the F.B.I.'s top national security official earlier that year.
''This was going to be hotly contested.''

With a black binder in hand, Mr. Comey walked into a large room on the ground
floor of the F.B.I.'s headquarters. Standing in front of two American flags and
two royal-blue F.B.I. flags, he read from a script.

He said the F.B.I. had reviewed 30,000 emails and discovered 110 that contained
classified information. He said computer hackers may have compromised Mrs.
Clinton's emails. And he criticized the State Department's lax security culture
and Mrs. Clinton directly.

''Any reasonable person in Secretary Clinton's position'' should have known
better, Mr. Comey said. He called her ''extremely careless.''

The criticism was so blistering that it sounded as if he were recommending
criminal charges. Only in the final two minutes did Mr. Comey say that ''no
charges are appropriate in this case.''

The script had been edited and revised several times, former officials said. Mr.
Strzok, Mr. Steinbach, lawyers and others debated every phrase. Speaking so
openly about a closed case is rare, and the decision to do so was not unanimous,
officials said. But the team ultimately agreed that there was an obligation to
inform American voters.

''We didn't want anyone to say, 'If I just knew that, I wouldn't have voted that
way,''' Mr. Steinbach said. ''You can argue that's not the F.B.I.'s job, but
there was no playbook for this. This is somebody who's going to be president of
the United States.''

Mr. Comey's criticism -- his description of her carelessness -- was the most
controversial part of the speech. Agents and prosecutors have been reprimanded
for injecting their legal conclusions with personal opinions. But those close to
Mr. Comey say he has no regrets.

By scolding Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Comey was speaking not only to voters but to his
own agents. While they agreed that Mrs. Clinton should not face charges, many
viewed her conduct as inexcusable. Mr. Comey's remarks made clear that the
F.B.I. did not approve.

Former agents and others close to Mr. Comey acknowledge that his reproach was
also intended to insulate the F.B.I. from Republican criticism that it was too
lenient toward a Democrat.

At the Justice Department, frustrated prosecutors said Mr. Comey should have
consulted with them first. Mrs. Clinton's supporters said that Mr. Comey's
condemnations seemed to make an oblique case for charging her, undermining the
effect of his decision.

''He came up with a Rube Goldberg-type solution that caused him more problems
than if he had just played it straight,'' said Brian Fallon, the Clinton
campaign press secretary and a former Justice Department spokesman.

Furious Republicans saw the legal cloud over Mrs. Clinton lifting and tore into
Mr. Comey.

In the days after the announcement, Mr. Comey and Ms. Lynch each testified
before Congress, with different results. Neither the F.B.I. nor the Justice
Department normally gives Congress a fact-by-fact recounting of its
investigations, and Ms. Lynch spent five hours avoiding doing so.

''I know that this is a frustrating exercise for you,'' she told the House
Judiciary Committee.

Mr. Comey discussed his decision to close the investigation and renewed his
criticism of Mrs. Clinton.

By midsummer, as Mrs. Clinton was about to accept her party's nomination for
president, the F.B.I. director had seemingly succeeded in everything he had set
out to do. The investigation was over well before the election. He had explained
his decision to the public.

And with both parties angry at him, he had proved yet again that he was willing
to speak his mind, regardless of the blowback. He seemed to have safely piloted
the F.B.I. through the storm of a presidential election.

But as Mr. Comey moved past one tumultuous investigation, another was about to
heat up.

Russia Rising

Days after Mr. Comey's news conference, Carter Page, an American businessman,
gave a speech in Moscow criticizing American foreign policy. Such a trip would
typically be unremarkable, but Mr. Page had previously been under F.B.I.
scrutiny years earlier, as he was believed to have been marked for recruitment
by Russian spies. And he was now a foreign policy adviser to Mr. Trump.

Mr. Page has not said whom he met during his July visit to Moscow, describing
them as ''mostly scholars.'' But the F.B.I. took notice. Mr. Page later traveled
to Moscow again, raising new concerns among counterintelligence agents. A former
senior American intelligence official said that Mr. Page met with a suspected
intelligence officer on one of those trips and there was information that the
Russians were still very interested in recruiting him.

Later that month, the website WikiLeaks began releasing hacked emails from the
D.N.C. Roger J. Stone Jr., another Trump adviser, boasted publicly about his
contact with WikiLeaks and suggested he had inside knowledge about forthcoming
leaks. And Mr. Trump himself fueled the F.B.I.'s suspicions, showering Mr. Putin
with praise and calling for more hacking of Mrs. Clinton's emails.

''Russia, if you're listening,'' he said, ''I hope you'll be able to find the
30,000 emails that are missing.''

In late July, the F.B.I. opened an investigation into possible collusion between
members of Mr. Trump's campaign and Russian operatives. Besides Mr. Comey and a
small team of agents, officials said, only a dozen or so people at the F.B.I.
knew about the investigation. Mr. Strzok, just days removed from the Clinton
case, was selected to supervise it.

It was a worrisome time at the F.B.I. Agents saw increased activity by Russian
intelligence officers in the United States, and a former senior American
intelligence official said there were attempts by Russian intelligence officers
to talk to people involved in the campaign. Russian hackers had also been
detected trying to break into voter registration systems, and intelligence
intercepts indicated some sort of plan to interfere with the election.

In late August, Mr. Comey and his deputies were briefed on a provocative set of
documents about purported dealings between shadowy Russian figures and Mr.
Trump's campaign. One report, filled with references to secret meetings, spoke
ominously of Mr. Trump's ''compromising relationship with the Kremlin'' and
threats of ''blackmail.''

The reports came from a former British intelligence agent named Christopher
Steele, who was working as a private investigator hired by a firm working for a
Trump opponent. He provided the documents to an F.B.I. contact in Europe on the
same day as Mr. Comey's news conference about Mrs. Clinton. It took weeks for
this information to land with Mr. Strzok and his team.

Mr. Steele had been a covert agent for MI6 in Moscow, maintained deep ties with
Russians and worked with the F.B.I., but his claims were largely unverified. It
was increasingly clear at the F.B.I. that Russia was trying to interfere with
the election.

As the F.B.I. plunged deeper into that investigation, Mr. Comey became convinced
that the American public needed to understand the scope of the foreign
interference and be ''inoculated'' against it.

He proposed writing an op-ed piece to appear in The Times or The Washington
Post, and showed the White House a draft his staff had prepared, according to
two former officials. (After the Times story was published online on Saturday, a
former White House official said the text of the op-ed had not been given to the
White House.) The op-ed did not mention the investigation of the Trump campaign,
but it laid out how Russia was trying to undermine the vote.

The president replied that going public would play right into Russia's hands by
sowing doubts about the election's legitimacy. Mr. Trump was already saying the
system was ''rigged,'' and if the Obama administration accused Russia of
interference, Republicans could accuse the White House of stoking national
security fears to help Mrs. Clinton.

Mr. Comey argued that he had unique credibility to call out the Russians and
avoid that criticism. After all, he said, he had just chastised Mrs. Clinton at
his news conference.

The White House decided it would be odd for Mr. Comey to make such an accusation
on his own, in a newspaper, before American security agencies had produced a
formal intelligence assessment. The op-ed idea was quashed. When the
administration had something to say about Russia, it would do so in one voice,
through the proper channels.

But John O. Brennan, the C.I.A. director, was so concerned about the Russian
threat that he gave an unusual private briefing in the late summer to Harry
Reid, then the Senate Democratic leader.

Top congressional officials had already received briefings on Russia's meddling,
but the one for Mr. Reid appears to have gone further. In a public letter to Mr.
Comey several weeks later, Mr. Reid said that ''it has become clear that you
possess explosive information about close ties and coordination between Donald
Trump, his top advisors, and the Russian government -- a foreign interest openly
hostile to the United States.''

Mr. Comey knew the investigation of the Trump campaign was just underway, and
keeping with policy, he said nothing about it.

'Exceptional Circumstances'

Mr. Reid's letter sparked frenzied speculation about what the F.B.I. was doing.
At a congressional hearing in September, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat
of New York, pressed Mr. Comey for an explanation, citing his willingness to
give details about his investigation of Mrs. Clinton.

''After you investigated Secretary Clinton, you made a decision to explain
publicly who you interviewed and why,'' Mr. Nadler said. ''You also disclosed
documents, including those from those interviews. Why shouldn't the American
people have the same level of information about your investigation with those
associated with Mr. Trump?''

But Mr. Comey never considered disclosing the case. Doing so, he believed, would
have undermined an active investigation and cast public suspicion on people the
F.B.I. could not be sure were implicated.

''I'm not confirming that we're investigating people associated with Mr.
Trump,'' Mr. Comey said to Mr. Nadler. ''In the matter of the email
investigation, it was our judgment -- my judgment and the rest of the F.B.I.'s
judgment -- that those were exceptional circumstances.''

Even in classified briefings with House and Senate intelligence committee
members, Mr. Comey repeatedly declined to answer questions about whether there
was an investigation of the Trump campaign.

To Mr. Comey's allies, the two investigations were totally different. One was
closed when he spoke about it. The other was continuing, highly classified and
in its earliest stages. Much of the debate over Mr. Comey's actions over the
last seven months can be distilled into whether people make that same
distinction.

Just a few weeks later, in late September, Mr. Steele, the former British agent,
finally heard back from his contact at the F.B.I. It had been months, but the
agency wanted to see the material he had collected ''right away,'' according to
a person with knowledge of the conversation. What prompted this message remains
unclear.

Mr. Steele met his F.B.I. contact in Rome in early October, bringing a stack of
new intelligence reports. One, dated Sept. 14, said that Mr. Putin was facing
''fallout'' over his apparent involvement in the D.N.C. hack and was receiving
''conflicting advice'' on what to do.

The agent said that if Mr. Steele could get solid corroboration of his reports,
the F.B.I. would pay him $50,000 for his efforts, according to two people
familiar with the offer. Ultimately, he was not paid.

Around the same time, the F.B.I. began examining a mysterious data connection
between Alfa Bank, one of Russia's biggest, and a Trump Organization email
server. Some private computer scientists said it could represent a secret link
between the Trump Organization and Moscow.

Agents concluded that the computer activity, while odd, probably did not
represent a covert channel.

But by fall, the gravity of the Russian effort to affect the presidential
election had become clear.

The D.N.C. hack and others like it had once appeared to be standard Russian
tactics to tarnish a Western democracy. After the WikiLeaks disclosures and
subsequent leaks by a Russian group using the name DCLeaks, agents and analysts
began to realize that Moscow was not just meddling. It was trying to tip the
election away from Mrs. Clinton and toward Mr. Trump.

Mr. Comey and other senior administration officials met twice in the White House
Situation Room in early October to again discuss a public statement about
Russian meddling. But the roles were reversed: Susan Rice, the national security
adviser, wanted to move ahead. Mr. Comey was less interested in being involved.

At their second meeting, Mr. Comey argued that it would look too political for
the F.B.I. to comment so close to the election, according to several people in
attendance. Officials in the room felt whiplashed. Two months earlier, Mr. Comey
had been willing to put his name on a newspaper article; now he was refusing to
sign on to an official assessment of the intelligence community.

Mr. Comey said that in the intervening time, Russian meddling had become the
subject of news stories and a topic of national discussion. He felt it was no
longer necessary for him to speak publicly about it. So when Jeh Johnson, the
Homeland Security secretary, and James R. Clapper Jr., the national intelligence
director, accused ''Russia's senior-most officials'' on Oct. 7 of a cyber
operation to disrupt the election, the F.B.I. was conspicuously silent.

That night, WikiLeaks began posting thousands of hacked emails from another
source: the private email account of John D. Podesta, chairman of the Clinton
campaign.

The emails included embarrassing messages between campaign staff members and
excerpts from Mrs. Clinton's speeches to Wall Street. The disclosure further
convinced the F.B.I. that it had initially misread Russia's intentions.

Two days later, Mr. Podesta heard from the F.B.I. for the first time, he said in
an interview.

''You may be aware that your emails have been hacked,'' an agent told him.

Mr. Podesta laughed. The same agency that had so thoroughly investigated Mrs.
Clinton, he said, seemed painfully slow at responding to Russian hacking.

''Yes,'' he answered. ''I'm aware.''

Supplementing the Record

The Daily Mail, a British tabloid, was first with the salacious story: Anthony
D. Weiner, the former New York congressman, had exchanged sexually charged
messages with a 15-year-old girl.

The article, appearing in late September, raised the possibility that Mr. Weiner
had violated child pornography laws. Within days, prosecutors in Manhattan
sought a search warrant for Mr. Weiner's computer.

Even with his notoriety, this would have had little impact on national politics
but for one coincidence. Mr. Weiner's wife, Huma Abedin, was one of Mrs.
Clinton's closest confidantes, and had used an email account on her server.

F.B.I. agents in New York seized Mr. Weiner's laptop in early October. The
investigation was just one of many in the New York office and was not treated
with great urgency, officials said. Further slowing the investigation, the
F.B.I. software used to catalog the computer files kept crashing.

Eventually, investigators realized that they had hundreds of thousands of
emails, many of which belonged to Ms. Abedin and had been backed up to her
husband's computer.

Neither Mr. Comey nor Ms. Lynch was concerned. Agents had discovered devices
before in the Clinton investigation (old cellphones, for example) that turned up
no new evidence.

Then, agents in New York who were searching image files on Mr. Weiner's computer
discovered a State Department document containing the initials H.R.C. -- Hillary
Rodham Clinton. They found messages linked to Mrs. Clinton's home server.

And they made another surprising discovery: evidence that some of the emails had
moved through Mrs. Clinton's old BlackBerry server, the one she used before
moving to her home server. If Mrs. Clinton had intended to conceal something,
agents had always believed, the evidence might be in those emails. But reading
them would require another search warrant, essentially reopening the Clinton
investigation.

The election was two weeks away.

Mr. Comey learned of the Clinton emails on the evening of Oct. 26 and gathered
his team the next morning to discuss the development.

Seeking a new warrant was an easy decision. He had a thornier issue on his mind.

Back in July, he told Congress that the Clinton investigation was closed. What
was his obligation, he asked, to acknowledge that this was no longer true?

It was a perilous idea. It would push the F.B.I. back into the political arena,
weeks after refusing to confirm the active investigation of the Trump campaign
and declining to accuse Russia of hacking.

The question consumed hours of conference calls and meetings. Agents felt they
had two options: Tell Congress about the search, which everyone acknowledged
would create a political furor, or keep it quiet, which followed policy and
tradition but carried its own risk, especially if the F.B.I. found new evidence
in the emails.

''In my mind at the time, Clinton is likely to win,'' Mr. Steinbach said. ''It's
pretty apparent. So what happens after the election, in November or December?
How do we say to the American public: 'Hey, we found some things that might be
problematic. But we didn't tell you about it before you voted'? The damage to
our organization would have been irreparable.''

Conservative news outlets had already branded Mr. Comey a Clinton toady. That
same week, the cover of National Review featured a story on ''James Comey's
Dereliction,'' and a cartoon of a hapless Mr. Comey shrugging as Mrs. Clinton
smashed her laptop with a sledgehammer.

Congressional Republicans were preparing for years of hearings during a Clinton
presidency. If Mr. Comey became the subject of those hearings, F.B.I. officials
feared, it would hobble the agency and harm its reputation. ''I don't think the
organization would have survived that,'' Mr. Steinbach said.

The assumption was that the email review would take many weeks or months. ''If
we thought we could be done in a week,'' Mr. Steinbach said, ''we wouldn't say
anything.''

The spirited debate continued when Mr. Comey reassembled his team later that
day. F.B.I. lawyers raised concerns, former officials said. But in the end, Mr.
Comey said he felt obligated to tell Congress.

''I went back and forth, changing my mind several times,'' Mr. Steinbach
recalled. ''Ultimately, it was the right call.''

That afternoon, Mr. Comey's chief of staff called the office of Ms. Yates, the
deputy attorney general, and revealed the plan.

When Ms. Lynch was told, she was both stunned and confused. While the Justice
Department's rules on ''election year sensitivities'' do not expressly forbid
making comments close to an election, administrations of both parties have
interpreted them as a broad prohibition against anything that may influence a
political outcome.

Ms. Lynch understood Mr. Comey's predicament, but not his hurry. In a series of
phone calls, her aides told Mr. Comey's deputies that there was no need to tell
Congress anything until agents knew what the emails contained.

Either Ms. Lynch or Ms. Yates could have ordered Mr. Comey not to send the
letter, but their aides argued against it. If Ms. Lynch issued the order and Mr.
Comey obeyed, she risked the same fate that Mr. Comey feared: accusations of
political interference and favoritism by a Democratic attorney general.

If Mr. Comey disregarded her order and sent the letter -- a real possibility,
her aides thought -- it would be an act of insubordination that would force her
to consider firing him, aggravating the situation.

So the debate ended at the staff level, with the Justice Department imploring
the F.B.I. to follow protocol and stay out of the campaign's final days. Ms.
Lynch never called Mr. Comey herself.

The next morning, Friday, Oct. 28, Mr. Comey wrote to Congress, ''In connection
with an unrelated case, the F.B.I. has learned of the existence of emails that
appear to be pertinent to the investigation.''

His letter became public within minutes. Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah,
a Republican and a leading antagonist of Mrs. Clinton's, jubilantly announced on
Twitter, ''Case reopened.''

'This Changes Everything'

The Clinton team was outraged. Even at the F.B.I., agents who supported their
high-profile director were stunned. They knew the letter would call into
question the F.B.I.'s political independence.

Mr. Trump immediately mentioned it on the campaign trail. ''As you might have
heard,'' Mr. Trump told supporters in Maine, ''earlier today, the F.B.I. ... ''
The crowd interrupted with a roar. Everyone had heard.

Polls almost immediately showed Mrs. Clinton's support declining. Presidential
races nearly always tighten in the final days, but some political scientists
reported a measurable ''Comey effect.''

''This changes everything,'' Mr. Trump said.

Mr. Comey explained in an email to his agents that Congress needed to be
notified. ''It would be misleading to the American people were we not to
supplement the record,'' he wrote.

But many agents were not satisfied.

At the Justice Department, career prosecutors and political appointees privately
criticized not only Mr. Comey for sending the letter but also Ms. Lynch and Ms.
Yates for not stopping him. Many saw the letter as the logical result of years
of not reining him in.

Mr. Comey told Congress that he had no idea how long the email review would
take, but Ms. Lynch promised every resource needed to complete it before
Election Day.

At the F.B.I., the Clinton investigative team was reassembled, and the Justice
Department obtained a warrant to read emails to or from Mrs. Clinton during her
time at the State Department. As it turned out, only about 50,000 emails met
those criteria, far fewer than anticipated, officials said, and the F.B.I. had
already seen many of them.

Mr. Comey was again under fire. Former Justice Department officials from both
parties wrote a Washington Post op-ed piece titled ''James Comey Is Damaging Our
Democracy.''

At a Justice Department memorial for Mr. Margolis, organizers removed all the
chairs from the stage, avoiding the awkward scene of Mr. Comey sitting beside
some of his sharpest critics.

Jamie S. Gorelick, a deputy attorney general during the Clinton administration,
eulogized Mr. Margolis for unfailingly following the rules, even when facing
unpopular options. Audience members heard it as a veiled critique of both Mr.
Comey and Ms. Lynch.

On Nov. 5, three days before Election Day, Mr. Strzok and his team had 3,000
emails left to review. That night, they ordered pizza and dug in. At about 2
a.m., Mr. Strzok wrote an email to Mr. Comey and scheduled it to send at 6 a.m.
They were finished.

A few hours later, Mr. Strzok and his team were back in Mr. Comey's conference
room for a final briefing: Only about 3,000 emails had been potentially
work-related. A dozen or so email chains contained classified information, but
the F.B.I. had already seen it.

And agents had found no emails from the BlackBerry server during the crucial
period when Mrs. Clinton was at the State Department.

Nothing had changed what Mr. Comey had said in July.

That conclusion was met with a mixture of relief and angst. Everyone at the
meeting knew that the question would quickly turn to whether Mr. Comey's letter
had been necessary.

That afternoon, Mr. Comey sent a second letter to Congress. ''Based on our
review,'' he wrote, ''we have not changed our conclusions.''

Political Consequences

Mr. Comey did not vote on Election Day, records show, the first time he skipped
a national election, according to friends. But the director of the F.B.I. was a
central story line on every television station as Mr. Trump swept to an upset
victory.

Many factors explained Mr. Trump's success, but Mrs. Clinton blamed just one.
''Our analysis is that Comey's letter -- raising doubts that were groundless,
baseless, proven to be -- stopped our momentum,'' she told donors a few days
after the election. She pointed to polling data showing that late-deciding
voters chose Mr. Trump in unusually large numbers.

Even many Democrats believe that this analysis ignores other factors, but at the
F.B.I., the accusation stung. Agents are used to criticism and second-guessing.
Rarely has the agency been accused of political favoritism or, worse, tipping an
election.

For all the attention on Mrs. Clinton's emails, history is likely to see Russian
influence as the more significant story of the 2016 election. Questions about
Russian meddling and possible collusion have marred Mr. Trump's first 100 days
in the White House, cost him his national security adviser and triggered two
congressional investigations. Despite Mr. Trump's assertions that ''Russia is
fake news,'' the White House has been unable to escape its shadow.

Mr. Comey has told friends that he has no regrets, about either the July news
conference or the October letter or his handling of the Russia investigation.
Confidants like Mr. Richman say he was constrained by circumstance while
''navigating waters in which every move has political consequences.''

But officials and others close to him also acknowledge that Mr. Comey has been
changed by the tumultuous year.

Early on Saturday, March 4, the president accused Mr. Obama on Twitter of
illegally wiretapping Trump Tower in Manhattan. Mr. Comey believed the
government should forcefully denounce that claim. But this time he took a
different approach. He asked the Justice Department to correct the record. When
officials there refused, Mr. Comey followed orders and said nothing publicly.

''Comey should say this on the record,'' said Tommy Vietor, a National Security
Council spokesman in the Obama administration. ''He's already shattered all
norms about commenting on ongoing investigations.''

Mr. Richman sees no conflict, but rather ''a consistent pattern of someone
trying to act with independence and integrity, but within established
channels.''

''His approach to the Russia investigation fits this pattern,'' he added.

But perhaps the most telling sign that Mr. Comey may have had enough of being
Washington's Lone Ranger occurred last month before the House Intelligence
Committee.

Early in the hearing, Mr. Comey acknowledged for the first time what had been
widely reported: The F.B.I. was investigating members of the Trump campaign for
possible collusion with Russia.

Yet the independent-minded F.B.I. director struck a collaborative tone. ''I have
been authorized by the Department of Justice to confirm,'' he began, ushering in
the next phase of his extraordinary moment in national politics.

Mr. Comey was still in the spotlight, but no longer alone.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/22/us/politics/james-comey-election.html

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, testifying in July.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY AL DRAGO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
ONLY THE LAW: Attorney General John Ashcroft with Mr. Comey in 2002. Mr. Comey
later served as the deputy attorney general and earned a reputation for
independence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS) (A20)
THE KREMLIN: The F.B.I. took note of a July trip to Moscow, right, by the Trump
adviser Carter Page, above left. The agency is investigating whether the Trump
campaign had ties to the government of Vladimir V. Putin, above right.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY VASILY MAXIMOV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
ON HIS OWN: James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, had a go-it-alone strategy
during the presidential race that was fueled by distrust of Justice Department
officials like Loretta E. Lynch, then the attorney general, pictured far left.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLIFF OWEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
ZACH GIBSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20-A21)
RUNWAY MEETING: Ms. Lynch and former President Bill Clinton had a chance
encounter at Sky Harbor International Airport in Phoenix, left, in June. Days
later, Mr. Comey held his own news conference on the Hillary Clinton
investigation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) (A21)
MORE HACKING: Emails from John D. Podesta, second from top, campaign manager for
Hillary Clinton, above, were posted in October by WikiLeaks, which had
previously released emails from the D.N.C. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (A22)
CONTINUED SCRUTINY: James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, appearing on March 20
at a House Intelligence Committee hearing on Russian interference in the
presidential election. Voters, pictured far left, had cast their ballots on Nov.
8. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ZACH GIBSON/GETTY IMAGES
ZACH GIBSON/GETTY IMAGES) (A22-A23)
 THE OUTCOME: The belief that Mr. Comey's actions were a factor in the election
of President Trump, above, has stung at the F.B.I. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        April 24, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

Russian Hackers Who Targeted Clinton Appear to Attack France's Macron

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 883 words



HIGHLIGHT: A report by a cybersecurity firm has heightened concerns that Russia
has turned its weapons on France in an effort to bolster Marine Le Pen's
candidacy.


The campaign of the French presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron has been
targeted by what appear to be the same Russian operatives responsible for hacks
of Democratic campaign officials before last year's American presidential
election, a cybersecurity firm warns in a new report.

The report has heightened concerns that Russia may turn its playbook on France
in an effort to harm Mr. Macron's candidacy and bolster that of Mr. Macron's
rival, the National Front leader Marine Le Pen, in the final weeks of the French
presidential campaign.

Security researchers at the cybersecurity firm, Trend Micro, said that on March
15 they spotted a hacking group they believe to be a Russian intelligence unit
turn its weapons on Mr. Macron's campaign -- sending emails to campaign
officials and others with links to fake websites designed to bait them into
turning over passwords.

The group began registering several decoy internet addresses last month and as
recently as April 15, naming one onedrive-en-marche.fr and another
mail-en-marche.fr to mimic the name of Mr. Macron's political party, En Marche.

Those websites were registered to a block of web addresses that Trend Micro's
researchers say belong to the Russian intelligence unit they refer to as Pawn
Storm, but is alternatively known as Fancy Bear, APT 28 or the Sofacy Group.
American and European intelligence agencies and American private security
researchers determined that the group was responsible for hacking the Democratic
National Committee last year.

On Tuesday, Trend Micro's researchers plan to release their report detailing
cyberattacks in recent weeks against Mr. Macron's campaign -- as well as members
of Germany's Konrad-Adenauer Stiftung, a political foundation linked to
Chancellor Angela Merkel's political party -- in what appears to be the latest
Russian effort to influence political outcomes in the West.

The Kremlin scoffed at the report. Dmitri S. Peskov, the spokesman for President
Vladimir V. Putin, said Monday in Moscow that "this all recalls the accusations
that came from Washington and which are still suspended in thin air." In remarks
to Russian news media, he added that Russia had "never interfered" in foreign
elections.

But the report's findings gave some credence to the "strong suspicions" voiced
weeks before Sunday's voting by Mr. Macron's digital director, Mounir Mahjoubi,
that Moscow was the source of what he said had been a barrage of "highly
sophisticated" efforts to gain access to the campaign's email accounts.

Mr. Mahjoubi said in an interview Monday and earlier in April that he had no
proof of a Russian role, but that the nature and timing of so-called phishing
attacks and web assaults on the Macron campaign had stirred worries that Russia
was repeating in France what American intelligence agencies say was a concerted
effort to undermine Hillary Clinton's campaign.

"The phishing pages we are talking about are very personalized web pages to look
like the real address," Mr. Mahjoubi added. Anyone could easily think he was
logging into his own email. "They were pixel perfect," he said Monday night.
"It's exactly the same page. That means there was talent behind it and time went
into it: talent, money, experience, time and will."

The goal was to obtain the email passwords of campaign staff members so a
cyberattacker could lurk unseen inside an email account reading confidential
correspondence. "If you are speed reading as you sign on, and everybody speed
reads online, it's something you might not notice," Mr. Mahjoubi said. "For
instance, it uses a hyphen instead of a dot, and if you are speed reading you
don't look at the URL."

Unlike the attacks aimed at Mrs. Clinton's staff, those directed at the Macron
camp, Mr. Mahjoubi said, failed to gain access to any email accounts used by the
candidate or his lieutenants.

This winter, the campaign's website also came under attack. The attacks
coincided with highly slanted articles about Mr. Macron on the French language
services of Sputnik and RT, formerly Russia Today. Both are state-funded Russian
news media outlets.

The coincidence of the hacking of the Macron campaign website, the phishing
attacks and the slanted articles caused Mr. Mahjoubi to consider that there
might be Russian involvement. "That was only a supposition," he said, based on
the timing.

Mr. Mahjoubi described the phishing attacks as the "invisible side" of an
apparent Russian campaign to hurt Mr. Macron, while the "visible side" took the
form of fake news or slanted stories in the French-language Russian media.

Russia, or at least its state-controlled media, clearly favored Ms. Le Pen, who
criticized European Union sanctions imposed on Russia after it annexed Crimea in
2014 and voiced support for Moscow's intervention in Syria to prop up President
Bashar al-Assad.

The success of its cyberattacks in the United States has only bolstered the
Russian hacking group's ambitions, security researchers say.

"This is the new normal," said Tom Kellermann, a cyberintelligence expert and
the chief executive at Strategic Cyber Ventures. "Geopolitical events will now
serve as harbingers for these types of attacks."

Andrew Higgins and Alissa J. Rubin contributed reporting.

Related Articles


     ·    Denmark Says 'Key Elements' of Russian Government Hacked Defense
          Ministry


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        April 24, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

As North Korea Speeds Its Nuclear Program, U.S. Fears Time Will Run Out;
News Analysis

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1727 words



HIGHLIGHT: Behind the Trump administration's sudden urgency on North Korea lies
a stark calculus: that the country is capable of making a nuclear bomb every six
or seven weeks.


WASHINGTON -- Behind the Trump administration's sudden urgency in dealing with
the North Korean nuclear crisis lies a stark calculus: a growing body of expert
studies and classified intelligence reports that conclude the country is capable
of producing a nuclear bomb every six or seven weeks.

That acceleration in pace -- impossible to verify until experts get beyond the
limited access to North Korean facilities that ended years ago -- explains why
President Trump and his aides fear they are running out of time. For years,
American presidents decided that each incremental improvement in the North's
program -- another nuclear test, a new variant of a missile -- was worrisome,
but not worth a confrontation that could spill into open conflict.

Now those step-by-step advances have resulted in North Korean warheads that in a
few years could reach Seattle. "They've learned a lot," said Siegfried S.
Hecker, a Stanford professor who directed the Los Alamos weapons laboratory in
New Mexico, the birthplace of the atomic bomb, from 1986 to 1997, and whom the
North Koreans have let into their facilities seven times.

North Korea is now threatening another nuclear test, which would be its sixth in
11 years. The last three tests -- the most recent was in September -- generated
Hiroshima-size explosions. It is unclear how Mr. Trump would react to a test,
but he told representatives of the United Nations Security Council at the White
House on Monday that they should be prepared to pass far more restrictive
sanctions, which American officials say should include cutting off energy
supplies.

"People have put blindfolds on for decades, and now it's time to solve the
problem," Mr. Trump said.

He made his remarks after a Sunday night phone call on North Korea with Xi
Jinping, China's president, who urged Mr. Trump to show "restraint" with North
Korea, according to a Chinese television report. White House officials said
little about the call, and aides are trying to use Mr. Trump's unpredictability
to the greatest advantage, hoping it will keep the Chinese off balance and deter
the North Koreans.

A Growing Arsenal

Inside the C.I.A., they call it "the disco ball."

It is a round, metallic sphere, covered by small circles, that the North Korean
leader, Kim Jong-un, is shown caressing in official photographs as if it were
his crown jewel. And it may be: The sphere is supposedly a nuclear weapon,
shrunken to fit inside the nose cone of one of the country's growing arsenal of
missiles.

American intelligence officials still debate whether it is a real bomb or a
mock-up that is part of the country's vast propaganda effort. But it is intended
to show where the country is headed.

Unless something changes, North Korea's arsenal may well hit 50 weapons by the
end of Mr. Trump's term, about half the size of Pakistan's. American officials
say the North already knows how to shrink those weapons so they can fit atop one
of its short- to medium-range missiles -- putting South Korea and Japan, and the
thousands of American troops deployed in those two nations, within range. The
best estimates are that North Korea has roughly 1,000 ballistic missiles in
eight or so varieties.

But fulfilling Mr. Kim's dream -- putting a nuclear weapon atop an
intercontinental ballistic missile that can reach Seattle or Los Angeles, or one
day New York -- remains a more complex problem.

As Dr. Hecker, a man who has built his share of nuclear weapons, noted last
week, any weapon that could travel that far would have to be "smaller, lighter
and surmount the additional difficulties of the stresses and temperatures" of a
fiery re-entry into the atmosphere.

By most estimates, that is four or five years away. Then again, many senior
officials said the same four or five years ago.

But the North has come farther than most experts expected since the infancy of
its program in the 1950s, when the Soviet Union began training North Korean
scientists in nuclear basics.

It took three decades for the North to assemble the technology it needed to make
its own bomb fuel. Finally, from a reactor at Yongbyon, it succeeded in making
plutonium: enough for about one atomic bomb a year.

The first North Korean nuclear crisis, in 1994, ended in an agreement with the
Clinton administration to freeze the North's production facilities in return for
oil and peaceful reactors. It fell apart early in the George W. Bush
administration. In 2006, the first test explosion, while unimpressive, entered
North Korea into the club of nuclear powers. Analysts say the first blast was a
plutonium bomb, as was a second detonation just months into the Obama
administration in 2009.

Dr. Hecker visited Yongbyon in 2010, and the North Koreans showed him a complete
uranium enrichment facility, which American intelligence agencies had missed.
The message was clear: The North now had two pathways to a bomb, uranium and
plutonium. Today, it has an arsenal made up of both, intelligence officials say.

And it is aiming for something much bigger: a hydrogen bomb, with a destructive
force up to 1,000 times greater than ordinary nuclear weapons. That is exactly
the path the United States took in the 1950s.

Recently, United Nations investigators found evidence that the North's factories
had succeeded in producing lithium 6, a rare ingredient needed to make
thermonuclear fuel. Gregory S. Jones, a scientist at the RAND Corporation, said
the North might have already used bits of thermonuclear fuel in its 2016
detonations.

A potential clue, analysts say, is that the North's five blasts over the past
decade have grown steadily more destructive.

Shrinking the Bomb

A bomb is useless to North Korea -- as an offensive weapon or as a deterrent --
unless the country can make a convincing case that it has a reliable delivery
system. So when the North flaunts missiles at military parades, as it did on
April 15, the stars of the show tend to be the big missiles that are designed to
reach Washington and New York. While several intercontinental ballistic missiles
rolled down the streets of Pyongyang, conducting a flight test that proves one
could fly that far, and land with accuracy, is so far only an aspiration.

Missing from the parade were the short- and medium-range missiles that have been
successfully flight tested. American intelligence agencies believe some of those
can carry operational nuclear arms. The critical one is the Nodong, which has a
range of about 800 miles.

But the North Koreans are discovering -- as the United States, the Soviet Union
and China did before them -- that it is far more complicated to design an
intercontinental missile. With that weapons system, a warhead would move at four
miles a second and re-enter the atmosphere in fiery heat -- so, if badly
engineered, it would burn up long before hitting a target. To reach their goal,
North Korean weapons designers are looking to miniaturize their warheads, making
them far lighter and more powerful.

The big effort these days is to merge two technologies: Get a missile that can
cross the Pacific, and marry it to a warhead that can survive the ride. And this
is why the United States is so desperate to stop the cycle of testing.

The cyber- and electronic warfare attacks that President Barack Obama ordered
against the country's missile fleet were intended to slow North Korea's learning
curve. The Musudan, which can travel 2,200 miles, has racked up an embarrassing
failure rate of 88 percent -- although how much of that is due to incompetence
or outside meddling is not known. Until the North Koreans figure out what is
going wrong, and how to fix it, they appear hesitant to test the KN-14 and the
KN-08, both of which are designed to hit the continental United States.

The diplomatic pressure from China to stop a sixth nuclear test at the
Punggye-ri test site is intended to keep the North Koreans from making advances
in warhead miniaturization and the design of a hydrogen bomb. As Mr. Obama noted
before he left office, even failures are important learning tools for the North
Koreans, aiding the trial-and-error process of making new warheads.

How long will it take for the North Koreans to solve those problems? The best
guesswork is around 2020 -- while Mr. Trump is still in his first term.

A Freeze, to What End?

The strategy emerging from Mr. Trump's national security team comes down to
this: Apply overwhelming pressure on the North, both military and economic, to
freeze its testing and reduce its stockpile. Then use that opening to negotiate,
with the ultimate goal of getting the North Koreans to give up all their
weapons.

Many experts, however, believe that is a fantasy, because Mr. Kim regards even a
small arsenal as critical to his survival. The upside of the strategy, if it
works, is that the "nuclear freeze" would delay for years the day the North can
fit a small, reliable, well-tested weapon atop a large, reliable, well-tested
missile. The downside is that it would leave the North Koreans with a small,
potent arsenal -- one the United States would be essentially acknowledging, if
not accepting.

That is why it will be hard for Mr. Trump to fulfill his vow to "solve this
problem." And every day, there is the chance of miscalculation, or an accident.

At any moment, Dr. Hecker said on a call to reporters organized by the Union of
Concerned Scientists, a live weapon could turn into an accidental nuclear
detonation or some other catastrophe.

"I happen to believe," he said, "the crisis is here now."

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

David E. Sanger reported from Washington, and William J. Broad from New York.

PHOTOS: A reconnaissance aircraft at a United States air base in South Korea
after a mission on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YONHAP/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
(A1); Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, last year with what the C.I.A. calls
"the disco ball" -- supposedly a nuclear weapon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KOREAN CENTRAL
NEWS AGENCY) (A10)
 GRAPHICS: North Korea's Program Is at an Intermediate Phase of Development: The
secret to achieving more destructive power is to increase the amount of
thermonuclear fuel that an exploding atomic bomb can ignite. (GRAPHICS BY KENAN
DAVIS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10)

Related Articles


     ·    Activity Spotted at North Korea Nuclear Test Site: Volleyball
     ·    Trump Inherits a Secret Cyberwar Against North Korean Missiles


LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        April 25, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

In China, Daydreaming Students Are Caught on Camera

BYLINE: JAVIER C. HERNÁNDEZ

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1370 words



HIGHLIGHT: Students see live-streaming video of classrooms as an intrusion,
prompting a debate in China about privacy, educational ethics and helicopter
parenting.


BEIJING -- In the halls of Yuzhou No. 1 High School in central China, students
refer to them simply as "the cameras."

When the first bell sounds before 7 a.m., their fish-eye lenses spring to life,
broadcasting live as students sit at their desks and measure geometric angles,
pass notes or doze during breaks. Before long, thousands of people -- not just
parents and teachers -- are watching online, offering armchair commentary.

"What is this boy doing? He's been looking around doing nothing, like a cat on a
hot roof," one user wrote. "This one is playing with his phone!" added another,
posting a screenshot.

As internet speeds have improved, live-streaming has become a cultural
phenomenon in China, transforming online entertainment and everyday rituals like
dating and dining. Now the nation's obsession with live video is invading its
schools, and not everyone is happy about it.

Thousands of schools -- public and private, from kindergarten to college -- are
installing webcams in classrooms and streaming live on websites that are open to
the public, betting that round-the-clock supervision, even from strangers, will
help motivate students.

School officials see the cameras as a way to improve student confidence and
crowdsource the task of catching misbehaving pupils. Parents use the feeds to
monitor their children's academic progress and spy on their friendships and
romances. But many students see live-streaming as an intrusion, prompting a
broader debate in China about privacy, educational ethics and the perils of
helicopter parenting.

"I hate it," said Ding Yue, a 17-year-old senior at Yuzhou No. 1 High, in
Xuchang, a city in Henan Province. "I feel like we are zoo animals."

Some experts warn that live-streaming in schools will make Chinese youth,
already accustomed to the nation's extensive internet censorship and use of
outdoor security cameras, even more sensitive to surveillance.

"If classrooms are under surveillance at all times, instruction will definitely
be influenced by outside factors and the opinions of whoever is watching," said
Xiong Bingqi, vice president of the 21st Century Education Research Institute,
an influential Chinese think tank, who called the practice a violation of
students' rights and a threat to academic freedom.

After a critical article on the subject recently in The Beijing News, a
prominent newspaper, several schools announced they were ending the broadcasts.
But thousands of others chose to remain online and continue to draw a daily
audience of cyber class monitors eager to report daydreaming students and lax
teachers.

There are dozens of live-streaming platforms in China, and classroom feeds can
be found on many of them. Anyone with an internet connection can visit and
choose from thousands of live school feeds. The most popular site may be Shuidi,
owned by the internet security giant Qihoo 360 Technology Company, which sells
webcams and software, among other products.

"When you tell them, 'It's possible your parents might be behind your back
watching,' it's like a sword hanging over their heads," said Zhao Weifeng, the
director of a private school in the eastern province of Jiangsu that installed
cameras in its classrooms last year. "Having surveillance makes children behave
better."

The Deep Blue Children Robot Center, a network of technology enrichment programs
based in Beijing, said it had made live-streaming a central part of its teaching
model.

"A noble person shouldn't have anything to hide," said Jiang Jifa, a computer
scientist and co-founder of the network. "Everyone needs to be able to pose
onstage, to run for office, to receive attention from the country and the
world."

In China's cutthroat education system, live-streaming has also found evangelists
among G.P.A.-obsessed parents looking for new ways to push their children and
schools eager to improve academic performance. "It helps students spend their
time more efficiently and get into their dream universities," a parent of a
senior at Yuzhou No. 1 High wrote recently in an online forum.

Webcams have proved especially popular at rural boarding schools, where teachers
say live-streaming can be a vital link between children and parents, often
migrants working in cities hundreds of miles away.

China is not the first to use internet-enabled cameras in classrooms. Private
schools and charter schools in the United States have in recent years
experimented with closed-circuit, private broadcasts to deter crime and
misbehavior. Britain is testing body cameras for teachers in part to gather
evidence for student disciplinary hearings.

But critics say Chinese schools have adopted live-streaming technology on an
unheard-of scale and with few of the privacy protections in place elsewhere.

Deng Xu, whose daughter attends an elite preschool in Beijing, said she
understood the desire to keep an eye on children and their teachers at school,
especially when they are very young. But she said at some point parents had to
let go.

"It's just sad to be watched all the time," she said. "Parents need to learn to
be hands-off."

Han Xiao, a lawyer in Beijing who has spoken out against live-streaming in
classrooms, said that many schools were operating the cameras without the
consent of parents and students and that public broadcasts posed a threat to
student safety.

"Classrooms are enclosed spaces, so the activities of students like reading and
eating snacks should be regarded as private," he said. "Living under
surveillance and fear will hurt students' potential to grow."

Qihoo 360's cameras are advertised as tools for deterring thieves and monitoring
young children at home. But the company said it had not targeted schools for
sales. It added that it had not received complaints about privacy and that
individuals initiating live-streams must agree to respect the privacy of others.

"Many schools and teachers willingly bought and installed our devices and choose
to share the footage voluntarily," the company said in a statement.

Live-streaming in general is on the cutting edge of entertainment in China,
making stars of ordinary people as they use their phones to broadcast meals,
candid monologues on the meaning of life and tutorials on subjects like applying
makeup and rebuilding cars.

The industry more than doubled in size in 2016 and is expected to generate $5
billion in revenue this year, largely through the sale of virtual gifts,
according to Credit Suisse. But it has proved difficult for the Chinese
government to regulate.

The authorities issued guidelines last fall that banned pornography and original
news reporting on live-streaming channels. The rules recognized a general right
to privacy, but did not address the use of live-streaming in schools.

At Yuzhou No. 1 High, which began live-streaming classes late last year,
students now joke that their school should instead be called "Yuzhou No. 1
Prison."

Reached by telephone, several said they were uncomfortable that anyone with an
internet connection could tune into their classroom discussions. To avoid the
camera's stare, they sometimes congregate in a blind spot near the front of the
classroom, they said.

"Who knows if there are any psychopaths watching?" asked Li Li, a junior.

The school did not respond to a request for comment.

Ding Yue, the senior, said live-streaming had also contributed to bullying at
the school, recalling how a student was teased after classmates read that an
online commenter had made fun of his looks.

"Most students want to speak and fend for themselves, but we don't have the
power," he said, when asked if students had complained to the school. "It's the
business of grown-ups. We aren't allowed to talk about it."

Follow Javier C. Hernández on Twitter @HernandezJavier.Owen Guo, Zoe Mou and
Iris Zhao contributed research.

PHOTO: A camera at the Deep Blue Children Robot Center in Beijing, where
streaming activities is a central part of its teaching model. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
YUYANG LIU FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11)

Related Articles


     ·    China Cuts Mobile Service of Xinjiang Residents Evading Internet
          Filters
     ·    China's Viral Idol: Papi Jiang, a Girl Next Door With Attitude
     ·    China Passes Antiterrorism Law That Critics Fear May Overreach
     ·    China Ranks Last of 65 Nations in Internet Freedom


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 25, 2017 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Russian Hackers Who Targeted Clinton Appear to Turn Weapons on French Race

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH; Andrew Higgins and Alissa J. Rubin contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 869 words


The campaign of the French presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron has been
targeted by what appear to be the same Russian operatives responsible for hacks
of Democratic campaign officials before last year's American presidential
election, a cybersecurity firm warns in a new report.

The report has heightened concerns that Russia may turn its playbook on France
in an effort to harm Mr. Macron's candidacy and bolster that of Mr. Macron's
rival, the National Front leader Marine Le Pen, in the final weeks of the French
presidential campaign.

Security researchers at the cybersecurity firm, Trend Micro, said that on March
15 they spotted a hacking group they believe to be a Russian intelligence unit
turn its weapons on Mr. Macron's campaign -- sending emails to campaign
officials and others with links to fake websites designed to bait them into
turning over passwords.

The group began registering several decoy internet addresses last month and as
recently as April 15, naming one onedrive-en-marche.fr and another
mail-en-marche.fr to mimic the name of Mr. Macron's political party, En Marche.

Those websites were registered to a block of web addresses that Trend Micro's
researchers say belong to the Russian intelligence unit they refer to as Pawn
Storm, but is alternatively known as Fancy Bear, APT 28 or the Sofacy Group.
American and European intelligence agencies and American private security
researchers determined that the group was responsible for hacking the Democratic
National Committee last year.

On Tuesday, Trend Micro's researchers plan to release their report detailing
cyberattacks in recent weeks against Mr. Macron's campaign -- as well as members
of Germany's Konrad-Adenauer Stiftung, a political foundation linked to
Chancellor Angela Merkel's political party -- in what appears to be the latest
Russian effort to influence political outcomes in the West.

The Kremlin scoffed at the report. Dmitri S. Peskov, the spokesman for President
Vladimir V. Putin, said Monday in Moscow that ''this all recalls the accusations
that came from Washington and which are still suspended in thin air.'' In
remarks to Russian news media, he added that Russia had ''never interfered'' in
foreign elections.

But the report's findings gave some credence to the ''strong suspicions'' voiced
weeks before Sunday's voting by Mr. Macron's digital director, Mounir Mahjoubi,
that Moscow was the source of what he said had been a barrage of ''highly
sophisticated'' efforts to gain access to the campaign's email accounts.

Mr. Mahjoubi said in an interview Monday and earlier in April that he had no
proof of a Russian role, but that the nature and timing of so-called phishing
attacks and web assaults on the Macron campaign had stirred worries that Russia
was repeating in France what American intelligence agencies say was a concerted
effort to undermine Hillary Clinton's campaign.

''The phishing pages we are talking about are very personalized web pages to
look like the real address,'' Mr. Mahjoubi added. Anyone could easily think he
was logging into his own email. ''They were pixel perfect,'' he said Monday
night. ''It's exactly the same page. That means there was talent behind it and
time went into it: talent, money, experience, time and will.''

The goal was to obtain the email passwords of campaign staff members so a
cyberattacker could lurk unseen inside an email account reading confidential
correspondence. ''If you are speed reading as you sign on, and everybody speed
reads online, it's something you might not notice,'' Mr. Mahjoubi said. ''For
instance, it uses a hyphen instead of a dot, and if you are speed reading you
don't look at the URL.''

Unlike the attacks aimed at Mrs. Clinton's staff, those directed at the Macron
camp, Mr. Mahjoubi said, failed to gain access to any email accounts used by the
candidate or his lieutenants.

This winter, the campaign's website also came under attack. The attacks
coincided with highly slanted articles about Mr. Macron on the French language
services of Sputnik and RT, formerly Russia Today. Both are state-funded Russian
news media outlets.

The coincidence of the hacking of the Macron campaign website, the phishing
attacks and the slanted articles caused Mr. Mahjoubi to consider that there
might be Russian involvement. ''That was only a supposition,'' he said, based on
the timing.

Mr. Mahjoubi described the phishing attacks as the ''invisible side'' of an
apparent Russian campaign to hurt Mr. Macron, while the ''visible side'' took
the form of fake news or slanted stories in the French-language Russian media.

Russia, or at least its state-controlled media, clearly favored Ms. Le Pen, who
criticized European Union sanctions imposed on Russia after it annexed Crimea in
2014 and voiced support for Moscow's intervention in Syria to prop up President
Bashar al-Assad.

The success of its cyberattacks in the United States has only bolstered the
Russian hacking group's ambitions, security researchers say.

''This is the new normal,'' said Tom Kellermann, a cyberintelligence expert and
the chief executive at Strategic Cyber Ventures. ''Geopolitical events will now
serve as harbingers for these types of attacks.''




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/24/world/europe/macron-russian-hacking.html

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 25, 2017 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

As North Korea Builds Bombs, Time Dwindles

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD; David E. Sanger reported from
Washington, and William J. Broad from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1610 words


WASHINGTON -- Behind the Trump administration's sudden urgency in dealing with
the North Korean nuclear crisis lies a stark calculus: a growing body of expert
studies and classified intelligence reports that conclude the country is capable
of producing a nuclear bomb every six or seven weeks.

That acceleration in pace -- impossible to verify until experts get beyond the
limited access to North Korean facilities that ended years ago -- explains why
President Trump and his aides fear they are running out of time. For years,
American presidents decided that each incremental improvement in the North's
program -- another nuclear test, a new variant of a missile -- was worrisome,
but not worth a confrontation that could spill into open conflict.

Now those step-by-step advances have resulted in North Korean warheads that in a
few years could reach Seattle. ''They've learned a lot,'' said Siegfried S.
Hecker, a Stanford professor who directed the Los Alamos weapons laboratory in
New Mexico, the birthplace of the atomic bomb, from 1986 to 1997, and whom the
North Koreans have let into their facilities seven times.

North Korea is now threatening another nuclear test, which would be its sixth in
11 years. The last three tests -- the most recent was in September -- generated
Hiroshima-size explosions. It is unclear how Mr. Trump would react to a test,
but he told representatives of the United Nations Security Council at the White
House on Monday that they should be prepared to pass far more restrictive
sanctions, which American officials say should include cutting off energy
supplies.

''People have put blindfolds on for decades, and now it's time to solve the
problem,'' Mr. Trump said.

He made his remarks after a Sunday night phone call on North Korea with Xi
Jinping, China's president, who urged Mr. Trump to show ''restraint'' with North
Korea, according to a Chinese television report. White House officials said
little about the call, and aides are trying to use Mr. Trump's unpredictability
to the greatest advantage, hoping it will keep the Chinese off balance and deter
the North Koreans.

A Growing Arsenal

Inside the C.I.A., they call it ''the disco ball.''

It is a round, metallic sphere, covered by small circles, that the North Korean
leader, Kim Jong-un, is shown caressing in official photographs as if it were
his crown jewel. And it may be: The sphere is supposedly a nuclear weapon,
shrunken to fit inside the nose cone of one of the country's growing arsenal of
missiles.

American intelligence officials still debate whether it is a real bomb or a
mock-up that is part of the country's vast propaganda effort. But it is intended
to show where the country is headed.

Unless something changes, North Korea's arsenal may well hit 50 weapons by the
end of Mr. Trump's term, about half the size of Pakistan's. American officials
say the North already knows how to shrink those weapons so they can fit atop one
of its short- to medium-range missiles -- putting South Korea and Japan, and the
thousands of American troops deployed in those two nations, within range. The
best estimates are that North Korea has roughly 1,000 ballistic missiles in
eight or so varieties.

But fulfilling Mr. Kim's dream -- putting a nuclear weapon atop an
intercontinental ballistic missile that can reach Seattle or Los Angeles, or one
day New York -- remains a more complex problem.

As Dr. Hecker, a man who has built his share of nuclear weapons, noted last
week, any weapon that could travel that far would have to be ''smaller, lighter
and surmount the additional difficulties of the stresses and temperatures'' of a
fiery re-entry into the atmosphere.

By most estimates, that is four or five years away. Then again, many senior
officials said the same four or five years ago.

But the North has come farther than most experts expected since the infancy of
its program in the 1950s, when the Soviet Union began training North Korean
scientists in nuclear basics.

It took three decades for the North to assemble the technology it needed to make
its own bomb fuel. Finally, from a reactor at Yongbyon, it succeeded in making
plutonium: enough for about one atomic bomb a year.

The first North Korean nuclear crisis, in 1994, ended in an agreement with the
Clinton administration to freeze the North's production facilities in return for
oil and peaceful reactors. It fell apart early in the George W. Bush
administration. In 2006, the first test explosion, while unimpressive, entered
North Korea into the club of nuclear powers. Analysts say the first blast was a
plutonium bomb, as was a second detonation just months into the Obama
administration in 2009.

Dr. Hecker visited Yongbyon in 2010, and the North Koreans showed him a complete
uranium enrichment facility, which American intelligence agencies had missed.
The message was clear: The North now had two pathways to a bomb, uranium and
plutonium. Today, it has an arsenal made up of both, intelligence officials say.

And it is aiming for something much bigger: a hydrogen bomb, with a destructive
force up to 1,000 times greater than ordinary nuclear weapons. That is exactly
the path the United States took in the 1950s.

Recently, United Nations investigators found evidence that the North's factories
had succeeded in producing lithium 6, a rare ingredient needed to make
thermonuclear fuel. Gregory S. Jones, a scientist at the RAND Corporation, said
the North might have already used bits of thermonuclear fuel in its 2016
detonations.

A potential clue, analysts say, is that the North's five blasts over the past
decade have grown steadily more destructive.

Shrinking the Bomb

A bomb is useless to North Korea -- as an offensive weapon or as a deterrent --
unless the country can make a convincing case that it has a reliable delivery
system. So when the North flaunts missiles at military parades, as it did on
April 15, the stars of the show tend to be the big missiles that are designed to
reach Washington and New York. While several intercontinental ballistic missiles
rolled down the streets of Pyongyang, conducting a flight test that proves one
could fly that far, and land with accuracy, is so far only an aspiration.

Missing from the parade were the short- and medium-range missiles that have been
successfully flight tested. American intelligence agencies believe some of those
can carry operational nuclear arms. The critical one is the Nodong, which has a
range of about 800 miles.

But the North Koreans are discovering -- as the United States, the Soviet Union
and China did before them -- that it is far more complicated to design an
intercontinental missile. With that weapons system, a warhead would move at four
miles a second and re-enter the atmosphere in fiery heat -- so, if badly
engineered, it would burn up long before hitting a target. To reach their goal,
North Korean weapons designers are looking to miniaturize their warheads, making
them far lighter and more powerful.

The big effort these days is to merge two technologies: Get a missile that can
cross the Pacific, and marry it to a warhead that can survive the ride. And this
is why the United States is so desperate to stop the cycle of testing.

The cyber- and electronic warfare attacks that President Barack Obama ordered
against the country's missile fleet were intended to slow North Korea's learning
curve. The Musudan, which can travel 2,200 miles, has racked up an embarrassing
failure rate of 88 percent -- although how much of that is due to incompetence
or outside meddling is not known. Until the North Koreans figure out what is
going wrong, and how to fix it, they appear hesitant to test the KN-14 and the
KN-08, both of which are designed to hit the continental United States.

The diplomatic pressure from China to stop a sixth nuclear test at the
Punggye-ri test site is intended to keep the North Koreans from making advances
in warhead miniaturization and the design of a hydrogen bomb. As Mr. Obama noted
before he left office, even failures are important learning tools for the North
Koreans, aiding the trial-and-error process of making new warheads.

How long will it take for the North Koreans to solve those problems? The best
guesswork is around 2020 -- while Mr. Trump is still in his first term.

A Freeze, to What End?

The strategy emerging from Mr. Trump's national security team comes down to
this: Apply overwhelming pressure on the North, both military and economic, to
freeze its testing and reduce its stockpile. Then use that opening to negotiate,
with the ultimate goal of getting the North Koreans to give up all their
weapons.

Many experts, however, believe that is a fantasy, because Mr. Kim regards even a
small arsenal as critical to his survival. The upside of the strategy, if it
works, is that the ''nuclear freeze'' would delay for years the day the North
can fit a small, reliable, well-tested weapon atop a large, reliable,
well-tested missile. The downside is that it would leave the North Koreans with
a small, potent arsenal -- one the United States would be essentially
acknowledging, if not accepting.

That is why it will be hard for Mr. Trump to fulfill his vow to ''solve this
problem.'' And every day, there is the chance of miscalculation, or an accident.

At any moment, Dr. Hecker said on a call to reporters organized by the Union of
Concerned Scientists, a live weapon could turn into an accidental nuclear
detonation or some other catastrophe.

''I happen to believe,'' he said, ''the crisis is here now.''

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/24/world/asia/north-korea-nuclear-missile-progra
m.html

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A reconnaissance aircraft at a United States air base in South
Korea after a mission on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YONHAP/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO
AGENCY) (A1)
 Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, last year with what the C.I.A. calls
''the disco ball'' -- supposedly a nuclear weapon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KOREAN CENTRAL
NEWS AGENCY) (A10) GRAPHICS: North Korea's Program Is at an Intermediate Phase
of Development: The secret to achieving more destructive power is to increase
the amount of thermonuclear fuel that an exploding atomic bomb can ignite.
(GRAPHICS BY KENAN DAVIS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 26, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Live-Streaming Classes, China Puts Youths' Every Move on View

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNÁNDEZ; Owen Guo, Zoe Mou and Iris Zhao contributed
research..

Follow Javier C. Hernández on Twitter @HernandezJavier .

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words


BEIJING -- In the halls of Yuzhou No. 1 High School in central China, students
refer to them simply as ''the cameras.''

When the first bell sounds before 7 a.m., their fish-eye lenses spring to life,
broadcasting live as students sit at their desks and measure geometric angles,
pass notes or doze during breaks. Before long, thousands of people -- not just
parents and teachers -- are watching online, offering armchair commentary.

''What is this boy doing? He's been looking around doing nothing, like a cat on
a hot roof,'' one user wrote. ''This one is playing with his phone!'' added
another, posting a screenshot.

As internet speeds have improved, live-streaming has become a cultural
phenomenon in China, transforming online entertainment and everyday rituals like
dating and dining. Now the nation's obsession with live video is invading its
schools, and not everyone is happy about it.

Thousands of schools -- public and private, from kindergarten to college -- are
installing webcams in classrooms and streaming live on websites that are open to
the public, betting that round-the-clock supervision, even from strangers, will
help motivate students.

School officials see the cameras as a way to improve student confidence and
crowdsource the task of catching misbehaving pupils. Parents use the feeds to
monitor their children's academic progress and spy on their friendships and
romances. But many students see live-streaming as an intrusion, prompting a
broader debate in China about privacy, educational ethics and the perils of
helicopter parenting.

''I hate it,'' said Ding Yue, a 17-year-old senior at Yuzhou No. 1 High, in
Xuchang, a city in Henan Province. ''I feel like we are zoo animals.''

Some experts warn that live-streaming in schools will make Chinese youth,
already accustomed to the nation's extensive internet censorship and use of
outdoor security cameras, even more sensitive to surveillance.

''If classrooms are under surveillance at all times, instruction will definitely
be influenced by outside factors and the opinions of whoever is watching,'' said
Xiong Bingqi, vice president of the 21st Century Education Research Institute,
an influential Chinese think tank, who called the practice a violation of
students' rights and a threat to academic freedom.

After a critical article on the subject recently in The Beijing News, a
prominent newspaper, several schools announced they were ending the broadcasts.
But thousands of others chose to remain online and continue to draw a daily
audience of cyber class monitors eager to report daydreaming students and lax
teachers.

There are dozens of live-streaming platforms in China, and classroom feeds can
be found on many of them. Anyone with an internet connection can visit and
choose from thousands of live school feeds. The most popular site may be Shuidi,
owned by the internet security giant Qihoo 360 Technology Company, which sells
webcams and software, among other products.

''When you tell them, 'It's possible your parents might be behind your back
watching,' it's like a sword hanging over their heads,'' said Zhao Weifeng, the
director of a private school in the eastern province of Jiangsu that installed
cameras in its classrooms last year. ''Having surveillance makes children behave
better.''

The Deep Blue Children Robot Center, a network of technology enrichment programs
based in Beijing, said it had made live-streaming a central part of its teaching
model.

''A noble person shouldn't have anything to hide,'' said Jiang Jifa, a computer
scientist and co-founder of the network. ''Everyone needs to be able to pose
onstage, to run for office, to receive attention from the country and the
world.''

In China's cutthroat education system, live-streaming has also found evangelists
among G.P.A.-obsessed parents looking for new ways to push their children and
schools eager to improve academic performance. ''It helps students spend their
time more efficiently and get into their dream universities,'' a parent of a
senior at Yuzhou No. 1 High wrote recently in an online forum.

Webcams have proved especially popular at rural boarding schools, where teachers
say live-streaming can be a vital link between children and parents, often
migrants working in cities hundreds of miles away.

China is not the first to use internet-enabled cameras in classrooms. Private
schools and charter schools in the United States have in recent years
experimented with closed-circuit, private broadcasts to deter crime and
misbehavior. Britain is testing body cameras for teachers in part to gather
evidence for student disciplinary hearings.

But critics say Chinese schools have adopted live-streaming technology on an
unheard-of scale and with few of the privacy protections in place elsewhere.

Deng Xu, whose daughter attends an elite preschool in Beijing, said she
understood the desire to keep an eye on children and their teachers at school,
especially when they are very young. But she said at some point parents had to
let go.

''It's just sad to be watched all the time,'' she said. ''Parents need to learn
to be hands-off.''

Han Xiao, a lawyer in Beijing who has spoken out against live-streaming in
classrooms, said that many schools were operating the cameras without the
consent of parents and students and that public broadcasts posed a threat to
student safety.

''Classrooms are enclosed spaces, so the activities of students like reading and
eating snacks should be regarded as private,'' he said. ''Living under
surveillance and fear will hurt students' potential to grow.''

Qihoo 360's cameras are advertised as tools for deterring thieves and monitoring
young children at home. But the company said it had not targeted schools for
sales. It added that it had not received complaints about privacy and that
individuals initiating live-streams must agree to respect the privacy of others.

''Many schools and teachers willingly bought and installed our devices and
choose to share the footage voluntarily,'' the company said in a statement.

Live-streaming in general is on the cutting edge of entertainment in China,
making stars of ordinary people as they use their phones to broadcast meals,
candid monologues on the meaning of life and tutorials on subjects like applying
makeup and rebuilding cars.

The industry more than doubled in size in 2016 and is expected to generate $5
billion in revenue this year, largely through the sale of virtual gifts,
according to Credit Suisse. But it has proved difficult for the Chinese
government to regulate.

The authorities issued guidelines last fall that banned pornography and original
news reporting on live-streaming channels. The rules recognized a general right
to privacy, but did not address the use of live-streaming in schools.

At Yuzhou No. 1 High, which began live-streaming classes late last year,
students now joke that their school should instead be called ''Yuzhou No. 1
Prison.''

Reached by telephone, several said they were uncomfortable that anyone with an
internet connection could tune into their classroom discussions. To avoid the
camera's stare, they sometimes congregate in a blind spot near the front of the
classroom, they said.

''Who knows if there are any psychopaths watching?'' asked Li Li, a junior.

The school did not respond to a request for comment.

Ding Yue, the senior, said live-streaming had also contributed to bullying at
the school, recalling how a student was teased after classmates read that an
online commenter had made fun of his looks.

''Most students want to speak and fend for themselves, but we don't have the
power,'' he said, when asked if students had complained to the school. ''It's
the business of grown-ups. We aren't allowed to talk about it.''




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/25/world/asia/in-china-daydreaming-students-are-
caught-on-camera.html

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A camera at the Deep Blue Children Robot Center in Beijing,
where streaming activities is a central part of its teaching model. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY YUYANG LIU FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        April 28, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

'10 Concerts' Facebook Meme May Reveal More Than Musical Tastes

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER MELE and DANIEL VICTOR

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 584 words



HIGHLIGHT: Privacy experts said the specific answers posted in response to the
meme could be used by marketers to target ads or by hackers to breach secure
accounts.


It's all fun and games until someone's password security question gets hacked.

A meme making the rounds on Facebook asks users to list 10 concerts -- nine
they've attended and a fabricated one -- and invites others to identify the fake
one.

But the post -- "10 Concerts I've Been To, One is a Lie" -- might also be an
invitation to a midlevel threat to your online privacy and security, experts
said.

The meme, which surged in popularity this week, is the kind of frivolous
distraction that makes up social media interactions, similar to other viral
memes, such as the Ice Bucket Challenge.

Privacy experts cautioned it could reveal too much about a person's background
and preferences and sounds like a security question -- name the first concert
you attended -- that you might be asked on a banking, brokerage or similar
website to verify your identity.

Michael Kaiser, executive director of the National Cyber Security Alliance, said
on Friday that the meme posed a moderate security risk, adding that not every
website relied on a security question about a person's first concert.

He said the greater danger is what such a list might broadly reveal through
social engineering. It could telegraph information about a user's age, musical
tastes and even religious affiliation -- all of which would be desirable to
marketers hoping to target ads.

He said it is similar to users who take quizzes on Facebook. The answers can
reveal specifics about a person's upbringing, culture or other identifying
details. "You are expressing things about you, maybe in more subtle ways than
you might think," he said.

Mark Testoni, a national security and privacy expert who is chief executive of
SAP National Security Services, said in an email that he recommended exercising
"vigilance bordering on a little paranoia" in online posts.

"We need to understand how we interact can disclose not only specific details
but patterns of behavior and often our location, among other things," he wrote.

Alec Muffett, a software engineer and security researcher, wrote in an email
that he is sympathetic to polls like the concert question. "They are cute, a
little bit fun, you learn new things about your friends, and sometimes you get a
surprise or two," he wrote.

"There are certainly also polls that are geared towards collecting information
which could be used to fraudulently 'recover' an account," he added.

He said companies, governments and other groups rely on so-called
authenticators, such as "What is your mother's maiden name?" Such answers are
not truly authenticators, but are facts.

"The usual aphorism is: 'Your password should be secret, but 'secrets' make
really bad passwords' -- especially when they are just discoverable or guessable
facts," Mr. Muffett wrote.

Mr. Kaiser agreed. In cases where the answer to a security question is easily
obtained -- what high school did you attend? -- it's best to make up an answer,
even if it's not as easy to recall.

He said his advice about online quizzes and memes was not meant to be a killjoy,
though he encouraged social media users to consider the consequences of what
they share.

"People always have to have their eyes wide open when they're on the internet,"
he said. "It's the way of the world."

Related Articles


     ·    Can Facebook Fix Its Own Worst Bug?
     ·    As Artificial Intelligence Evolves, So Does Its Criminal Potential
     ·    Apps to Manage Passwords So They Are Harder to Crack Than 'Password'
     ·    Protecting Your Digital Life in 8 Easy Steps
     ·    After You Strengthen Your Passwords, Here's How to Store Them


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 29, 2017 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

10 Concerts, One's a Lie? Be Cautious, Experts Say

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MELE and DANIEL VICTOR

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 546 words


It's all fun and games until someone's password security question gets hacked.

A meme making the rounds on Facebook asks users to list 10 concerts -- nine
they've attended and a fabricated one -- and invites others to identify the fake
one.

But the post -- ''10 Concerts I've Been To, One is a Lie'' -- might also be an
invitation to a midlevel threat to your online privacy and security, experts
said.

The meme, which surged in popularity this week, is the kind of frivolous
distraction that makes up social media interactions, similar to other viral
memes, such as the Ice Bucket Challenge.

Privacy experts cautioned it could reveal too much about a person's background
and preferences and sounds like a security question -- name the first concert
you attended -- that you might be asked on a banking, brokerage or similar
website to verify your identity.

Michael Kaiser, executive director of the National Cyber Security Alliance, said
on Friday that the meme posed a moderate security risk, adding that not every
website relied on a security question about a person's first concert.

He said the greater danger is what such a list might broadly reveal through
social engineering. It could telegraph information about a user's age, musical
tastes and even religious affiliation -- all of which would be desirable to
marketers hoping to target ads.

He said it is similar to users who take quizzes on Facebook. The answers can
reveal specifics about a person's upbringing, culture or other identifying
details. ''You are expressing things about you, maybe in more subtle ways than
you might think,'' he said.

Mark Testoni, a national security and privacy expert who is chief executive of
SAP National Security Services, said in an email that he recommended exercising
''vigilance bordering on a little paranoia'' in online posts.

''We need to understand how we interact can disclose not only specific details
but patterns of behavior and often our location, among other things,'' he wrote.

Alec Muffett, a software engineer and security researcher, wrote in an email
that he is sympathetic to polls like the concert question. ''They are cute, a
little bit fun, you learn new things about your friends, and sometimes you get a
surprise or two,'' he wrote.

''There are certainly also polls that are geared towards collecting information
which could be used to fraudulently 'recover' an account,'' he added.

He said companies, governments and other groups rely on so-called
authenticators, such as ''What is your mother's maiden name?'' Such answers are
not truly authenticators, but are facts.

''The usual aphorism is: 'Your password should be secret, but 'secrets' make
really bad passwords' -- especially when they are just discoverable or guessable
facts,'' Mr. Muffett wrote.

Mr. Kaiser agreed. In cases where the answer to a security question is easily
obtained -- what high school did you attend? -- it's best to make up an answer,
even if it's not as easy to recall.

He said his advice about online quizzes and memes was not meant to be a killjoy,
though he encouraged social media users to consider the consequences of what
they share.

''People always have to have their eyes wide open when they're on the
internet,'' he said. ''It's the way of the world.''




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/28/technology/facebook-concerts-attend.html

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         May 9, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Hackers Came, but the French Were Prepared

BYLINE: ADAM NOSSITER, DAVID E. SANGER and NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 1586 words



HIGHLIGHT: Emmanuel Macron's digital team responded to cyberattacks with a "
cyber-blurring" strategy that involved fake email accounts loaded with false
documents.


Correction Appended

PARIS -- Everyone saw the hackers coming.

The National Security Agency in Washington picked up the signs. So did Emmanuel
Macron's bare-bones technology team. And mindful of what happened in the
American presidential campaign, the team created dozens of false email accounts,
complete with phony documents, to confuse the attackers.

The Russians, for their part, were rushed and a bit sloppy, leaving a trail of
evidence that was not enough to prove for certain they were working for the
government of President Vladimir V. Putin but which strongly suggested they were
part of his broader "information warfare" campaign.

The story told by American officials, cyberexperts and Mr. Macron's own campaign
aides of how a hacking attack intended to disrupt the most consequential
election in France in decades ended up a dud was a useful reminder that as
effective as cyberattacks can be in disabling Iranian nuclear plants, or
Ukrainian power grids, they are no silver bullet. The kind of information
warfare favored by Russia can be defeated by early warning and rapid exposure.

But that outcome was hardly assured on Friday night, when what was described as
a "massive" hacking attack suddenly put Mr. Macron's electoral chances in
jeopardy. To French and American officials, however, it was hardly a surprise.

Testifying in front of the Senate Armed Services Committee in Washington on
Tuesday, Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the director of the National Security Agency,
said American intelligence agencies had seen the attack unfolding, telling their
French counterparts, "Look, we're watching the Russians. We're seeing them
penetrate some of your infrastructure. Here's what we've seen. What can we do to
try to assist?"

But the staff at Mr. Macron's makeshift headquarters in the 15th Arrondissement
at the edge of Paris didn't need the N.S.A. to tell them they were being
targeted: In December, after the former investment banker and finance minister
had emerged as easily the most anti-Russian, pro-NATO and pro-European Union
candidate in the presidential race, they began receiving phishing emails.

The phishing mails were "high quality," said Mr. Macron's digital director,
Mounir Mahjoubi: They included the actual names of members of the campaign
staff, and at first glance appeared to come from them. Typical was the very last
one the campaign received, several days before the election on Sunday, which
purported to have come from Mr. Mahjoubi himself.

"It was almost like a joke, like giving us all the finger," Mr. Mahjoubi said in
an interview on Tuesday. The final email enjoined recipients to download several
files "to protect yourself."

Even before then, the Macron campaign had begun looking for ways to make life a
little harder for the Russians, showing a level of skill and ingenuity that was
missing in Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign and at the Democratic
National Committee, which had minimal security protections and for months
ignored F.B.I. warnings that its computer system had been penetrated.

"We went on a counteroffensive," Mr. Mahjoubi said. "We couldn't guarantee 100
percent protection" from the attacks, "so we asked: what can we do?" Mr.
Mahjoubi opted for a classic "cyber-blurring" strategy, well known to banks and
corporations, creating false email accounts and filled them with phony documents
the way a bank teller keeps fake bills in the cash drawer in case of a robbery.

"We created false accounts, with false content, as traps. We did this massively,
to create the obligation for them to verify, to determine whether it was a real
account," Mr. Mahjoubi said. "I don't think we prevented them. We just slowed
them down," he said. "Even if it made them lose one minute, we're happy," he
said.

Mr. Mahjoubi refused to reveal the nature of the false documents that were
created, or to say whether, in the Friday document dump that was the result of
the hacking campaign, there were false documents created by the Macron campaign.

But he did note that in the mishmash that constituted the Friday dump, there
were some authentic documents, some phony documents of the hackers' own
manufacture, some stolen documents from various companies, and some false emails
created by the campaign.

"During all their attacks we put in phony documents. And that forced them to
waste time," he said. "By the quantity of the documents we put in," he added,
"and documents that might interest them."

With only 18 people in the digital team, many of them occupied in producing
campaign materials like videos, Mr. Mahjoubi hardly had the resources to track
down the hackers. "We didn't have time to try to catch them," he said. But he
has his suspicions about their identity. Simultaneously with the phishing
attacks, the Macron campaign was being attacked by the Russian media with a
profusion of fake news.

Oddly, the Russians did a poor job of covering their tracks. That made it easier
for private security firms, on alert after the efforts to manipulate the
American election, to search for evidence.

In mid-March, researchers with Trend Micro, the cybersecurity giant based in
Tokyo, watched the same Russian intelligence unit behind some of the Democratic
National Committee hacks start building the tools to hack Mr. Macron's campaign.
They set up web domains mimicking those of Mr. Macron's En Marche! Party, and
began dispatching emails with malicious links and fake login pages designed to
bait campaign staffers into divulging their usernames and passwords, or to click
on a link that would give the Russians a toehold onto the campaign's network.

It was the classic Russian playbook, security researchers say, but this time the
world was prepared. "The only good news is that this activity is now
commonplace, and the general population is so used to the idea of a Russian hand
behind this, that it backfired on them," said John Hultquist, the director of
cyberespionage analysis at FireEye, the Silicon Valley security firm.

Mr. Hultquist noted that the attack was characterized by haste, and a trail of
digital mistakes. "There was a time when Russian hackers were characterized by
their lack of sloppiness," Mr. Hultquist said. "When they made mistakes, they
burned their entire operation and started anew. But since the invasion of
Ukraine and Crimea," he said, "we've seen them carry out brazen, large scale
attacks," perhaps because "there have been few consequences for their actions."

The hackers also made the mistake of releasing information that was, by any
campaign standard, pretty boring. The nine gigabytes worth of purportedly stolen
emails and files from the Macron campaign was spun as scandalous material, but
turned out to be almost entirely the humdrum of campaign workers trying to
conduct ordinary life in the midst of the election maelstrom.

One of the leaked emails details a campaign staffer's struggle with a broken
down car. Another documents how a campaign worker was reprimanded for failure to
invoice a cup of coffee.

That is when the hackers got sloppy. The metadata tied to a handful of documents
-- code that shows the origins of a document -- show some passed through Russian
computers and were edited by Russian users. Some Excel documents were modified
using software unique to Russian versions of Microsoft Windows.

Other documents had last been modified by Russian usernames, including one
person that researchers identified as a 32-year-old employee of Eureka CJSC,
based in Moscow, a Russian technology company that works closely with the
Russian Ministry of Defense and intelligence agencies. The company has received
licenses from Russia's Federal Security Service, or FSB, to help protect state
secrets. The company did not return emails requesting comment.

Other leaked documents appear to have been forged, or faked. One purported to
detail the purchase of the stimulant mephedrone, sometimes sold as "bath salts,"
by a Macron campaign staffer who allegedly had the drugs shipped to the address
of France's National Assembly. But Henk Van Ess, a member of the investigations
team at Bellingcat, a British investigations organization, and others discovered
that the transaction numbers in the receipt were not in the public ledger of all
Bitcoin transactions.

"It's clear they were rushed," Mr. Hultquist said. "If this was APT28," he said,
using the name for a Russian group believed to be linked to the GRU, a military
intelligence agency, "they have been caught in the act, and it has backfired for
them."

Now, he said, the failure of the Macron hacks could just push Russian hackers to
improve their methods.

"They may have to change their playbook entirely," Mr. Hultquist said.

Adam Nossiter reported from Paris, David E. Sanger from Washington, and Nicole
Perlroth from San Francisco. Danny Hakim contributed reporting from New York.


Correction: May 9, 2017, Tuesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article misspelled the surname of a member of the investigations
team at Bellingcat. He is Henk Van Ess, not Van Ness.

PHOTO: President-elect Emmanuel Macron at a rally at the Louvre on Sunday
evening. His digital team began to notice "high quality" phishing mails in
December. (POOL PHOTO BY PHILIPPE LOPEZ) (A6)

Related Articles


     ·    French Voters Defy Putin's Meddling, but You'd Hardly Know It in
          Russia
     ·    Why the Macron Hacking Attack Landed With a Thud in France
     ·    U.S. Far-Right Activists Promote Hacking Attack Against Macron
     ·    Macron Campaign Says It Was Target of 'Massive' Hacking Attack


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        May 10, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Wednesday's Developments on Comey: 'He Was Not Doing a Good Job,' Trump Says

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2185 words



HIGHLIGHT: Political responses came swiftly, with calls for an independent
investigator to take over the inquiry into Russian election tampering.


Correction Appended

[#x25a0] President Trump had been talking openlyabout firing James B. Comey, the
F.B.I. director, for at least a week, according to people close to the
president.

[#x25a0] Days before he was fired, Mr. Comey asked for a significant increase in
resources for the inquiry into Russia's interference in the presidential
election, according to four congressional officials.

[#x25a0] Political reaction to the firing came swiftly, with calls by Democrats
-- and some Republicans -- for an independent investigator to take over the
investigation into Russian election tampering.

[#x25a0] Mr. Trump assailed his Democratic critics, accusing them of hypocrisy,
and said he had fired Mr. Comey because "he was not doing a good job."

'Enough was enough'

The countdown to Mr. Trump's dismissal began last weekend with an enraged
president stewing over Mr. Comey's testimony to Congress, when he admitted to
being "slightly nauseous" about doing anything to get Mr. Trump elected.

Mr. Trump, according to people close to the president, had been talking openly
about firing Mr. Comey for at least a week. Despite the objections from some of
his aides about the optics and the lack of an obvious successor, the grumbling
evolved into a tentative plan as he angrily watched the Sunday news shows at his
Bedminster, N.J., golf resort. Read more \xC2

-- Maggie Haberman and Glenn Thrush

'He was not doing a good job'

Mr. Trump said on Wednesday that he had fired Mr. Comey "because he was not
doing a good job."

The president made the remarks to reporters during a brief Oval Office photo-op
with Henry Kissinger after Mr. Trump met with Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian
foreign minister.

Mr. Trump's very brief comments to reporters were in response to a shouted
question about his decision to fire Mr. Comey on Tuesday night. Read more \xC2

-- Michael D. Shear

Comey invited to testify; acting F.B.I. chief to appear Thursday

Mr. Comey has been invited to testify before a closed hearing of the Senate
Intelligence Committee on Tuesday, according to a spokesman for the committee
chairman, Senator Richard M. Burr of North Carolina.

Andrew McCabe, the acting director of the F.B.I., will testify before the
committee on Thursday, his first appearance since replacing Mr. Comey.

The topic of the hearing is worldwide threats, but Mr. McCabe is certain to be
asked about the firing of Mr. Comey and the mood at the F.B.I.

-- Matt Apuzzo

Which lawmakers have questioned Comey's firing?

Congressional reaction ranged from support for the decision to calls for a
special prosecutor oranindependent investigation to examine the ties between Mr.
Trump's associates and the Russian government -- beyond the existing inquiries
by Senate and House committees. View our collection of the lawmakers' responses
\xC2

Reporters barred from Lavrov meeting, but Russia tweets pictures

The White House barred reporters from witnessing Mr. Trump's meeting on
Wednesday morning with Mr. Lavrov, an awkwardly timed visit given lingering
questions about whether the president dismissed his F.B.I. director in part to
squelch the investigation into possible ties between his campaign and Moscow.

#Lavrov - @realDonaldTrump meeting has just started | [#x412]
[#x41e][#x432][#x430]\xD0[#x44c]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]
[#x43a][#x430][#x431][#x438]\xD0[#x435][#x442][#x435]
\xD0[#x430][#x447][#x430]\xD0[#x430][#x441][#x44c]
[#x432][#x441][#x442][#x440][#x435][#x447][#x430]
[#x421].[#x41b][#x430][#x432][#x440][#x43e][#x432][#x430] [#x441]
[#x414].[#x422][#x440][#x430][#x43c]\xD0[#x43e][#x43c]#RussiaUSA#[#x420][#x43e][
#x441][#x441][#x438][#x44f][#x421][#x428][#x410]pic.twitter.com/7raFrkWhiC --
MFA Russia (@mfa_russia) May 10, 2017

But Russia's Foreign Ministry was quick to fill the vacuum with its own pictures
of the meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Lavrov. It posted photographs on
Twitter of the two shaking hands, as well as images of the president grinning
and gripping hands with Sergey I. Kislyak, the Russian ambassador.

Ambassador Kislyak and President Trump / [#x41f][#x43e][#x441][#x43e]\xD0
[#x421].[#x41a][#x438][#x441]\xD0[#x44f][#x43a] [#x438]
[#x41f][#x440][#x435][#x437][#x438][#x434][#x435]\xD0[#x442]
[#x414].[#x422][#x440][#x430][#x43c]\xD0 pic.twitter.com/Ckkx2YL9KX -- Russia in
USA (@RusEmbUSA) May 10, 2017

Mr. Kislyak has figured prominently in the furor surrounding the Trump team's
contacts with Moscow. It was conversations between the ambassador and Michael T.
Flynn, the president's former national security adviser, that ultimately led to
Mr. Flynn's ouster in February, ostensibly because he had lied to Vice President
Mike Pence about whether the two had discussed United States sanctions on
Russia.

On Wednesday, Mr. Trump's meeting with Mr. Lavrov was listed on his schedule as
"Closed Press," meaning the news media would not have a chance to photograph or
otherwise document the session, and no last-minute arrangements were made for
such access.

When the pool was assembled unexpectedly, reporters thought they might catch a
glimpse. But instead, they were allowed into the Oval Office for a few moments
to cover another, previously undisclosed meeting: between Mr. Trump and Mr.
Kissinger, the Nixon administration secretary of state.

-- Julie Hirschfeld Davis

Putin says 'we have nothing to do with that'

President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, apparently about to play in a hockey
game, was asked by a CBS reporter how Mr. Comey's firing would affect relations
between Russia and the United States.

"There will be no effect," Mr. Putin said. "We have nothing to do with that.
President Trump is acting in accordance with his competences and in accordance
with his law and Constitution."

Our @elizapalmer caught Russian Pres. Putin rink side and asked him about the
firing of former. Dir. Comey. pic.twitter.com/3nytJYi0si -- CBS Evening News
(@CBSEveningNews) May 10, 2017

McConnell addresses the Senate

The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, addressed the Senate on Wednesday
morning, largely sticking to the Republican party line and saying that partisan
calls for a new investigation should not delay the "considerable work" already
being conducted.

Watch his remarks here:

Read more \xC2

Pence says 'it was the right decision at the right time'

Mr. Pence strongly defended Mr. Comey's firing as a sign of Mr. Trump's solid
leadership.

"Because of the president's decisive action yesterday to restore the confidence
and trust of the American people, we have an opportunity for a new beginning
with the F.B.I.," Mr. Pence said.

Mr. Pence was at the Senate on Wednesday, on standby in case he was needed to
break a tie vote on a measure related to an oil and gas industry rule that
Republicans are trying to repeal.

The Republicans turned out to be one vote short of a tie, so Mr. Pence did not
get a chance to vote. But as he left, he took questions from reporters about Mr.
Comey's firing.

"This administration is very confident that with the appointment of a new
director of the F.B.I., because of the president's strong leadership we will be
able to get this nation's leading law enforcement agency a fresh start," he
said.

Mr. Pence also defended the timing of the dismissal, saying that "it was the
right decision at the right time."

Asked by a different group of reporters whether the removal was related to the
Russia investigation, Mr. Pence cited the testimony on Monday of the former
director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr. "There is no evidence of
collusion," Mr. Pence said.

-- Eric Lipton

Trump accuses Democrats of hypocrisy

Mr. Trump defended his decision by accusing Democrats of hypocrisy for
criticizing the dismissal of a law enforcement chief they, too, had assailed.

In a series of visceral posts on Twitter, the president said he was justified in
dismissing Mr. Comey because Democrats and Republicans had lost faith in the
F.B.I. director's leadership.

The president went on to highlight Mr. Comey's "scandals" and suggested that
Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, be investigated moments
after Mr. Blumenthal appeared on television condemning the president's action.

Comey lost the confidence of almost everyone in Washington, Republican and
Democrat alike. When things calm down, they will be thanking me! -- Donald J.
Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2017

Read more \xC2

Five times Trump has injected politics into legal matters

Mr. Trump's abrupt firing of Mr. Comey was only one of several moments that, in
a more conventional administration and during less tumultuous times, would be
seen as political intrusions in matters of law enforcement.

Have a look at other such instances \xC2

Justice officials interviewing for 'interim' F.B.I. leader

Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein
were expected to interview at least four candidates on Wednesday to be "interim"
F.B.I. director, a Justice Department official said. The person selected for
that role would hold it until Mr. Trump's eventual nominee for the position is
confirmed by the Senate.

The four potential candidates are William Evanina, the director of the National
Counterintelligence and Security Center at the Office of the Director of
National Intelligence; Paul Abbate, the executive assistant director for the
bureau's criminal, cyber, response and services branch; Michael Anderson, the
special agent in charge of the Chicago field office; and Adam Lee, the special
agent in charge of the Richmond, Va., field office.

The official cautioned that that list was not exhaustive. Mr. McCabe, the deputy
F.B.I. director who is currently the acting director, is also under
consideration for the longer-term interim director role, the official said.

-- Charlie Savage

Lavrov laughs off questions about Comey

Mr. Lavrov appeared with Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson on Wednesday
morning in Washington, in what the State Department hoped would be a controlled
setting.

After Mr. Tillerson thanked Mr. Lavrov for coming to Washington, the two men
began to leave the diplomatic reception room. When a reporter shouted a question
about whether Mr. Comey's dismissal "cast a shadow" on the meeting, Mr. Lavrov,
known for a puckish sense of humor, shot back: "Was he fired? You're kidding!
You're kidding!"

He then turned and followed Mr. Tillerson into his office.

Mr. Lavrov met with Mr. Trump a short time later.

Read more about the meeting \xC2

Dark mood at the F.B.I.

These are not happy times at the F.B.I.

The mood at the country's premier law enforcement agency had been dark for
months, since Mr. Comeysent a letter to Congress on Oct. 28 reviving the
investigation into Hillary's Clinton's use of a private email server while
serving as secretary of state.

Mr. Comey's decision to make public the examination of possible new evidence
plunged him and the bureau into a political firestorm just as agents were trying
to shake off Mr. Comey's much criticized announcement months earlier that he
would not recommend charges in the case.

On Tuesday, after Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey, saying he had mishandled the
Clinton investigation, the mood was black.

Agents were floored that Mr. Trump would fire the director in the midst of an
investigation into whether any of the president's associates had conspired with
Russia to swing the election in favor of Mr. Trump. Some said they were
physically sickened.

They saw Mr. Comey as a widely respected director who many agents believed had
the bureau's best interests in mind and had tried his best to guide them through
a difficult past year, even if he had misstepped in the Clinton investigation.
Read more \xC2

-- Adam Goldman

What writers on the right and left are saying

From the right

Mollie Hemingway in The Federalist:

"Anyone is welcome to believe that this firing was unwise, and to make the case
for that, but it's wise to make that case calmly."

Mollie Hemingway believes Mr. Trump was right to fire Mr. Comey and lists the
reasons the F.B.I. director had to go. She also addresses critics of the
president who have described his action as a "coup," writing: "Trump fired
someone who worked for him. He fired someone in whom people in both major
political parties had lost confidence." Read more \xC2

_____

From the left

John Nichols in The Nation:

"Sessions should step down. Immediately."

John Nichols reminds his readers that Mr. Sessions promised to recuse himself
from all matters related to an investigation into Russia. Mr. Sessions's
involvement in Mr. Comey's dismissal is intolerable to Mr. Nichols and grounds
for removal. If Mr. Sessions refuses to resign, Mr. Nichols calls upon House
Democrats and Republicans to move for his impeachment. Read more \xC2

See more selections \xC2

_____

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.


Correction: May 10, 2017, Wednesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version this article misstated the position held by one of the candidates being
interviewed to be interim F.B.I. director. Paul Abbate is the executive
assistant director for the bureau's Criminal, Cyber, Response and Services
Branch, not assistant director in charge of the F.B.I. Washington field office.

Related Articles


     ·    Sense of Crisis Deepens as Trump Defends F.B.I. Firing
     ·    Updates and Reactions to F.B.I. Director Comey's Firing
     ·    Firing Fuels Calls for Independent Investigator, Even From Republicans
     ·    F.B.I. Director James Comey Is Fired by Trump
     ·    James Comey Is Out at the F.B.I. Here's What Happens Next.
     ·    The Easy Tells of Comey's Canning
     ·    An Open Letter to the Deputy Attorney General
     ·    In Firing Comey, Did Trump Unleash the Next Deep Throat?


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        May 10, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Inside the F.B.I., Stunned Agents Wonder About Future of Russia Inquiry

BYLINE: ADAM GOLDMAN and CHARLIE SAVAGE

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 759 words



HIGHLIGHT: Agents said they were still under a cloud from the F.B.I.'s role in
the election and that President Trump's firing of James B. Comey further hurt
morale.


WASHINGTON -- These are not happy times at the F.B.I.

Morale at the country's premier law enforcement agency plummeted months ago,
after James B. Comey, its director, revivedthe investigation into Hillary
Clinton's use of a private email server in October and plunged the bureau back
into the political maelstrom just before the election.

Then President Trump fired Mr. Comey on Tuesday, saying he had mishandled the
Clinton investigation, and the mood darkened again.

Agents said they were stunned that Mr. Trump would fire Mr. Comey in the midst
of an F.B.I. investigation into whether any of the president's associates had
conspired with Russia to swing the election in favor of Mr. Trump. Some said in
interviews that news of the firing felt like a gut punch. Others wondered
whether they would be able to continue the inquiry.

One senior F.B.I. official said that the president had severely damaged his
standing among agents, many of whom are conservative and supported Mr. Trump as
a candidate. Agents were angered by the way Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey, who
learned of his dismissal from television reports while he was in Los Angeles.
They called it disrespectful.

And agents flatly rejected the assertion Wednesday by a White House spokeswoman,
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, during a briefing with reporters that the F.B.I.'s
rank-and-file supported the sudden firing of Mr. Comey.

A strained relationship with the F.B.I. can make life difficult for a president.
The White House relies on the bureau for regular security updates and for
unvarnished information during crises.

The Justice Department was rushing to put in place an interim director, with
Attorney General Jeff Sessions and the deputy attorney general, Rod J.
Rosenstein, expected to interview at least four candidates on Wednesday, a
department official said. All are well-regarded within the F.B.I. and are seen
as unlikely to allow politics to influence the Russian investigation -- and as
loyal to Mr. Comey.

But if firing Mr. Comey was meant to help restore the bureau's credibility and
put the work force at ease about the F.B.I.'s future, as Justice Department
officials said, it has had the opposite effect.

"People are stunned right now," said Frank Montoya Jr., a former senior F.B.I.
official. An F.B.I. spokesman declined to comment about bureau morale.

For the moment, the bureau is being run by Andrew G. McCabe, a veteran F.B.I.
agent and previous deputy director who was at Mr. Comey's side as he navigated
the politically perilous currents of the Clinton and Russia investigations that
ultimately brought him down. Mr. McCabe held conference calls with the F.B.I.'s
top agents late Tuesday and on Wednesday and told them to stay focused on their
work. It was to be business as usual, he said.

It is not clear whether Mr. McCabe will stay on as acting director. He is under
consideration for the role of interim director, who will stay in place until Mr.
Trump's eventual nominee is confirmed by the Senate, the Justice Department
official said.

The four candidates being interviewed Wednesday for the interim role were
William Evanina, the director of the National Counterintelligence and Security
Center at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence; Paul Abbate,
assistant director of the F.B.I.'s Criminal, Cyber, Response and Services
Branch; and Michael J. Anderson and Adam Lee, who run the Chicago and Richmond,
Va., field offices, respectively.

The official cautioned that the list was not exhaustive.

Whatever happens, another senior F.B.I. official said stoically, the bureau will
continue to investigate crimes. The day Mr. Comey was fired was no different
from the day before, the official insisted.

Follow Adam Goldman on Twitter @adamgoldmanNYT.

Matt Apuzzo contributed reporting.

PHOTOS: Agents say morale at the F.B.I. building in Washington, above, has taken
a hit with the firing of its director. Paul Abbate, top right, of the bureau's
Criminal, Cyber, Response and Services Branch, and Michael J. Anderson, who runs
the Chicago field office, are two of the people being considered as an interim
director. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS; AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; THE TIMES-PICAYUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

Related Articles


     ·    Days Before Firing, Comey Asked for More Resources for Russia Inquiry
     ·    5 Ways the Trump Administration Has Injected Politics Into Legal
          Matters
     ·    Comey's Firing May Imperil Republicans' Legislative Agenda
     ·    Sense of Crisis Deepens as Trump Defends F.B.I. Firing
     ·    McConnell Defends Trump as Schumer Calls for Special Prosecutor


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        May 10, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

James Comey, Emmanuel Macron, Russia: Your Wednesday Briefing;
Europe Edition

BYLINE: PATRICK BOEHLER

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 1216 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know to start your day.


Correction Appended

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the sign-up.)

Good morning.

Here's what you need to know:

President Trump has fired James Comey, the F.B.I. director, citing his handling
of the investigation into Hillary Clinton's emails.

In a first since the Watergate scandal, the president dismissed the person
leading an inquiry bearing on him: Mr. Comey was also investigating Russian
meddling in last year's election.

Mr. Comey, who was four years into a 10-year term, learned of the decision from
news reports while addressing F.B.I. employees in Los Angeles.

Here's our investigation last month into hisrole at the center of one of the
biggest political firestorms in U.S. history.

_____

Mr. Trump approved a plan to arm Syrian Kurds with heavier weapons to fight
ISIS, despite strong objections from Turkey.

The Kurdish militia, known as the Y.P.G., will participate in the battle to
retake Raqqa, the Pentagon said. But Turkey insists that the militia is linked
to Kurdish separatists.

Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Turkish president, is scheduled to meet Mr. Trump in
Washington next week.

_____

The Russian hacking attack intended to disrupt the French election was a
reminder that cyberattacks can also be defeated.

In Washington, the director of the National Security Agency testified before a
Senate committee that U.S. intelligence agencies watched the intrusion unfold
and warned their French counterparts.

The digital team of the target, the French president-elect, Emmanuel Macron,
opted for a "cyber-blurring" strategy, creating false email accounts and
documents.

_____

Businesses across France hope that Mr. Macron will reduce regulations, but trade
unions have already vowed to stop him from dismantling labor protections.

Manuel Valls, above, a former prime minister, said that he was running in
parliamentary elections with Mr. Macron's movement. But party officials said
they might not have room for the president-elect's onetime boss.

Here's a look at reactions to Mr. Macron's victory from writers across the
political spectrum.

_____

Russia's Victory Day parade served as a reminder of how isolated the country has
become. Igor Dodon, the pro-Russian president of Moldova, was the only foreign
leader in the reviewing stand.

Ukraine said that, starting next year, it would no longer celebrate victory over
the Nazis in tandem with Russia on May 9, but a day earlier, when it is observed
in much of Europe.

Russia's foreign minister is in the U.S. for a meeting with Mr. Trump and talks
on Syria today and an Arctic Council meeting tomorrow.

_____

No one has ever reached the top of the Himalayan peak K2 in winter.

Many have died trying. It is the world's second-highest, but most dangerous
mountain, with hurricane-strength winds and freezing temperatures.

This winter, a group of Polish climbers will try it. Our sportswriter went to
meet them in Krakow, where they are training for the mission.

_____

Business

The rise of HNA Group -- from a tiny airline in southern China intoDeutsche
Bank's largest shareholder -- is drawing scrutiny, at home and abroad.

As the European Union urges Washington to commit to the Paris climate deal,
here's a look at the signatories' commitments: There is no legal obstacle to
submitting a weaker pledge, and even reneging on aid goals.

The first major legislation President Trump signed stands to benefit a business
run until recently by his son-in-law, Jared Kushner.

Here's a snapshot of global markets.

In the News

As many as 245 migrants were feared dead in two shipwrecks in the Mediterranean,
pushing the toll so far this year past 1,300. [The New York Times]

Moon Jae-in, a son of North Korean refugees, was sworn in as president of South
Korea, returning the country's liberals to power. [The New York Times]

The Nigerian government is seeking to trade captured Boko Haram commanders for
the release of more schoolgirls the militant group abducted in 2014. [The New
York Times]

In Germany, the authorities detained a second soldier in their inquiry into a
xenophobic group's plans to stage a terrorist attack and put the blame on
migrants. [Deutsche Welle]

FIFA  announced it would replace the judge and prosecutor whose investigations
resulted in the suspensions of Sepp Blatter, Michel Platini and other top soccer
officials. [The New York Times]

Former President Barack Obama could hardly have found less controversial ground
for a return to the global stage than discussing food in Italy. [The New York
Times]

Smarter Living

Recipe of the day: For a verdant side dish, try a pilaf with parsley, cilantro,
chives and mint.

Experts advise that fitness be assessed during medical exams because it can
better indicate proneness to heart disease.

Decluttering? There are apps for that.

Noteworthy

Champions League: Juventus reached the final. Real Madrid, the defending
champion, enters the second-leg match today of its semifinal against Atlético
Madrid with a 3-0 lead.

NASA's Cassini spacecraft has sent images from inside the rings of Saturn,
including the closest views ever of its hazy moon, Titan.

Prass Press, a new satirical paper in Bulgaria, is testing the limits of press
freedom in the E.U.'s poorest country. Even the prime minister is a subscriber,
though he says the cartoons make him look too fat.

And Yotam Ottolenghi, the Israeli-British chef, writes about learning to make
flaky phyllo dough for baklava and tarts. "You think you're pretty good at
something until you meet someone who has been doing it for 41 years."

Back Story

Two decades ago, a machine conquered humanity. In chess, that is, when the IBM
computer Deep Blue defeated Garry Kasparov, then the world champion.

The two had faced off the previous year, with Mr. Kasparov winning the six-game
match, 4-2. But the computer won the rematch, 3\xC2-2\xC2.

Before the first contest, Mr. Kasparov was reportedly so confident that he
turned down an offer to split the $500,000 winnings 60-40. Instead he insisted
on a winner-take-all affair.

Then he lost the first game, which was a "shattering experience," according to
his coach.

"I'm a human being," Mr. Kasparov said after losing the second matchup. "When I
see something that is well beyond my understanding, I'm afraid."

Mr. Kasparov and chess pundits attributed the loss to a single move, which may
have simply been a bug.

According to one of the computer's designers, Deep Blue was unable to choose a
move, so it picked one at random. It was a glitch, but the machine's
counterintuitive play may have confused Mr. Kasparov.

"It was an incredibly refined move," said the grandmaster Yasser Seirawan. "And
it sent Garry into a tizzy."

Evan Gershkovich contributed reporting.

_____

This briefing was prepared for the European morning. We also have briefings
timed for the Australian, Asian and American mornings. You can sign up for these
and other Times newsletters here.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.


Correction: May 18, 2017, Thursday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this briefing misstated how long James Comey served as F.B.I.
director. As a correction on the linked article notes, he was in his fourth year
when he was fired, not in his third.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 10, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hackers Came, But the French Were Prepared

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER, DAVID E. SANGER and NICOLE PERLROTH; Adam Nossiter
reported from Paris, David E. Sanger from Washington, and Nicole Perlroth from
San Francisco. Danny Hakim contributed reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1457 words


PARIS -- Everyone saw the hackers coming.

The National Security Agency in Washington picked up the signs. So did Emmanuel
Macron's bare-bones technology team. And mindful of what happened in the
American presidential campaign, the team created dozens of false email accounts,
complete with phony documents, to confuse the attackers.

The Russians, for their part, were rushed and a bit sloppy, leaving a trail of
evidence that was not enough to prove for certain they were working for the
government of President Vladimir V. Putin but which strongly suggested they were
part of his broader ''information warfare'' campaign.

The story told by American officials, cyberexperts and Mr. Macron's own campaign
aides of how a hacking attack intended to disrupt the most consequential
election in France in decades ended up a dud was a useful reminder that as
effective as cyberattacks can be in disabling Iranian nuclear plants, or
Ukrainian power grids, they are no silver bullet. The kind of information
warfare favored by Russia can be defeated by early warning and rapid exposure.

But that outcome was hardly assured on Friday night, when what was described as
a ''massive'' hacking attack suddenly put Mr. Macron's electoral chances in
jeopardy. To French and American officials, however, it was hardly a surprise.

Testifying in front of the Senate Armed Services Committee in Washington on
Tuesday, Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the director of the National Security Agency,
said American intelligence agencies had seen the attack unfolding, telling their
French counterparts, ''Look, we're watching the Russians. We're seeing them
penetrate some of your infrastructure. Here's what we've seen. What can we do to
try to assist?''

But the staff at Mr. Macron's makeshift headquarters in the 15th Arrondissement
at the edge of Paris didn't need the N.S.A. to tell them they were being
targeted: In December, after the former investment banker and finance minister
had emerged as easily the most anti-Russian, pro-NATO and pro-European Union
candidate in the presidential race, they began receiving phishing emails.

The phishing mails were ''high quality,'' said Mr. Macron's digital director,
Mounir Mahjoubi: They included the actual names of members of the campaign
staff, and at first glance appeared to come from them. Typical was the very last
one the campaign received, several days before the election on Sunday, which
purported to have come from Mr. Mahjoubi himself.

''It was almost like a joke, like giving us all the finger,'' Mr. Mahjoubi said
in interview on Tuesday. The final email enjoined recipients to download several
files ''to protect yourself.''

Even before then, the Macron campaign had begun looking for ways to make life a
little harder for the Russians, showing a level of skill and ingenuity that was
missing in Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign and at the Democratic
National Committee, which had minimal security protections and for months
ignored F.B.I. warnings that its computer system had been penetrated.

''We went on a counteroffensive,'' said Mr. Mahjoubi. ''We couldn't guarantee
100 percent protection'' from the attacks, ''so we asked: what can we do?'' Mr.
Mahjoubi opted for a classic ''cyber-blurring'' strategy, well known to banks
and corporations, creating false email accounts and filled them with phony
documents the way a bank teller keeps fake bills in the cash drawer in case of a
robbery.

''We created false accounts, with false content, as traps. We did this
massively, to create the obligation for them to verify, to determine whether it
was a real account,'' Mr. Mahjoubi said. ''I don't think we prevented them. We
just slowed them down,'' he said. ''Even if it made them lose one minute, we're
happy,'' he said.

Mr. Mahjoubi refused to reveal the nature of the false documents that were
created, or to say whether, in the Friday document dump that was the result of
the hacking campaign, there were false documents created by the Macron campaign.

But he did note that in the mishmash that constituted the Friday dump, there
were some authentic documents, some phony documents of the hackers' own
manufacture, some stolen documents from various companies, and some false emails
created by the campaign.

''During all their attacks we put in phony documents. And that forced them to
waste time,'' he said. ''By the quantity of the documents we put in,'' he added,
''and documents that might interest them.''

With only 18 people in the digital team, many of them occupied in producing
campaign materials like videos, Mr. Mahjoubi hardly had the resources to track
down the hackers. ''We didn't have time to try to catch them'' he said. But he
has his suspicions about their identity. Simultaneously with the phishing
attacks, the Macron campaign was being attacked by the Russian media with a
profusion of fake news.

Oddly, the Russians did a poor job of covering their tracks. That made it easier
for private security firms, on alert after the efforts to manipulate the
American election, to search for evidence.

In mid-March, researchers with Trend Micro, the cybersecurity giant based in
Tokyo, watched the same Russian intelligence unit behind some of the Democratic
National Committee hacks start building the tools to hack Mr. Macron's campaign.
They set up web domains mimicking those of Mr. Macron's En Marche! Party, and
began dispatching emails with malicious links and fake login pages designed to
bait campaign staffers into divulging their usernames and passwords, or to click
on a link that would give the Russians a toehold onto the campaign's network.

It was the classic Russian playbook, security researchers say, but this time the
world was prepared. ''The only good news is that this activity is now
commonplace, and the general population is so used to the idea of a Russian hand
behind this, that it backfired on them,'' said John Hultquist, the director of
cyberespionage analysis at FireEye, the Silicon Valley security firm.

Mr. Hultquist noted that the attack was characterized by haste, and a trail of
digital mistakes. ''There was a time when Russian hackers were characterized by
their lack of sloppiness,'' Mr. Hultquist said. ''When they made mistakes, they
burned their entire operation and started anew. But since the invasion of
Ukraine and Crimea,'' he said, ''we've seen them carry out brazen, large scale
attacks,'' perhaps because ''there have been few consequences for their
actions.''

The hackers also made the mistake of releasing information that was, by any
campaign standard, pretty boring. The nine gigabytes worth of purportedly stolen
emails and files from the Macron campaign was spun as scandalous material, but
turned out to be almost entirely the humdrum of campaign workers trying to
conduct ordinary life in the midst of the election maelstrom.

One of the leaked emails details a campaign staffer's struggle with a broken
down car. Another documents how a campaign worker was reprimanded for failure to
invoice a cup of coffee.

That is when the hackers got sloppy. The metadata tied to a handful of documents
-- code that shows the origins of a document -- show some passed through Russian
computers and were edited by Russian users. Some Excel documents were modified
using software unique to Russian versions of Microsoft Windows.

Other documents had last been modified by Russian usernames, including one
person that researchers identified as a 32-year-old employee of Eureka CJSC,
based in Moscow, a Russian technology company that works closely with the
Russian Ministry of Defense and intelligence agencies. The company has received
licenses from Russia's Federal Security Service, or FSB, to help protect state
secrets. The company did not return emails requesting comment.

Other leaked documents appear to have been forged, or faked. One purported to
detail the purchase of the stimulant mephedrone, sometimes sold as ''bath
salts,'' by a Macron campaign staffer who allegedly had the drugs shipped to the
address of France's National Assembly. But Henk Van Ess, a member of the
investigations team at Bellingcat, a British investigations organization, and
others discovered that the transaction numbers in the receipt were not in the
public ledger of all Bitcoin transactions.

''It's clear they were rushed,'' Mr. Hultquist said. ''If this was APT28,'' he
said, using the name for a Russian group believed to be linked to the GRU, a
military intelligence agencies, ''they have been caught in the act, and it has
backfired for them.''

Now, he said, the failure of the Macron hacks could just push Russian hackers to
improve their methods.

''They may have to change their playbook entirely,'' Mr. Hultquist said.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/09/world/europe/hackers-came-but-the-french-were
-prepared.html

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President-elect Emmanuel Macron at a rally at the Louvre on
Sunday evening. His digital team began to notice ''high quality'' phishing mails
in December. (POOL PHOTO BY PHILIPPE LOPEZ) (A6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 10, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hackers Came, But the French Were Prepared

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER, DAVID E. SANGER and NICOLE PERLROTH; Adam Nossiter
reported from Paris, David E. Sanger from Washington, and Nicole Perlroth from
San Francisco. Danny Hakim contributed reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1457 words


PARIS -- Everyone saw the hackers coming.

The National Security Agency in Washington picked up the signs. So did Emmanuel
Macron's bare-bones technology team. And mindful of what happened in the
American presidential campaign, the team created dozens of false email accounts,
complete with phony documents, to confuse the attackers.

The Russians, for their part, were rushed and a bit sloppy, leaving a trail of
evidence that was not enough to prove for certain they were working for the
government of President Vladimir V. Putin but which strongly suggested they were
part of his broader ''information warfare'' campaign.

The story told by American officials, cyberexperts and Mr. Macron's own campaign
aides of how a hacking attack intended to disrupt the most consequential
election in France in decades ended up a dud was a useful reminder that as
effective as cyberattacks can be in disabling Iranian nuclear plants, or
Ukrainian power grids, they are no silver bullet. The kind of information
warfare favored by Russia can be defeated by early warning and rapid exposure.

But that outcome was hardly assured on Friday night, when what was described as
a ''massive'' hacking attack suddenly put Mr. Macron's electoral chances in
jeopardy. To French and American officials, however, it was hardly a surprise.

Testifying in front of the Senate Armed Services Committee in Washington on
Tuesday, Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the director of the National Security Agency,
said American intelligence agencies had seen the attack unfolding, telling their
French counterparts, ''Look, we're watching the Russians. We're seeing them
penetrate some of your infrastructure. Here's what we've seen. What can we do to
try to assist?''

But the staff at Mr. Macron's makeshift headquarters in the 15th Arrondissement
at the edge of Paris didn't need the N.S.A. to tell them they were being
targeted: In December, after the former investment banker and finance minister
had emerged as easily the most anti-Russian, pro-NATO and pro-European Union
candidate in the presidential race, they began receiving phishing emails.

The phishing mails were ''high quality,'' said Mr. Macron's digital director,
Mounir Mahjoubi: They included the actual names of members of the campaign
staff, and at first glance appeared to come from them. Typical was the very last
one the campaign received, several days before the election on Sunday, which
purported to have come from Mr. Mahjoubi himself.

''It was almost like a joke, like giving us all the finger,'' Mr. Mahjoubi said
in interview on Tuesday. The final email enjoined recipients to download several
files ''to protect yourself.''

Even before then, the Macron campaign had begun looking for ways to make life a
little harder for the Russians, showing a level of skill and ingenuity that was
missing in Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign and at the Democratic
National Committee, which had minimal security protections and for months
ignored F.B.I. warnings that its computer system had been penetrated.

''We went on a counteroffensive,'' said Mr. Mahjoubi. ''We couldn't guarantee
100 percent protection'' from the attacks, ''so we asked: what can we do?'' Mr.
Mahjoubi opted for a classic ''cyber-blurring'' strategy, well known to banks
and corporations, creating false email accounts and filled them with phony
documents the way a bank teller keeps fake bills in the cash drawer in case of a
robbery.

''We created false accounts, with false content, as traps. We did this
massively, to create the obligation for them to verify, to determine whether it
was a real account,'' Mr. Mahjoubi said. ''I don't think we prevented them. We
just slowed them down,'' he said. ''Even if it made them lose one minute, we're
happy,'' he said.

Mr. Mahjoubi refused to reveal the nature of the false documents that were
created, or to say whether, in the Friday document dump that was the result of
the hacking campaign, there were false documents created by the Macron campaign.

But he did note that in the mishmash that constituted the Friday dump, there
were some authentic documents, some phony documents of the hackers' own
manufacture, some stolen documents from various companies, and some false emails
created by the campaign.

''During all their attacks we put in phony documents. And that forced them to
waste time,'' he said. ''By the quantity of the documents we put in,'' he added,
''and documents that might interest them.''

With only 18 people in the digital team, many of them occupied in producing
campaign materials like videos, Mr. Mahjoubi hardly had the resources to track
down the hackers. ''We didn't have time to try to catch them,'' he said. But he
has his suspicions about their identity. Simultaneously with the phishing
attacks, the Macron campaign was being attacked by the Russian media with a
profusion of fake news.

Oddly, the Russians did a poor job of covering their tracks. That made it easier
for private security firms, on alert after the efforts to manipulate the
American election, to search for evidence.

In mid-March, researchers with Trend Micro, the cybersecurity giant based in
Tokyo, watched the same Russian intelligence unit behind some of the Democratic
National Committee hacks start building the tools to hack Mr. Macron's campaign.
They set up web domains mimicking those of Mr. Macron's En Marche! Party, and
began dispatching emails with malicious links and fake login pages designed to
bait campaign staffers into divulging their usernames and passwords, or to click
on a link that would give the Russians a toehold onto the campaign's network.

It was the classic Russian playbook, security researchers say, but this time the
world was prepared. ''The only good news is that this activity is now
commonplace, and the general population is so used to the idea of a Russian hand
behind this, that it backfired on them,'' said John Hultquist, the director of
cyberespionage analysis at FireEye, the Silicon Valley security firm.

Mr. Hultquist noted that the attack was characterized by haste, and a trail of
digital mistakes. ''There was a time when Russian hackers were characterized by
their lack of sloppiness,'' Mr. Hultquist said. ''When they made mistakes, they
burned their entire operation and started anew. But since the invasion of
Ukraine and Crimea,'' he said, ''we've seen them carry out brazen, large scale
attacks,'' perhaps because ''there have been few consequences for their
actions.''

The hackers also made the mistake of releasing information that was, by any
campaign standard, pretty boring. The nine gigabytes worth of purportedly stolen
emails and files from the Macron campaign was spun as scandalous material, but
turned out to be almost entirely the humdrum of campaign workers trying to
conduct ordinary life in the midst of the election maelstrom.

One of the leaked emails details a campaign staffer's struggle with a broken
down car. Another documents how a campaign worker was reprimanded for failure to
invoice a cup of coffee.

That is when the hackers got sloppy. The metadata tied to a handful of documents
-- code that shows the origins of a document -- show some passed through Russian
computers and were edited by Russian users. Some Excel documents were modified
using software unique to Russian versions of Microsoft Windows.

Other documents had last been modified by Russian usernames, including one
person that researchers identified as a 32-year-old employee of Eureka CJSC,
based in Moscow, a Russian technology company that works closely with the
Russian Ministry of Defense and intelligence agencies. The company has received
licenses from Russia's Federal Security Service, or FSB, to help protect state
secrets. The company did not return emails requesting comment.

Other leaked documents appear to have been forged, or faked. One purported to
detail the purchase of the stimulant mephedrone, sometimes sold as ''bath
salts,'' by a Macron campaign staffer who allegedly had the drugs shipped to the
address of France's National Assembly. But Henk Van Ess, a member of the
investigations team at Bellingcat, a British investigations organization, and
others discovered that the transaction numbers in the receipt were not in the
public ledger of all Bitcoin transactions.

''It's clear they were rushed,'' Mr. Hultquist said. ''If this was APT28,'' he
said, using the name for a Russian group believed to be linked to the GRU, a
military intelligence agency, ''they have been caught in the act, and it has
backfired for them.''

Now, he said, the failure of the Macron hacks could just push Russian hackers to
improve their methods.

''They may have to change their playbook entirely,'' Mr. Hultquist said.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/09/world/europe/hackers-came-but-the-french-were
-prepared.html

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President-elect Emmanuel Macron at a rally at the Louvre on
Sunday evening. His digital team began to notice ''high quality'' phishing mails
in December. (POOL PHOTO BY PHILIPPE LOPEZ) (A6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        May 11, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Latest Developments on Comey: Acting F.B.I. Chief Contradicts White House;
Live Briefing

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1800 words



HIGHLIGHT: Andrew McCabe, the acting director of the F.B.I., is testifying
before the Senate Intelligence Committee.


[#x25a0] Andrew G. McCabe, the acting director of the F.B.I., is testifying
before the Senate Intelligence Committee.

[#x25a0] Mr. McCabe contradicted the White House's assertion that James B.
Comey, the F.B.I. director fired by President Trump this week, had lost the
support of rank-and-file F.B.I. agents.

[#x25a0] Mr. McCabe also said that the firing of Mr. Comey had not affected the
Justice Department's investigation of Russia's meddling in the presidential
election.

[#x25a0] The committee's top Democrat asked Mr. McCabe to tell senators about
any efforts by the White House to intervene with the investigation.

Acting F.B.I. director contradicts White House.

The unfolding story over Mr. Trump's abrupt firing of Mr. Comey hung over the
hearing, infusing political theater into annual testimony by the nation's top
security officials about the biggest threats facing the United States.

Mr. McCabe rejected the White House's assertion that Mr. Comey had lost the
backing of rank-and-file F.B.I. agents, a pointed rebuke of what had been one of
the president's main defenses for the move.

"Director Comey enjoyed broad support within the F.B.I. and still does to this
day," Mr. McCabe said at the hearing.

"The vast majority of F.B.I. employees enjoyed a deep and positive connection to
Director Comey," he added.

-- Adam Goldman

Deputy attorney general stops by.

The deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, met with members of the Senate
Intelligence Committee this afternoon, arriving with a security detail as the
public hearing was continuing. He declined to speak with reporters in the halls
of the Senate.

The meeting with Mr. Rosenstein had been requested by the committee, according
to Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina and the chairman of the
committee. "It's a request we made prior to Director Comey's departure, and it
just so happened that the timing was it could just happen today," Mr. Burr said.

The discussion surely took on a new tone given the events of the last two days.
At least part of the conversation centered on ensuring that the government's
inquiry into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election was free from
conflicts of interest.

"We felt there was a great need to set up a process for deconfliction," Mr. Burr
said. "We were able to share that with the deputy attorney general, and we feel
our investigations will go forward with a fairly good understanding of the rules
of the road."

Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia and vice chairman of the committee,
called the private meeting "fairly productive," but he quickly added, "I still
have concerns about Mr. Rosenstein in terms of his role in the circumstances of
Mr. Comey's departure."

The senators noted they had asked Mr. Comey to brief them on Tuesday, but that
as of this afternoon they had not heard back from him.

Mr. Rosenstein slipped out quietly as the senators addressed reporters. Mr. Burr
and Mr. Warner then left to attend a closed-door meeting with intelligence
officials.

-- Rebecca R. Ruiz

Russia inquiry 'highly significant,' acting F.B.I. chief says.

Mr. McCabe also said that the Justice Department's investigation into whether
any Trump associates colluded with Russia in the presidential election was
"highly significant," another direct contradiction of the White House.

A day earlier, a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, trying to parry accusations that Mr.
Comey's firing was related to the Russia inquiry, called it "probably one of the
smallest things that they've got going on their plate" at the F.B.I.

Mr. McCabe was also adamant that the firing of Mr. Comey had not affected the
investigation.

"The work of the men and women of the F.B.I. continues despite any changes in
circumstances," he said in response to a question from Senator Marco Rubio,
Republican of Florida. "There has been no effort to impede our investigation to
date. Simply put, you cannot stop the men and women of the F.B.I. from doing the
right thing."

Mr. McCabe is likely to sidestep more delicate questions about the Russia
inquiry from Democrats pressing him for information to keep the investigation
dominant in the news.

That is despite the efforts of the committee's Republican chairman to keep the
subject from dominating the day.

"Let me disappoint you," Mr. Burr, the chairman, said as he opened the
proceeding. "The purpose of today's hearing is to review and highlight to the
extent possible the ranges of threats we face as a nation," he said, before
listing dangers the United States faces, including cyberthreats, Islamist
militants and North Korea.

Although he is well known in the intelligence community, Mr. McCabe, a veteran
F.B.I. agent, has little name recognition outside of Washington. He has dealt
with Congress for years, but usually behind closed doors.

A Duke University graduate with a law degree from Washington University in St.
Louis, Mr. McCabe is considered a skilled briefer. He is something of wunderkind
at the F.B.I., rising quickly in the organization to become deputy director in
early 2016. But he is not universally loved among agents.

Some inside the F.B.I. believe he did not work in the field long enough and rose
too quickly to appreciate the concerns of agents.

Also testifying are Mike Pompeo, the director of the C.I.A.; Dan Coats, the
director of national intelligence; Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the head of the
National Security Agency; and others.

-- Adam Goldman

Democrat seeks warning of political interference.

Mr. Warner, the top Democrat on the committee, sought assurances from Mr. McCabe
that he would sound the alarm if the White House or others tried to intervene in
the investigation into whether any of Mr. Trump's associates colluded with
Russia in its interference in the election.

"While we don't know how long you will be acting as F.B.I. director, my first
questions for you, even in this public setting, will be for you to assure the
committee that if you come under any political influence from the White House or
others to squash this investigation, or impede it in any way, that you will let
this committee know," said Mr. Warner, who has called the committee's own
inquiry into Russian election interference "probably the most important thing
I've done in public life."

He called the firing of Mr. Comey "a shocking development."

"It's hard to avoid the conclusion that the president's decision to remove
Director Comey was related to this investigation, and that is truly
unacceptable," he added. "Our committee will get to the bottom of what happened
in the 2016 presidential election."

Mr. Burr asked whether Mr. McCabe was aware of Mr. Comey telling the president
three times that he was not under investigation, as Mr. Trump claimed. Mr.
McCabe said he could not comment on any conversations that Mr. Comey might have
had with the president.

-- Adam Goldman and Matthew Rosenberg

Justice official's memo on Comey troubles a Democrat.

Democratic lawmakers were increasingly critical on Thursday of Attorney General
Jeff Sessions and his deputy, Mr. Rosenstein, who wrote the 13-paragraph memo
that Mr. Trump has said was the basis for Mr. Comey's ouster.

Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said she had read Mr.
Rosenstein's memo three times.

"With each read, I've become more troubled by the contents of this unusual
document," Ms. Feinstein said, expressing surprise that Mr. Rosenstein, a
Justice Department veteran, had not offered a more thorough rationale, but
instead referenced the public comments of some of his predecessors as deputy
attorney general.

"Instead of a document that provides meaningful analysis, the memo reads like
political document," she said. "It includes quotes from op-eds and television
appearances that are as old as six months. It doesn't include any contemporary
insights from inside the F.B.I. The memo appears to have been hastily assembled
to justify a preordained outcome."

Ms. Feinstein, who has called for a special prosecutor in the Russia inquiry,
demanded that Mr. Sessions and Mr. Rosenstein recuse themselves from selecting
someone for such a role.

"This issue should be handled by the most senior career attorney at the Justice
Department," she said.

-- Rebecca R. Ruiz

Watch the entire hearing.

[Video:  Watch on YouTube.]

Are cyberattacks the nation's top threat?

For many years in a row, the worldwide threat assessment produced by the
nation's 16 intelligence agencies had been clear about the No. 1 threat:
cyberattacks on the United States. The question is whether it stays No. 1.

Mr. Trump was clear about his top threat during the campaign: what he called
"radical Islamic terrorism." He spoke often about immigration. He occasionally
took up the topic of "the cyber," as he termed it during the campaign, but his
administration is still rewriting an executive order on cybersecurity that was
supposed to be issued in the first days of his presidency. A deadline for a
90-day review of American cyberdefenses went by a few weeks ago with nary a word
from the White House.

Threat assessment is an art, not a science, and a decade ago, cybersecurity
barely appeared in the annual report at all. But after a year in which the
American election process became a victim of a combination of cyber- and
information-warfare techniques, which caught the government unaware, it would
seem to be a strange time to demote the ranking of the threat.

-- David E. Sanger

Where the Russia investigations stand.

Mr. Comey's firing has led several lawmakers to call for an independent
investigator or commission on top of the current investigations into potential
links between Russia and the Trump campaign.

In addition to the F.B.I.'s investigation, two congressional committees are
pursuing inquiries into the matter.

See where things stand with the inquiries \xC2

Changing views on Comey.

After the president fired Mr. Comey, politicians on both sides of the aisle
changed their attitudes toward the ousted F.B.I. director, whose farewell to his
former colleagues had to be forwarded to agents on his behalf since he could no
longer access the bureau's email system.

Which lawmakers question Comey's firing?

Congressional reaction ranged from support for the decision to calls for a
special prosecutor oranindependent investigation to examine the ties between Mr.
Trump's associates and the Russian government -- beyond the existing inquiries
by Senate and House committees. View our collection of the lawmakers' responses
\xC2

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Related Articles


     ·    The Trump-Russia Nexus
     ·    Mark Warner Faces a Stand-and-Deliver Moment in Russian Inquiry
     ·    'Enough Was Enough': How Festering Anger at Comey Ended in His Firing
     ·    Inside the F.B.I., Stunned Agents Wonder About Future of Russia
          Inquiry
     ·    5 Ways the Trump Administration Has Injected Politics Into Legal
          Matters


LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 11, 2017 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Wednesday's Developments on Comey: 'He Was Not Doing a Good Job,' Trump Says

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg.

LENGTH: 2084 words


â-  President Trump had been talking openly about firing James B. Comey, the
F.B.I. director, for at least a week, according to people close to the
president.

â-  Days before he was fired, Mr. Comey asked for a significant increase in
resources for the inquiry into Russia's interference in the presidential
election, according to four congressional officials.

â-  Political reaction to the firing came swiftly, with calls by Democrats --
and some Republicans -- for an independent investigator to take over the
investigation into Russian election tampering.

â-  Mr. Trump assailed his Democratic critics, accusing them of hypocrisy, and
said he had fired Mr. Comey because ''he was not doing a good job.''

'Enough was enough'

The countdown to Mr. Trump's dismissal began last weekend with an enraged
president stewing over Mr. Comey's testimony to Congress, when he admitted to
being ''slightly nauseous'' about doing anything to get Mr. Trump elected.

Mr. Trump, according to people close to the president, had been talking openly
about firing Mr. Comey for at least a week. Despite the objections from some of
his aides about the optics and the lack of an obvious successor, the grumbling
evolved into a tentative plan as he angrily watched the Sunday news shows at his
Bedminster, N.J., golf resort. Read more Â»

-- Maggie Haberman and Glenn Thrush

'He was not doing a good job'

Mr. Trump said on Wednesday that he had fired Mr. Comey ''because he was not
doing a good job.''

The president made the remarks to reporters during a brief Oval Office photo-op
with Henry Kissinger after Mr. Trump met with Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian
foreign minister.

Mr. Trump's very brief comments to reporters were in response to a shouted
question about his decision to fire Mr. Comey on Tuesday night. Read more Â»

-- Michael D. Shear

Comey invited to testify; acting F.B.I. chief to appear Thursday

Mr. Comey has been invited to testify before a closed hearing of the Senate
Intelligence Committee on Tuesday, according to a spokesman for the committee
chairman, Senator Richard M. Burr of North Carolina.

Andrew McCabe, the acting director of the F.B.I., will testify before the
committee on Thursday, his first appearance since replacing Mr. Comey.

The topic of the hearing is worldwide threats, but Mr. McCabe is certain to be
asked about the firing of Mr. Comey and the mood at the F.B.I.

-- Matt Apuzzo

Which lawmakers have questioned Comey's firing?

Congressional reaction ranged from support for the decision to calls for a
special prosecutor or an independent investigation to examine the ties between
Mr. Trump's associates and the Russian government -- beyond the existing
inquiries by Senate and House committees. View our collection of the lawmakers'
responses Â»

Reporters barred from Lavrov meeting, but Russia tweets pictures

The White House barred reporters from witnessing Mr. Trump's meeting on
Wednesday morning with Mr. Lavrov, an awkwardly timed visit given lingering
questions about whether the president dismissed his F.B.I. director in part to
squelch the investigation into possible ties between his campaign and Moscow.

#Lavrov - @realDonaldTrump meeting has just started | Ð' Ð[#x17e]Ð²Ð°Ð»ÑOEÐ½Ð¾Ð¼
ÐºÐ°Ð±Ð¸Ð½ÐµÑ[#x201a]Ðµ Ð½Ð°Ñ++Ð°Ð»Ð°ÑÑOE Ð²ÑÑ[#x201a]Ñ[#x20ac]ÐµÑ++Ð°
Ð¡.Ð[#x203a]Ð°Ð²Ñ[#x20ac]Ð¾Ð²Ð° Ñ Ð".Ð¢Ñ[#x20ac]Ð°Ð¼Ð¿Ð¾Ð¼#RussiaUSA #Ð
Ð¾ÑÑÐ¸ÑÐ¡Ð¨Ð pic.twitter.com/7raFrkWhiC -- MFA Russia (@mfa_russia) May 10, 2017

But Russia's Foreign Ministry was quick to fill the vacuum with its own pictures
of the meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Lavrov. It posted photographs on
Twitter of the two shaking hands, as well as images of the president grinning
and gripping hands with Sergey I. Kislyak, the Russian ambassador.

Ambassador Kislyak and President Trump / ÐYÐ¾ÑÐ¾Ð» Ð¡.Ð[#x161]Ð¸ÑÐ»ÑÐº Ð¸
ÐYÑ[#x20ac]ÐµÐ·Ð¸Ð´ÐµÐ½Ñ[#x201a] Ð".Ð¢Ñ[#x20ac]Ð°Ð¼Ð¿ pic.twitter.com/Ckkx2YL9KX
-- Russia in USA (@RusEmbUSA) May 10, 2017

Mr. Kislyak has figured prominently in the furor surrounding the Trump team's
contacts with Moscow. It was conversations between the ambassador and Michael T.
Flynn, the president's former national security adviser, that ultimately led to
Mr. Flynn's ouster in February, ostensibly because he had lied to Vice President
Mike Pence about whether the two had discussed United States sanctions on
Russia.

On Wednesday, Mr. Trump's meeting with Mr. Lavrov was listed on his schedule as
''Closed Press,'' meaning the news media would not have a chance to photograph
or otherwise document the session, and no last-minute arrangements were made for
such access.

When the pool was assembled unexpectedly, reporters thought they might catch a
glimpse. But instead, they were allowed into the Oval Office for a few moments
to cover another, previously undisclosed meeting: between Mr. Trump and Mr.
Kissinger, the Nixon administration secretary of state.

-- Julie Hirschfeld Davis

Putin says 'we have nothing to do with that'

President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, apparently about to play in a hockey
game, was asked by a CBS reporter how Mr. Comey's firing would affect relations
between Russia and the United States.

''There will be no effect,'' Mr. Putin said. ''We have nothing to do with that.
President Trump is acting in accordance with his competences and in accordance
with his law and Constitution.''

Our @elizapalmer caught Russian Pres. Putin rink side and asked him about the
firing of former. Dir. Comey. pic.twitter.com/3nytJYi0si -- CBS Evening News
(@CBSEveningNews) May 10, 2017

McConnell addresses the Senate

The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, addressed the Senate on Wednesday
morning, largely sticking to the Republican party line and saying that partisan
calls for a new investigation should not delay the ''considerable work'' already
being conducted.

Watch his remarks here:

Read more Â»

Pence says 'it was the right decision at the right time'

Mr. Pence strongly defended Mr. Comey's firing as a sign of Mr. Trump's solid
leadership.

''Because of the president's decisive action yesterday to restore the confidence
and trust of the American people, we have an opportunity for a new beginning
with the F.B.I.,'' Mr. Pence said.

Mr. Pence was at the Senate on Wednesday, on standby in case he was needed to
break a tie vote on a measure related to an oil and gas industry rule that
Republicans are trying to repeal.

The Republicans turned out to be one vote short of a tie, so Mr. Pence did not
get a chance to vote. But as he left, he took questions from reporters about Mr.
Comey's firing.

''This administration is very confident that with the appointment of a new
director of the F.B.I., because of the president's strong leadership we will be
able to get this nation's leading law enforcement agency a fresh start,'' he
said.

Mr. Pence also defended the timing of the dismissal, saying that ''it was the
right decision at the right time.''

Asked by a different group of reporters whether the removal was related to the
Russia investigation, Mr. Pence cited the testimony on Monday of the former
director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr. ''There is no evidence
of collusion,'' Mr. Pence said.

-- Eric Lipton

Trump accuses Democrats of hypocrisy

Mr. Trump defended his decision by accusing Democrats of hypocrisy for
criticizing the dismissal of a law enforcement chief they, too, had assailed.

In a series of visceral posts on Twitter, the president said he was justified in
dismissing Mr. Comey because Democrats and Republicans had lost faith in the
F.B.I. director's leadership.

The president went on to highlight Mr. Comey's ''scandals'' and suggested that
Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, be investigated moments
after Mr. Blumenthal appeared on television condemning the president's action.

Comey lost the confidence of almost everyone in Washington, Republican and
Democrat alike. When things calm down, they will be thanking me! -- Donald J.
Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2017

Read more Â»

Five times Trump has injected politics into legal matters

Mr. Trump's abrupt firing of Mr. Comey was only one of several moments that, in
a more conventional administration and during less tumultuous times, would be
seen as political intrusions in matters of law enforcement.

Have a look at other such instances Â»

Justice officials interviewing for 'interim' F.B.I. leader

Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein
were expected to interview at least four candidates on Wednesday to be
''interim'' F.B.I. director, a Justice Department official said. The person
selected for that role would hold it until Mr. Trump's eventual nominee for the
position is confirmed by the Senate.

The four potential candidates are William Evanina, the director of the National
Counterintelligence and Security Center at the Office of the Director of
National Intelligence; Paul Abbate, the executive assistant director for the
bureau's criminal, cyber, response and services branch; Michael Anderson, the
special agent in charge of the Chicago field office; and Adam Lee, the special
agent in charge of the Richmond, Va., field office.

The official cautioned that that list was not exhaustive. Mr. McCabe, the deputy
F.B.I. director who is currently the acting director, is also under
consideration for the longer-term interim director role, the official said.

-- Charlie Savage

Lavrov laughs off questions about Comey

Mr. Lavrov appeared with Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson on Wednesday
morning in Washington, in what the State Department hoped would be a controlled
setting.

After Mr. Tillerson thanked Mr. Lavrov for coming to Washington, the two men
began to leave the diplomatic reception room. When a reporter shouted a question
about whether Mr. Comey's dismissal ''cast a shadow'' on the meeting, Mr.
Lavrov, known for a puckish sense of humor, shot back: ''Was he fired? You're
kidding! You're kidding!''

He then turned and followed Mr. Tillerson into his office.

Mr. Lavrov met with Mr. Trump a short time later.

Read more about the meeting Â»

Dark mood at the F.B.I.

These are not happy times at the F.B.I.

The mood at the country's premier law enforcement agency had been dark for
months, since Mr. Comey sent a letter to Congress on Oct. 28 reviving the
investigation into Hillary's Clinton's use of a private email server while
serving as secretary of state.

Mr. Comey's decision to make public the examination of possible new evidence
plunged him and the bureau into a political firestorm just as agents were trying
to shake off Mr. Comey's much criticized announcement months earlier that he
would not recommend charges in the case.

On Tuesday, after Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey, saying he had mishandled the
Clinton investigation, the mood was black.

Agents were floored that Mr. Trump would fire the director in the midst of an
investigation into whether any of the president's associates had conspired with
Russia to swing the election in favor of Mr. Trump. Some said they were
physically sickened.

They saw Mr. Comey as a widely respected director who many agents believed had
the bureau's best interests in mind and had tried his best to guide them through
a difficult past year, even if he had misstepped in the Clinton investigation.
Read more Â»

-- Adam Goldman

What writers on the right and left are saying

From the right

Mollie Hemingway in The Federalist:

''Anyone is welcome to believe that this firing was unwise, and to make the case
for that, but it's wise to make that case calmly.''

Mollie Hemingway believes Mr. Trump was right to fire Mr. Comey and lists the
reasons the F.B.I. director had to go. She also addresses critics of the
president who have described his action as a ''coup,'' writing: ''Trump fired
someone who worked for him. He fired someone in whom people in both major
political parties had lost confidence.'' Read more Â»

_____

From the left

John Nichols in The Nation:

''Sessions should step down. Immediately.''

John Nichols reminds his readers that Mr. Sessions promised to recuse himself
from all matters related to an investigation into Russia. Mr. Sessions's
involvement in Mr. Comey's dismissal is intolerable to Mr. Nichols and grounds
for removal. If Mr. Sessions refuses to resign, Mr. Nichols calls upon House
Democrats and Republicans to move for his impeachment. Read more Â»

See more selections Â»

_____

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/10/us/politics/comey-fbi-live.html

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 11, 2017 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside F.B.I., a Darkening Mood and Rising Doubts About an Investigation

BYLINE: By ADAM GOLDMAN and CHARLIE SAVAGE; Matt Apuzzo contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 627 words


WASHINGTON -- These are not happy times at the F.B.I.

Morale at the country's premier law enforcement agency plummeted months ago,
after James B. Comey, its director, revived the investigation into Hillary
Clinton's use of a private email server in October and plunged the bureau back
into the political maelstrom just before the election.

Then President Trump fired Mr. Comey on Tuesday, saying he had mishandled the
Clinton investigation, and the mood darkened again.

Agents said they were stunned that Mr. Trump would fire Mr. Comey in the midst
of an F.B.I. investigation into whether any of the president's associates had
conspired with Russia to swing the election in favor of Mr. Trump. Some said in
interviews that news of the firing felt like a gut punch. Others wondered
whether they would be able to continue the inquiry.

One senior F.B.I. official said that the president had severely damaged his
standing among agents, many of whom are conservative and supported Mr. Trump as
a candidate. Agents were angered by the way Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey, who
learned of his dismissal from television reports while he was in Los Angeles.
They called it disrespectful.

And agents flatly rejected the assertion Wednesday by a White House spokeswoman,
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, during a briefing with reporters that the F.B.I.'s
rank-and-file supported the sudden firing of Mr. Comey.

A strained relationship with the F.B.I. can make life difficult for a president.
The White House relies on the bureau for regular security updates and for
unvarnished information during crises.

The Justice Department was rushing to put in place an interim director, with
Attorney General Jeff Sessions and the deputy attorney general, Rod J.
Rosenstein, expected to interview at least four candidates on Wednesday, a
department official said. All are well-regarded within the F.B.I. and are seen
as unlikely to allow politics to influence the Russian investigation -- and as
loyal to Mr. Comey.

But if firing Mr. Comey was meant to help restore the bureau's credibility and
put the work force at ease about the F.B.I.'s future, as Justice Department
officials said, it has had the opposite effect.

''People are stunned right now,'' said Frank Montoya Jr., a former senior F.B.I.
official. An F.B.I. spokesman declined to comment about bureau morale.

For the moment, the bureau is being run by Andrew G. McCabe, a veteran F.B.I.
agent and previous deputy director who was at Mr. Comey's side as he navigated
the politically perilous currents of the Clinton and Russia investigations that
ultimately brought him down. Mr. McCabe held conference calls with the F.B.I.'s
top agents late Tuesday and on Wednesday and told them to stay focused on their
work. It was to be business as usual, he said.

It is not clear whether Mr. McCabe will stay on as acting director. He is under
consideration for the role of interim director, who will stay in place until Mr.
Trump's eventual nominee is confirmed by the Senate, the Justice Department
official said.

The four candidates being interviewed Wednesday for the interim role were
William Evanina, the director of the National Counterintelligence and Security
Center at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence; Paul Abbate,
assistant director of the F.B.I.'s Criminal, Cyber, Response and Services
Branch; and Michael J. Anderson and Adam Lee, who run the Chicago and Richmond,
Va., field offices, respectively.

The official cautioned that the list was not exhaustive.

Whatever happens, another senior F.B.I. official said stoically, the bureau will
continue to investigate crimes. The day Mr. Comey was fired was no different
from the day before, the official insisted.

Follow Adam Goldman on Twitter @adamgoldmanNYT.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/10/us/politics/inside-the-fbi-stunned-agents-won
der-about-future-of-russia-inquiry.html

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Agents say morale at the F.B.I. building in Washington, above,
has taken a hit with the firing of its director. Paul Abbate, top right, of the
bureau's Criminal, Cyber, Response and Services Branch, and Michael J. Anderson,
who runs the Chicago field office, are two of the people being considered as an
interim director. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 THE TIMES-PICAYUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         May 12, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Hemispheric Pressure: As Asian Powers Rise, How Should the West Respond?;
Nonfiction

BYLINE: THOMAS J. CHRISTENSEN

SECTION: BOOKS; review

LENGTH: 1386 words



HIGHLIGHT: In "Easternization," Gideon Rachman explores an international
transfer of power.


EASTERNIZATION
Asia's Rise and America's Decline: From Obama to Trump and Beyond
By Gideon Rachman
307 pp. Other Press. $25.95.

"High-quality global journalism requires investment." With this phrase, The
Financial Times encourages online readers to subscribe and discourages them from
forwarding articles. This intelligent and provocative new book by the paper's
leading chief foreign affairs commentator, Gideon Rachman, reminds us of
different requirements for journalistic excellence: historical education,
engagement in scholarly debates and tireless travel to interview global
decision-makers.

"Easternization" navigates the recent migration of economic, military and
political power from the Western Hemisphere to the Eastern. Rachman repeatedly
returns to that migration's main engine -- the rise of China -- but his thesis
is broader. He considers the rise of Asia as a whole, including the growing
clout of India and the continuing importance of Japan, a nation that is not
currently rising but remains wealthy, technologically sophisticated and
economically linked to all continents. Rachman also explores the decreasing
ability of Americans and Europeans to shape to their liking outcomes around the
world. Relentlessly fair, he resists blaming Asia's successes for Western
problems and recognizes the West's self-inflicted wounds.

Rachman's wisdom about global history precludes cartoonish characterizations of
"East" versus "West." Western nations spent more blood and treasure fighting one
another, especially in two massive world wars, than they did colluding to
dominate others. Similarly, mistrust among Asian states today outstrips mistrust
among them and the United States or Europe. Nor do political ideas provide a
clear border between East and West. Europe has had more than its share of
authoritarian regimes, so it is a stretch to consider the recent rise of
illiberal nationalism in Europe as somehow a move "eastward." Mainland Chinese
propagandists rail against the "Western values" of multiparty democracy, a free
press and independent courts, but some of the nation's largest and most
successful Asian neighbors -- South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Indonesia and India --
are no less Eastern for enjoying all of those institutions. No one, including
Rachman, really knows how to categorize Russia. Moscow has tried with limited
success to cobble together a Eurasian union with former Soviet republics in
Central Asia, but it sees itself as the European part of such a union. Russia's
recent diplomatic lean toward China has more to do with energy markets and the
two authoritarian regimes' shared aversion to American support for color
revolutions and regime change than it does with either realpolitik alliance
formation or Sino-Russian cultural affinity.

Changes within the East itself are as important to Rachman's analysis of war and
peace as the global shift of power eastward. The prospect of a Sino-American war
provides the most likely scenario for a direct conflict between Rachman's rising
East and declining West, but it is harder to imagine such a conflict occurring
without a prior clash between China and one of its neighbors. The good news ends
there. China's growing offshore military and civilian presence in the maritime
sphere has exacerbated tensions over longstanding sovereignty disputes with its
Asian neighbors, including American allies and security partners. The Obama
administration's self-styled "pivot to Asia" ensured that American forces and
diplomats remained actively involved in addressing these regional tensions.

Rachman gets the big picture in Asia right, but he sometimes gets important
details wrong. For example, China's recent military modernization means
forward-deployed American forces and bases in the region are vulnerable to
attack in ways they were not during the Taiwan Strait crisis of 1995-96. It is
incorrect and somewhat dangerous, however, for him to argue that Beijing "backed
off" after the Clinton administration sent two aircraft carrier battle groups
toward Taiwan in early 1996. Beijing apparently had no plan to escalate anyway.
Nationalism is indeed an important part of the Chinese Communist Party's
domestic legitimacy that influences Beijing's foreign policies, but that
phenomenon long predates the brutal crackdown on protesters on June 4, 1989.
Beijing and Washington have worked out peaceful methods to handle their
difference over Taiwan since 1972, but the United States never formally accepted
Beijing's One China policy, as Rachman states. Instead Washington adheres to its
own version, with intentional ambiguity in regard to Taiwan's legal status in
relation to mainland China.

Like many, Rachman sometimes seems hamstrung by historical knowledge. In 1914 an
archduke's murder in Sarajevo caused economically interdependent states in
Europe to fight a giant war of survival, so why can't disputes over Asian rocks,
reefs and artificial islands create a massive conflagration today? This is a
good question, but many differences exist between these two worlds. There are no
tightly knit alliance blocks in contemporary East Asia. Today all great powers
have either nuclear weapons or nuclear-armed allies, a deterrent to massive
conventional escalation. Perhaps most important, globalization in the past few
decades has produced fundamentally different and deeper economic interdependence
than in the past. The massive investment flows between the industrial economies,
the rise of intra-industry trade and the creation of complex transnational
production chains are all forces for peace today that were missing in 1914
Europe.

Rachman's "Easternization" process matters, but so far mainly as a subset of the
larger process of globalization that enabled it in the first place. The growing
pains of the East pose threats of instability to a highly integrated global
system, not directly to the West itself. No Asian actor can currently project
military power other than ballistic missiles and cyber volleys very far from
home. Serious East-West military clashes, then, would have to occur in the East.
Unfortunately, Rachman is correct that Western comfort stops there. Asia is now
a vital organ in the globalized system on which we all depend; challenges to
Asian stability are real, and Western actors have less wherewithal than in the
past to contribute actively to maintaining stability there.

"Easternization" has implications not only for war and peace but also for global
governance. Institutions created after World War II have not adjusted smoothly
to eastward shifts in power, nor have they kept up with the global demand for
cooperation to counter climate change, financial instability, underdevelopment
and nuclear proliferation. China has recently taken the lead to fill some of
those institutional holes with cooperative ventures like the Asia Infrastructure
Investment Bank and the "One Belt, One Road" initiative. Beyond the region,
Asian states' growing trade and financial relations with Africa and Latin
America are generally positive developments. They come, however, with few
strings attached and can thereby undercut recent American and European efforts
to condition development aid on improvements in governance.

Rachman's book concludes with some optimism about the West's continuing
influence. The integrated global economy gives enormous power advantages to
institutionally sound governments in the United States and the European Union.
China's insecure single-party state is politically unwilling and structurally
unable to replace the American dollar as the world's reserve currency or Western
Europe as a global banking center. Moreover, as long as leaders in the East need
growth to stay in power, they should be reluctant to weaken ties to a highly
integrated global marketplace. We should then expect considerably less great
power conflict during 21st-century easternization than there was in the very
bloody 20th century of Western dominance.

Thomas J. Christensen is a professor of world politics at Princeton and former
deputy assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs. His most
recent book is "The China Challenge: Shaping the Choices of a Rising Power."

PHOTO: Barack Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping before the G-20 summit in
2016. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         May 12, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Suddenly Intrigued by Scandals and Spies? Here's What to See;
Where to Go Now

BYLINE: SHIVANI VORA

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 957 words



HIGHLIGHT: With the F.B.I. and Russia investigations in the news, museums and
tours (including those at the White House) can offer history and insight.


Donald J. Trump's presidency and the events surrounding it have led to a revived
interest in politically themed tourist sites and tours in the United States,
according to Rob Stein, a travel adviser at the Stein Collective, a company in
New York City specializing in trips inspired by politics. "Trump isn't just a
political figure," he said. "He's like a controversial reality TV star, and
because of him, the general public is more engaged in current politics and
thrilling topics like spying and scandals."

The past week has not lacked for vivid political headlines, whether it was Sally
Q. Yates, the acting attorney general Mr. Trump fired in January, testifying
about the Russian connections of Michael T. Flynn, the former national security
adviser, or the firing of James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director. Here are sites
and tours that offer perspective and insight.

International Spy Museum, Washington, D.C.: Open since 2002, this three-story
museum claims to have the world's largest collection of items related to
international espionage. Examples include a lipstick pistol, a single-shot gun
used by K.G.B. operatives during the Cold War, and a minuscule camera from the
1970s that was hidden in a coat button and used in the Soviet Union and North
America. Visitors can also peruse several interactive exhibitions tracing the
history of espionage from biblical times to the present day, including Weapons
of Mass Disruption, which illustrates the role computers play in spying and
terrorist attacks. You'll see the personal laptop of the real-life hacker known
only as Th3J35T3R (the Jester).

Occasionally, the museum offers the opportunity to meet with former intelligence
officers. Next up, on May 17, is dinner and drinks with two former C.I.A.
station chiefs, N. John MacGaffin III and William Ross Newland III. Mr.
MacGaffin serves as an adviser on the Showtime series "Homeland." Adult
admission is $22. 800 F Street NW, spymuseum.org

The White House: A tour of the White House may be free, but it's not an easy
ticket to come by. United States citizens must submit a request through their
member of Congress at least three weeks in advance but no sooner than three
months in advance -- during the peak summer tourist season; it's advisable to
ask sooner rather than later. The tours are self-guided and generally available
only for limited hours Tuesday through Saturday. What you'll see are the first
floor of the East Wing and the ground and state floors of the executive
residence. Noncitizens should submit a tour request to their embassy in
Washington. 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue,
whitehouse.gov/participate/tours-and-events

In Washington and didn't plan in advance? A visit to the White House Visitor
Center is the instant-gratification option. Less than a block away from the
White House, the center offers a touch-screen tour of the presidential residence
and has a display of 90 artifacts, such as a decorative eagle that once topped a
White House flagpole. Admission is free. 1450 Pennsylvania Avenue NW,
whitehousehistory.org/white-house-visitor-center

The White House at Night--Secrets and Legends: Delve deep into the scandalous
side of the White House with this 90-minute walking tour, held several times a
week at 8 p.m. A guide shares stories about presidential affairs and colorful
first ladies. Besides walking around the White House, participants visit
Lafayette Park, nicknamed Tragedy Square because it is where many murders and
assassination attempts have taken place. Given the graphic content discussed
during the tour, it's recommended for adults only. The fee is $20.
freetoursbyfoot.com

Newseum, Washington: In an era in which the term "fake news" has been much used,
this seven-level museum dedicated to the history of journalism has never been
more pertinent. Highlights include the Pulitzer Prize Photographs Gallery, with
every Pulitzer Prize-winning entry back to 1942, and the Inside Today's F.B.I.
exhibition, dedicated to the agency's fight against terrorism and cyber
criminals, which includes artifacts from the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing such
as the handcuffs that restrained Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, one of the bombers. A must
on a visit is the Today's Front Pages gallery, where 80 front pages from
newspapers around the world are electronically displayed. Adult admission is
$25. 555 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, newseum.org

Pentagon Tours, Arlington County, Va.: The headquarters of the Department of
Defense are a mini-city serving more than 20,000 employees. Hourlong guided
tours are offered every weekday, excluding federal holidays. Tours include the
history of the four branches of the military, and the one-and-a-half-mile route
has stops at various exhibitions throughout the building, such as the indoor
memorial near the Sept. 11 crash site. Requests for tours must be submitted
online 14 to 90 days in advance of the desired date. Admission is free. 1400
Defense Pentagon, pentagontours.osd.mil/Tours/contact.jsp

Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum, Yorba Linda, Calif.: Similarities
between the administrations of President Richard M. Nixon and President Trump
are hot topics in the press and on social media -- for one, both presidents
fired men leading investigations (Nixon dismissed the special prosecutor
Archibald Cox Jr.). Visitors will find replicas of the White House East Room and
the Oval Office as they looked when Nixon was in office, as well as exhibitions
related to his foreign and domestic policies. There's also an area devoted to
the Watergate scandal (visitors can listen to tapes of the Watergate testimony
before Congress). Also on the grounds: the house where Nixon was born and his
burial site. Adult admission is $16. 18001 Yorba Linda Boulevard,
nixonlibrary.gov

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2017 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Latest Developments on Comey: Acting F.B.I. Chief Contradicts White House

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; LIVE BRIEFING; Pg.

LENGTH: 1778 words


â-  Andrew G. McCabe, the acting director of the F.B.I., is testifying before
the Senate Intelligence Committee.

â-  Mr. McCabe contradicted the White House's assertion that James B. Comey, the
F.B.I. director fired by President Trump this week, had lost the support of
rank-and-file F.B.I. agents.

â-  Mr. McCabe also said that the firing of Mr. Comey had not affected the
Justice Department's investigation of Russia's meddling in the presidential
election.

â-  The committee's top Democrat asked Mr. McCabe to tell senators about any
efforts by the White House to intervene with the investigation.

Acting F.B.I. director contradicts White House.

The unfolding story over Mr. Trump's abrupt firing of Mr. Comey hung over the
hearing, infusing political theater into annual testimony by the nation's top
security officials about the biggest threats facing the United States.

Mr. McCabe rejected the White House's assertion that Mr. Comey had lost the
backing of rank-and-file F.B.I. agents, a pointed rebuke of what had been one of
the president's main defenses for the move.

''Director Comey enjoyed broad support within the F.B.I. and still does to this
day,'' Mr. McCabe said at the hearing.

''The vast majority of F.B.I. employees enjoyed a deep and positive connection
to Director Comey,'' he added.

-- Adam Goldman

Deputy attorney general stops by.

The deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, met with members of the Senate
Intelligence Committee this afternoon, arriving with a security detail as the
public hearing was continuing. He declined to speak with reporters in the halls
of the Senate.

The meeting with Mr. Rosenstein had been requested by the committee, according
to Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina and the chairman of the
committee. ''It's a request we made prior to Director Comey's departure, and it
just so happened that the timing was it could just happen today,'' Mr. Burr
said.

The discussion surely took on a new tone given the events of the last two days.
At least part of the conversation centered on ensuring that the government's
inquiry into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election was free from
conflicts of interest.

''We felt there was a great need to set up a process for deconfliction,'' Mr.
Burr said. ''We were able to share that with the deputy attorney general, and we
feel our investigations will go forward with a fairly good understanding of the
rules of the road.''

Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia and vice chairman of the committee,
called the private meeting ''fairly productive,'' but he quickly added, ''I
still have concerns about Mr. Rosenstein in terms of his role in the
circumstances of Mr. Comey's departure.''

The senators noted they had asked Mr. Comey to brief them on Tuesday, but that
as of this afternoon they had not heard back from him.

Mr. Rosenstein slipped out quietly as the senators addressed reporters. Mr. Burr
and Mr. Warner then left to attend a closed-door meeting with intelligence
officials.

-- Rebecca R. Ruiz

Russia inquiry 'highly significant,' acting F.B.I. chief says.

Mr. McCabe also said that the Justice Department's investigation into whether
any Trump associates colluded with Russia in the presidential election was
''highly significant,'' another direct contradiction of the White House.

A day earlier, a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, trying to parry accusations that Mr.
Comey's firing was related to the Russia inquiry, called it ''probably one of
the smallest things that they've got going on their plate'' at the F.B.I.

Mr. McCabe was also adamant that the firing of Mr. Comey had not affected the
investigation.

''The work of the men and women of the F.B.I. continues despite any changes in
circumstances,'' he said in response to a question from Senator Marco Rubio,
Republican of Florida. ''There has been no effort to impede our investigation to
date. Simply put, you cannot stop the men and women of the F.B.I. from doing the
right thing.''

Mr. McCabe is likely to sidestep more delicate questions about the Russia
inquiry from Democrats pressing him for information to keep the investigation
dominant in the news.

That is despite the efforts of the committee's Republican chairman to keep the
subject from dominating the day.

''Let me disappoint you,'' Mr. Burr, the chairman, said as he opened the
proceeding. ''The purpose of today's hearing is to review and highlight to the
extent possible the ranges of threats we face as a nation,'' he said, before
listing dangers the United States faces, including cyberthreats, Islamist
militants and North Korea.

Although he is well known in the intelligence community, Mr. McCabe, a veteran
F.B.I. agent, has little name recognition outside of Washington. He has dealt
with Congress for years, but usually behind closed doors.

A Duke University graduate with a law degree from Washington University in St.
Louis, Mr. McCabe is considered a skilled briefer. He is something of wunderkind
at the F.B.I., rising quickly in the organization to become deputy director in
early 2016. But he is not universally loved among agents.

Some inside the F.B.I. believe he did not work in the field long enough and rose
too quickly to appreciate the concerns of agents.

Also testifying are Mike Pompeo, the director of the C.I.A.; Dan Coats, the
director of national intelligence; Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the head of the
National Security Agency; and others.

-- Adam Goldman

Democrat seeks warning of political interference.

Mr. Warner, the top Democrat on the committee, sought assurances from Mr. McCabe
that he would sound the alarm if the White House or others tried to intervene in
the investigation into whether any of Mr. Trump's associates colluded with
Russia in its interference in the election.

''While we don't know how long you will be acting as F.B.I. director, my first
questions for you, even in this public setting, will be for you to assure the
committee that if you come under any political influence from the White House or
others to squash this investigation, or impede it in any way, that you will let
this committee know,'' said Mr. Warner, who has called the committee's own
inquiry into Russian election interference ''probably the most important thing
I've done in public life.''

He called the firing of Mr. Comey ''a shocking development.''

''It's hard to avoid the conclusion that the president's decision to remove
Director Comey was related to this investigation, and that is truly
unacceptable,'' he added. ''Our committee will get to the bottom of what
happened in the 2016 presidential election.''

Mr. Burr asked whether Mr. McCabe was aware of Mr. Comey telling the president
three times that he was not under investigation, as Mr. Trump claimed. Mr.
McCabe said he could not comment on any conversations that Mr. Comey might have
had with the president.

-- Adam Goldman and Matthew Rosenberg

Justice official's memo on Comey troubles a Democrat.

Democratic lawmakers were increasingly critical on Thursday of Attorney General
Jeff Sessions and his deputy, Mr. Rosenstein, who wrote the 13-paragraph memo
that Mr. Trump has said was the basis for Mr. Comey's ouster.

Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said she had read Mr.
Rosenstein's memo three times.

''With each read, I've become more troubled by the contents of this unusual
document,'' Ms. Feinstein said, expressing surprise that Mr. Rosenstein, a
Justice Department veteran, had not offered a more thorough rationale, but
instead referenced the public comments of some of his predecessors as deputy
attorney general.

''Instead of a document that provides meaningful analysis, the memo reads like
political document,'' she said. ''It includes quotes from op-eds and television
appearances that are as old as six months. It doesn't include any contemporary
insights from inside the F.B.I. The memo appears to have been hastily assembled
to justify a preordained outcome.''

Ms. Feinstein, who has called for a special prosecutor in the Russia inquiry,
demanded that Mr. Sessions and Mr. Rosenstein recuse themselves from selecting
someone for such a role.

''This issue should be handled by the most senior career attorney at the Justice
Department,'' she said.

-- Rebecca R. Ruiz

Watch the entire hearing.

[Video:  Watch on YouTube.]

Are cyberattacks the nation's top threat?

For many years in a row, the worldwide threat assessment produced by the
nation's 16 intelligence agencies had been clear about the No. 1 threat:
cyberattacks on the United States. The question is whether it stays No. 1.

Mr. Trump was clear about his top threat during the campaign: what he called
''radical Islamic terrorism.'' He spoke often about immigration. He occasionally
took up the topic of ''the cyber,'' as he termed it during the campaign, but his
administration is still rewriting an executive order on cybersecurity that was
supposed to be issued in the first days of his presidency. A deadline for a
90-day review of American cyberdefenses went by a few weeks ago with nary a word
from the White House.

Threat assessment is an art, not a science, and a decade ago, cybersecurity
barely appeared in the annual report at all. But after a year in which the
American election process became a victim of a combination of cyber- and
information-warfare techniques, which caught the government unaware, it would
seem to be a strange time to demote the ranking of the threat.

-- David E. Sanger

Where the Russia investigations stand.

Mr. Comey's firing has led several lawmakers to call for an independent
investigator or commission on top of the current investigations into potential
links between Russia and the Trump campaign.

In addition to the F.B.I.'s investigation, two congressional committees are
pursuing inquiries into the matter.

See where things stand with the inquiries Â»

Changing views on Comey.

After the president fired Mr. Comey, politicians on both sides of the aisle
changed their attitudes toward the ousted F.B.I. director, whose farewell to his
former colleagues had to be forwarded to agents on his behalf since he could no
longer access the bureau's email system.

Which lawmakers question Comey's firing?

Congressional reaction ranged from support for the decision to calls for a
special prosecutor or an independent investigation to examine the ties between
Mr. Trump's associates and the Russian government -- beyond the existing
inquiries by Senate and House committees. View our collection of the lawmakers'
responses Â»

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/11/us/politics/live-briefing-james-comey-andrew-
mccabe.html

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        May 13, 2017 Saturday 00:00 EST

British Patients Reel as Hospitals Race to Revive Computer Systems

BYLINE: DAN BILEFSKY

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 1205 words



HIGHLIGHT: Politicians pointed fingers and patients expressed a mix of
frustration and gratitude as hospital employees grappled with the recent
cyberattack.


LONDON -- Martin Hardy was in his hospital gown, about to be wheeled into the
operating room for knee surgery on Saturday morning at Royal London Hospital in
East London, when, he said, his operation was abruptly canceled.

Mr. Hardy, 52, a caregiver for his father, said his surgeon told him the
operation could not be carried out because the hospital's computer system was
not working and his condition was not life-threatening.

"I was in my hospital robe literally about to go in," he said, wincing as he
stood on crutches outside the hospital, waiting for a taxi home. "How can anyone
in their right mind do such a thing?" he added, referring to the people behind
the devastating cyberattack that affected organizations in nearly 100 countries
and sent tremors across Britain's National Health Service.

A day after one of the largest "ransomware" attacks on record, which left
thousands of computers at companies in Europe, universities in Asia and
hospitals in Britain still crippled or shut down on Saturday, Amber Rudd, the
British home secretary, told the BBC that the N.H.S. needed to learn from what
had happened and upgrade its information technology system.

Ms. Rudd said the number of affected N.H.S. organizations in England and
Scotland had risen to 48 (20 percent of the 248 public health trusts), of which
all but six were back to normal. Britain's National Cyber Security Center is
working with the N.H.S. to ensure the attack is contained.

The opposition Labour Party criticized the government sharply on Saturday for
what it called negligence in not updating N.H.S. software after Microsoft
provided a security patch against such ransomware attacks in March. Jonathan
Ashworth, Labour's shadow health secretary, said in a letter to Health Secretary
Jeremy Hunt, "The incident highlights the risk to data security within our
modern health service and reinforces the need for cyber security to be at the
heart of government planning."

Ms. Rudd conceded that the N.H.S., where many computers had outdated software
vulnerable to malware and ransomware, had been ill prepared, despite numerous
warnings. "I would expect N.H.S. trusts to learn from this and to make sure that
they do upgrade," she said.

For some, her words offered little comfort. "National Hacked Service," said the
headline in The Sun on Saturday, reflecting the frustration of Britons for whom
the vaunted but chronically underfunded N.H.S. is deeply bound up in national
identity. So intrinsic is the N.H.S. to Britons' sense of self that the service
was featured in the opening of the 2012 London Olympics, complete with dozens of
people dressed as patients and nurses dancing around illuminated beds that
spelled the letters N.H.S.

On Saturday at Royal London, a world-renowned teaching hospital in the Bethnal
Green neighborhood, patients expressed a mix of frustration, resignation and
gratitude as the medical staff worked to provide care while still grappling with
the cyberattack. The hospital, which has 675 beds and hosts one of Europe's
largest accident and emergency departments, has been an imposing and beloved
presence in its multicultural neighborhood since the 18th century. Welcome signs
in the hospital greet visitors in English, Chinese and Arabic.

Zahid Ahmed, 23, a local shopkeeper whose son was born at the hospital, said the
cyberattack was an assault on the social fabric of the neighborhood, where the
hospital was part of life, from cradle to grave.

"Everyone in this neighborhood relies on this hospital," he said. "A hospital is
like a mosque or a church or a school." Castigating the attacker, he added, "Is
there nothing sacred?"

On Saturday, some doctors and nurses there said that they had been unable to
gain access to patient computer files and that they had been using paper files
and recording patient histories by pen, as they had done in the pre-internet
age. Several nurses said they were struggling to obtain blood test results.
Members of the urology clinic said they were unable to work because the
computers were down.

"This attack is horrible because it disturbs the service and strikes at the
heart of a hospital," said Beverly Somera, a nurse, as she left the hospital
after her night shift. "We have to do everything by hand, and this can slow
things down."

A note on the door of the emergency room warned patients that the hospital was
experiencing information technology problems and that there could be delays. A
man with a cast and crutches said he had been turned away.

Barts Health N.H.S. Trust, which runs the hospital, said in a statement that it
was dealing with a major information technology disruption and apologized for
any delays. It said outpatient appointments on Saturday had been canceled.

Fred Bird, a retired truck driver, said he had been called by the hospital
earlier in the week to pick up X-rays before a colonoscopy procedure, only to
arrive on Saturday morning and find the imaging department's doors closed.

"You can't blame the hospital, but surely the N.H.S. knew this could happen?" he
said, his face reddening with anger. "And I don't understand why their computers
weren't secure. We all pay into the N.H.S., and this is what we get. What on
earth is going on in this country?"

Samantha Tugushi, 28, said she had arrived at a clinic hoping to be treated for
an infection, only to be turned away after a long wait. "I guess I will go home
and take a paracetamol," she said.

At St. Mary's Hospital in Central London, the computer systems were back up and
running and the accident and emergency department appeared to be processing
patients in an orderly fashion.

Still, some patients were worried about their records. Amanda Wilson, 64, who
went to St. Mary's on Saturday for an X-ray, said with a nervous laugh: "I'm
worried they've lost my files. What do I do then? I don't remember all the
different procedures I've been through."

Across Britain, medical officials were grappling with how to increase security
after the attack.

Dr. Krishna Chinthapalli, a senior resident at the National Hospital for
Neurology and Neurosurgery in London, who predicted a cyberattack on the N.H.S.
in an article published in the British Medical Journal a few days before the
attack, said it was disturbing.

"I had expected an attack," he said in an interview. "But not on this scale."

He had warned in the article that hospitals were especially vulnerable to
ransomware attacks because they held vital data, and were probably more willing
than others to pay a ransom to recover it. He said in the interview that many of
the N.H.S. computers still ran Windows XP, an out-of-date software.

He warned that if hospitals paid the ransoms, it could lead to a slippery slope
of other attacks.

Steven Erlanger and Ceylan Yeginsu contributed reporting.

PHOTO: Royal London Hospital was one of numerous medical facilities hit by a
large-scale cyberattack. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILL OLIVER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

Related Articles


     ·    Hacking Attack Has Security Experts Scrambling to Contain Fallout
     ·    Hackers Hit Dozens of Countries Exploiting Stolen N.S.A. Tool
     ·    U.K. Health Service Ignored Warnings for Months
     ·    What We Know and Don't Know About the International Cyberattack
     ·    The World Is Getting Hacked. Why Don't We Do More to Stop It?


LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         May 14, 2017 Sunday 00:00 EST

Ransomware's Aftershocks Feared as U.S. Warns of Complexity

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER, SEWELL CHAN and MARK SCOTT

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 1490 words



HIGHLIGHT: The effects of a global cyberattack could be magnified as workers
return to their offices. President Trump has ordered his homeland security
adviser to coordinate a response.


The components of the global cyberattack that seized hundreds of thousands of
computer systems last week may be more complex than originally believed, a Trump
administration official said Sunday, and experts warned that the effects of the
malicious software could linger for some time.

As a new workweek started Monday in Asia, there were concerns the malicious
software could spread further and in different forms, with new types of
ransomware afflicting computers around the globe.

There were initial reports of new cases found over the weekend in Japan, South
Koreaand Taiwan.

President Trump has ordered his homeland security adviser, Thomas P. Bossert,
who has a background in cyberissues, to coordinate the government's response to
the spread of the malware and help organize the search for who was responsible,
an administration official said Sunday.

The attack is more complicated because "the experts tell us that this code was
cobbled together from many places and sources," according to an administration
official who insisted on anonymity to discuss the government's cybersecurity
plans. The more potential sources of the malicious code, the harder it is for
investigators to run down the trail of possible perpetrators.

The source of the attack is a delicate issue for the United States because the
vulnerability on which the malicious software is based was published by a group
called the Shadow Brokers, which last summer began publishing cybertools
developed by the National Security Agency.

Government investigators, while not publicly acknowledging that the computer
code was developed by American intelligence agencies as part of the country's
growing arsenal of cyberweapons, say they are still investigating how the code
got out. There are many theories, but increasingly it looks as though the
initial breach came from an insider, perhaps a government contractor.

Copycat variants of the malicious software behind the attacks have begun to
proliferate, according to experts who were on guard for new attacks. "We are in
the second wave," said Matthieu Suiche of Comae Technologies, a cybersecurity
company based in the United Arab Emirates. "As expected, the attackers have
released new variants of the malware. We can surely expect more."

The National Police Agency in Japan found two computers with the malicious
software over the weekend, according to reports by NHK, the national
broadcaster. One instance was found on a personal computer in a hospital and the
other on a private citizen's home computer. A hospital in Taiwan also reported
that one of its computers was compromised, Taiwan's Central News Agency said
Sunday.

Five businesses in South Korea reported ransomware attacks over the weekend,
according to the government's internet security agency, and a Korean theater
chain said late-night moviegoers on Sunday alerted them when computer ransom
notes appeared on screens instead of programmed advertisements.

The spread of the malicious software, or malware, has focused attention on
several questions, including why a software patch, issued by Microsoft in March,
was not installed by more users. But for many systems, especially older systems,
such patches are not installed automatically -- a fact the hackers took
advantage of. Microsoft has not said how it became aware of the vulnerability,
but it seems likely it was tipped off by the National Security Agency.

Brad Smith, the president and chief legal officer of Microsoft, said in a blog
post Sunday that the attack should be a "wake-up call" for the tech industry,
consumers and governments.

Mr. Smith said that Microsoft had the "first responsibility" for addressing
vulnerabilities in its software, and that customers must be vigilant. But he
said the latest attack showed the dangers of governments' "stockpiling of
vulnerabilities."

"Repeatedly, exploits in the hands of governments have leaked into the public
domain and caused widespread damage," Mr. Smith wrote.

So far, the main targets of the attack have been outside the United States. But
neither the federal government nor American corporations assume that this will
continue to be the case.

Britain's National Cyber Security Center said Sunday that it had seen "no
sustained new attacks" but warned that compromised computers might not have been
detected yet and that the malware could further spread within networks.

Monday could bring a wave of attacks to the United States, warned Caleb Barlow,
the vice president of threat intelligence for IBM. "How the infections spread
across Asia, then Europe overnight will be telling for businesses here in the
United States," he said.

The cyberattack has hit 200,000 computers in more than 150 countries, according
to Rob Wainwright, the executive director of Europol, Europe's police agency.

Among the organizations hit were FedEx in the United States, the Spanish telecom
giant Telefónica, the French automaker Renault, universities in China, Germany's
federal railway system and Russia's Interior Ministry. The most disruptive
attacks infected Britain's public health system, where surgeries had to be
rescheduled and some patients were turned away from emergency rooms.

A 22-year-old British researcher who uses the Twitter name MalwareTech has been
credited with inadvertently helping to stanch the spread of the assault by
identifying the web domain for the hackers' "kill switch" -- a way of disabling
the malware. Mr. Suiche of Comae Technologies said he had done the same for one
of the new variants of malware to surface since the initial wave.

On Sunday, MalwareTech was one of many security experts warning that a
less-vulnerable version of the malware is likely to be released. On Twitter, he
urged users to immediately install a security patch for older versions of
Microsoft's Windows, including Windows XP. (The attack did not target Windows
10.)

Version 1 of WannaCrypt was stoppable but version 2.0 will likely remove the
flaw. You're only safe if you patch ASAP. -- MalwareTech (@MalwareTechBlog) May
14, 2017

Robert Pritchard, a former cybersecurity expert at Britain's defense ministry,
said that security specialists might not be able to keep pace with the hackers.

"This vulnerability still exits; other people are bound to exploit it," he said.
"The current variant will make its way into antivirus software. But what about
any new variants that will come in the future?"

Allan Liska, an analyst with Recorded Future, a cybersecurity company, said a
new version of the ransomware he examined Sunday did not have the kill switch.
"This is probably version 2.1, and it has the potential to be much more
effective -- assuming security defenders haven't spent all weekend patching," he
said.

The Microsoft patch will help, but installing it across large organizations will
take time.

Microsoft has complained for years that a large majority of computers running
its software are using pirated versions. The spread of hacking attacks has made
legal versions of software more popular, as they typically provide automatic
updates of security upgrades.

Governments around the world were bracing themselves for new attacks.

"Please beware and anticipate, and take preventive steps against the WannaCry
malware attack," Indonesia's communication and information minister, Rudiantara,
who like many Indonesians uses only one name, said Sunday at a news conference.

He confirmed that one hospital -- Dharmais Hospital in the capital, Jakarta,
which specializes in cancer treatment -- had been afflicted by the malware, but
without major effects on patients.

In Britain, fallout continued Sunday. Two opposition parties, the Labour Party
and the Liberal Democrats, asserted that the governing Conservative Party had
not done enough to prevent the attack. With a general election June 8, officials
have been racing to get ahead of the problem.

Britain's defense minister, Michael Fallon, told the BBC on Sunday that the
government was spending about 50 million pounds, about $64 million, to improve
cybersecurity at the National Health Service, where many computers still run the
outdated Windows XP software, which Microsoft had stopped supporting.

A government regulator warned the N.H.S. in July that updating hardware and
software was "a matter of urgency," and noted that one hospital had already had
to pay £700,000, about $900,000, to repair a breach that began after an employee
clicked on a web link in an unsafe email.

Reporting was contributed by Austin Ramzy, Motoko Rich, Keith Bradsher, Joe
Cochrane, Steve Lohr, Paul Mozur, Richard C. Paddock, Ceylan Yeginsu and Choe
Sang-Hun.

PHOTO: Thomas P. Bossert, the president's homeland security adviser, is handling
the response. (POOL PHOTO BY RON SACHS) (A6)

Related Articles


     ·    Hacking Attack Has Security Experts Scrambling to Contain Fallout
     ·    With New Digital Tools, Even Nonexperts Can Wage Cyberattacks
     ·    Hackers Hit Dozens of Countries Exploiting Stolen N.S.A. Tool
     ·    U.K. Health Service Ignored Warnings for Months


LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 14, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hemispheric Pressures

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. CHRISTENSEN.

Thomas J. Christensen is a professor of world politics at Princeton and former
deputy assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs. His most
recent book is ''The China Challenge: Shaping the Choices of a Rising Power.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; NONFICTION; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1333 words


EASTERNIZATION Asia's Rise and America's Decline: From Obama to Trump and Beyond
By Gideon Rachman 307 pp. Other Press. $25.95.

''High-quality global journalism requires investment.'' With this phrase, The
Financial Times encourages online readers to subscribe and discourages them from
forwarding articles. This intelligent and provocative new book by the paper's
leading chief foreign affairs commentator, Gideon Rachman, reminds us of
different requirements for journalistic excellence: historical education,
engagement in scholarly debates and tireless travel to interview global
decision-makers.

''Easternization'' navigates the recent migration of economic, military and
political power from the Western Hemisphere to the Eastern. Rachman repeatedly
returns to that migration's main engine -- the rise of China -- but his thesis
is broader. He considers the rise of Asia as a whole, including the growing
clout of India and the continuing importance of Japan, a nation that is not
currently rising but remains wealthy, technologically sophisticated and
economically linked to all continents. Rachman also explores the decreasing
ability of Americans and Europeans to shape to their liking outcomes around the
world. Relentlessly fair, he resists blaming Asia's successes for Western
problems and recognizes the West's self-inflicted wounds.

Rachman's wisdom about global history precludes cartoonish characterizations of
''East'' versus ''West.'' Western nations spent more blood and treasure fighting
one another, especially in two massive world wars, than they did colluding to
dominate others. Similarly, mistrust among Asian states today outstrips mistrust
among them and the United States or Europe. Nor do political ideas provide a
clear border between East and West. Europe has had more than its share of
authoritarian regimes, so it is a stretch to consider the recent rise of
illiberal nationalism in Europe as somehow a move ''eastward.'' Mainland Chinese
propagandists rail against the ''Western values'' of multiparty democracy, a
free press and independent courts, but some of the nation's largest and most
successful Asian neighbors -- South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Indonesia and India --
are no less Eastern for enjoying all of those institutions. No one, including
Rachman, really knows how to categorize Russia. Moscow has tried with limited
success to cobble together a Eurasian union with former Soviet republics in
Central Asia, but it sees itself as the European part of such a union. Russia's
recent diplomatic lean toward China has more to do with energy markets and the
two authoritarian regimes' shared aversion to American support for color
revolutions and regime change than it does with either realpolitik alliance
formation or Sino-Russian cultural affinity.

Changes within the East itself are as important to Rachman's analysis of war and
peace as the global shift of power eastward. The prospect of a Sino-American war
provides the most likely scenario for a direct conflict between Rachman's rising
East and declining West, but it is harder to imagine such a conflict occurring
without a prior clash between China and one of its neighbors. The good news ends
there. China's growing offshore military and civilian presence in the maritime
sphere has exacerbated tensions over longstanding sovereignty disputes with its
Asian neighbors, including American allies and security partners. The Obama
administration's self-styled ''pivot to Asia'' ensured that American forces and
diplomats remained actively involved in addressing these regional tensions.

Rachman gets the big picture in Asia right, but he sometimes gets important
details wrong. For example, China's recent military modernization means
forward-deployed American forces and bases in the region are vulnerable to
attack in ways they were not during the Taiwan Strait crisis of 1995--96. It is
incorrect and somewhat dangerous, however, for him to argue that Beijing
''backed off'' after the Clinton administration sent two aircraft carrier battle
groups toward Taiwan in early 1996. Beijing apparently had no plan to escalate
anyway. Nationalism is indeed an important part of the Chinese Communist Party's
domestic legitimacy that influences Beijing's foreign policies, but that
phenomenon long predates the brutal crackdown on protesters on June 4, 1989.
Beijing and Washington have worked out peaceful methods to handle their
difference over Taiwan since 1972, but the United States never formally accepted
Beijing's One China policy, as Rachman states. Instead Washington adheres to its
own version, with intentional ambiguity in regard to Taiwan's legal status in
relation to mainland China.

Like many, Rachman sometimes seems hamstrung by historical knowledge. In 1914 an
archduke's murder in Sarajevo caused economically interdependent states in
Europe to fight a giant war of survival, so why can't disputes over Asian rocks,
reefs and artificial islands create a massive conflagration today? This is a
good question, but many differences exist between these two worlds. There are no
tightly knit alliance blocks in contemporary East Asia. Today all great powers
have either nuclear weapons or nuclear-armed allies, a deterrent to massive
conventional escalation. Perhaps most important, globalization in the past few
decades has produced fundamentally different and deeper economic interdependence
than in the past. The massive investment flows between the industrial economies,
the rise of intra-industry trade and the creation of complex transnational
production chains are all forces for peace today that were missing in 1914
Europe.

Rachman's ''Easternization'' process matters, but so far mainly as a subset of
the larger process of globalization that enabled it in the first place. The
growing pains of the East pose threats of instability to a highly integrated
global system, not directly to the West itself. No Asian actor can currently
project military power other than ballistic missiles and cyber volleys very far
from home. Serious East-West military clashes, then, would have to occur in the
East. Unfortunately, Rachman is correct that Western comfort stops there. Asia
is now a vital organ in the globalized system on which we all depend; challenges
to Asian stability are real, and Western actors have less wherewithal than in
the past to contribute actively to maintaining stability there.

''Easternization'' has implications not only for war and peace but also for
global governance. Institutions created after World War II have not adjusted
smoothly to eastward shifts in power, nor have they kept up with the global
demand for cooperation to counter climate change, financial instability,
underdevelopment and nuclear proliferation. China has recently taken the lead to
fill some of those institutional holes with cooperative ventures like the Asia
Infrastructure Investment Bank and the ''One Belt, One Road'' initiative. Beyond
the region, Asian states' growing trade and financial relations with Africa and
Latin America are generally positive developments. They come, however, with few
strings attached and can thereby undercut recent American and European efforts
to condition development aid on improvements in governance.

Rachman's book concludes with some optimism about the West's continuing
influence. The integrated global economy gives enormous power advantages to
institutionally sound governments in the United States and the European Union.
China's insecure single-party state is politically unwilling and structurally
unable to replace the American dollar as the world's reserve currency or Western
Europe as a global banking center. Moreover, as long as leaders in the East need
growth to stay in power, they should be reluctant to weaken ties to a highly
integrated global marketplace. We should then expect considerably less great
power conflict during 21st-century easternization than there was in the very
bloody 20th century of Western dominance.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/12/books/review/easternization-asias-rise-and-am
ericas-decline-gideon-rachman.html

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barack Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping before the G-20
summit in 2016. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 14, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

British Patients Reel as Hospitals Rush to Revive Computer Systems

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY; Steven Erlanger and Ceylan Yeginsu contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1132 words


LONDON -- Martin Hardy was in his hospital gown, about to be wheeled into the
operating room for knee surgery on Saturday morning at Royal London Hospital in
East London, when, he said, his operation was abruptly canceled.

Mr. Hardy, 52, a caregiver for his father, said his surgeon told him the
operation could not be carried out because the hospital's computer system was
not working and his condition was not life-threatening.

''I was in my hospital robe literally about to go in,'' he said, wincing as he
stood on crutches outside the hospital, waiting for a taxi home. ''How can
anyone in their right mind do such a thing?'' he added, referring to the people
behind the devastating cyberattack that affected organizations in nearly 100
countries and sent tremors across Britain's National Health Service.

A day after one of the largest ''ransomware'' attacks on record, which left
thousands of computers at companies in Europe, universities in Asia and
hospitals in Britain still crippled or shut down on Saturday, Amber Rudd, the
British home secretary, told the BBC that the N.H.S. needed to learn from what
had happened and upgrade its information technology system.

Ms. Rudd said the number of affected N.H.S. organizations in England and
Scotland had risen to 48 (20 percent of the 248 public health trusts), of which
all but six were back to normal. Britain's National Cyber Security Center is
working with the N.H.S. to ensure the attack is contained.

The opposition Labour Party criticized the government sharply on Saturday for
what it called negligence in not updating N.H.S. software after Microsoft
provided a security patch against such ransomware attacks in March. Jonathan
Ashworth, Labour's shadow health secretary, said in a letter to Health Secretary
Jeremy Hunt, ''The incident highlights the risk to data security within our
modern health service and reinforces the need for cyber security to be at the
heart of government planning.''

Ms. Rudd conceded that the N.H.S., where many computers had outdated software
vulnerable to malware and ransomware, had been ill prepared, despite numerous
warnings. ''I would expect N.H.S. trusts to learn from this and to make sure
that they do upgrade,'' she said.

For some, her words offered little comfort. ''National Hacked Service,'' said
the headline in The Sun on Saturday, reflecting the frustration of Britons for
whom the vaunted but chronically underfunded N.H.S. is deeply bound up in
national identity. So intrinsic is the N.H.S. to Britons' sense of self that the
service was featured in the  opening of the 2012 London Olympics, complete with
dozens of people dressed as patients and nurses dancing around illuminated beds
that spelled the letters N.H.S.

On Saturday at Royal London, a world-renowned teaching hospital in the Bethnal
Green neighborhood, patients expressed a mix of frustration, resignation and
gratitude as the medical staff worked to provide care while still grappling with
the cyberattack. The hospital, which has 675 beds and hosts one of Europe's
largest accident and emergency departments, has been an imposing and beloved
presence in its multicultural neighborhood since the 18th century. Welcome signs
in the hospital greet visitors in English, Chinese and Arabic.

Zahid Ahmed, 23, a local shopkeeper whose son was born at the hospital, said the
cyberattack was an assault on the social fabric of the neighborhood, where the
hospital was part of life, from cradle to grave.

''Everyone in this neighborhood relies on this hospital,'' he said. ''A hospital
is like a mosque or a church or a school.'' Castigating the attacker, he added,
''Is there nothing sacred?''

On Saturday, some doctors and nurses there said that they had been unable to
gain access to patient computer files and that they had been using paper files
and recording patient histories by pen, as they had done in the pre-internet
age. Several nurses said they were struggling to obtain blood test results.
Members of the urology clinic said they were unable to work because the
computers were down.

''This attack is horrible because it disturbs the service and strikes at the
heart of a hospital,'' said Beverly Somera, a nurse, as she left the hospital
after her night shift. ''We have to do everything by hand, and this can slow
things down.''

A note on the door of the emergency room warned patients that the hospital was
experiencing information technology problems and that there could be delays. A
man with a cast and crutches said he had been turned away.

Barts Health N.H.S. Trust, which runs the hospital, said in a statement that it
was dealing with a major information technology disruption and apologized for
any delays. It said outpatient appointments on Saturday had been canceled.

Fred Bird, a retired truck driver, said he had been called by the hospital
earlier in the week to pick up X-rays before a colonoscopy procedure, only to
arrive on Saturday morning and find the imaging department's doors closed.

''You can't blame the hospital, but surely the N.H.S. knew this could happen?''
he said, his face reddening with anger. ''And I don't understand why their
computers weren't secure. We all pay into the N.H.S., and this is what we get.
What on earth is going on in this country?''

Samantha Tugushi, 28, said she had arrived at a clinic hoping to be treated for
an infection, only to be turned away after a long wait. ''I guess I will go home
and take a paracetamol,'' she said.

At St. Mary's Hospital in Central London, the computer systems were back up and
running and the accident and emergency department appeared to be processing
patients in an orderly fashion.

Still, some patients were worried about their records. Amanda Wilson, 64, who
went to St. Mary's on Saturday for an X-ray, said with a nervous laugh: ''I'm
worried they've lost my files. What do I do then? I don't remember all the
different procedures I've been through.''

Across Britain, medical officials were grappling with how to increase security
after the attack.

Dr. Krishna Chinthapalli, a senior resident at the National Hospital for
Neurology and Neurosurgery in London, who predicted a cyberattack on the N.H.S.
in an article published in the British Medical Journal a few days before the
attack, said it was disturbing.

''I had expected an attack,'' he said in an interview. ''But not on this
scale.''

He had warned in the article that hospitals were especially vulnerable to
ransomware attacks because they held vital data, and were probably more willing
than others to pay a ransom to recover it. He said in the interview that many of
the N.H.S. computers still ran Windows XP, an out-of-date software.

He warned that if hospitals paid the ransoms, it could lead to a slippery slope
of other attacks.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/13/world/europe/uk-hospitals-cyberattack.html

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Royal London Hospital was one of numerous medical facilities hit
by a large-scale cyberattack. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILL OLIVER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO
AGENCY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 15, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Aftershock Feared as U.S. Warns Of Malware Attack's Complexity

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, SEWELL CHAN and MARK SCOTT; Reporting was
contributed by Austin Ramzy, Motoko Rich, Keith Bradsher, Joe Cochrane, Steve
Lohr, Paul Mozur, Richard C. Paddock, Ceylan Yeginsu and Choe Sang-Hun.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words


The components of the global cyberattack that seized hundreds of thousands of
computer systems last week may be more complex than originally believed, a Trump
administration official said Sunday, and experts warned that the effects of the
malicious software could linger for some time.

As a new workweek started Monday in Asia, there were concerns the malicious
software could spread further and in different forms, with new types of
ransomware afflicting computers around the globe.

There were initial reports of new cases found over the weekend in Japan, South
Korea and Taiwan.

President Trump has ordered his homeland security adviser, Thomas P. Bossert,
who has a background in cyberissues, to coordinate the government's response to
the spread of the malware and help organize the search for who was responsible,
an administration official said Sunday.

The attack is more complicated because ''the experts tell us that this code was
cobbled together from many places and sources,'' according to an administration
official who insisted on anonymity to discuss the government's cybersecurity
plans. The more potential sources of the malicious code, the harder it is for
investigators to run down the trail of possible perpetrators.

The source of the attack is a delicate issue for the United States because the
vulnerability on which the malicious software is based was published by a group
called the Shadow Brokers, which last summer began publishing cybertools
developed by the National Security Agency.

Government investigators, while not publicly acknowledging that the computer
code was developed by American intelligence agencies as part of the country's
growing arsenal of cyberweapons, say they are still investigating how the code
got out. There are many theories, but increasingly it looks as though the
initial breach came from an insider, perhaps a government contractor.

Copycat variants of the malicious software behind the attacks have begun to
proliferate, according to experts who were on guard for new attacks. ''We are in
the second wave,'' said Matthieu Suiche of Comae Technologies, a cybersecurity
company based in the United Arab Emirates. ''As expected, the attackers have
released new variants of the malware. We can surely expect more.''

The National Police Agency in Japan found two computers with the malicious
software over the weekend, according to reports by NHK, the national
broadcaster. One instance was found on a personal computer in a hospital and the
other on a private citizen's home computer. A hospital in Taiwan also reported
that one of its computers was compromised, Taiwan's Central News Agency said
Sunday.

Five businesses in South Korea reported ransomware attacks over the weekend,
according to the government's internet security agency, and a Korean theater
chain said late-night moviegoers on Sunday alerted them when computer ransom
notes appeared on screens instead of programmed advertisements.

The spread of the malicious software, or malware, has focused attention on
several questions, including why a software patch, issued by Microsoft in March,
was not installed by more users. But for many systems, especially older systems,
such patches are not installed automatically -- a fact the hackers took
advantage of. Microsoft has not said how it became aware of the vulnerability,
but it seems likely it was tipped off by the National Security Agency.

Brad Smith, the president and chief legal officer of Microsoft, said in a blog
post Sunday that the attack should be a ''wake-up call'' for the tech industry,
consumers and governments.

Mr. Smith said that Microsoft had the ''first responsibility'' for addressing
vulnerabilities in its software, and that customers must be vigilant. But he
said the latest attack showed the dangers of governments' ''stockpiling of
vulnerabilities.''

''Repeatedly, exploits in the hands of governments have leaked into the public
domain and caused widespread damage,'' Mr. Smith wrote.

So far, the main targets of the attack have been outside the United States. But
neither the federal government nor American corporations assume that this will
continue to be the case.

Britain's National Cyber Security Center said Sunday that it had seen ''no
sustained new attacks'' but warned that compromised computers might not have
been detected yet and that the malware could further spread within networks.

Monday could bring a wave of attacks to the United States, warned Caleb Barlow,
the vice president of threat intelligence for IBM. ''How the infections spread
across Asia, then Europe overnight will be telling for businesses here in the
United States,'' he said.

The cyberattack has hit 200,000 computers in more than 150 countries, according
to Rob Wainwright, the executive director of Europol, Europe's police agency.

Among the organizations hit were FedEx in the United States, the Spanish telecom
giant Telefónica, the French automaker Renault, universities in China, Germany's
federal railway system and Russia's Interior Ministry. The most disruptive
attacks infected Britain's public health system, where surgeries had to be
rescheduled and some patients were turned away from emergency rooms.

A 22-year-old British researcher who uses the Twitter name MalwareTech has been
credited with inadvertently helping to stanch the spread of the assault by
identifying the web domain for the hackers' ''kill switch'' -- a way of
disabling the malware. Mr. Suiche of Comae Technologies said he had done the
same for one of the new variants of malware to surface since the initial wave.

On Sunday, MalwareTech was one of many security experts warning that a
less-vulnerable version of the malware is likely to be released. On Twitter, he
urged users to immediately install a  security patch for older versions of
Microsoft's Windows, including Windows XP. (The attack did not target Windows
10.)

Version 1 of WannaCrypt was stoppable but version 2.0 will likely remove the
flaw. You're only safe if you patch ASAP. -- MalwareTech (@MalwareTechBlog) May
14, 2017

Robert Pritchard, a former cybersecurity expert at Britain's defense ministry,
said that security specialists might not be able to keep pace with the hackers.

''This vulnerability still exits; other people are bound to exploit it,'' he
said. ''The current variant will make its way into antivirus software. But what
about any new variants that will come in the future?''

Allan Liska, an analyst with Recorded Future, a cybersecurity company, said a
new version of the ransomware he examined Sunday did not have the kill switch.
''This is probably version 2.1, and it has the potential to be much more
effective -- assuming security defenders haven't spent all weekend patching,''
he said.

The Microsoft patch will help, but installing it across large organizations will
take time.

Microsoft has complained for years that a large majority of computers running
its software are using pirated versions. The spread of hacking attacks has made
legal versions of software more popular, as they typically provide automatic
updates of security upgrades.

Governments around the world were bracing themselves for new attacks.

''Please beware and anticipate, and take preventive steps against the WannaCry
malware attack,'' Indonesia's communication and information minister,
Rudiantara, who like many Indonesians uses only one name, said Sunday at a news
conference.

He confirmed that one hospital -- Dharmais Hospital in the capital, Jakarta,
which specializes in cancer treatment -- had been afflicted by the malware, but
without major effects on patients.

In Britain, fallout continued Sunday. Two opposition parties, the Labour Party
and the Liberal Democrats, asserted that the governing Conservative Party had
not done enough to prevent the attack. With a general election June 8, officials
have been racing to get ahead of the problem.

Britain's defense minister, Michael Fallon, told the BBC on Sunday that the
government was spending about 50 million pounds, about $64 million, to improve
cybersecurity at the National Health Service, where many computers still run the
outdated Windows XP software, which Microsoft had stopped supporting.

A government regulator warned the N.H.S. in July that updating hardware and
software was ''a matter of urgency,'' and noted that one hospital had already
had to pay £700,000, about $900,000, to repair a breach that began after an
employee clicked on a web link in an unsafe email.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/14/world/europe/cyberattacks-hack-computers-mond
ay.html

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas P. Bossert, the president's homeland security adviser, is
handling the response. (POOL PHOTO BY RON SACHS) (A6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         May 16, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump, Édouard Philippe, Ransomware: Your Tuesday Briefing;
Europe Edition

BYLINE: PATRICK BOEHLER

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 1178 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know to start your day.


(Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the sign-up.)

Good morning.

Here's what you need to know:

President Trump gave highly classified information on ISIS to visiting Russian
officials in an Oval Office meeting last week, breaking a deal with the ally who
provided the intelligence, officials said.

In Washington, Senate Republicans are showing signs of edging away from Mr.
Trump to forge a more traditional agenda and protect their political fortunes.

Separately, lawmakers from both parties called on Mr. Trump to turn over any
tapes of conversations with James Comey, the ousted F.B.I. chief. And Hillary
Clinton announced a new political group to fight Mr. Trump's policies.

_____

Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, welcomed Emmanuel Macron, France's new
president, in Berlin with pomp that reflected a rare moment of hope for the
European Union.

They declared their determination to salvage European unity in the face of
right-wing populism. Ms. Merkel did not rule out E.U. treaty changes if that
proved necessary to push medium-term overhauls.

Shortly before his departure for Berlin, Mr. Macron named Édouard Philippe, 46,
the conservative mayor of Le Havre, as his prime minister. Cabinet members are
expected to be announced today.

_____

In Austria, the leaders of the two parties in the governing coalition met with
the president to seek a date for early elections.

Snap elections could give the far-right Freedom Party, currently leading in
polls, a chance to returntopower. Above, Heinz-Christian Strache, the party's
leader.

Separately, two months of talks to form a government in the Netherlands faltered
over disagreements on immigration policy.

_____

The U.S. released satellite images from Syria that officials said showed a
crematory at a military prison outside Damascus was used to dispose of the
bodies from mass executions.

United Nations-sponsored peace talks resume in Geneva. And Syria will be on the
agenda when President Trump and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey meet at
the White House today.

Our correspondents tried to dissect the delicate issues Mr. Trump confronts in
Saudi Arabia and Israel as he goes on his first overseas trip as president this
week.

_____

Digital clues point to North Korean-linked hackers in the ransomware attacks
that have crippled computers worldwide, affecting British hospitals, French auto
plants and German train stations.

Can you find North Korea on a map? A survey of 1,700 Americans found only 36
percent could do so. Those who could were more likely to favor diplomacy over
military action.

In other cyber news, U.S. investigators said they watched Iranian hackers use a
Russian tool in an attack on an American military contractor. The tool had
previously been deployed to compromise Ukraine's power grid.

_____

Business

Saudi Arabia and Russia, the world's biggest oil exporters, agreed to extend
production cuts to shore up global prices. But their influence on the market is
waning.

The European Court of Justice is expected to rule today on whether the E.U.
needs approval of national and regional parliaments to ratify a trade deal with
Singapore.

As the hackers behind the global ransomware attack demand payment in Bitcoin,
here is our expert's look at the basics behind the electronic currency.

Here's a snapshot of global markets.

In the News

The mayor of Tehran, a candidate in Iran's presidential election on Friday, quit
the race in a bid to consolidate the conservative vote. [The New York Times]

Theresa May, the British prime minister, is courting Labour voters before
elections next month by vowing to extend worker protections. [The New York
Times]

Germany said it was considering removing its troops from the Incirlik air base
in Turkey after reports suggested that Turkey had blocked a visit by German
lawmakers. [Deutsche Welle]

Milos Zeman, the Czech president, was heard telling President Vladimir Putin of
Russia that journalists should be "liquidated." His office later said that the
remark was meant to be a joke. [The New York Times]

Hungary arrested a wanted German Holocaust denier after he reportedly sought
asylum in the country. [The New York Times]

Twelve people who were conceived with sperm from a Dutch fertility center have
filed a lawsuit asserting that its longtime director used his own sperm and is
their biological father. [The New York Times]

A physics institute that opens today in Amman, Jordan, brings together
scientists from countries that otherwise rarely talk to one another, including
Egypt, Iran and Israel. [The New York Times]

Smarter Living

Recipe of the day: Weeknight salmon is much better with a parsley sauce.

Teff, a super grain that is a staple for distance runners from Ethiopia, could
make running a marathon (slightly) easier.

There is a right way to wash your hair. A Parisian colorist has a neat trick or
two on how to shampoo for volume and shine.

Noteworthy

U2 is touring to celebrate the 30th anniversary of its album "The Joshua Tree."
Our critic was at the first U.S. show and writes that the songs "hold eerie
resonances" with the present.

"Black Crows," a new TV series on the Arab world's most watched satellite
channel, aims to undermine the narrative that the Islamic State uses to entice
recruits.

Roger Federer is skipping the French Open and the entire clay-court season to
prepare for Wimbledon.

Our European soccer correspondent visited the Scuola Allenatori, where Italy
trains its soccer managers, to find out why Italians are thriving in the sport.


Back Story

Put on your party hats: The world is celebrating a series of royal birthdays.

Last week, European royals gathered in Oslo to honor the 80th birthdays of King
Harald V and Queen Sonja of Norway. (He actually hit the milestone in February;
she will in July.)

A highlight was a cruise on the royal yacht, a fitting setting for the king, an
admiral and accomplished sailor who represented Norway in three Olympics.

And King Norodom Sihamoni of Cambodia, above, turned 64 on Sunday. His
background as a cultural ambassador and Unesco delegate may have also helped
with his royal duties. He is also an accomplished classical dancer and studied
filmmaking in North Korea.

A few days before, he presided over the nation's Royal Plowing Ceremony, in
which sacred oxen forecast the year's crops. (It is predicted to be a good year
for corn, beans and rice.)

Back in Europe, Queen Máxima of the Netherlands celebrates a birthday on
Wednesday.

And arguably the biggest royal birthday comes next month, when Queen Elizabeth
II of Britain celebrates her 91st. She is the world's oldest -- and
longest-serving -- monarch. Although she was born April 21, her birthday is
officially celebrated in June each year.

Charles McDermid contributed reporting.

_____

This briefing was prepared for the European morning. We also have briefings
timed for the Australian, Asian and American mornings. You can sign up for these
and other Times newsletters here.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2017 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Oil and Tech Hoist 2 Indexes to Records

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 631 words


The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite index closed at
record highs on Monday, powered by demand for technology stocks after a global
cyber attack and by rising oil prices.

Oil rose to the highest level in more than three weeks after top exporters Saudi
Arabia and Russia said supply cuts needed to last into 2018, a step toward
extending a deal to support prices for longer than originally agreed.

The rising oil prices and housing data drove optimism about the economy and
helped make financial stocks the second biggest driver of gains for the S.&P.
500, behind the technology sector.

Energy ministers from the world's top two oil producers said production cuts,
which were set to expire next month, should continue until March, beyond an
optional six-month extension specified in the deal. The Organization of the
Petroleum Exporting Countries meets in Vienna on May 25 to consider the
extension.

''The oil markets are acting well and that's helping,'' said R.J. Grant, head of
trading at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in New York, who also cited the strong
corporate earnings season.

About 75 percent of S.&P. 500 companies that have reported quarterly results so
far have beaten Wall Street expectations, according to Thomson Reuters data.

Stronger sentiment for home builders also gave investors some confidence in the
economy.

''We need that because there's been a tug-of-war in this market as to whether
this economy is peaking,'' Quincy Krosby, market strategist at Prudential
Financial in Newark said, referring to the housing sentiment.

The Dow Jones industrial average was up 85.33 points, or 0.41 percent, to
20,981.94, the S.&P. 500 gained 11.42 points, or 0.48 percent, to 2,402.32 and
the Nasdaq added 28.44 points, or 0.46 percent, to 6,149.67.

Johnson & Johnson and Cisco Systems were the biggest drivers for the S.&P. 500
after prominent analysts upgraded their ratings on the stocks.

Shares of online security firms jumped on expectations that they would benefit
from greater spending after an enormous ransomware attack had begun spreading
across the globe on Friday.

Shares of Fireye rose 7.5 percent, and Symantec and Palo Alto Networks both
gained around 3 percent. The 2.3 percent rise in Cisco was driven in party by
its security technology business.

Crude oil futures for June delivery rose $1.01 to $48.85 a barrel in New York
and Brent was last at $51.76, up 1.81 percent on the day.

The news from the energy sector more than offset concern over the weekend after
a successful missile test by North Korea and a cyber attack with unprecedented
global reach.

The currencies of economies dependent on commodities got a lift from the jump in
oil prices.

The New York Federal Reserve's barometer on business activity in the state
unexpectedly fell in May, sinking into negative territory for the first time
since October.

Analysts cautioned that the index's downturn could be a harbinger of a drop in
the manufacturing sector.

''We have been expecting some cooling in the manufacturing sector following a
solid start to the year, but if the Empire State survey's orders index proves to
be a reliable forward-looking indicator, the slowdown could be more severe than
we had been anticipating,'' Daniel Silver, an economist at J.P. Morgan, wrote in
a research note.

The dollar index, tracking the greenback against a basket of other major
currencies, fell 0.32 percent, with the euro up 0.42 percent to $1.0974. The
Canadian dollar was at its strongest in over two weeks against the United States
dollar.

Treasury yields slipped after the weak data. Benchmark 10-year notes last fell
0.01 in price, while its yield rose to 2.34 percent, from 2.33 percent late on
Friday.

Gold for May delivery added $2.40 to $1,228.60 an ounce




URL:

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial
average at 1-minute intervals on Monday. (Source: Reuters | By The New York
Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        May 17, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

China Is Reluctant to Blame North Korea, Its Ally, for Cyberattack

BYLINE: PAUL MOZUR and JANE PERLEZ

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1314 words



HIGHLIGHT: North Korea's history of erratic behavior has embarrassed Beijing in
many ways, but Chinese leaders have remained stoic.


HONG KONG -- North Korea tests nuclear weapons less than 100 miles from China's
border. It launched a missile hours before a major speech by President Xi
Jinping of China on Sunday, a move Chinese analysts called a diplomatic slap in
the face. Its counterfeiting of Chinese and American currency costs China
millions of dollars a year.

North Korea's history of erratic behavior has embarrassed China in many ways.
But through it all, China has remained stoic about its neighbor and ally.

As evidence mounts that North Korea may have links to a ransomware attack that
destroyed more than 200,000 computers globally -- and hit 40,000 institutions in
China -- China's response has been muted. Which raises the question: How far can
North Korea go without getting disciplined by its more powerful neighbor?

China has been one of the biggest victims of the attack, which crippled
computers at universities, major businesses and local governments, adding a
potentially dangerous new element to a relationship that has increasingly tested
Chinese leaders.

"North Korea has been a constant threat in terms of missiles and nuclear
weapons," said Cheng Xiaohe, an associate professor of international relations
at Renmin University. "All of a sudden, it poses a cyber threat."

He added: "This time if it's from North Korea, the malware was targeted
indiscriminately against all computers. That's a big change. It harms and
threatens China."

Amid these tensions, Beijing is not eager to call attention to its deteriorating
relations with its longtime ally. North Korea's missile launch took place hours
before Mr. Xi addressed an international gathering in Beijing to promote China's
"One Belt, One Road" project -- an enormous infrastructure undertaking that is
expected to build projects in Asia, Europe and Africa.

Even though the timing of the launch suggested it was a deliberate ploy to
embarrass Mr. Xi at an inopportune time, it was not reported in the Chinese
state media.

Regarding the ransomware attack, China analysts say Beijing will hesitate before
directly casting blame on North Korea even if evidence, still inconclusive,
directly ties the North to the attack. Beijing is more likely to single out
other actors, particularly the United States, experts say.

The attack took advantage of vulnerabilities in Microsoft Windows software
through a tool stolen from the United States' National Security Agency. That
plays into broader Chinese concerns about its overreliance on American software.

China's influence over North Korea's hacking efforts has been significant. By
some accounts, the idea to experiment with cyberattacks came to North Korea from
China.

Initially, the North Korean government viewed the internet as a threat. But in
the early 1990s, a group of computer experts returned from China with the idea
of using the web to take secrets and attack government enemies, according to one
defector.

Since then, North Korean hackers have attended schools in China and used it as a
staging ground for attacks. As North Korea devoted more resources to those
efforts -- eventually selecting child math prodigies for training and assembling
an army of more than 6,000 -- it established a large outpost for its secretive
hacking unit in China.

Security analysts say North Korean hackers operate out of hotels, restaurants
and internet cafes in northeastern Chinese cities like Shenyang and Dandong,
which are outposts for trade with North Korea. Though many still operate in
China, North Korean hackers have increasingly moved further afield, to countries
in Southeast Asia, where government surveillance and control is less strict.

The moves are also intended to protect cyberattack options in the event of a war
on the Korean Peninsula. Security analysts say some attacks are also carried out
from North Korea, but are limited by the fact that the country has only one main
portal to the internet, through China's state telecom operator China Unicom.

Despite evidence suggesting a North Korean role in the ransomware attack, the
most common reaction among experts and on Chinese social media was to blame the
United States.

"Many criticized the U.S. government, saying that it was responsible for this
spread of ransomware. Obviously this accusation is reasonable," the editor in
chief of state-run Global Times wrote in a prominent commentary on Monday.

"Attacks always happen," said Chen Zhong, a professor in computer science at
Peking University. "What catches our eyes this time is that the attack used a
tool that leaked from the N.S.A.," he said.

On the social media site Weibo, users almost uniformly blamed the United States
for the attack.

"Hell, if North Korea could do this they would have showed it off long ago,"
said one user. "North Korea would have become a major power if they can pull
this off," said another.

But Mr. Cheng of Renmin University said that if events more definitively linked
the attack to North Korea, it was likely to pose a new test to China's
increasingly rocky relationship with Pyongyang.

"Since North Korea started its nuclear program in 2006, China-North Korea
relations have gradually deteriorated, and are currently at an abnormal level.
If we add another virus, the image of North Korea in the eyes of China will be
even worse."

China's news organizations, both state-run and private, reported on the hacking
attacks, as well as the possible links to North Korea, hours after it occurred,
but they did so in a controlled fashion that was confined to inside pages of
newspapers, and played in modest ways on websites.

Still, several news portals wrote that cybersecurity firms like Kaspersky Lab
had found initial evidence that pointed to North Korea. The news portal Sina
pointed to previous attacks - in Bangladesh, against Sony and the South Korean
subway - that may have originated from the North.

Should the evidence against North Korea mount, it would add to other indignities
China has suffered at the hands of its neighbor.

Over the years, North Korea has flooded northeastern China with counterfeit $100
bills of American currency. It has also mass manufactured counterfeit Chinese
renminbi, but China says little about the problem.

This year, South Korea accused the North of assassinating the half brother of
the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, at the international airport in Kuala
Lumpur, the capital of Malaysia. The relative, Kim Jong-nam, was considered a
friend of China and he had lived in the Chinese-controlled territory of Macau,
where he was protected by state security.

Chinese state-run media reported on the killing but refrained from associating
Mr. Kim, the half brother, with China.

In 2013, an uncle of Kim Jong-un, who was the main financial conduit between
China and the North, was executed by a firing squad that used antiaircraft guns,
according to South Korea's National Intelligence Service.

South Korean intelligence said the killing of the uncle, Jang Song-thaek, was
ordered by Mr. Kim as he was consolidating power over North Korea. His death
meant that China lost its most important interlocutor with the North, and was an
early signal from Mr. Kim that under his rule relations between China and North
Korea would not be business as usual. But China withstood the insult without
public recrimination.

Paul Mozur reported from Hong Kong and Jane Perlez reported from Beijing.

PHOTOS: North Koreans, above, attending the opening ceremony for a cultural
exhibition in Dandong, China. Computers in 40,000 Chinese institutions were
crippled by last week's global malware attack. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALY SONG/REUTERS;
SIM CHI YIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    North Korean Media, in Rare Critique of China, Says Nuclear Program
          Will Continue
     ·    Criticism of Beijing's North Korea Policy Comes From Unlikely Place:
          China
     ·    Chinese Media Is Subdued in the Face of North Korea-U.S. Standoff
     ·    China Suspends All Coal Imports From North Korea


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        May 17, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

With Ransomware, It's Pay and Embolden Perpetrators, or Lose Precious Data

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT and NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1402 words



HIGHLIGHT: Thousands affected by the global digital attack must decide whether
to fork out money to gain control of their computers or face losing their data
forever.


Correction Appended

Robert Gren was working from home on Friday when, all of a sudden, his laptop
stopped working.

What he initially thought was just a kink in his computer's software was in fact
part of a global ransomware attack that has affected more than 200,000 computers
and caused untold havoc from China to Britain.

Now, Mr. Gren and the thousands of other victims worldwide face an agonizing
choice: either hand over the ransom -- a figure that has climbed to $600 for
each affected machine -- by a deadline this Friday, or potentially lose their
digital information, including personal photos, hospital patient records and
other priceless data, forever.

"I'm pretty devastated," said Mr. Gren, 32, a manager of an online entertainment
business in Krakow, Poland, who has spent almost all of his waking hours since
Friday looking for ways to reclaim his digital data. "I've lost private files
that I have no other way of recovering. For me, the damage has been huge."

That decision has become even more difficult as cybersecurity experts and law
enforcement officials have repeatedly warned people against paying the ransom
ahead of this week's deadline.

Aside from dissuading victims from handing over money that may help fund further
such attacks, they caution that it is not guaranteed the attackers will return
control of people's computers even if they pay the assailants in bitcoin, a
digital currency favored in such ransomware attacks that can be difficult to
trace.

Officials also note that the attackers, who have yet to been named, have
provided only three bitcoin addresses -- similar to a traditional bank routing
number -- for all global victims to deposit the ransom, so it may prove
difficult to know who has paid the digital fees.

This haphazard planning has led many victims to hold off paying, at least until
they can guarantee they will get their data back.

So far, roughly $80,000 has been deposited into the bitcoin addresses linked to
the attack, according to Elliptic, a company that tracks online financial
transactions involving virtual currencies.

F-Secure, a Finnish cybersecurity firm, has confirmed that some of the 200
individuals that it had identified, who had paid the ransom, had successfully
had their files decrypted. Yet that represented a small fraction of those
affected, and the company said it still remained unlikely that people would
regain control of their computers if they paid the online fee.

The tally of ransom payments may rise ahead of Friday's deadline, but
cybersecurity experts say the current numbers -- both total ransom money paid
and machines decrypted -- are far short of early estimates forecasting that the
digital attack may eventually cost victims hundreds of millions of dollars in
combined ransom fees.

"I predict this may be an epic failure," said Kim Peretti, a former senior
litigator in the Department of Justice's computer crime and intellectual
property division who now is co-chairwoman of the cybersecurity preparedness and
response team at Alston & Bird, an international law firm. "Because of the
publicity of this attack and the public's awareness of people potentially not
getting their files back, the figures aren't as high as people had first
thought."

For victims of such attacks, the potential loss of personal or business files
can be traumatic. In typical ransomware cases, including the most recent hack,
assailants send an encrypted email to potential targets. The message includes a
malware attachment that takes over their machines if opened. The attackers then
demand payment before returning control of the computers, often through money
paid into bitcoin or other largely untraceable online currencies.

The latest ransomware strike, experts said, was particularly virulent because it
was based on malicious software stolen from the National Security Agency. Law
enforcement agencies from the United States, Britain and elsewhere have been
tracking the potential culprits, with suspicions now focusing on hackers in
North Korea.

For Randy Meyers, a technology consultant for a rural hospital in western Texas,
the recent ransomware attack has brought back bitter memories.

Last month, Mr. Meyers discovered that a similar virus had taken over critical
computers at a 25-bed medical facility in Fisher County, roughly a three-hour
drive from Fort Worth. The virus locked physicians and other medical staff out
of patient records, and his repeated pleas by email to the attackers to unlock
the vital machines went unanswered.

Eventually, Mr. Meyers brought in cybersecurity experts to crack the malicious
software, ensuring that the struggling hospital would not have to pay the
roughly $18,000 in bitcoin ransom to retrieve patients' files. Still, he said,
the attack had crippled the hospital for four days, with doctors and nurses
resorting to pen and paper.

"It's like going home and finding out you've been broken into," said Mr. Meyers,
who said he had never before experienced such an attack in more than 20 years as
a technology consultant. "You never want to have to pay the ransom. It gives
them a reason to do it again and again."

For some organizations, particularly government agencies, paying to decrypt
locked-out computers is not even an option. In many countries, including across
Europe and Asia, the payment of any form of ransom is forbidden by laws often
written to counter terrorist attacks in the offline world. That means
organizations like Britain's National Health Service, among the worst affected
in the recent ransomware attacks, are left with few options to retrieve data
that can have life-or-death implications.

In the United States, there is no nationwide policy outlawing such ransomware
payments. But experts still warn against handing over money because it may lead
to far more significant costs down the road.

Exclusion and cooperation clauses in many cyberinsurance policies expressly
prohibit businesses from paying such digital ransoms without pre-approval. If a
victim hands over the money anyway, insurers may cancel a business's coverage
and leave clients paying out of pocket -- including covering the cost of
disruptions to their businesses, remediation expenses and customer
notifications.

"In general, the advice is not to pay," said Kevin Kalinich, a global cyber-risk
expert at Aon, the insurance broker. "The perpetrators may not release your
data, or you'll be considered a target for future attacks."

Jorge Reza, a sales manager for a construction business in Laredo, Tex., was
forced to take that gamble when the company he works for was hit with a
ransomware attack last year.

Hours after one of his colleagues was locked out of the business's main
computer, which held company invoices, payroll data and other sensitive
information, Mr. Reza, 34, found himself online, researching how to open a
bitcoin account and other tips for paying the digital ransom.

Despite fears the assailants would not unlock the computer, Mr. Reza uploaded
money through Western Union, found someone who would sell him $1,200 worth of
bitcoin and waited for notification that the machine had been returned to his
control. The process, Mr. Reza said, was both stressful and uncertain, as he
could not be sure the attackers would follow through on their promises. Luckily,
less than 12 hours after the initial attack, he was able to decrypt his files.

"They were digital terrorists, but at least they were honest," Mr. Reza said.
"They were holding our data hostage. What other choice did I have?"

Follow Mark Scott @markscott82 and Nicole Perlroth @nicoleperlroth on Twitter.
Mark Scott reported from Rome, and Nicole Perlroth reported from San Francisco.


Correction: May 18, 2017, Thursday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article misstated the number of people that F-Secure identified
as having their files successfully decrypted. F-Secure said that only some of
the 200 people it identified as having paid the ransom had their files
decrypted, not more than 200 people.

PHOTO: Randy Meyers brought in experts who saved a hospital about $18,000 to
retrieve patients' files. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COOPER NEILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    China Is Reluctant to Blame North Korea, Its Ally, for Cyberattack
     ·    How to Protect Yourself From Ransomware Attacks
     ·    Malware Case Is Major Blow for the N.S.A.
     ·    With New Digital Tools, Even Nonexperts Can Wage Cyberattacks


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Focus Turns to North Korea Sleeper Cells as Possible Culprits

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN, PAUL MOZUR, NICOLE PERLROTH and DAVID E. SANGER; Choe
Sang-Hun reported from Seoul, Paul Mozur from Hong Kong, Nicole Perlroth from
San Francisco and David Sanger from Washington. Jeyup S. Kwaak contributed
reporting from Seoul, and Rick Gladstone from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1047 words


SEOUL, South Korea -- They take legitimate jobs as software programmers in the
neighbors of their home country, North Korea. When the instructions from
Pyongyang come for a hacking assault, they are believed to split into groups of
three or six, moving around to avoid detection.

Ever since the 1980s, reclusive North Korea has been known to train cadres of
digital soldiers to engage in electronic warfare and profiteering exploits
against its perceived enemies, most notably South Korea and the United States.
In more recent years, cybersecurity experts say, the North Koreans have spread
these agents across the border into China and other Asian countries to help
cloak their identities. The strategy also amounts to war-contingency planning in
case the homeland is attacked.

Now this force of North Korean cyberhacking sleeper cells is under new scrutiny
in connection with the ransomware assaults that have roiled much of the world
over the past four days. New signs have emerged not only that North Koreans
carried out the attacks but also that the targeted victims included China, North
Korea's benefactor and enabler.

As evidence mounts that North Korean hackers may have links to the ransom
assaults that destroyed more than 200,000 computers, their motives appear
twofold: financial gain -- which does not appear to be turning out so well --
and proof that Pyongyang has the means to cause significant damage, with or
without a nuclear weapon.

Cyberattacks are also a way for the country to inflict damage with little risk
of a military response. They are inexpensive and hard to trace, and they can be
profitable.

Until last year, nation states rarely used cyberattacks for financial gain.
China has been tied to attacks aimed at stealing trade secrets. A handful of
countries, including Russia, the United States, Iran and North Korea, have also
used cyberweapons.

North Korea has been tied to gunrunning, jewel smuggling, illegal gambling and
counterfeiting to pay for its military and the lifestyle of the government, but
as foreign nations have clamped down on those activities Pyongyang has turned to
cyberattacks for badly needed funds.

''North Korea was always a state criminal, sheltered behind sovereignty, and now
they've moved this into cyberspace,'' said James A. Lewis, a cybersecurity
expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.

Over the past year, the same North Korean hacking unit that hit Sony Pictures
was linked to cyberattacks at banks in Vietnam and the Philippines, and to a
breach at the Bangladesh Central Bank that resulted in the theft of $81 million.
Last year, the same North Korean hackers breached more than 20 Polish banks.

And while it is still too early to point the finger definitively at Pyongyang,
clues in the attack code and attackers' machines suggest that the ransom attacks
were the work of the same group of North Korean hackers, or of someone
masquerading as them.

Though the North Korean hacking group that security experts call the Lazarus
Group has been known to use different infection methods, the group's telltale
code, techniques and tools were seen in the ransomware attacks.

So far, the ransomware attacks, called WannaCry, have not proved very
profitable. According to the latest tally of payments made to attackers' Bitcoin
wallets, victims have paid only $75,000 in ransom.

North Korea has in the past timed cyberattacks to coincide with its banned
weapons tests -- like the ballistic missile launched on Sunday -- as a way of
subtly flaunting its technology advances despite its global isolation.

Unlike its missile and nuclear weapons tests, however, North Korea has never
announced or acknowledged its hacking abilities.

It also is possible that North Korea had no role in the attacks, which exploited
a stolen hacking tool developed by the National Security Agency of the United
States. Early Tuesday, the Shadow Brokers, the hacking group that spread the
tool and is not believed to be linked with North Korea, threatened in an online
post to start a ''Data Dump of the Month'' club, in which it would release more
N.S.A. hacking methods to paying subscribers.

Security officials in South Korea, the United States and elsewhere say it is
well known that the North Korean authorities have long trained squads of hackers
and programmers, and that when superiors in North Korea issue instructions,
these hackers are activated to attack targets.

Boo Hyeong-wook, a research fellow at the Korea Institute for Defense Analyses,
said the scale of the recent attacks was large enough that it was likely to have
been supported on a national level. He also said it would be a logical extension
of the growing boldness of North Korean hackers.

While North Korean hackers have for years operated out of China, defectors and
South Korean officials say they have been spreading to Southeast Asian
countries, where government monitoring is less intense.

In countries like Malaysia, many North Korea hackers are believed to work
undercover at technology companies and other jobs. Sometimes, the hackers will
also run online gambling sites or even make use of ransomware to raise funds for
themselves.

North Korea began training electronic warfare soldiers well before the internet
era, according to defectors and South Korean officials. They selected math
prodigies when they were 12 or 13 and trained them to become software
developers, online psychological warfare experts and hackers.

They were also trained in foreign languages so they could operate abroad. North
Korea sends students to study in Russia, China and, more recently, India to
learn software and programming techniques. They return home and some are hired
as hackers.

If the North Korean hackers were responsible for the disruptions suffered by
Chinese computer users, that would constitute an extraordinary assault on North
Korea's most important neighbor.

Mr. Boo said the changing dynamics in the relationship between China and North
Korea, which once described themselves as close as ''lips and teeth,'' could be
why China was attacked.

''China has dialed up the pressure on North Korea,'' he said. ''Pyongyang faces
the increased possibility that Beijing could abandon it. It made a loud
statement.''




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/16/world/asia/north-korea-cyber
-sleeper-cells-ransomware.html

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers monitor cyberattacks at the Korea Internet and Security
Agency in Seoul, South Korea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YONHAP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        May 18, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

How to Fight Back Against Revenge Porn

BYLINE: NIRAJ CHOKSHI

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1091 words



HIGHLIGHT: For victims, fighting against such attacks can take years and prove
costly. But there is help.


Holly Jacobs says her "living nightmare" began in 2009.

That year, she was the victim of a uniquely modern attack, having discovered
intimate photos and a video, along with her personal details posted online.

The material proliferated and the images were sent to a co-worker and her boss.
She feared losing her job and being kicked out of graduate school, and she spent
years on damage control.

"I can't really say that it ever ended. I'm pretty sure that my images are still
being posted, but I just stopped searching my name," she said.

Ms. Jacobs is far from alone.

As the Center for Investigative Reporting revealed in March, thousands of Marine
Corps women faced similar unwanted exposure when their photos were shared by
active-duty and veteran Marines in a Facebook group that is now the subject of a
Defense Department criminal investigation.

Celebrities arefrequently subjected to such harassment, too, and the problem is
serious enough on Facebook that the social network recently unveiled new tools
to thwart it.

For victims, fighting against such attacks can take years and prove costly. In
Ms. Jacobs's case, the ordeal came to an end of sorts when she reached a legal
settlement last summer, more than six years after it began.

Along the way, she launched the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative, a nonprofit that
offers help to other victims of non-consensual porn, a term advocates prefer to
the more common "revenge porn" because many harassers have other motives.

Here's a brief look at the advice she and others offer to women and men who
find, or are threatened with, their most intimate images and videos being shared
without their permission.

Seek help

The toll of nonconsensual porn can be severe, causing depression and
post-traumatic stress. That's why advocates say victims should seek out support
from a trusted friend, partner, family member, teacher, counselor or therapist.

Ms. Jacobs had access to free counseling through her school, but many victims
are not so fortunate. For them, the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative maintains a
24-hour crisis hotline, (844) 878-2274, that can serve as a starting point.

"We have counselors that are on the other end of that line to offer immediate
counseling for the victim and then we take them through their options," Ms.
Jacobs said.

Document everything

Many victims want nothing more than for their intimate photos and videos to be
destroyed. But advocates encourage them to preserve the information in case they
plan future legal action.

"If you delete it, you make it all go away. And, unfortunately, that's what you
do: You make it all go away; it being the evidence," said Elisa D'Amico, a
lawyer who co-founded the Cyber Civil Rights Legal Project, which provides free
legal aid to victims of nonconsensual porn.

(The group, a pro bono project of K&L Gates, the global firm where Ms. D'Amico
works, is not related to Ms. Jacobs's organization.)

She and others say victims should preserve evidence, including copies of the
private images and videos, screen shots of search results that lead to them,
webpages hosting them, and texts, emails and other communications.

Some companies may, by request, retain information for future legal proceedings,
while some law enforcement agencies may be able to collect forensic evidence,
too. Ms. Jacobs recommends consulting a lawyer to better understand what
evidence might be useful.

Consider criminal action

Despite increasing awareness about the issue, many officials may still be
unaware of legal protections in place for victims of nonconsensual porn,
according to the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative. So victims should researchstate
laws targeting nonconsensual porn before approaching the authorities.

And while the decision to prosecute lies with the government, victims can help
by providing documentation. "In order to have a successful prosecution, you've
got to have evidence," Ms. D'Amico said.

Victims may help to strengthen a case, and penalty, by highlighting violations
of related laws, including those aimed at child pornography, harassment,
stalking, extortion and copyright. The Initiative maintains a list of such laws
and encourages victims to bring printed copies when filing a police report.

Minors should know that law enforcement may decide to charge them if they
created or distributed sexually explicit images, even of themselves. Those
victims should get help from a trusted adult, who may be able to discuss the
case, in broad terms, with the authorities to confirm that the victim would not
be charged.

Consider civil action

Victims interested in suing their harassers may be able to get free legal
assistance through the Cyber Civil Rights Legal Project, which has a team of
about 75 lawyers on three continents, or from other lawyers around the country.

But even when legal representation is free, there are emotional costs to
pursuing civil action, said David Bateman, a K&L Gates lawyer who co-founded the
pro bono group with Ms. D'Amico. Going to trial can mean months or years of
legal entanglement and public exposure, he said.

"It's a good tool if you need it, but 95 percent of the people we see just
really want to get this stuff down and move on with their life," he said.

Ask for the material to be removed

After victims have considered their legal options, and, ideally, consulted a
lawyer, they can focus on having the photos and videos taken down.

Many major websites and online services, including Google, Facebook, Instagram,
Reddit, Tumblr, Twitter and Yahoo, ban nonconsensual porn and have processes for
reporting it.

In early April, Facebook announced it had created both new tools to prevent such
images from reappearing on the site and a guide to dealing with the problem on
its platform. The Cyber Civil Rights Initiative also has a guide.

Victims who created the images or videos themselves may also be able to use
copyright law to have the material removed. (Another victim advocacy group,
Women Against Revenge Porn, maintains a guide on how to file those claims.)

For those daunted by the process, takedown services can do the work for a fee,
or free.

DMCA Defender, one such service, is both "thorough and efficient," according to
the Initiative. That company also offers discounts for individuals referred by
the group. CopyByte, another such service, offers free help to victims of
nonconsenual porn.

Related Articles


     ·    Their Intimate Photos Were Shared. Now the Marine Corps Wants Them to
          Speak Up.
     ·    Facebook Announces New Ways to Prevent 'Revenge Porn'
     ·    In 'Revenge Porn' Case, Criminal Court Decision May Affect Lawsuit


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 18, 2017 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Deadline Nears, Ransomware Victims Face an Agonizing Choice

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT and NICOLE PERLROTH; Mark Scott reported from Rome, and
Nicole Perlroth reported from San Francisco..

Follow Mark Scott @markscott82 and Nicole Perlroth @nicoleperlroth on Twitter.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1251 words


Robert Gren was working from home on Friday when, all of a sudden, his laptop
stopped working.

What he initially thought was just a kink in his computer's software was in fact
part of a global ransomware attack that has affected more than 200,000 computers
and caused untold havoc from China to Britain.

Now, Mr. Gren and the thousands of other victims worldwide face an agonizing
choice: either hand over the ransom -- a figure that has climbed to $600 for
each affected machine -- by a deadline this Friday, or potentially lose their
digital information, including personal photos, hospital patient records and
other priceless data, forever.

''I'm pretty devastated,'' said Mr. Gren, 32, a manager of an online
entertainment business in Krakow, Poland, who has spent almost all of his waking
hours since Friday looking for ways to reclaim his digital data. ''I've lost
private files that I have no other way of recovering. For me, the damage has
been huge.''

That decision has become even more difficult as cybersecurity experts and law
enforcement officials have repeatedly warned people against paying the ransom
ahead of this week's deadline.

Aside from dissuading victims from handing over money that may help fund further
such attacks, they caution that it is not guaranteed the attackers will return
control of people's computers even if they pay the assailants in bitcoin, a
digital currency favored in such ransomware attacks that can be difficult to
trace.

Officials also note that the attackers, who have yet to been named, have
provided only three bitcoin addresses -- similar to a traditional bank routing
number -- for all global victims to deposit the ransom, so it may prove
difficult to know who has paid the digital fees.

This haphazard planning has led many victims to hold off paying, at least until
they can guarantee they will get their data back.

So far, roughly $80,000 has been deposited into the bitcoin addresses linked to
the attack, according to Elliptic, a company that tracks online financial
transactions involving virtual currencies.

F-Secure, a Finnish cybersecurity firm, has confirmed that more than 200
individuals who had paid the ransom had successfully had their files decrypted,
meaning the majority of those who handed over money got their data back. Still,
the number of people who have so far transferred funds is a small fraction of
those affected.

The tally of ransom payments may rise ahead of Friday's deadline, but
cybersecurity experts say the current numbers -- both total ransom money paid
and machines decrypted -- are far short of early estimates forecasting that the
digital attack may eventually cost victims hundreds of millions of dollars in
combined ransom fees.

''I predict this may be an epic failure,'' said Kim Peretti, a former senior
litigator in the Department of Justice's computer crime and intellectual
property division who now is co-chairwoman of the cybersecurity preparedness and
response team at Alston & Bird, an international law firm. ''Because of the
publicity of this attack and the public's awareness of people potentially not
getting their files back, the figures aren't as high as people had first
thought.''

For victims of such attacks, the potential loss of personal or business files
can be traumatic. In typical ransomware cases, including the most recent hack,
assailants send an encrypted email to potential targets. The message includes a
malware attachment that takes over their machines if opened. The attackers then
demand payment before returning control of the computers, often through money
paid into bitcoin or other largely untraceable online currencies.

The latest ransomware strike, experts said, was particularly virulent because it
was based on malicious software stolen from the National Security Agency. Law
enforcement agencies from the United States, Britain and elsewhere have been
tracking the potential culprits, with suspicions now focusing on hackers in
North Korea.

For Randy Meyers, a technology consultant for a rural hospital in western Texas,
the recent ransomware attack has brought back bitter memories.

Last month, Mr. Meyers discovered that a similar virus had taken over critical
computers at a 25-bed medical facility in Fisher County, roughly a three-hour
drive from Fort Worth. The virus locked physicians and other medical staff out
of patient records, and his repeated pleas by email to the attackers to unlock
the vital machines went unanswered.

Eventually, Mr. Meyers brought in cybersecurity experts to crack the malicious
software, ensuring that the struggling hospital would not have to pay the
roughly $18,000 in bitcoin ransom to retrieve patients' files. Still, he said,
the attack had crippled the hospital for four days, with doctors and nurses
resorting to pen and paper.

''It's like going home and finding out you've been broken into,'' said Mr.
Meyers, who said he had never before experienced such an attack in more than 20
years as a technology consultant. ''You never want to have to pay the ransom. It
gives them a reason to do it again and again.''

For some organizations, particularly government agencies, paying to decrypt
locked-out computers is not even an option. In many countries, including across
Europe and Asia, the payment of any form of ransom is forbidden by laws often
written to counter terrorist attacks in the offline world. That means
organizations like Britain's National Health Service, among the worst affected
in the recent ransomware attacks, are left with few options to retrieve data
that can have life-or-death implications.

In the United States, there is no nationwide policy outlawing such ransomware
payments. But experts still warn against handing over money because it may lead
to far more significant costs down the road.

Exclusion and cooperation clauses in many cyberinsurance policies expressly
prohibit businesses from paying such digital ransoms without pre-approval. If a
victim hands over the money anyway, insurers may cancel a business's coverage
and leave clients paying out of pocket -- including covering the cost of
disruptions to their businesses, remediation expenses and customer
notifications.

''In general, the advice is not to pay,'' said Kevin Kalinich, a global cyber
-risk expert at Aon, the insurance broker. ''The perpetrators may not release
your data, or you'll be considered a target for future attacks.''

Jorge Reza, a sales manager for a construction business in Laredo, Tex., was
forced to take that gamble when the company he works for was hit with a
ransomware attack last year.

Hours after one of his colleagues was locked out of the business's main
computer, which held company invoices, payroll data and other sensitive
information, Mr. Reza, 34, found himself online, researching how to open a
bitcoin account and other tips for paying the digital ransom.

Despite fears the assailants would not unlock the computer, Mr. Reza uploaded
money through Western Union, found someone who would sell him $1,200 worth of
bitcoin and waited for notification that the machine had been returned to his
control. The process, Mr. Reza said, was both stressful and uncertain, as he
could not be sure the attackers would follow through on their promises. Luckily,
less than 12 hours after the initial attack, he was able to decrypt his files.

''They were digital terrorists, but at least they were honest,'' Mr. Reza said.
''They were holding our data hostage. What other choice did I have?''




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/17/technology/bitcoin-ransomware-pay-lose-data.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Randy Meyers brought in experts who saved a hospital about
$18,000 to retrieve patients' files. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COOPER NEILL FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 18, 2017 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Evidence Links North Korea to Cyberattack, but China Stays Mute

BYLINE: By PAUL MOZUR and JANE PERLEZ; Paul Mozur reported from Hong Kong and
Jane Perlez reported from Beijing.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1224 words


HONG KONG -- North Korea tests nuclear weapons less than 100 miles from China's
border. It launched a missile hours before a major speech by President Xi
Jinping of China on Sunday, a move Chinese analysts called a diplomatic slap in
the face. Its counterfeiting of Chinese and American currency costs China
millions of dollars a year.

North Korea's history of erratic behavior has embarrassed China in many ways.
But through it all, China has remained stoic about its neighbor and ally.

As evidence mounts that North Korea may have links to a ransomware attack that
destroyed more than 200,000 computers globally -- and hit 40,000 institutions in
China -- China's response has been muted. Which raises the question: How far can
North Korea go without getting disciplined by its more powerful neighbor?

China has been one of the biggest victims of the attack, which crippled
computers at universities, major businesses and local governments, adding a
potentially dangerous new element to a relationship that has increasingly tested
Chinese leaders.

''North Korea has been a constant threat in terms of missiles and nuclear
weapons,'' said Cheng Xiaohe, an associate professor of international relations
at Renmin University. ''All of a sudden, it poses a cyber threat.''

He added: ''This time if it's from North Korea, the malware was targeted
indiscriminately against all computers. That's a big change. It harms and
threatens China.''

Amid these tensions, Beijing is not eager to call attention to its deteriorating
relations with its longtime ally. North Korea's missile launch took place hours
before Mr. Xi addressed an international gathering in Beijing to promote China's
''One Belt, One Road'' project -- an enormous  infrastructure undertaking that
is expected to build projects in Asia, Europe and Africa.

Even though the timing of the launch suggested it was a deliberate ploy to
embarrass Mr. Xi at an inopportune time, it was not reported in the Chinese
state media.

Regarding the ransomware attack, China analysts say Beijing will hesitate before
directly casting blame on North Korea even if evidence, still inconclusive,
directly ties the North to the attack. Beijing is more likely to single out
other actors, particularly the United States, experts say.

The attack took advantage of vulnerabilities in Microsoft Windows software
through a tool stolen from the United States' National Security Agency. That
plays into broader Chinese concerns about its overreliance on American software.

China's influence over North Korea's hacking efforts has been significant. By
some accounts, the idea to experiment with cyberattacks came to North Korea from
China.

Initially, the North Korean government viewed the internet as a threat. But in
the early 1990s, a group of computer experts returned from China with the idea
of using the web to take secrets and attack government enemies, according to one
defector.

Since then, North Korean hackers have attended schools in China and used it as a
staging ground for attacks. As North Korea devoted more resources to those
efforts -- eventually selecting child math prodigies for training and assembling
an army of more than 6,000 -- it established a large outpost for its secretive
hacking unit in China.

Security analysts say North Korean hackers operate out of hotels, restaurants
and internet cafes in northeastern Chinese cities like Shenyang and Dandong,
which are outposts for trade with North Korea. Though many still operate in
China, North Korean hackers have increasingly moved further afield, to countries
in Southeast Asia, where government surveillance and control is less strict.

The moves are also intended to protect cyberattack options in the event of a war
on the Korean Peninsula. Security analysts say some attacks are also carried out
from North Korea, but are limited by the fact that the country has only one main
portal to the internet, through China's state telecom operator China Unicom.

Despite evidence suggesting a North Korean role in the ransomware attack, the
most common reaction among experts and on Chinese social media was to blame the
United States.

''Many criticized the U.S. government, saying that it was responsible for this
spread of ransomware. Obviously this accusation is reasonable,'' the editor in
chief of state-run Global Times wrote in a prominent commentary on Monday.

''Attacks always happen,'' said Chen Zhong, a professor in computer science at
Peking University. ''What catches our eyes this time is that the attack used a
tool that leaked from the N.S.A.,'' he said.

On the social media site Weibo, users almost uniformly blamed the United States
for the attack.

''Hell, if North Korea could do this they would have showed it off long ago,''
said one user. ''North Korea would have become a major power if they can pull
this off,'' said another.

But Mr. Cheng of Renmin University said that if events more definitively linked
the attack to North Korea, it was likely to pose a new test to China's
increasingly rocky relationship with Pyongyang.

''Since North Korea started its nuclear program in 2006, China-North Korea
relations have gradually deteriorated, and are currently at an abnormal level.
If we add another virus, the image of North Korea in the eyes of China will be
even worse.''

China's news organizations, both state-run and private, reported on the hacking
attacks, as well as the possible links to North Korea, hours after it occurred,
but they did so in a controlled fashion that was confined to inside pages of
newspapers, and played in modest ways on websites.

Still, several news portals wrote that cybersecurity firms like Kaspersky Lab
had found initial evidence that pointed to North Korea. The news portal Sina
pointed to previous attacks -- in Bangladesh, against Sony and the South Korean
subway -- that may have originated from the North.

Should the evidence against North Korea mount, it would add to other indignities
China has suffered at the hands of its neighbor.

Over the years, North Korea has flooded northeastern China with counterfeit $100
bills of American currency. It has also mass manufactured counterfeit Chinese
renminbi, but China says little about the problem.

This year, South Korea accused the North of assassinating the half brother of
the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, at the international airport in Kuala
Lumpur, the capital of Malaysia. The relative, Kim Jong-nam, was considered a
friend of China and he had lived in the Chinese-controlled territory of Macau,
where he was protected by state security.

Chinese state-run media reported on the killing but refrained from associating
Mr. Kim, the half brother, with China.

In 2013, an uncle of Kim Jong-un, who was the main financial conduit between
China and the North, was executed by a firing squad that used antiaircraft guns,
according to South Korea's National Intelligence Service.

South Korean intelligence said the killing of the uncle, Jang Song-thaek, was
ordered by Mr. Kim as he was consolidating power over North Korea. His death
meant that China lost its most important interlocutor with the North, and was an
early signal from Mr. Kim that under his rule relations between China and North
Korea would not be business as usual. But China withstood the insult without
public recrimination.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/17/world/asia/china-north-korea-ransomware.html

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: North Koreans, above, attending the opening ceremony for a
cultural exhibition in Dandong, China. Computers in 40,000 Chinese institutions
were crippled by last week's global malware attack. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALY
SONG/REUTERS
 SIM CHI YIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        May 24, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

3 Books That Help Make Sense of Cyberwar;
Newsbook

BYLINE: CONCEPCIÓN DE LEÓN

SECTION: BOOKS; review

LENGTH: 512 words



HIGHLIGHT: On the heels of a global cyberattack, these books explain the real
threat of cyber war and the implications for the United States.


The fear of a massive cyber attack became fact on May 12, when over 200,000
computers were hacked in a global blackmail attempt. Hospitals were locked out
of medical records; individuals were prompted to pay a ransom in order to access
their computers. Yet cyber war and, as such, cyber security, remains murky
territory. These books address the cyber threat -- and one, published decades
ago, shows that the cyber world may have been foreseen in literature.

DARK TERRITORY (2016)
The Secret History of Cyber War
By Fred Kaplan
338 pp.

Fred Kaplan draws from conversations with prominent American government leaders,
including former directors of the National Security Agency, to deliver a
behind-the-scenes look at policy formulation over the last several decades.
Kaplan writes: "If America, or U.S. Cyber Command, wanted to wage cyber war, it
would do so from inside a glass house." Anything we can do, he argues,
adversaries could replicate or learn to do better. (The May 12 cyberattack used
technology that originated in the United States.) The book traces the United
States' advances in cybersecurity, and Kaplan concludes that though a fair
amount of effort is put into developing cyberoffenses, less is focused on
protecting the country from potential attacks.

CYBER WAR (2010)
The Next Threat to National Security and What to Do About It
By Richard A. Clarke and Robert K. Knake
290 pp.

Richard A. Clarke, a former counterterrorism adviser to President George W. Bush
who criticized the president for ignoring his pre-9/11 warnings about a looming
Al Qaeda threat, argues that more resources should be invested into warding off
cyberattacks. Though the government has set up protections for intelligence and
military information, the private sector remains vulnerable. Clarke and his
co-author outline what a cyberattack in the United States might actually look
like -- trains would be disabled, the financial system and electrical power
grids damaged, medical records wiped out. Clarke and Knake lay out a plan they
argue will give the United States a fighting chance.

NEUROMANCER (1984)
By William Gibson
304 pp.

Don't be put off by this book's date of publication; though it appeared before
the advent of the World Wide Web, William Gibson's seminal work is eerily
prescient. Much of the book takes place in cyberspace, an expression Gibson
coined and defined as a "graphic representation of data abstracted from the
banks of every computer in the human system." Gibson's protagonist, Case, is a
computer hacker who can plug into his machine to intimately experience the
electronic transmissions -- in other words, enter "the matrix," another term
conceived by Gibson. After Case is caught stealing by his former employers, they
damage his central nervous system, cutting off his access to cyberspace. When he
is offered help repairing his nervous system in exchange for his hacking
services in a nefarious mission, Case jumps at the chance. And so begins the
novel's swift unfolding. The canonical book explores the implications of
increasingly powerful artificial intelligence.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        May 27, 2017 Saturday 00:00 EST

The Rise and Fall of Yik Yak, the Anonymous Messaging App

BYLINE: VALERIYA SAFRONOVA

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 1923 words



HIGHLIGHT: The app, which shut down in April, was plagued by bad press from the
beginning, earning itself a reputation as a place for racism, sexism, bullying
and bomb threats.


Correction Appended

This month, two feminist groups and several former students filed a federal
complaint accusing the University of Mary Washington in Virginia and its former
president, Richard Hurley, of failing to protect the female plaintiffs from
cyber harassment and threats of physical and sexual violence during their time
at the university.

The platform where all of this took place? Yik Yak, the now-defunct, localized,
anonymous messaging app that Tyler Droll and Brooks Buffington, two students at
Furman University in South Carolina, founded in 2013 and that soon became
associated with bullying, discriminatory speech and threats of bomb and gun
violence.

"The lack of responsiveness and inability to control this devastating hate
speech I think is what ultimately did this app in," said Debra Katz, one of the
lawyers who brought the complaint against Mary Washington, located in
Fredericksburg, and Mr. Hurley, in federal court for the Eastern District of
Virginia.

In response to the suit, the university said it contained "no new allegations"
and that it had, and would continue, to "work diligently to create a safe and
secure campus environment and to address the issue of sexual violence."

There was no comment from Mr. Hurley's lawyer.

The lawsuit was just the latest twist in the rocky road the messaging app has
traveled in its short life.

In March 2014, a school in Massachusetts evacuated its students twice after
Yik-Yak-based bomb threats, and during the same month, a high school in
California was put on lockdown for a similar reason.

In October 2014, Jordan Seman, a student at Middlebury College in Vermont,
posted an open letter about being targeted on the app for her weight. "I felt
exposed, betrayed and mostly embarrassed," she wrote.

The next month, two other high schools in California were put on lockdown after
threats of violence, and in Michigan, the police arrested Matthew Mullen, a
student at Michigan State whose Yik Yak post threatened a shooting. Mr. Mullen
was eventually sentenced to two years' probation and ordered to pay $800 in
restitution for the investigation.

At the University of Missouri, campus police arrested Hunter M. Park and charged
him with making threats of violence against black students on Yik Yak. Mr. Park
received a three-year suspended sentence and five years' probation after
pleading guilty to making a terrorist threat. A former Virginia Tech student
pleaded guilty to using the app to threaten a repeat of the 2007 campus shooting
in which 32 people were killed.

The high point for Yik Yak came in 2014, when its founders raised $73 million in
venture-capital funding. According to App Annie, a firm that tracks metrics for
apps, downloads spiked in September of that year and stayed high for several
months. But by early 2015, the decline began. App Annie estimates that Yik Yak
had 1.8 million downloads in September 2014. By September 2016, it was 125,000.

At the end of that year, Mr. Droll and Mr. Buffington laid off 60 percent of
their employees, and last month, they shut down the operation, selling off
intellectual property and employee contracts to Square Inc., a mobile payment
company, for $1 million. A few months earlier, Hive, a college-based chat app
with a similar color scheme to Yik Yak's, popped up in the iTunes and Google
Play stores, with Mr. Buffington in one of the screenshots. Whether it was an
attempt at reinvention under the Yik Yak umbrella or a side project is unclear,
but it is no longer available.

Yik Yak's image problems seemed to stem from its reliance on anonymous posts and
the few solutions that were available to curtail racist, sexist, aggressive or
threatening language. The app was community-monitored, meaning that users could
vote down a post they found vulgar or offensive, and if the post received enough
negative feedback, it was removed.

But the app's privacy policy did not allow institutions to identify users who
posed a risk without a subpoena, court order or search warrant, or an emergency
request from a law-enforcement official with a compelling claim of imminent
harm.

Though neither Yik Yak nor its creators were named as defendants in the suit
against Mary Washington and Mr. Hurley, the app's role was central. Its name is
mentioned 51 times in the 35-page complaint, which outlines instances when
members of the campus group Feminists United were targeted in "Yaks," or
messages on the platform, after they spoke out against Greek life on campus and
were connected with the suspension of a rugby team, some of whose members had
sung a song "that called for violence against women, including rape and
necrophilia" at a party, according to the complaint.

Messages that cropped on Yik Yak disparaged and threatened the feminist group's
most visible members. Some of the worst are listed in the complaint: "Gonna tie
these feminists to the radiator and [g]rape them in the mouth," "Can we
euthanize whoever caused this?"

Kelli Musick, one of the plaintiffs, who graduated in 2015, said: "There were
days when I felt like I couldn't look away from my phone because a friend or
someone I knew would send me a screenshot of a threatening or harassing Yak. We
don't blame the app in and of itself. It was a tool. Tools can be used in any
way that a person decides to use them."

But the group did ask the university to request that Yik Yak place a virtual
fence around its campus to disable the app. The solution was one Yik Yak had
begun using in March 2014 in Chicago-area schools and one it gradually expanded
to middle and high schools nationwide after facing criticism from parents and
educators.

"We had parents reaching out to say their 9-year-old has been threatened and
harassed on the app," said Ross Ellis, the founder and chief executive of Stomp
Out Bullying. "Kids get hysterical when people make mean comments. Their brains
are not mature enough to handle it."

The school administration, citing logistical and first amendment concerns,
refused. So the group asked that Yik Yak be banned on the school's Wi-Fi
network, a gesture that was primarily symbolic given that students could
continue to access it on their personal data plans. The university said no
again.

"This was something over which we had no control," said Anna Billingsley, the
associate vice president for university relations. "We couldn't remove the posts
from Yik Yak." She said that the school offered the protection of campus police
and suggested that the students contact Yik Yak and the Title IX office at the
university.

"They told us to report the Yaks to Yik Yak, and if they were found to be
credible, Yik Yak would then respond, which is not the case for any other
threats of violence on campus," Ms. Musick said. "When it has been a threat of a
bomb or a gun, other schools did not say, 'Report it to Yik Yak and they'll
follow up.'"

In trying to react to complaints about its product, Yik Yak created geo-fences
and added filters that recognized certain keywords, such as "bomb," and would
ask users if they wanted to proceed with the message by suggesting: "Pump the
brakes, this Yak may contain threatening language. Now it's probably nothing and
you're probably an awesome person but just know that Yik Yak and law enforcement
take threats seriously. So you tell us, is this Yak cool to post?"

But little changed and students at schools across the country began to fight
back. The College of Idaho student senate requested that Yik Yak geo-fence their
campus, and in Georgia Emory University's student government denounced the app
in a formal resolution. Students at Clemson University in South Carolina
unsuccessfully demanded that the school ban the app after a spate of racist
messages.

And at the University of Mary Washington, Ms. Musick and her classmates turned
to Ms. Katz to file a complaint with the Education Department. Its Office of
Civil Rights opened an investigation, but before it could issue a decision, the
White House changed hands and many of the office's employees left. So the women
went to district court.

Yik Yak tried to put in place further preventive measures in 2016 first by
allowing users to have profiles and handles, then by requiring them. After
blowback, the identity markers became optional once again.

Despite these efforts, by this past March, about two and a half years after it
had closed a round of funding that raised millions in venture capital, its
active users over age 18 had fallen to 264,000, an enormous decline from nearly
1.9 million in November 2014, according to comScore.

Was Yik Yak really that bad? A study at the MIT Media Lab that compared it to
Twitter found that posts on the anonymous platform were only slightly more
likely to contain vulgar words. The difference was less than 1 percent. "We find
that on anonymous platforms, users are only slightly more likely to use vulgar
language than on public ones, and when they do it is not acceptable and leads to
negative feedback," the authors wrote.

Morgan Hines, who will start her fourth year at Northeastern University in
Boston this fall, never encountered nastiness on Yik Yak. "I thought it was
funny," she said. "It formed a lot of camaraderie between students. There would
be random shout-outs to things happening on campus, like people who are
attractive or being annoying in the library, or a fire alarm going off at 4
a.m."

But Ms. Hines criticized Yik Yak's hyper-localization. "Yik Yak was for pockets
of people on campus," she said. "If the fire alarm went off at 4 a.m., it only
went off at your building, so no one else will give it a thumbs-up."

That hyper-localization is also what made the cases of harassment particularly
galling. Ms. Musick, one of the plaintiffs, said, "With Yik Yak, in the back of
your mind, you know they're not from around the world or other parts of the
state, they're right there in your classroom, in your dining hall. On a campus
with 4,500 students, that's a pretty small group of people. This isn't some
creepy guy in his mom's basement in Indiana."

In the end, it may have been this aspect of the app that really did it in.
Danielle Levitas, the senior vice president for research at App Annie, pointed
out that bad press would not necessarily override an app's popularity if it
fulfilled a useful function (consider Uber, for example). But, she said, if it
does not have something sustainable to offer, it will burn out.

In this case, it seems that being local was to Yik Yak's detriment. When Ms.
Hines went home to Kentucky after her freshman year, she forgot about the app.
"I wasn't on campus anymore and I wasn't with my friends anymore," she said. And
back at Northeastern, "no one was on campus to comment on anything." She added,
"It kind of just became irrelevant in my life."

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.


Correction: May 27, 2017, Saturday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article incorrectly described one of the groups that is a
plaintiff in the suit against the University of Mary Washington and Richard
Hurley. The Feminist Majority Foundation is an organization based in Arlington,
Va., not a campus group.

PHOTOS: Tyler Droll, left, and Brooks Buffington created Yik Yak while college
students in 2013. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAYMOND MCCREA JONES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(ST7)
 DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY DAVID PLUNKERT) (ST1; ST7)

Related Articles


     ·    It's 10 P.M. Do You Know What Apps Your Children Are Using?


LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 28, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Rise and Fall of a Messaging App

BYLINE: By VALERIYA SAFRONOVA

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1831 words


This month, two feminist groups and several former students filed a federal
complaint accusing the University of Mary Washington in Virginia and its former
president, Richard Hurley, of failing to protect the female plaintiffs from
cyber harassment and threats of physical and sexual violence during their time
at the university.

The platform where all of this took place? Yik Yak, the now-defunct, localized,
anonymous messaging app that Tyler Droll and Brooks Buffington, two students at
Furman University in South Carolina, founded in 2013 and that soon became
associated with bullying, discriminatory speech and threats of bomb and gun
violence.

''The lack of responsiveness and inability to control this devastating hate
speech I think is what ultimately did this app in,'' said Debra Katz, one of the
lawyers who brought the complaint against Mary Washington, located in
Fredericksburg, and Mr. Hurley, in federal court for the Eastern District of
Virginia.

In response to the suit, the university said it contained ''no new allegations''
and that it had, and would continue, to ''work diligently to create a safe and
secure campus environment and to address the issue of sexual violence.''

There was no comment from Mr. Hurley's lawyer.

The lawsuit was just the latest twist in the rocky road the messaging app has
traveled in its short life.

In March 2014, a school in Massachusetts evacuated its students twice after
Yik-Yak-based bomb threats, and during the same month, a high school in
California was put on lockdown for a similar reason.

In October 2014, Jordan Seman, a student at Middlebury College in Vermont,
posted an open letter about being targeted on the app for her weight. ''I felt
exposed, betrayed and mostly embarrassed,'' she wrote.

The next month, two other high schools in California were put on lockdown after
threats of violence, and in Michigan, the police arrested Matthew Mullen, a
student at Michigan State whose Yik Yak post threatened  a shooting. Mr. Mullen
was eventually sentenced to two years' probation and ordered to pay $800 in
restitution for the investigation.

At the University of Missouri, campus police arrested Hunter M. Park and charged
him with making threats of violence against black students on Yik Yak. Mr. Park
received a three-year suspended sentence and five years' probation after
pleading guilty to making a terrorist threat. A former Virginia Tech student
pleaded guilty to using the app to threaten a repeat of the 2007 campus shooting
in which 32 people were killed.

The high point for Yik Yak came in 2014, when its founders raised $73 million in
venture-capital funding. According to App Annie, a firm that tracks metrics for
apps, downloads spiked in September of that year and stayed high for several
months. But by early 2015, the decline began. App Annie estimates that Yik Yak
had 1.8 million downloads in September 2014. By September 2016, it was 125,000.

At the end of that year, Mr. Droll and Mr. Buffington laid off 60 percent of
their employees, and last month, they shut down the operation, selling off
intellectual property and employee contracts to Square Inc., a mobile payment
company, for $1 million. A few months earlier, Hive, a college-based chat app
with a similar color scheme to Yik Yak's, popped up in the iTunes and Google
Play stores, with Mr. Buffington in one of the screenshots. Whether it was an
attempt at reinvention under the Yik Yak umbrella or a side project is unclear,
but it is no longer available.

Yik Yak's image problems seemed to stem from its reliance on anonymous posts and
the few solutions that were available to curtail racist, sexist, aggressive or
threatening language. The app was community-monitored, meaning that users could
vote down a post they found vulgar or offensive, and if the post received enough
negative feedback, it was removed.

But the app's privacy policy did not allow institutions to identify users who
posed a risk without a subpoena, court order or search warrant, or an emergency
request from a law-enforcement official with a compelling claim of imminent
harm.

Though neither Yik Yak nor its creators were named as defendants in the suit
against Mary Washington and Mr. Hurley, the app's role was central. Its name is
mentioned 51 times in the 35-page complaint, which outlines instances when
members of the campus group Feminists United were targeted in ''Yaks,'' or
messages on the platform, after they spoke out against Greek life on campus and
were connected with the suspension of a rugby team, some of whose members had
sung a song ''that called for violence against women, including rape and
necrophilia'' at a party, according to the complaint.

Messages that cropped on Yik Yak disparaged and threatened the feminist group's
most visible members. Some of the worst are listed in the complaint: ''Gonna tie
these feminists to the radiator and [g]rape them in the mouth,'' ''Can we
euthanize whoever caused this?''

Kelli Musick, one of the plaintiffs, who graduated in 2015, said: ''There were
days when I felt like I couldn't look away from my phone because a friend or
someone I knew would send me a screenshot of a threatening or harassing Yak. We
don't blame the app in and of itself. It was a tool. Tools can be used in any
way that a person decides to use them.''

But the group did ask the university to request that Yik Yak place a virtual
fence around its campus to disable the app. The solution was one Yik Yak had
begun using in March 2014 in Chicago-area schools and one it gradually expanded
to middle and high schools nationwide after facing criticism from parents and
educators.

''We had parents reaching out to say their 9-year-old has been threatened and
harassed on the app,'' said Ross Ellis, the founder and chief executive of Stomp
Out Bullying. ''Kids get hysterical when people make mean comments. Their brains
are not mature enough to handle it.''

The school administration, citing logistical and first amendment concerns,
refused. So the group asked that Yik Yak be banned on the school's Wi-Fi
network, a gesture that was primarily symbolic given that students could
continue to access it on their personal data plans. The university said no
again.

''This was something over which we had no control,'' said Anna Billingsley, the
associate vice president for university relations. ''We couldn't remove the
posts from Yik Yak.'' She said that the school offered the protection of campus
police and suggested that the students contact Yik Yak and the Title IX office
at the university.

''They told us to report the Yaks to Yik Yak, and if they were found to be
credible, Yik Yak would then respond, which is not the case for any other
threats of violence on campus,'' Ms. Musick said. ''When it has been a threat of
a bomb or a gun, other schools did not say, 'Report it to Yik Yak and they'll
follow up.'''

In trying to react to complaints about its product, Yik Yak created geo-fences
and added filters that recognized certain keywords, such as ''bomb,'' and would
ask users if they wanted to proceed with the message by suggesting: ''Pump the
brakes, this Yak may contain threatening language. Now it's probably nothing and
you're probably an awesome person but just know that Yik Yak and law enforcement
take threats seriously. So you tell us, is this Yak cool to post?''

But little changed and students at schools across the country began to fight
back. The College of Idaho student senate requested that Yik Yak geo-fence their
campus, and in Georgia Emory University's student government denounced the app
in a formal resolution. Students at Clemson University in South Carolina
unsuccessfully demanded that the school ban the app after a spate of racist
messages.

And at the University of Mary Washington, Ms. Musick and her classmates turned
to Ms. Katz to file a complaint with the Education Department. Its Office of
Civil Rights opened an investigation, but before it could issue a decision, the
White House changed hands and many of the office's employees left. So the women
went to district court.

Yik Yak tried to put in place further preventive measures in 2016 first by
allowing users to have profiles and handles, then by requiring them. After
blowback, the identity markers became optional once again.

Despite these efforts, by this past March, about two and a half years after it
had closed a round of funding that raised millions in venture capital, its
active users over age 18 had fallen to 264,000, an enormous decline from nearly
1.9 million in November 2014, according to comScore.

Was Yik Yak really that bad? A study at the MIT Media Lab that compared it to
Twitter found that posts on the anonymous platform were only slightly more
likely to contain vulgar words. The difference was less than 1 percent. ''We
find that on anonymous platforms, users are only slightly more likely to use
vulgar language than on public ones, and when they do it is not acceptable and
leads to negative feedback,'' the authors wrote.

Morgan Hines, who will start her fourth year at Northeastern University in
Boston this fall, never encountered nastiness on Yik Yak. ''I thought it was
funny,'' she said. ''It formed a lot of camaraderie between students. There
would be random shout-outs to things happening on campus, like people who are
attractive or being annoying in the library, or a fire alarm going off at 4
a.m.''

But Ms. Hines criticized Yik Yak's hyper-localization. ''Yik Yak was for pockets
of people on campus,'' she said. ''If the fire alarm went off at 4 a.m., it only
went off at your building, so no one else will give it a thumbs-up.''

That hyper-localization is also what made the cases of harassment particularly
galling. Ms. Musick, one of the plaintiffs, said, ''With Yik Yak, in the back of
your mind, you know they're not from around the world or other parts of the
state, they're right there in your classroom, in your dining hall. On a campus
with 4,500 students, that's a pretty small group of people. This isn't some
creepy guy in his mom's basement in Indiana.''

In the end, it may have been this aspect of the app that really did it in.
Danielle Levitas, the senior vice president for research at App Annie, pointed
out that bad press would not necessarily override an app's popularity if it
fulfilled a useful function (consider Uber, for example). But, she said, if it
does not have something sustainable to offer, it will burn out.

In this case, it seems that being local was to Yik Yak's detriment. When Ms.
Hines went home to Kentucky after her freshman year, she forgot about the app.
''I wasn't on campus anymore and I wasn't with my friends anymore,'' she said.
And back at Northeastern, ''no one was on campus to comment on anything.'' She
added, ''It kind of just became irrelevant in my life.''

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/27/style/yik-yak-bullying-mary-washington.html

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tyler Droll, left, and Brooks Buffington created Yik Yak while
college students in 2013. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAYMOND MCCREA JONES FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (ST7) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY DAVID PLUNKERT) (ST1
 ST7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         May 29, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

North Korean Tests Add Urgency for U.S. to Fix Defense Flaws

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1634 words



HIGHLIGHT: The North has recently test-fired missiles based on a technology that
would give the United States little warning of an attack. And they seem to work.



WASHINGTON -- As the Pentagon prepares to conduct its first test in three years
of the multibillion-dollar effort to intercept a North Korean warhead, it hopes
to demonstrate that it has fixed a system that has worked in fewer than half of
its previous nine tests.

But just as the Defense Department seeks to prove that it can strike a speeding
target launched over the Pacific -- in this case, an interceptor rocket is set
to lift off from the California coast on Tuesday to try to smash a mock warhead
-- the North Koreans have delivered a new challenge.

The North has recently test-fired a series of missiles based on a technology
that would give the United States little warning of an attack. The new
generation of missiles uses solid fuels, enabling them to be rolled out from
mountain hideaways and launched in minutes. That makes the job of intercepting
them -- already daunting -- far harder, given that the American antimissile
system works best with early alerts from satellites that a launch is imminent.

Even more worrisome is that these missiles actually seem to be functional,
unlike older missiles that kept exploding or falling prematurely into the sea in
past tests. Recent major tests were clearly successful, teaching the North
Koreans a lot about how to fire missiles into space and drop warheads on distant
targets. While the North has not yet flight-tested an intercontinental ballistic
missile capable of crossing the Pacific, it has repeatedly claimed that it can
strike the United States with a nuclear warhead.

Evidence suggests that American intelligence missed signals last year that the
North was moving quickly to adopt the solid-fuel technology, leaving Washington
scrambling to catch up, according to current and former American officials.

One former official who closely tracked the intelligence on North Korea said
that while it should not be called an intelligence failure, the American
government had not appreciated the speed with which the North was changing its
approach.

On Sunday, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis argued that the United States could not
wait for North Korea to complete its testing program before responding
forcefully.

"It is a direct threat to the United States," he said on CBS's "Face the
Nation." "They have been very clear in their rhetoric -- we don't have to wait
until they have an intercontinental ballistic missile with a nuclear weapon on
it to say that now it's manifested completely."

In its latest provocative move, North Korea early Monday test-fired a
short-range ballistic missile, a launch that violated United Nations Security
Council resolutions but was not of great concern to the United States.

The American response so far to the North's nuclear and missile programs has
included a secret campaign of cyber- and electronic-warfare strikes that
President Barack Obama accelerated three years ago, after concluding that
traditional missile defenses were insufficient. The covert program is known as
"left of launch," since the cyberattacks begin before missiles reach the
launching pad, or as they blast off.

President Trump has declined to publicly talk about the "left of launch" effort,
though he has made comments that seemed to acknowledge its existence.

The test scheduled for Tuesday is of the more classic antimissile defenses that
the United States has struggled to make work since the Eisenhower
administration. Yet it is the first since Mr. Trump took office vowing to
"solve" the North Korea problem, and since he began talking about ratcheting up
economic sanctions and raising military pressure on the North.

But Mr. Trump is discovering what Mr. Obama learned before him: Intercepting
intercontinental missiles over the Pacific is exquisitely hard, even when the
tests, like the one scheduled for this week, are designed to give the
interceptor its best shot.

Incoming warheads move extraordinarily fast -- more than four miles a second. In
war, the interceptors in Alaska and California would race skyward and release
speeding projectiles meant to obliterate incoming warheads by force of impact --
what experts call hitting a bullet with a bullet.

Huge amounts of cash have been spent on this challenge: more than $330 billion
by the estimate of Stephen I. Schwartz, a military analyst at the Middlebury
Institute of International Studies in Monterey, Calif. Yet neither the high cost
nor the poor performance has dampened enthusiasm in Congress or at the Pentagon
-- or among military contractors -- for deploying missile defenses. The Defense
Department hopes to spend billions more dollars on the interceptors, including
perhaps on a new site on the East Coast.

Since the Bush administration began moving the system into operational mode in
2004, it has had a failure rate of 56 percent in tests against mock warheads.
While the official tally is five misses in nine attempts, critics say that a
test in 2006 was only a partial success, since the interceptor struck just a
glancing blow.

"Close only counts in horseshoes, not in nuclear war," said Philip E. Coyle III,
a former White House official and former head of weapons testing at the Pentagon
who has long faulted the system as unreliable and misleading. If the glancing
blow counts as a miss, the system's failure rate is 67 percent.

Critics warn that the system would do worse in war, since the flight tests are
highly scripted. They note that no mock weapon has moved nearly as fast as a
true enemy warhead.

Portraying this week's test as more realistic, Vice Adm. James D. Syring, the
director of the Pentagon's Missile Defense Agency, has called it "the first
intercept of an ICBM-range target." That means it is meant to approach the
warhead speed of a true intercontinental ballistic missile.

While mock enemy missiles are always launched from Kwajalein, an atoll in the
Pacific, North Korea uses large trucks to move around the intercontinental
missiles it is developing, adding elements of surprise. Paul Bracken, a Yale
military expert who is working on a book about mobile missiles, said foreign
states saw movable arms as inherently safer from American strikes.

In the past, the North's reliance on liquid-fueled missiles eased the targeting
job for antimissile interceptors. American military surveillance planes and
satellites could track missile transporters and convoys of fuel trucks. The
process of fueling a missile takes several hours, making it vulnerable to a
pre-emptive strike, and giving the antimissile systems on the West Coast time to
lock in on expected trajectories.

With the new generation of weapons, the solid fuels are packed into the missile
body in the factory, eliminating the need for fueling in the field. So the
preparation time for an attack can drop from hours to minutes.

"It's concerning," Dr. Coyle said. "It can give you less warning time."

Missile experts say the North's shift to solids came as a surprise. Jeffrey
Lewis, an expert in North Korean rocketry at the Middlebury Institute, noted
last year that Washington had given two kinds of submarine missiles -- one
fueled by liquids, and a newer one by solids -- the same identifier code. The
lack of a distinction, he said, suggested that the North had "caught the U.S.
unaware."

The C.I.A. disputes that, saying it has been tracking solid-fuel developments
closely. Nonetheless, when the new C.I.A. director, Mike Pompeo, took office,
his first organizational step was to create a unit to unify all analysis and
covert operations against North Korea's nuclear and missile systems, a
recognition, officials say, that the efforts had been fractured.

In all, the North has now successfully tested solid-fueled missiles four times
-- twice last year and twice this year. After a test on May 21 -- carried out in
defiance of what Mr. Trump called an "armada" of warships and submarines off the
Korean coast -- the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, declared the new
medium-range missile, known as the Pukguksong-2, ready to be mass produced and
then deployed.

John Schilling, an aerospace engineer and an expert on North Korea's missile
program, predicted last year that the North might need five years or more to
successfully deploy a solid-fueled missile. Recently, after the string of
successes, he has updated his estimate, saying the North might start deployments
this year.

In testimony to the Senate Armed Services Committee last week, the director of
the Defense Intelligence Agency, Lt. Gen. Vincent R. Stewart, declined to offer
a similar timing estimate. But he said that "if left on his current trajectory,"
Mr. Kim "will ultimately succeed in fielding a nuclear-armed missile capable of
threatening the United States homeland."

Young-Keun Chang, an aerospace engineer and the director of the Global
Surveillance Research Center at the Korean Aerospace University, in Seoul, said
the North's recent solid-fuel advances had moved the impoverished state closer
to the "technological breakthrough" it needed to build a mobile intercontinental
ballistic missile.

"North Korea may," he said, "replace all its liquid-propellant ballistic
missiles with solid-propellant missiles." He called it a "fundamental paradigm
shift" that could eventually pose "a serious potential threat to the United
States."

PHOTOS: The Pukguksong-2, top, in an undated image, was tested recently in North
Korea. Above left, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, left, said on Sunday that the
tests were "a direct threat to the United States." At right, the U.S.S. Michigan
in South Korea last month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KOREAN CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY, VIA
EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY; MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; JO
JUNG-HO/YONHAP, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A14)

Related Articles


     ·    North Korea Missile Test Was Short on Distance but Long on Data, South
          Says
     ·    North Korea Missile Test Appears to Tiptoe Over a U.S. Tripwire


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

North Korean Tests Add Urgency For U.S. to Fix Flaws in Defense

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1553 words


WASHINGTON -- As the Pentagon prepares to conduct its first test in three years
of the multibillion-dollar effort to intercept a North Korean warhead, it hopes
to demonstrate that it has fixed a system that has worked in fewer than half of
its previous nine tests.

But just as the Defense Department seeks to prove that it can strike a speeding
target launched over the Pacific -- in this case, an interceptor rocket is set
to lift off from the California coast on Tuesday to try to smash a mock warhead
-- the North Koreans have delivered a new challenge.

The North has recently test-fired a series of missiles based on a technology
that would give the United States little warning of an attack. The new
generation of missiles uses solid fuels, enabling them to be rolled out from
mountain hideaways and launched in minutes. That makes the job of intercepting
them -- already daunting -- far harder, given that the American antimissile
system works best with early alerts from satellites that a launch is imminent.

Even more worrisome is that these missiles actually seem to be functional,
unlike older missiles that kept exploding or falling prematurely into the sea in
past tests. Recent major tests were clearly successful, teaching the North
Koreans a lot about how to fire missiles into space and drop warheads on distant
targets. While the North has not yet flight-tested an intercontinental ballistic
missile capable of crossing the Pacific, it has repeatedly claimed that it can
strike the United States with a nuclear warhead.

Evidence suggests that American intelligence missed signals last year that the
North was moving quickly to adopt the solid-fuel technology, leaving Washington
scrambling to catch up, according to current and former American officials.

One former official who closely tracked the intelligence on North Korea said
that while it should not be called an intelligence failure, the American
government had not appreciated the speed with which the North was changing its
approach.

On Sunday, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis argued that the United States could not
wait for North Korea to complete its testing program before responding
forcefully.

''It is a direct threat to the United States,'' he said on CBS's ''Face the
Nation.'' ''They have been very clear in their rhetoric -- we don't have to wait
until they have an intercontinental ballistic missile with a nuclear weapon on
it to say that now it's manifested completely.''

In its latest provocative move, North Korea early Monday test-fired a
short-range ballistic missile, a launch that violated United Nations Security
Council resolutions but was not of great concern to the United States.

The American response so far to the North's nuclear and missile programs has
included a secret campaign of cyber- and electronic-warfare strikes that
President Barack Obama accelerated three years ago, after concluding that
traditional missile defenses were insufficient. The covert program is known as
''left of launch,'' since the cyberattacks begin before missiles reach the
launching pad, or as they blast off.

President Trump has declined to publicly talk about the ''left of launch''
effort, though he has made comments that seemed to acknowledge its existence.

The test scheduled for Tuesday is of the more classic antimissile defenses that
the United States has struggled to make work since the Eisenhower
administration. Yet it is the first since Mr. Trump took office vowing to
''solve'' the North Korea problem, and since he began talking about ratcheting
up economic sanctions and raising military pressure on the North.

But Mr. Trump is discovering what Mr. Obama learned before him: Intercepting
intercontinental missiles over the Pacific is exquisitely hard, even when the
tests, like the one scheduled for this week, are designed to give the
interceptor its best shot.

Incoming warheads move extraordinarily fast -- more than four miles a second. In
war, the interceptors in Alaska and California would race skyward and release
speeding projectiles meant to obliterate incoming warheads by force of impact --
what experts call hitting a bullet with a bullet.

Huge amounts of cash have been spent on this challenge: more than $330 billion
by the estimate of Stephen I. Schwartz, a military analyst at the Middlebury
Institute of International Studies in Monterey, Calif. Yet neither the high cost
nor the poor performance has dampened enthusiasm in Congress or at the Pentagon
-- or among military contractors -- for deploying missile defenses. The Defense
Department hopes to spend billions more dollars on the interceptors, including
perhaps on a new site on the East Coast.

Since the Bush administration began moving the system into operational mode in
2004, it has had a failure rate of 56 percent in tests against mock warheads.
While the official tally is five misses in nine attempts, critics say that a
test in 2006 was only a partial success, since the interceptor struck just a
glancing blow.

''Close only counts in horseshoes, not in nuclear war,'' said Philip E. Coyle
III, a former White House official and former head of weapons testing at the
Pentagon who has long faulted the system as unreliable and misleading. If the
glancing blow counts as a miss, the system's failure rate is 67 percent.

Critics warn that the system would do worse in war, since the flight tests are
highly scripted. They note that no mock weapon has moved nearly as fast as a
true enemy warhead.

Portraying this week's test as more realistic, Vice Adm. James D. Syring, the
director of the Pentagon's Missile Defense Agency, has called it ''the first
intercept of an ICBM-range target.'' That means it is meant to approach the
warhead speed of a true intercontinental ballistic missile.

While mock enemy missiles are always launched from Kwajalein, an atoll in the
Pacific, North Korea uses large trucks to move around the intercontinental
missiles it is developing, adding elements of surprise. Paul Bracken, a Yale
military expert who is working on a book about mobile missiles, said foreign
states saw movable arms as inherently safer from American strikes.

In the past, the North's reliance on liquid-fueled missiles eased the targeting
job for antimissile interceptors. American military surveillance planes and
satellites could track missile transporters and convoys of fuel trucks. The
process of fueling a missile takes several hours, making it vulnerable to a
pre-emptive strike, and giving the antimissile systems on the West Coast time to
lock in on expected trajectories.

With the new generation of weapons, the solid fuels are packed into the missile
body in the factory, eliminating the need for fueling in the field. So the
preparation time for an attack can drop from hours to minutes.

''It's concerning,'' Dr. Coyle said. ''It can give you less warning time.''

Missile experts say the North's shift to solids came as a surprise. Jeffrey
Lewis, an expert in North Korean rocketry at the Middlebury Institute, noted
last year that Washington had given two kinds of submarine missiles -- one
fueled by liquids, and a newer one by solids -- the same identifier code. The
lack of a distinction, he said, suggested that the North had ''caught the U.S.
unaware.''

The C.I.A. disputes that, saying it has been tracking solid-fuel developments
closely. Nonetheless, when the new C.I.A. director, Mike Pompeo, took office,
his first organizational step was to create a unit to unify all analysis and
covert operations against North Korea's nuclear and missile systems, a
recognition, officials say, that the efforts had been fractured.

In all, the North has now successfully tested solid-fueled missiles four times
-- twice last year and twice this year. After a test on May 21 -- carried out in
defiance of what Mr. Trump called an ''armada'' of warships and submarines off
the Korean coast -- the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, declared the new
medium-range missile, known as the Pukguksong-2, ready to be mass produced and
then deployed.

John Schilling, an aerospace engineer and an expert on North Korea's missile
program, predicted last year that the North might need five years or more to
successfully deploy a solid-fueled missile. Recently, after the string of
successes, he has updated his estimate, saying the North might start deployments
this year.

In testimony to the Senate Armed Services Committee last week, the director of
the Defense Intelligence Agency, Lt. Gen. Vincent R. Stewart, declined to offer
a similar timing estimate. But he said that ''if left on his current
trajectory,'' Mr. Kim ''will ultimately succeed in fielding a nuclear-armed
missile capable of threatening the United States homeland.''

Young-Keun Chang, an aerospace engineer and the director of the Global
Surveillance Research Center at the Korean Aerospace University, in Seoul, said
the North's recent solid-fuel advances had moved the impoverished state closer
to the ''technological breakthrough'' it needed to build a mobile
intercontinental ballistic missile.

''North Korea may,'' he said, ''replace all its liquid-propellant ballistic
missiles with solid-propellant missiles.'' He called it a ''fundamental paradigm
shift'' that could eventually pose ''a serious potential threat to the United
States.''




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/29/us/politics/north-koreas-missiles-us-defense.
html

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Pukguksong-2, top, in an undated image, was tested recently
in North Korea. Above left, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, left, said on Sunday
that the tests were ''a direct threat to the United States.'' At right, the
U.S.S. Michigan in South Korea last month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KOREAN CENTRAL NEWS
AGENCY, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 JO JUNG-HO/YONHAP, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 31, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Here to Help; Three Books to Help You Understand Cyberwarfare

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 349 words


Fears of a massive cyberattack were realized this month, when over 200,000
computers were hacked in a global blackmail attempt. Hospitals were locked out
of medical records; individuals were prompted to pay a ransom to access their
computers. Yet cybersecurity remains murky territory. Here are a few books that
address the threat, recommended by the Newsbook columnist Concepción de León.
(One, published decades ago, shows that the current cyberworld may have been
foreseen in literature.)

DARK TERRITORY: THE SECRET HISTORY OF CYBER WAR (2016)

Fred Kaplan draws from conversations with prominent American government leaders,
including former directors of the National Security Agency, to deliver a
behind-the-scenes look at policy formulation over the last several decades. The
book traces the United States' advances in cybersecurity -- anything we can do,
he argues, adversaries could replicate or learn to do better. (The May 12
cyberattack used technology that originated in the United States.)

CYBER WAR: THE NEXT THREAT TO NATIONAL SECURITY AND WHAT TO DO ABOUT IT (2010)

Richard A. Clarke, a former counterterrorism adviser to President George W.
Bush, argues that more resources should be invested into warding off
cyberattacks. This book outlines what a cyberattack in the United States might
look like -- trains disabled, electrical power grids damaged, medical records
wiped out -- and proposes a plan its authors argue will give the country a
fighting chance.

NEUROMANCER (1984)

Case, the protagonist of William Gibson's exploration of the implications of
artificial intelligence, is a hacker who can plug into his machine to intimately
experience electronic transmissions. After he is caught stealing by his former
employers, they damage his central nervous system, cutting off his access to
cyberspace. When he is offered help repairing his nervous system in exchange for
his services in a nefarious mission, Case jumps at the opportunity. And so
begins the novel's swift unfolding.

For more news-based book recommendations, find the Newsbook column at
nytimes.com/books.




URL:

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        June 7, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Howard Jacobson: My Uncertainty Principle;
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: HOWARD JACOBSON

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1098 words



HIGHLIGHT: The new masochism of nations: The worse things get, the worse we want
to make them.


LONDON -- Half a century ago, wet behind the ears, I sailed from England to
Australia. My parents wept. They weren't sure they'd see me again. A journey of
three or four weeks by sea was considered perilous in those days. And even if I
did make it to Sydney safely, there was no knowing when, if ever, I'd return.

When I did arrive -- in one piece, as it happened -- I had to book an
international telephone call from the city's central post office to tell my
parents I was O.K. It was two hours before a line became free. You could say
that this was the proper way to respect distance. If you're going halfway around
the world, it should seem like it.

Since that time, the world has shrunk. We don't weep in the arms of our friends
before we travel. We can reach anywhere by air in less than a day and report on
the progress of the journey every half-hour by cellphone.

Or at least, that was the way it was the day before yesterday. Now inconvenience
and apprehension are back.

It's all more modern and streamlined apprehension, but disquiet is disquiet, and
there are humiliations thrown in today, as well. We wait like animals in pens.
We remove items of clothing before we pass through security. We are frisked. We
are questioned. We don't complain. We understand the necessity. Terrorism has
made the most perfunctory journey a jeopardy.

Board the plane itself and you can't be sure you won't be manhandled off it.
Passengers waiting to travel by British Airways last week didn't even get that
far. Crowded into departure terminals for days, they resembled the damned,
massing to cross the River Styx. The company did what companies do -- and blamed
its computer system.

It has been as bad a few weeks for computers as it has for airlines. Cyber
-extortionists took systems down around the world last month. In Britain, the
computer system of the already ailing National Health Service was hacked. Bad
luck if you were booked for an emergency operation that morning. To the anxiety
of wondering if you'd make it out of the operating theater alive was added the
anxiety of wondering if you'd make it into the operating theater alive.

We asked for trouble when we put all our eggs in technology's basket. But it's
too late to revisit that decision. We have signed up to the machine. Whatever
goes wrong is not the result of corporate mismanagement or greed, it's just
faulty software.

And yet, we go on trusting our futures to it. Soon, it will take our jobs. We
accept this with a worried shrug. Soon, also, it will drive our cars more safely
than we do. This, too, we embrace. Computers can't reliably keep your doctor's
notes or ticket us onto an airplane, and yet we are about to let them navigate
us along superhighways at perhaps 100 miles an hour.

About that, I feel twice as apprehensive as I did when I sailed to Australia. We
might be asking our self-drive Mercedes to take us only to the corner shop, but
we'll still be sobbing into the necks of those we love before it drives off with
us in it.

"Goodbye, my little ones, I'll call you from the store. If I get there."

The phony calm of predictably untroubled travel, like the phony calm of
predictably untroubled politics, in which parties of the left exchanged power
with parties of the right at regular intervals, is over. Confusion, uncertainty
and fear are back.

But are they back because we want them back? Do we, like seafarers of old, crave
the hazards of the untraveled void?

The biggest shock to our political certainties was Brexit. No one saw that
coming. Even as the votes were being counted on the evening of June 23, 2016,
the leader of the U.K. Independence Party, whose only reason for existence was
getting Britain out of Europe, as good as conceded defeat. Mistaken as it was,
this inured defeatism set the scene for the appearance of a new phenomenon in
British politics: the sore winner.

Why those who got what they wanted are unable to be graceful in success is one
of the attendant mysteries of Brexit. That the losing Remainers should bellyache
is to be expected. I do it every day. But why aren't the Brexiteers happy?

Maybe some -- remembering that spleen directed them to vote in what they assumed
to be a losing cause -- wished they'd listened to some other humor. But most
seem to want to go on rerunning the contest, not only to savor victory again,
but also to savor its surprise. Are we becoming "exhilaration of the
unanticipated" junkies?

Donald Trump's unexpected victory in the presidential election followed some of
the same patterns. Certainly, Mr. Trump himself took a long time getting used to
the idea that he had won, and continues to tweet, if not like a loser exactly,
then like an outsider still knocking at the gates of the White House. And the
job is so demanding.

"I thought it would be easier," he said a few weeks ago. Perhaps the sense of
anticlimax that overtook so many surly Brexiteers has seized him, too.

Our prime minister, Theresa May, must know how he feels. Here, we are in the
throes of an election no one dreamed she could lose, but which she will now
struggle to win. A month ago, Mrs. May was banking on a landslide victory; this
week, her government may even lose its majority in the House of Commons.

It has been an improbable turnaround. But we have entered the era of the
unlikely. The question now arises: Are we so hooked on savoring improbable
outcomes that, consciously or otherwise, we have begun to conspire in making
them happen?

No doubt, the Labour leader, Jeremy Corbyn, would attribute the startling change
in voters' perceptions of him to his own resilience in the face of a vicious
media onslaught. And it is true that men find themselves in adversity.

It could be, though, that it's we who have found him.

If we can change, as it were, the feng shui of this election, if we can
rearrange the landscape of the possible, we restore to ourselves the illusion of
power over an incalculable event. The recent terror attack in London might
influence the way we vote on June 8, but we daren't admit it. We must be our own
masters.

So there's a paradox here. We seek the unexpected, but we want to own our fate.
Our taste for the uncertain must have its limits, then. It could be that we
arrange surprises for ourselves only in order not to be overwhelmed by those
thunderbolts and devastations over which we have no control.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Howard Jacobson is the author of more than a dozen novels, including "The
Finkler Question" and, most recently, "Pussy: A Novel."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        June 8, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Full Transcript and Video: James Comey's Testimony on Capitol Hill

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 25964 words



HIGHLIGHT: The following is the full transcript of the former F.B.I. director's
testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee, as prepared by the Federal
News Service.


James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was fired by President Trump,
appeared in front of the Senate Intelligence Committee on Thursday. The
following is the full transcript of that hearing, as prepared by the Federal
News Service.

For further coverage, follow our live briefing.

--

BURR: I'd like to call this hearing to order.

Director Comey, I appreciate your willingness to appear before the committee
today, and more importantly, I thank you for your dedicated service and
leadership to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Your appearance today speaks
to the trust we have built over the years, and I'm looking forward to a very
open and candid discussion today.BURR: I'd like to remind my colleagues that we
will reconvene in closed session at 1 PM today and I ask that you reserve for
that venue any questions that might get into classified information. The
director has been very gracious with his time, but the vice chairman and I have
worked out a very specific timeline for his commitment to be on the Hill, so we
will do everything we can to meet that agreement.

The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence exists to certify for the other 85
members of the United States Senate and the American people that the
intelligence community is operating lawfully and has the necessary authorities
and tools to accomplish its mission and keep America safe. Part of our mission,
beyond the oversight we continue to provide to the intelligence community and
its activities, is to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 U.S.
elections. The committee's work continues. This hearing represents part of that
effort.

Jim, allegations have been swirling in the press for the last several weeks, and
today's your opportunity to set the record straight. Yesterday, I read with
interest your statement for the record. And I think it provides some helpful
details surrounding your interactions with the president.

It clearly lays out your understanding of those discussions, actions you took
following each conversation and your state of mind. I very much appreciate your
candor, and I think it's helpful as we work through to determine the ultimate
truth behind possible Russian interference in the 2016 elections.

Your statement also provides texture and context to your interactions with the
president, from your vantage point, and outlines a strained relationship. The
American people need to hear your side of the story just as they need to hear
the president's descriptions of events.

These interactions also highlight the importance of the committee's ongoing
investigation. Our experienced staff is interviewing all relevant parties and
some of the most sensitive intelligence in our country's possession.

We will establish the facts, separate from rampant speculation, and lay them out
for the American people to make their own judgment. Only then will we as a
nation be able to move forward and to put this episode to rest. There are
several outstanding issues not addressed in your statement that I hope you'll
clear up for the American people today. Did the president's request for loyalty
-- your impression that -- that the one-on-one dinner of January 27th was, and I
quote, "at least in part an effort to create some sort of patronage
relationship," or his March 30th phone call asking what you could do to lift the
cloud of Russia investigation in any way, alter your approach of the FBI's
investigation into General Flynn or the broader investigation into Russia and
possible links to the campaign?

In your opinion, did potential Russian efforts to establish links with
individuals in the Trump orbit rise to the level we could define as collusion?
Or was it a counterintelligence concern?

There's been a significant public speculation about your decision-making related
to the Clinton e-mail investigation. Why did you decide publicly -- to publicly
announce FBI's recommendations that the Department of Justice not pursue
criminal charges? You have described it as a choice between a bad decision and a
worse decision. The American people need to understand the facts behind your
action.

This committee is uniquely suited to investigate Russia's interference in the
2016 elections. We also have a unified, bipartisan approach to what is a highly
charged partisan issue. Russian activities during 2016 election may have been
aimed at one party's candidate, but as my colleague, Senator Rubio, says
frequently, in 2018 and 2020, it could be aimed at anyone, at home or abroad.

My colleague, Senator Warner, and I have worked in -- have worked to to stay in
lockstep on this investigation. We've had our differences on approach at times.
But I've constantly stressed that we need to be a team. And I think Senator
Warner agrees with me.

We must keep these questions above politics and partisanship. It's too important
to be tainted by anyone trying to score political points.

With that, again, I welcome you, Director.

And I turn to the vice chairman for any comments he might have.

WARNER: Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman.

And let me start by, again, absolutely (ph) thanking all the members of the
committee for the seriousness in which they've taken on this task.WARNER: Mr.
Comey, thank you for agreeing to come testify as part of this committee's
investigation into Russia. I realize that this hearing has been, obviously, the
focus of a lot of Washington in the last few days. But the truth is many
Americans who may be tuning in today probably haven't focused on every twist and
turn of the investigation.

So I'd like to briefly describe, at least from this senator's standpoint, what
we already know and what we're still investigating. To be clear, this whole (ph)
investigation is not about relitigating the election. It's not about who won or
lost. And it sure as heck is not about Democrats versus Republicans.

We're here because a foreign adversary attacked us right here at home, plain and
simple, not by guns or missiles, but by foreign operatives seeking to hijack our
most important democratic process -- our presidential election.

Russian spies engaged in a series of online cyber raids and a broad campaign of
disinformation, all ultimately aimed at sowing chaos to us to undermine public
faith in our process, in our leadership and ultimately in ourselves.

And that's not just this senator's opinion, it is the unanimous determination of
the entire U.S. intelligence community. So we must find out the full story, what
the Russians did, and, candidly, as some other colleagues have mentioned, why
they were so successful. And, more importantly, we must determine the necessary
steps to take to protect our democracy and ensure they can't do it again.

Chairman mentioned elections in 2018 and 2020. In my home state of Virginia, we
have elections this year, in 2017. Simply put, we cannot let anything or anyone
prevent us from getting to the bottom of this.

Now, Mr. Comey, let me say at the outset we haven't always agreed on every
issue. In fact, I've occasionally questioned some of the actions you've taken.
But I've never had any reason to question your integrity, your expertise or your
intelligence.

You've been a straight shooter with this committee, and have been willing to
speak truth to power, even at the risk of your own career, which makes the way
in which you were fired by the president ultimately shocking.WARNER: Recall, we
began this entire process with the president and his staff first denying that
the Russians were ever involved, and then falsely claiming that no one from his
team was never in touch with any Russians.

We know that's just not the truth. Numerous Trump associates had undisclosed
contacts with Russians before and after the election, including the president's
attorney general, his former national security adviser and his current senior
adviser, Mr. Kushner.

That doesn't even begin to count the host of additional campaign associates and
advisers who've also been caught up in this massive web. We saw Mr. Trump's
campaign manager, Mr. Manafort, forced to step down over ties to Russian-backed
entities. The national security adviser, General Flynn, had to resign over his
lies about engagements with the Russians.

And we saw the candidate him -- himself, express an odd and unexplained
affection for the Russian dictator, while calling for the hacking of his
opponent. There's a lot to investigate. Enough, in fact that then Director Comey
publicly acknowledged that he was leading an investigation into those links
between Mr. Trump's campaign and the Russian government.

As the director of the FBI, Mr. Comey was ultimately responsible for conducting
that investigation, which might explain why you're sitting now as a private
citizen.

What we didn't know was, at the same time that this investigation was
proceeding, the president himself appears to have been engaged in an effort to
influence, or at least co-opt, the director of the FBI. The testimony that Mr.
Comey has submitted for today's hearing is very disturbing.

For example, on January 27th, after summoning Director Comey to dinner, the
president appears to have threatened the (ph) director's job while telling him,
quote, "I need loyalty. I expect loyalty."WARNER: At a later meeting, on
February 14th, the president asked the attorney general to leave the Oval Office
so that he could privately ask Director Comey, again, quote, "to see way clear
(ph) to letting Flynn go."

That is a statement that Director Comey interpreted as a -- as a request that he
drop the investigation, connected to General Flynn's false statements. Think
about it: the president of the United States asking the FBI director to drop an
ongoing investigation.

And, after that, the president called the FBI director on two additional
occasions, March 30th and April 11th, and asked him again, quote, "to lift the
cloud" on the Russian investigation.

Now, Director Comey denied each of these improper requests. The loyalty pledge,
the admonition to drop the Flynn investigation, the request to lift the cloud on
the Russia investigation. Of course, after his refusals, Director Comey was
fired.

The initial explanation for the firing didn't pass any smell test. So now
Director Comey was fired because (ph) he didn't treat Hillary Clinton
appropriately. Of course, that explanation lasted about a day, because the
president himself then made very clear that he was thinking about Russia when he
decided to fire Director Comey.

Shockingly, reports suggest that the president admitted as much in an Oval
Office meeting with the Russians the day after Director Comey was fired,
disparaging our country's top law enforcement official as a, quote/unquote, "nut
job." The president allegedly suggested that his firing relieved great pressure
on his feelings about Russia.

This is not happening in isolation. At the same time the president was engaged
in these efforts with Director Comey, he was also, at least allegedly, asking
senior leaders of the intelligence community to downplay the Russia
investigation or to intervene with the director.

Yesterday, we had DNI Director Coats and NSA Director Admiral Rogers, who were
offered a number of opportunities to flatly deny those press reports. They
expressed their opinions, but they did not take that opportunity to deny those
reports. They did not take advantage of that opportunity. In my belief, that's
not how the president of the United States should behave.

Regardless of the outcome of our investigation into the Russia links, Director
Comey's firing and his testimony raise separate and troubling questions that we
must get to the bottom of.

Again, as I said at the outset, I've seen firsthand how seriously every member
of this committee is taking his work. I'm proud of the committee's efforts so
far. Let me be clear: This is not a witch hunt. This is not fake news. It is an
effort to protect our country from a new threat that, quite honestly, will not
go away any time soon.

So, Mr. Comey, your testimony here today will help us move towards that goal. I
look forward to that testimony.WARNER: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

BURR: Thank you, Vice Chairman.

Director, as discussed, when you agreed to appear before the committee, it would
be under oath. I'd ask you to please stand. Raise your right hand. Do you
solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so
help you God?

COMEY: (OFF-MIKE)

BURR: Please be seated.

Director Comey, you're now under oath.

And I would just note to members, you will be recognized by seniority for a
period up to seven minutes. And again, it is the intent to move to a closed
session no later than 1 p.m.

With that, Director Comey, you are recognized. You have the floor for as long as
you might need.

COMEY: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ranking Member Warner, members of the committee,
thank you for inviting me here to testify today. I've submitted my statement for
the record and I'm not going to repeat it here this morning. I thought I would
just offer some very brief introductory remarks and then I would welcome your
questions.

When I was appointed FBI director in 2013, I understood that I served at the
pleasure of the president. Even though I was appointed to a 10 year term, which
Congress created in order to underscore the importance of the FBI being outside
of politics and independent, I understood that I could be fired by a president
for any reason, or for no reason at all.

And on May the 9th, when I learned that I had been fired, for that reason, I
immediately came home as a private citizen. But then, the explanations -- the
shifting explanations, confused me and increasingly concerned me.COMEY: They
confused me because the president and I had had multiple conversations about my
job, both before and after he took office. And he had repeatedly told me I was
doing a great job and he hoped I would stay. And I had repeatedly assured him
that I did intend to stay and serve out the remaining six years of my term.

He told me repeatedly that he had talked to lots of people about me, including
our current attorney general, and had learned that I was doing a great job and
that I was extremely well-liked by the FBI workforce.

So it confused me when I saw on television the president saying that he actually
fired me because of the Russia investigation and learned, again, from the media
that he was telling, privately, other parties that my firing had relieved great
pressure on the Russia investigation.

I was also confused by the initial explanation that was offered publicly, that I
was fired because of the decisions I had made during the election year. That
didn't make sense to me for a whole bunch of reasons, including the time and all
the water that had gone under the bridge since those hard decisions that had to
be made. That didn't make any sense to me.

And although the law required no reason at all to fire an FBI director, the
administration then chose to defame me and, more importantly, the FBI by saying
that the organization was in disarray, that it was poorly led, that the
workforce had lost confidence in its leader.

Those were lies, plain and simple, and I am so sorry that the FBI workforce had
to hear them and I'm so sorry that the American people were told them.

I worked every day at the FBI to help make that great organization better. And I
say "help" because I did nothing alone at the FBI. There are no indispensable
people at the FBI. The organization's great strength is that its values and
abilities run deep and wide.

The FBI will be fine without me. The FBI's mission will be relentlessly pursued
by its people, and that mission is to protect the American people and uphold the
Constitution of the United States.COMEY: I will deeply miss being part of that
mission, but this organization and its mission will go on long beyond me and
long beyond any particular administration.

I have a message before I close for the -- my former colleagues at the FBI. But
first, I want the American people to know this truth: The FBI is honest. The FBI
is strong. And the FBI is, and always will be, independent.

And now to my former colleagues, if I may. I am so sorry that I didn't get the
chance to say goodbye to you properly. It was the honor of my life to serve
beside you, to be part of the FBI family. And I will miss it for the rest of my
life.

Thank you for standing watch. Thank you for doing so much good for this country.
Do that good as long as ever you can.

And, Senators, I look forward to your questions.

BURR: Director, thank you for that testimony, both oral and the written
testimony that you provided to the committee yesterday and made public to the
American people.

The chair would recognize himself, first, for 12 minutes, vice chair for 12
minutes, based upon the agreement we have.

Director, did the Special Counsel's Office review and/or edit your written
testimony?

COMEY: No.

BURR: Do you have any doubt that Russia attempted to interfere in the 2016

elections?

COMEY: None.

BURR: Do you have any doubt that the Russian government was behind the
intrusions in the DNC and the DCCC systems, and the subsequent leaks of that
information?

COMEY: No, no doubt.

BURR: Do you have any doubt that the Russian government was behind the cyber
intrusion in the state voter files? COMEY: No.

BURR: Do you have any doubt that officials of the Russian government were fully
aware of these activities?

COMEY: No doubt.

BURR: Are you confident that no votes cast in the 2016 presidential election
were altered?

COMEY: I'm confident. By the time -- when I left as director, I had seen no
indication of that whatsoever.

BURR: Director Comey, did the president at any time ask you to stop the FBI
investigation into Russian involvement in the 2016 U.S. elections?

COMEY: Not to my understanding, no.

BURR: Did any individual working for this administration, including the Justice
Department, ask you to stop the Russian investigation?COMEY: No.

BURR: Director, when the president requested that you, and I quote, "let Flynn
go," General Flynn had an unreported contact with the Russians, which is an
offense. And if press accounts are right, there might have been discrepancies
between facts and his FBI testimony.

In your estimation, was General Flynn, at that time, in serious legal jeopardy?
And in addition to that, do you sense that the president was trying to obstruct
justice, or just seek for a way for Mike Flynn to save face, given he had
already been fired?

COMEY: General Flynn, at that point in time, was in legal jeopardy. There was an
open FBI criminal investigation of his statements in connection with the Russian
contacts and the contacts themselves. And so that was my assessment at the time.

I don't think it's for me to say whether the conversation I had with the
president was an effort to obstruct. I took it as a very disturbing thing, very
concerning, but that's a conclusion I'm sure the special counsel will work
towards, to try and understand what the intention was there, and whether that's
an offense.

BURR: Director, is it possible that, as part of this FBI investigation, the FBI
could find evidence of criminality that is not tied to -- to the 2016 elections
-- possible collusion or coordination with Russians?

COMEY: Sure.

BURR: So there could be something that just fits a criminal aspect to this that
doesn't have anything to do with the 2016 election cycle?

COMEY: Correct. In any complex investigation, when you start turning over rocks,
sometimes you find things that are unrelated to the primary investigation, that
are criminal in nature.

BURR: Director Comey, you have been criticized publicly for the decision to
present your findings on the e-mail investigation directly to the American
people. Have you learned anything since that time that would've changed what you
said, or how you chose to inform the American people?

COMEY: Honestly, no. I mean, it caused a whole lot of personal pain for me, but,
as I look back, given what I knew at the time and even what I've learned since,
I think it was the best way to try and protect the justice institution,
including the FBI.BURR: In the public domain is this question of the Steele
dossier, a document that has been around, now, for over a year. I'm not sure
when the FBI first took possession of it, but the media had it before you had it
and we had it.

At the time of your departure from the FBI, was the FBI able to confirm any
criminal allegations contained in the Steele document?

COMEY: Mr. Chairman, I don't think that's a question I can answer in an open
setting because it goes into the details of the investigation.

BURR: Director, the term we hear most often is "collusion." When people are
describing possible links between Americans and Russian government entities
related to the interference in our election, would you say that it's normal for
foreign governments to reach out to members of an incoming administration?

COMEY: Yes.

BURR: At what point does the normal contact cross the line into an attempt to
recruit agents or influence (ph) or spies?

COMEY: Difficult to say in the abstract. It depends upon the context, whether
there's an effort to keep it covert, what the nature of the requests made of the
American by the foreign government are. It's a -- it's a judgment call based on
a whole lot of facts.

BURR: At what point would that recruitment become a counterintelligence threat
to our country?

COMEY: Again, difficult to answer in the abstract. But when -- when a foreign
power is using especially coercion or some sort of pressure to try and co-opt an
American, especially a government official, to act on its behalf, that's a
serious concern to the FBI and at the heart of the FBI's counterintelligence
mission.

BURR: So if you've got a -- a -- a 36-page document of -- of specific claims
that are out there, the FBI would have to, for counterintelligence reasons, try
to verify anything that might be claimed in there. One, and probably first and
foremost, is the counterintelligence concerns that we have about blackmail.
Would that be an accurate statement?

COMEY: Yes. If the FBI receives a credible allegation that there is some effort
to co-opt, coerce, direct, employ covertly an American on behalf of the foreign
power, that's the basis on which a counterintelligence investigation is opened.

BURR: And when you read the dossier, what was your reaction, given that it was
100 percent directed at the president-elect?

COMEY: Not a question I can answer in an open setting, Mr. Chairman.

BURR: OK. When did you become aware of the cyber intrusion?COMEY: The first
cyber -- it was all kinds of cyber intrusions going on all the time. The first
Russia-connected cyber intrusion, I became aware of in the late summer of 2015.

BURR: And in that timeframe, there were more than the DNC and the DCCC that were
targets.

COMEY: Correct. There was a massive effort to target government and
nongovernmental -- near-governmental agencies like nonprofits.

BURR: What would be the estimate of how many entities out there the Russians
specifically targeted in that timeframe?

COMEY: It's hundreds. I suppose it could be more than 1,000, but it's at least
hundreds.

BURR: When did you become aware that data had been exfiltrated?

COMEY: I'm not sure, exactly. I think either late '15 or early '16.

BURR: And did -- did you, the director of the FBI, have conversations with the
last administration about the risk that this posed?

COMEY: Yes.

BURR: And share with us, if you will, what actions they took.

COMEY: Well, the FBI had already undertaken an effort to notify all the victims
-- and that's what we consider the entities that were attacked as part of this
massive spear phishing campaign. And so we notified them in an effort to disrupt
what might be ongoing.

Then there was a series of continuing interactions with entities through the
rest of '15 into '16, and then, throughout '16, the administration was trying to
decide how to respond to the intrusion activity that it saw.

BURR: And the FBI, in this case, unlike other cases that you might investigate
-- did you ever have access to the actual hardware that was hacked? Or did you
have to rely on a third party to provide you the data that they had collected?

COMEY: In the case of the DNC, and, I believe, the DCCC, but I'm sure the DNC,
we did not have access to the devices themselves. We got relevant forensic
information from a private party, a high-class entity, that had done the work.
But we didn't get direct access.

BURR: But no content?

COMEY: Correct.

BURR: Isn't content an important part of the forensics from a
counterintelligence standpoint?

COMEY: It is, although what was briefed to me by my folks -- the people who were
my folks at the time is that they had gotten the information from the private
party that they needed to understand the intrusion by the spring of 2016.BURR:
Let me go back, if I can, very briefly, to the decision to publicly go out with
your results on the e-mail.

Was your decision influenced by the attorney general's tarmac meeting with the
former president, Bill Clinton?

COMEY: Yes. In -- in an ultimately conclusive way, that was the thing that
capped it for me, that I had to do something separately to protect the
credibility of the investigation, which meant both the FBI and the Justice
Department.

BURR: Were there other things that contributed to that that you can describe in
an open session?

COMEY: There were other things that contributed to that. One significant item I
can't, I know the committee's been briefed on. There's been some public accounts
of it, which are nonsense, but I understand the committee's been briefed on the
classified facts.

Probably the only other consideration that I guess I can talk about in an open
setting is, at one point, the attorney general had directed me not to call it an
investigation, but instead to call it a matter, which confused me and concerned
me.

But that was one of the bricks in the load that led me to conclude, I have to
step away from the department if we're to close this case credibly.

BURR: Director, my last question: You're not only a seasoned prosecutor, you've
led the FBI for years. You understand the investigative process. You've worked
with this committee closely, and we're grateful to you because I think we've --
we've mutually built trust in what your organization does and -- and what we do.

Is there any doubt in your mind that this committee can carry out its oversight
role in the 2016 Russian involvement in the elections in parallel with the --
now -- special counsel that's been set up?

COMEY: No -- no doubt. It can be done. It requires lots of conversations, but
Bob Mueller is one of this country's great, great pros. And I'm sure you all
will be able to work it out with him to run it in parallel.

BURR: I want to thank you once again, and I want to turn to the vice
chairman.WARNER: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And, again, Director Comey, thank you
for your service.

And your comments to your FBI family, I know, were heartfelt. Know that, even
though there are some in the administration who've tried to smear your
reputation, you had Acting Director McCabe, in public testimony a few weeks back
and in public testimony yesterday, reaffirm that the vast majority of the (ph)
FBI community had great trust in your leadership and, obviously, trust in your
integrity.

I want to go through a number of the meetings that you referenced in your
testimony. And let's start with the January 6th meeting in Trump Tower, where
you went up with a series of officials to brief the president-elect on the
Russia investigation. My understanding is you remained afterwards to brief him
on, again, quote, "some personally sensitive aspects" of the information you
relayed.

Now, you said, after that briefing, you felt compelled to document that
conversation, that you actually started documenting it soon as you got into the
car.

Now, you've had extensive experience at the Department of Justice and at the
FBI. You've worked under presidents of both parties. What was it about that
meeting that led you to determine that you needed to start putting down a
written record?

COMEY: A combination of things, I think -- the circumstances, the subject matter
and the person I was interacting with. Circumstances first: I was alone with the
president of the United States -- or the president-elect, soon to be president.

The subject matter: I was talking about matters that touch on the FBI's core
responsibility and that relate to the president -- president-elect personally.

And then the nature of the person: I was honestly concerned that he might lie
about the nature of our meeting, and so I thought it really important to
document.

That combination of things, I'd never experienced before, but it led me to
believe I've got to write it down, and I've got to write it down in a very
detailed way.

WARNER: I think that's a very important statement you just made. And my
understanding is that then, again, unlike your dealings with presidents of
either parties in your past experience, in every subsequent meeting or
conversation with this president, you created a written record.

Did you feel that you needed to create this written record or (ph) these memos
because they might need to be relied on at some future date?COMEY: Sure. I
created records after conversations, and I think I did it after each of our nine
conversations. If I didn't, I did it for nearly all of them, especially the ones
that were substantive.

I knew that there might come a day when I would need a record of what had
happened, not just to defend myself, but to defend the FBI and -- and our
integrity as an institution and the independence of our investigative function.
That's what made this so -- so difficult, is it was a combination of
circumstances, subject matter, and the particular person.

WARNER: And so, in all your experience, this was the only president that you
felt like, in every meeting, you needed to document, because at some point,
using your words, he might put out a non-truthful representation of that
meeting?

Now...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: That's right, Senator.

And I -- I -- as I said in my written testimony, as FBI director, I interacted
with President Obama. I spoke only twice in three years, and didn't document it.
When I was deputy attorney general, I had one one-on-one meeting with President
Bush about a very important and difficult national security matter.

I didn't write a memo documenting that conversation either -- sent a quick
e-mail to my staff to let them know there was something going on, but I didn't
feel, with President Bush, the need to document it in that way, again (ph),
because of -- the combination of those factors just wasn't present with either
President Bush or President Obama.

WARNER: I -- I think that is very significant. I think others will probably
question that.

Now, our chairman and I have requested those memos. It is our hope that the FBI
will get this committee access to those memos so that, again, we can read that
contemporaneous rendition, so that we've got your side of the story.

Now, I know members have said, and press has said, that if you were -- a great
deal's been made of whether the president -- you were asked to, in effect,
indicate whether the president was the subject of any investigation.

And my understanding is, prior to your meeting on January 6th, you discussed
with your leadership team whether or not you should be prepared to assure then
President-Elect Trump that the FBI was not investigating him personally.

Now, my understanding is your leadership team agreed with that. But was that a
unanimous decision? Was there any debate about that?COMEY: Was it unanimous? One
of the members of the leadership team had a view that, although it was
technically true, we did not have a counterintelligence file case open on
then-President-elect Trump.

His concern was, because we're looking at the potential -- again, that's the
subject of the investigation -- coordination between the campaign and Russia,
because it was President Trump -- President-elect Trump's campaign, this
person's view was, inevitably, his behavior, his conduct will fall within the
scope of that work.

And so he was reluctant to make the statement that I made. I disagreed. I
thought it was fair to say what was literally true: There is not a
counterintelligence investigation of Mr. Trump. And I decided, in the moment, to
say it, given the nature of our conversation.

WARNER: At that moment in time, did you ever revisit that as a -- in -- in these
subsequent sessions?

COMEY: With the FBI leadership team?

WARNER: With the team -- with your (ph) team.

COMEY: Sure, and -- and the -- the leader who had that view -- it didn't change.
His view was still that it was probably -- although literally true, his concern
was it could be misleading, because the nature of the investigation was such
that it might well touch -- obviously, it would touch the campaign, and the
person at the head of the campaign would be the candidate. And so that was his
view throughout.

WARNER: Let me move to the January 27th dinner, where you said, quote, "The
president began by asking me whether I wanted to stay on as FBI director. He
also indicated that lots of people" -- again, your words -- "wanted the job."

You go on to say that the dinner itself was seemingly an effort to, quote, "have
you ask him for your job," and create some sort of, quote/unquote, "patronage
relationship."

The president's (ph) -- seems, from my reading of your memo, to be holding your
job, or your possibility of continuing in your job, over your head in a fairly
direct way. What was your impression, and what did you mean by this notion of a
patronage relationship? COMEY: Well, my impression -- and, again, it's my
impression. I could always be wrong. But my common sense told me that what was
going on is either he had concluded, or someone had told him, that you didn't --
you've already asked Comey to stay, and you didn't get anything for it, and that
the dinner was an effort to build a relationship -- in fact, he asked
specifically -- of loyalty in the context of asking me to stay.

And, as I said, what was odd about that is we'd already talked twice about it by
that point. And he'd said, I very much hope you'll stay, I hope you'll stay.

In fact, I just remembered, sitting here, a third one. When -- you've seen the
picture of me walking across the Blue Room. And what the president whispered in
my ear was, "I really look forward to working with you." So, after those
encounters...

WARNER: And that was just a few days before you were fired.

COMEY: ... yeah, that was on the 20 -- the Sunday after the inauguration.

The next Friday, I have dinner, and the president begins by wanting to talk
about my job. And so I'm sitting there, thinking, wait a minute, three times,
we've already -- you've already asked me to stay, or talked about me
staying.COMEY: And my common sense -- again, I could be wrong, but my common
sense told me what's going on here is that he's looking to get something in
exchange for granting my request to stay in the job.

WARNER: And again, we all understand -- I was a governor, I had people work for
me. But this constant request -- and, again, quoting you, him saying that he --
despite you explaining your independence, he kept coming back to "I need
loyalty." "I expect loyalty."

Had you ever had any of those kind of requests before, from anyone else you'd
worked for in the government?

COMEY: No, and what made me uneasy was I'm, at that point, the director of the
FBI. The reason that Congress created a ten-year term is so that the director is
not feeling as if they're serving at -- with political loyalty owed to any
particular person.

The -- the statue of Justice has a blindfold on because you're not supposed to
be peeking out to see whether your patron is pleased or not with what you're
doing.

It should be about the facts and the law. That's why I was -- that's why I
became FBI director: to be in that kind of position. So that's why I was so
uneasy.

WARNER: Well, let me -- let me move on. My time's running out. February 14th --
again, it seems a bit strange. You were in a meeting. And your direct superior,
the attorney general, was in that meeting, as well.

Yet the president asked everyone to leave, including the attorney general -- to
leave, before he brought up the matter of General Flynn. What was your
impression of that type of action? Had you ever seen anything like that before?

COMEY: No. My impression was, something big is about to happen. I need to
remember every single word that is spoken. And, again, I could be wrong, but I'm
56 years old. I've been -- seen a few things.

My sense was the attorney general knew he shouldn't be leaving, which is why he
was lingering. And I don't know Mr. Kushner well, but I think he picked up on
the same thing. And so I knew something was about to happen that I needed to pay
very close attention to.WARNER: And I -- I found it very interesting that, in
the memo that you wrote after this February 14th pull-aside, you made clear that
you wrote that memo in a way that was unclassified.

If you affirmatively made the decision to write a memo that was unclassified,
was that because you felt, at some point, the facts of that meeting would have
to come clean and come clear and actually be able to be cleared in a way that
could be shared with the American people?

COMEY: Well, I remember thinking, this is a very disturbing development, really
important to our work. I need to document it and preserve it in a way -- and --
and this committee gets this, but sometimes when things are classified, it
tangles them up. It's hard...

WARNER: Amen.

COMEY: ... to share it within an investigative team. It's -- you have to be very
careful about how you handle it, for good reason.

So my thinking was, if I write it in such a way that I don't include anything
that would trigger a classification, that'll make it easier for us to discuss,
within the FBI and the government, and to -- to hold on to it in a way that
makes it accessible to us.

WARNER: Well, again, it's our hope, particularly since you're a pretty
knowledgeable guy and you wrote this in a way that was unclassified, that this
committee will get access to that unclassified document. I think it'll be very
important to our investigation.

Let me just ask this in closing: How many ongoing investigations, at any time,
does the FBI have going on?

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: Tens of thousands.

WARNER: Tens of thousands. Did the president ever ask about any other ongoing
investigation?

COMEY: No.

WARNER: Did he ever ask about you trying to interfere on any other
investigation?

COMEY: No.

WARNER: I think, again, this speaks volumes. This doesn't even get to the
questions around the -- the phone calls about lifting the cloud. I know other
members will get to that, but I really appreciate your testimony and appreciate
your service to our nation.

COMEY: Thank you, Senator Warner.

You know, I just -- I'm sitting here, going through my contacts with him. I had
one conversation with the president that was classified, where he asked about
our -- an ongoing intelligence investigation. It was brief and entirely
professional.

WARNER: But he didn't ask you to take any specific action on that...

COMEY: No, no.

WARNER: ... unlike what he had done vis-a-vis Mr. Flynn and the overall Russia
investigation?

COMEY: Correct.

WARNER: Thank you, sir.

BURR: Senator Risch?

RISCH: Thank you very much.

Mr. Comey, thank you for your service. America needs more like you, and we
really appreciate it.RISCH: Yesterday, I got, and everybody got, the seven pages
of your direct testimony that's now a part of the record, here. And the first --
I read it, then I read it again, and all I could think was, number one, how much
I hated the class of legal writing when I was in law school.

And you were the guy that probably got the A, after -- after reading this. So I
-- I find it clear, I find it concise and, having been a prosecutor for a number
of years and handling hundred -- maybe thousands of cases and read police
reports, investigative reports, this is as good as it gets.

And -- and I really appreciate that -- not only -- not only the conciseness and
the clearness of it, but also the fact that you have things that were written
down contemporaneously when they happened, and you actually put them in quotes,
so we know exactly what happened and we're -- and we're not getting some
rendition of it that -- that's in your mind. So...

COMEY: Thank you, Senator.

RISCH: ... so you're -- you're to be complimented for that.

COMEY: I had great parents and great teachers who beat that into me.

(CROSSTALK)

RISCH: That's obvious, sir.

The -- the chairman walked you through a number of things that -- that the
American people need to know and want to know. Number one, obviously we're --
all know about the active measures that the Russians have taken.

I think a lot of people were surprised at this. Those of us that work in the
intelligence community didn't -- it didn't come as a surprise. But now, the
American people know this, and it's good they know this, because this is serious
and it's a problem.

I -- I think, secondly, I gather from all this that you're willing to say now
that, while you were director, the president of the United States was not under
investigation. Is that a fair statement?

COMEY: That's correct.

RISCH: All right. So that's a fact that we can rely at this...

COMEY: Yes, sir.

RISCH: ... OK.

On -- I remember, you -- you talked with us shortly after February 14th, when
the New York Times wrote an article that suggested that the Trump campaign was
colluding with the Russians. You remember reading that article when it first
came out?

COMEY: I do. It was about allegedly extensive electronic surveillance...

RISCH: Correct.

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: ... communications. Yes, sir.

RISCH: And -- and that upset you to the point where you actually went out and
surveyed the intelligence community to see whether -- whether you were missing
something in that. Is that correct?

COMEY: That's correct. I want to be careful in open setting. But...

RISCH: I -- I'm -- I'm not going to any further than that with it.

COMEY: OK.

RISCH: So thank you.

In addition to that, after that, you sought out both Republican and Democrat
senators to tell them that, hey, I don't know where this is coming from, but
this is not the -- this is not factual. Do you recall that?

COMEY: Yes.

RISCH: OK. So -- so, again, so the American people can understand this, that
report by the New York Times was not true. Is that a fair statement?COMEY: In --
in the main, it was not true. And, again, all of you know this, maybe the
American people don't. The challenge -- and I'm not picking on reporters about
writing stories about classified information, is that people talking about it
often don't really know what's going on.

And those of us who actually know what's going on are not talking about it. And
we don't call the press to say, hey, you got that thing wrong about this
sensitive topic. We just have to leave it there.

I mentioned to the chairman the nonsense around what influenced me to make the
July 5th statement. Nonsense, but I can't go explaining how it's nonsense.

RISCH: Thank you.

All right. So -- so those three things, we now know, regarding the active
measures, whether (ph) the president's under investigation and the collusion
between the -- the Russian -- the Trump campaign and the Russians.

I -- I want to drill right down, as my time is limited, to the most recent
dust-up regarding allegations that the president of the United States obstructed
justice. And, boy, you nailed this down on page 5, paragraph 3. You put this in
quotes -- words matter.

You wrote down the words so we can all have the words in front of us now.
There's 28 words there that are in quotes, and it says, quote, "I hope" -- this
is the president speaking -- "I hope you can see your way clear to letting this
go, to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go."

Now those are his exact words, is that correct?

COMEY: Correct.

RISCH: And you wrote them here, and you put them in quotes?

COMEY: Correct.

RISCH: Thank you for that. He did not direct you to let it go.

COMEY: Not in his words, no.

RISCH: He did not order you to let it go.

COMEY: Again, those words are not an order.

RISCH: He said, "I hope." Now, like me, you probably did hundreds of cases,
maybe thousands of cases charging people with criminal offenses. And, of course,
you have knowledge of the thousands of cases out there that -- where people have
been charged.

Do you know of any case where a person has been charged for obstruction of
justice or, for that matter, any other criminal offense, where this -- they
said, or thought, they hoped for an outcome?

COMEY: I don't know well enough to answer. And the reason I keep saying his
words is I took it as a direction.

RISCH: Right.

COMEY: I mean, this is the president of the United States, with me alone,
saying, "I hope" this. I took it as, this is what he wants me to do.

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: Now I -- I didn't obey that, but that's the way I took it.

RISCH: You -- you may have taken it as a direction, but that's not what he said.

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: Correct. I -- that's why...

RISCH: He said -- he said, "I hope."

COMEY: Those are exact words, correct.

RISCH: OK, do you (ph) -- you don't know of anyone that's ever been charged for
hoping something. Is that a fair statement?

COMEY: I don't, as I sit here.

RISCH: Yeah. Thank you.

Thank you, Mr. Chairman.BURR: Senator Feinstein?

FEINSTEIN: Thanks very much, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Comey, I just want you to know that I have great respect for you. Senator
Cornyn and I sit on the Judiciary Committee, so we have occasion to have you
before us. And I know that you're a man of strength and integrity, and I really
regret the situation that we all find ourselves in. I just want to say that.

Let me begin with one overarching question. Why do you believe you were fired?

COMEY: Guess I don't know for sure. I believe the -- I take the president at his
word, that I was fired because of the Russia investigation. Something about the
way I was conducting it, the president felt, created pressure on him that he
wanted to relieve.

Again, I didn't know that at the time, but I watched his interview, I've read
the press accounts of his conversations. So I take him at his word there.

Now, look, I -- I could be wrong. Maybe he's saying something that's not true.
But I take him at his word, at least based on what I know now.

FEINSTEIN: Talk for a moment about his request that you pledge loyalty, and your
response to that and what impact you believe that had.

COMEY: I -- I don't know for sure, because I don't know the president well
enough to read him well. I think it was -- because our relationship didn't get
off to a great start, given the conversation I had to have on January 6th, this
was not -- this didn't improve the relationship, because it was very, very
awkward.

He was asking for something, and I was refusing to give it. But again, I don't
know him well enough to know how he reacted to that, exactly.

FEINSTEIN: Do you believe the Russia investigation played a role?

COMEY: In why I was fired?

FEINSTEIN: Yes. COMEY: Yes, because I've seen the president say so.

FEINSTEIN: OK. Let's -- let's go to the Flynn issue.

Senator Risch outlined a -- "I hope you could see your way (sic) to letting
Flynn go. He's a good guy. I hope you can let this go."

But you also said, in your written remarks, and I quote, that you had
"understood the president to be requesting that we drop any investigation of
Flynn in connection with false statements about his conversations with the
Russian ambassador in December," end quote.FEINSTEIN: Please go into that with
more detail.

COMEY: Well, the -- the context and the president's words are what led me to
that conclusion.

As I said in my statement, I could be wrong, but Flynn had been forced to resign
the day before, and -- and the controversy around General Flynn at that point in
time was centered on whether he had lied to the vice president about the nature
of his conversations with the Russians, whether he had been candid with others
in the course of that.

And so that happens on the day before. On the 14th, the president makes specific
reference to that. And so that's why I understood him to be saying that what he
wanted me to do was drop any investigation connected to Flynn's account of his
conversations with the Russians.

FEINSTEIN: Now, here's the question: You're big. You're strong. I know the Oval
Office, and I know what happens to people when they walk in. There is a certain
amount of intimidation. But why didn't you stop and say, "Mr. President, this is
wrong. I cannot discuss this with you"?

COMEY: It's a great question. Maybe if I were stronger, I would have. I was so
stunned by the conversation that I just...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: ... took it in. And the only thing I could think to say, because I was
playing in my mind, because I could (ph) remember every word he said -- I was
playing in my mind, what should my response be? And that's why I very carefully
chose the words.

And, look, I -- I've seen the tweet about tapes. Lordy, I hope there are tapes.
I -- I remember saying, "I agree he's a good guy," as a way of saying, "I'm not
agreeing with what you just asked me to do."

Again, maybe other people would be stronger in that circumstance but that --
that was -- that's how I conducted myself. I -- I hope I'll never have another
opportunity. Maybe if I did it again, I would do it better.

FEINSTEIN: You described two phone calls that you received from President Trump,
one on March 30 and one on April 11, where he, quote, "described the Russia
investigation as a cloud that was impairing his ability," end quote, as
president, and asked you, quote, "to lift the cloud," end quote.

What -- how did you interpret that? And what did you believe he wanted you to
do?

COMEY: I interpreted that as he was frustrated that the Russia investigation was
taking up so much time and energy, I -- I think he meant, of the executive
branch, but in the -- in the public square in general, and it was making it
difficult for him to focus on other priorities of his. But what he asked me was
actually narrower than that.COMEY: So I think what he meant by the cloud, and
again, I could be wrong, but what I think he meant by the cloud was the entire
investigation is -- is taking up oxygen and making it hard for me to focus on
the things I want to focus on.

The ask was to get it out that I, the president, am not personally under
investigation.

FEINSTEIN: After April 11th, did he ask you more, ever, about the Russia
investigation? Did he ask you any questions?

COMEY: We never spoke again after April 11th.

FEINSTEIN: You told the president, I -- I would see what we could do. What did
you mean?

COMEY: Well, it (ph) was kind of a slightly cowardly way of trying to avoid
telling him, we're not going to do that -- that I would see what we could do. It
was a way of kind of getting off the phone, frankly. And then I turned and
handed it to the acting deputy attorney general, Mr. Boente.

FEINSTEIN: So I wanted to go into that. Who did you talk with about that --
lifting the cloud, stopping the investigation -- back at the FBI, and what was
their response?

COMEY: Well, the FBI, during one of the two conversations -- I'm not remembering
exactly. I think the first -- my chief of staff was actually sitting in front of
me, and heard my end of the conversation, because the president's call was a
surprise.

And I discussed the lifting the cloud and the request with the senior leadership
team, who in -- in -- typically, and I think in all these circumstances, was the
deputy director, my chief of staff, the general counsel, the deputy director's
chief counsel and, I think, in a number of circumstances, the number three in
the FBI, and a few of the conversations included the head of the national
security branch, so that group of us that lead the FBI when it comes to national
security.

FEINSTEIN: OK. You have the president of the United States asking you to stop an
investigation that's an important investigation. What was the response of your
colleagues?COMEY: I think they were as shocked and troubled by it as I was. Some
said things that led me to believe that. I don't remember exactly, but the
reaction was similar to mine. They're all experienced people who had never
experienced such a thing. So they were very concerned.

And then the conversation turned to about, so what should we do with this
information? And that was a struggle for us, because we are the leaders of the
FBI. So it's been reported to us, in that I heard it and now I've shared it with
the leaders of the FBI -- our -- our conversation was, should we share this with
any senior officials at the Justice Department?

Our -- our absolute primary concern was, we can't infect the investigative team.
We don't want the agents and analysts working on this to know the president of
the United States has -- has asked -- and when it comes from the president, I
took it as a direction -- to get rid of this investigation, because we're not
going to follow that -- that request.

And so we decided we gotta keep it away from our troops. But is there anybody
else we ought to tell at the Justice Department? And, as I laid out in my -- in
my statement, we considered whether to tell the attorney general, decided that
didn't make sense because we believed, rightly, that he was shortly going to
recuse.

There were no other Senate-confirmed leaders in the Justice Department at that
point. The deputy attorney general was Mr. Boente, who was acting and going to
be shortly in that seat. And we decided the best move would be to hold it, keep
it in a box, document it as we'd already done, and then this investigation's
going to go on -- figure out what to do with it down the road.

Is there way to corroborate this? Our view, at the time, was, look, it's your
word against the president's. There's no way to corroborate this. That -- my
view of that changed when the prospect of tapes was raised, but that's how we
thought about it then.

FEINSTEIN: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

BURR: Senator Rubio.

RUBIO: Thank you.

Director Comey, the meeting in the Oval Office where he made the request about
Mike Flynn -- was that the only time he asked you to hopefully let it go?

COMEY: Yes.

RUBIO: And in that meeting, as you understood it, that was -- he was asking not
about the general Russia investigation, he was asking very specifically about
the jeopardy that Flynn was in himself?

COMEY: That's how I understood it, yes, sir.

RUBIO: And as you perceived it, while it was a request that -- he hoped you did
away with it, you perceived it as an order, given his position, the setting and
the like, and some of the circumstances?

COMEY: Yes.

RUBIO: At the time, did you say anything to the president about -- that is not
an appropriate request, or did you tell the White House counsel, that is not an
appropriate request, someone needs to go tell the president that he can't do
these things?

COMEY: I didn't, no.

RUBIO: OK. Why?

COMEY: I don't know. I think the -- as I said earlier, I think the circumstances
were such that it was -- I was a bit stunned, and didn't have the presence of
mind.

And I don't know -- you know, I don't want to make you -- sound like I'm Captain
Courageous. I don't know whether, even if I had the presence of mind, I would
have said to the president, "Sir, that's wrong." I don't know whether I would
have.

RUBIO: OK.

COMEY: But in the moment, it -- it didn't -- it didn't come to my mind. What
came to my mind is, be careful what you say. And so I said, "I agree Flynn is a
good guy."RUBIO: So, on the cloud -- we keep talking about this cloud -- you
perceived the cloud to be the Russian investigation in general, correct?

COMEY: Yes, sir.

RUBIO: But the specific ask was that you would tell the American people what you
had already told him, what you had already told the leaders of Congress, both
Democrats and Republicans: that he was not personally under investigation.

COMEY: Yes, sir, that's how I...

RUBIO: In fact (ph), he was asking you to do what you have done here today.

COMEY: ... correct. Yes, sir.

RUBIO: OK. And again, at that setting, did you say to the president that it
would be inappropriate for you to do so, and then talk to the White House
counsel or anybody so hopefully they would talk to him and tell him that he
couldn't do this?

COMEY: First time, I said, "I'll see what we can do." Second time, I explained
how it should work, that the White House counsel should contact the deputy
attorney general.

RUBIO: You told him that?

COMEY: The president said, OK, then I think that's what I'll do.

RUBIO: And just to be clear, for you to make a public statement that he was not
under investigation would not have been illegal, but you felt it made no sense
because it could potentially create a duty to correct, if circumstances changed?

COMEY: Yes, sir. We wrestled with it before my testimony where I confirmed that
there was an investigation. And there were two primary concerns. One was it
creates a duty to correct, which I've lived before, and you want to be very
careful about doing that.

And second, it's a slippery slope, because if we say the president and the vice
president aren't under investigation, what's the principled basis for -- for
stopping?

RUBIO: OK. COMEY: And so the leadership at -- at justice, Acting Attorney
General Boente, said, "You're not going to do that."

RUBIO: Now, on March 30th, during the phone call about General Flynn, you said
he abruptly shifted and brought up something that you call, quote, unquote, "the
McCabe thing." Specifically, the McCabe thing, as you understood it, was that
McCabe's wife had received campaign money from what I assume means Terry
McAuliffe...

COMEY: Yes, sir.

(CROSSTALK)

RUBIO: ... who (ph) was very close to the Clintons. And -- and so why did you --
had the president at any point in time expressed to you concern, opposition,
potential opposition to McCabe? "I don't like this guy because he got money from
someone this close to Clinton?"COMEY: He had asked me, during previous
conversations, about Andy McCabe, and said, in essence, "How's he going to be
with me as president? I was pretty rough on them (ph) on the campaign trail."
And...

RUBIO: He was rough on McCabe?

COMEY: ... he was -- by his own account, he said he was rough on McCabe and Mrs.
McCabe on the campaign trail -- how's he going to be? And I assured the
president, Andy is a total pro. No issue at all. You got to know the people of
the FBI, they are not...

(CROSSTALK)

RUBIO: So -- so, when the president turns to you and says, "Remember, I never
brought up the McCabe thing because you said he was a good guy," did you
perceive that to be a statement that -- I took care of you, I -- I didn't do
something because you told me he was a good guy. So now, you know, I'm asking
you, potentially, for something in return? Is that how you perceived it?

COMEY: I wasn't sure what to make of it, honestly. That's possible, but it -- it
was so out of context that I didn't have a clear view of what it was.

RUBIO: Now, on a number of occasions here, you bring up -- let's talk (ph) now
about the general Russia investigation, OK? In page 6 of your testimony, you say
-- the first thing you say is, he asked what we could do to, quote/unquote,
"lift the cloud," the general Russia investigation.

And you responded that we were investigating the matter as quickly as we could
and that there would be great benefit, if we didn't find anything, to having
done the work well. And he agreed. He reemphasized the problems it was causing
him, but he agreed.

So, in essence, the president agreed with your statement that it would be great
if we could have an investigation, all the facts came out and we found nothing.
So he agreed that that would be ideal, but this cloud is still messing up my
ability to do the rest of my agenda. Is that an accurate assessment of...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: Yes, sir. He actually went farther than that. He -- he said, "And if some
of my satellites did something wrong, it'd be good to find that out."

RUBIO: Well, that's the second part, and that is the satellites. He said, "If
(ph) one of my satellites" -- I imagine, by that, he meant some of the other
people surrounding his campaign -- "did something wrong, it would be great to
know that, as well"?

COMEY: Yes, sir. That's what he said.

RUBIO: So are those the other -- are those the only two instances in which that
sort of back-and-forth happened, where the president was basically saying, and
I'm paraphrasing here, it's OK, do the Russia investigation. I hope it all comes
out. I have nothing to do with anything Russia. It'd be great if it all came
out, if people around me were doing things that were wrong.

COMEY: Yes. As I -- I recorded it accurately there. That was the sentiment he
was expressing. Yes, sir.

RUBIO: So what it basically (ph) comes down to is the president has asked three
things of you. He asked for your loyalty, and you said you would be loyally
honest.

COMEY: Honestly loyal.

RUBIO: Honestly loyal. The -- the -- he asked you, on one occasion, to let the
Mike Flynn thing go because he was a good guy -- but (ph) you're aware that he
said the exact same thing in the press the next day. "He's a good guy," "He's
been treated unfairly," et cetera, et cetera. So I imagine your FBI agents read
that.

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: I'm sure they did.

RUBIO: Your -- the president's wishes were known to them, certainly, by the next
day, when he had a press conference with the prime minister.RUBIO: But going
back, the three requests were; number one, be loyal; number two, let the Mike
Flynn thing go, he's a good guy, he's been treated unfairly; and, number three,
can you please tell the American people what these leaders in Congress already
know, what you already know, what you've told me three times -- that I'm not
under -- personally under investigation?

COMEY: Those are the three things he asked. Yes, sir.

RUBIO: You know, this investigation is full of leaks, left and right. I mean,
we've learned more from the newspapers sometimes than we do from our open
hearings, for sure.

You ever wonder why, of all the things in this investigation, the only thing
that's never been leaked is the fact that the president was not personally under
investigation, despite the fact that both Democrats and Republicans in (ph) the
leadership of Congress knew that, and have known that for weeks?

COMEY: I don't know. I find matters that are briefed to the Gang of Eight are
pretty tightly held, in my experience.

RUBIO: Finally, who are those senior leaders at the FBI that you shared these
conversations with?

COMEY: As I said in response to Senator Feinstein's question, deputy director,
my chief of staff, general counsel, the deputy director's chief counsel, and
then, more often than not, the number three person at the FBI, who is the
associate deputy director, and then, quite often, the head of the national
security branch.

BURR: Senator Wyden.

WYDEN: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Comey, welcome. You and I have had significant policy differences over the
years, particularly protecting Americans' access to secure encryption. But I
believe the timing of your firing stinks.

And yesterday, you put on the record testimony that demonstrates why the odor of
presidential abuse of power is so strong.

Now, to my questions. In talking to Senator Warner about this dinner that you
had with president, I believe, January 27th, all in one dinner, the president
raised your job prospects, he asked for your loyalty and denied allegations
against him -- all took place over one supper.WYDEN: Now, you told Senator
Warner that the president was looking to, quote, "get something." Looking back,
did that dinner suggest that your job might be contingent on how you handled the
investigation?

COMEY: I don't know that I'd go that far. I -- I got the sense my job would be
contingent upon how he felt I -- excuse me -- how he felt I conducted myself and
whether I demonstrated loyalty. But I don't know whether I'd go so far as to
connect it to the investigation (ph).

(CROSSTALK)

WYDEN: You said the president was trying to create some sort of patronage
relationship. In a patronage relationship isn't the underling expected to behave
in a manner consistent with the wishes of the boss?

COMEY: Yes.

WYDEN: OK.

COMEY: Or at least consider how what you're doing will affect the boss as a
significant consideration.

WYDEN: Let me turn to the Attorney General. In your statement, you said that you
and the FBI leadership team decided not to discuss the president's actions with
Attorney General Sessions, even though he had not recused himself.

What was it about the Attorney General's own interactions with the Russians, or
his behavior with regard to the investigation, that would have led the entire
leadership of the FBI to make this decision?

COMEY: Our judgment, as I recall, was that he was very close to and inevitably
going to recuse himself for a variety of reasons. We also were aware of facts
that I can't discuss in an open setting that would make his continued engagement
in a Russia-related investigation problematic.

And so we were -- we were convinced -- and, in fact, I think we had already
heard that the career people were recommending that he recuse himself -- that he
was not going to be in contact with Russia- related matters much longer, and
that turned out to be the case.

WYDEN: How would you characterize Attorney General Sessions's adherence to his
recusal, in particular with regard to his involvement in your firing, which the
president has acknowledged was because of the Russian investigation?

COMEY: That's a question I can't answer. I think it's a reasonable question. If
-- if, as the president said, I was fired because of the Russia investigation,
why was the attorney general involved in that chain? I don't know, and so I
don't have an answer for the question.

WYDEN: Your testimony was that the president's request about Flynn could infect
the investigation. Had the president got what he wanted and what he asked of
you, what would have been the effect on the investigation?COMEY: Well we would
have closed any investigation of General Flynn in connection with his statements
and encounter -- statements about and encounters (ph) with Russians in the late
part of December.

WYDEN: Well...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: So we -- we would have dropped an open criminal investigation.

WYDEN: So, in effect, when you talk about infecting the enterprise, you would
have dropped something major that would have spoken to the overall ability of
the American people to get the facts?

COMEY: Correct. And -- and, as good as our people are, our judgment was we don't
want them hearing that the president of the United States wants this to go away,
because it might have an effect of their ability to be fair and impartial and
aggressive.

WYDEN: Now, the -- Acting Attorney General Yates found out that Michael Flynn
could be blackmailed by the Russians, and she went immediately to warn the White
House.

Flynn is gone, but other individuals with contacts with the Russians are still
in extremely important positions of power. Should the American people have the
same sense of urgency now, with respect to them?

COMEY: I think all I can say, Senator, is it's a -- the special counsel's
investigation is very important. Understanding what efforts there were or are by
the Russian government to influence our government is a critical part of the
FBI's mission, so -- and you've got the right person in Bob Mueller to lead it.

So it's a very important piece of work.

WYDEN: Vice President Pence was the head of the transition. To your knowledge,
was he aware of the concerns about Michael Flynn prior to or during General
Flynn's tenure as national security adviser?

COMEY: I don't -- you're asking -- including up to the time when Flynn was...

WYDEN: Right (ph). COMEY: ... forced to resign? My understanding is that he was,
and I'm trying to remember where I get that understanding from -- I think from
Acting Attorney General Yates.

WYDEN: So former Acting Attorney General Yates testified that concerns about
General Flynn were discussed with the intelligence community. Would that have
included anyone at the CIA or Dan Coats' office at the DNI?COMEY: I would assume
yes.

WYDEN: Michael Flynn resigned four days after Attorney General Sessions was
sworn in. Do you know if the attorney general was aware of the concerns about
Michael Flynn during that period?

COMEY: I don't, as I sit here -- I don't -- I don't recall that he was. I could
be wrong, but I don't remember that he was.

WYDEN: And, finally, let's see if you can give us some sense of who recommended
your firing. Besides the letters from the attorney general, the deputy attorney
general, do you have any information on who may have recommended or have been
involved in your firing?

COMEY: I don't. I don't.

WYDEN: OK (ph).

Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

BURR: Senator Collins.

COLLINS: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Comey, let me begin by thanking you for your voluntary compliance with our
request to appear before this committee, and it's discussing (ph) this very
important investigation.

I want, first, to ask you about your conversations with the president, the three
conversations in which you told him that he was not under investigation.

The first was during your January 6th meeting, according to your testimony, in
which it appears that you actually volunteered that assurance. Is that correct?

COMEY: That's correct.

COLLINS: Did you limit that statement to counterintelligence investigations, or
were you talking about any kind of FBI investigation?

COMEY: I didn't -- I didn't use the term "counterintelligence." I was speaking
to him, and briefing him about some salacious and unverified material. It was in
the context of that that he had a strong and defensive reaction about that not
being true. And my reading of it was it was important for me to assure him we
were not personally investigating him. And so the context then was actually
narrower, focused on what I had just talked to him about.

It was very important because it was, first, true. And second, I was worried
very much about being in kind of a -- kind of a J. Edgar Hoover-type situation.
I didn't want him thinking that I was briefing him on this to sort of hang it
over him in some way. I was briefing him on it because we were (ph) -- had been
told by the media it was about to launch. We didn't want to be keeping that from
him.COMEY: And if there was some -- he needed to know this was being said. But I
was very keen not to leave him with an impression that the bureau was trying to
do something to him. And so that's the context in which I said, "Sir, we're not
personally investigating you."

COLLINS: And then, on -- and that's why you volunteered the information...

COMEY: Yes, ma'am.

COLLINS: ... correct?

Then, on the January 27th dinner, you show -- you told the president that he
should be careful about asking you to investigate, because, quote, "You might
create a narrative that we are investigating him personally," which we weren't.

Again, were you limiting that statement to counterintelligence investigations,
or more broadly, such as a criminal investigation?

COMEY: The context was very similar. I didn't -- I didn't modify the word
"investigation." It was -- again, he was reacting strongly again to that
unverified material, saying, "I'm tempted to order you to investigate it." And
that -- in the context of that, I said "Sir, you want to be careful about that,
because it might create a narrative we're investigating you personally."

COLLINS: And then there was the March 30th phone call in -- with the president,
in which you reminded him that congressional leaders have been briefed that we
were not personally -- the FBI was not personally investigating President Trump.

And again, was that statement to congressional leaders and to the president
limited to counterintelligence investigations? Or was it a broader statement?

(CROSSTALK)

COLLINS: I'm trying to understand whether there was any kind of investigation of
the president under way.

COMEY: No. I'm sorry, and -- and if I misunderstood, I apologize. We briefed the
congressional leadership about what Americans we had opened counterintelligence
investigation cases on, and we specifically said the president is not one of
those Americans, but -- that there was no other investigation of the president
that we were not mentioning at that time.

What (ph) -- the context was counterintelligence, but I wasn't trying to hide
some criminal investigation of the president.COLLINS: And was the president
under investigation at the time of your dismissal on May 9th?

COMEY: No.

COLLINS: I'd like to now turn to the conversations with the president about
Michael Flynn, which have been discussed at great length. And, first, let me
make very clear that the president never should have cleared the room, and he
never should have asked you, as you reported, to let it go -- to let the
investigation go.

But I remain puzzled by your response. Your response was, "I agree that Michael
Flynn is a good guy." You could have said, "Mr. President, this meeting is
inappropriate. This response could compromise the investigation. You should not
be making such a request."

It's fundamental to the operation of our government that the FBI be insulated
from this kind of political pressure. And you've talked a bit today about that
you were stunned by the president making the request.

But my question to you is, later on, upon reflection, did you go to anyone at
the Department of Justice and ask them to call the White House counsel's office
and explain that the president had to have a far better understanding and
appreciation of his role vis-a-vis the FBI?

COMEY: In general, I did. I spoke to the attorney general, and I spoke to the
new deputy attorney general, Mr. Rosenstein, when he took office, and explained
my serious concern about the way in which the president is interacting,
especially with the FBI.

And I specifically, as I said my testimony, asked the -- told the attorney
general, it can't happen that you get kicked out of the room and the president
talks to me.

Look, in the room -- and -- and -- but why didn't we raise the specific (ph)? It
was of investigative interest us to try and figure out, so -- what just happened
with the president's request. So I would not have wanted to alert the White
House that it had happened until we figured out, what are we going to do with
this investigatively?

COLLINS: Your testimony was that you went to Attorney General Sessions and said,
"Don't ever leave me alone with him again." Are you saying that you also told
him that he had made a request that you let it go, with regard to part of the
investigation of Michael Flynn?

COMEY: No, I specifically did not. I did not.COLLINS: OK, you mentioned that,
from your very first meeting with the president, you decided to write a memo
memorializing the conversation. What was it about that very first meeting that
made you write a memo, when you had not done that with two previous presidents?

COMEY: As I said, a combination of things. A gut feeling is an important overlay
on it (ph). But the circumstances -- that I was alone, the subject matter, and
the nature of the person that I was interacting with and my read of that person.

(UNKNOWN): The nature of that person (ph)?

COMEY: Yeah, and -- and -- and, really, just a gut feel, laying on top of all of
that, that this -- it's going to be important, to protect this organization,
that I make records of this.

COLLINS: And finally, did you show copies of your memos to anyone outside of the
Department of Justice?

COMEY: Yes.

COLLINS: And to whom did you show copies?

COMEY: I asked -- the president tweeted on Friday, after I got fired, that I
better hope there's not tapes. I woke up in the middle of the night on Monday
night, because it didn't dawn on me originally that there might be corroboration
for our conversation. There might be a tape.

And my judgment was, I needed to get that out into the public square. And so I
asked a friend of mine to share the content of the memo with a reporter. Didn't
do it myself, for a variety of reasons. But I asked him to, because I thought
that might prompt the appointment of a special counsel. And so I asked a close
friend of mine to do it.

COLLINS: And was that Mr. Wittes?

COMEY: No, no.

COLLINS: Who was that?

COMEY: A good friend of mine who's a professor at Columbia Law School.

COLLINS: Thank you. BURR: Senator Heinrich?

HEINRICH: Mr. Comey, prior to January 27th of this year, have you ever had a
one-on-one meeting or -- or a private dinner with a president of the United
States?

COMEY: No, I met -- dinner, no. I had two one-on-ones with President Obama that
I laid out in my testimony: once, to talk about law enforcement issues -- law
enforcement and race, which was an important topic throughout for me and for the
president; and then once, very briefly, for him to say goodbye.

HEINRICH: Were those brief interactions?

COMEY: No. The one about law enforcement and race in policing, we spoke for
probably over an hour, just the two of us.

HEINRICH: How unusual is it to have a -- a one-on-one dinner with the president?
Did that strike you as odd?COMEY: Yeah, so much so that I assumed there would be
others -- that he couldn't possibly be having dinner with me alone.

HEINRICH: If -- do you have an impression that, if you had found -- if you had
behaved differently in that dinner -- and I am quite pleased that you did not --
but if you had found a way to express some sort of expression of loyalty, or
given some suggestion that the Flynn criminal investigation might be pursued
less vigorously, do you think you would've still been fired?

COMEY: I don't know. I -- it's impossible to say, looking back. I don't know.

HEINRICH: But you felt like those two things were -- were directly relevant to
your -- the kind of relationship that the president was seeking to establish
with you?

COMEY: Sure, yes.

HEINRICH: The -- the president has repeatedly talked about the Russian
investigation into the U.S. -- or the Russian -- Russia's involvement in the
U.S. election cycle as a hoax and as fake news.

Can you talk a little bit about what you saw as FBI director -- and, obviously,
only the parts that you can share in this setting -- that -- that demonstrate
how serious this action actually was, and why there was an investigation in the
first place?

COMEY: Yes, sir.

The -- there should be no fuzz on this whatsoever. The Russians interfered in
our election during the 2016 cycle. They did it with purpose. They did it with
sophistication. They did it with overwhelming technical efforts. And it was an
active-measures campaign driven from the top of that government. There is no
fuzz on that.

It is a high-confidence judgment of the entire intelligence community, and --
and the members of this committee have -- have seen the intelligence. It's not a
close call. That happened. That's about as un-fake as you can possibly get, and
is very, very serious, which is why it's so refreshing to see a bipartisan focus
on that, because this is about America, not about any particular party.

HEINRICH: So that was a hostile act by the Russian government against this
country? COMEY: Yes, sir.

HEINRICH: Did the president, in any of those interactions that you've shared
with us today, ask you what you should be doing, or what our government should
be doing, or the intelligence community, to protect America against Russian
interference in our election system?COMEY: I don't recall a conversation like
that.

HEINRICH: Never?

COMEY: No.

HEINRICH: Do you -- do you find it odd...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: Not with -- not with -- not with President Trump.

HEINRICH: Right.

COMEY: I attended a fair number of meetings on that with President Obama.

HEINRICH: Do you find it odd that the president seemed unconcerned by Russia's
actions in our election?

COMEY: I -- I can't answer that, because I don't know what other conversations
he had with other advisers or other intelligence community leaders. So I -- I --
I just don't know, sitting here.

HEINRICH: Did you have any interactions with the president that suggested he was
taking that hostile action seriously?

COMEY: I don't remember any interactions with the president, other than the
initial briefing on January the 6th. I don't remember -- could be wrong, but I
don't remember any conversations with him at all about that.

HEINRICH: As you're very aware, it was only the two of you in the room for that
dinner. You've told us the president asked you to back off the Flynn
investigation. The president told a reporter...

COMEY: Not in that dinner.

HEINRICH: Fair enough -- told the (ph) reporter he did -- never did that. You've
testified that the president asked for your loyalty in that dinner. The White
House denies that. A lot of this comes down to, who should we believe? Do you
want to say anything as to why we should believe you?

COMEY: Probably (ph) -- my mother raised me not to say things like this about
myself, so not I'm going to. I think people should look at the whole body of my
testimony, because, as I used to say to juries, and when I talked about a
witness, you can't cherry-pick it. You can't say, "I like these things he said,
but on this, he's a -- he's a dirty, rotten liar."

HEINRICH: Right.

COMEY: You got to take it all together. And I've tried to be open and fair and
transparent and accurate. A really significant fact to me is, so why did he kick
everybody out of the Oval Office?

Why would you kick the attorney general, the president (ph), the chief of staff
out, to talk to me, if it was about something else? And so that -- that, to me,
is -- as an investigator, is a very significant fact.

HEINRICH: And as we look at -- at testimony, or as -- communication from both of
you, we should probably be looking for consistency.COMEY: Well, in looking at
any witness, you look at consistency, track record, demeanor, record over time,
that sort of thing.

HEINRICH: Thank you.

So there are reports that the incoming Trump administration, either during the
transition and/or after the inauguration, attempted to set up a sort of
back-door communication channel with the Russian government using their
infrastructure, their devices or facilities.

What would be the risks particularly for a transition, someone not actually in
the office of the president yet, to setting up unauthorized channels with a
hostile foreign government, especially if they were to evade our own American
intelligence services?

COMEY: I'm not going to comment on whether that happened in an open setting. But
the risk is -- primary risk is obvious: you spare the Russians the cost and
effort of having to break into our communications channels by using theirs.

And so you make it a whole lot easier for them to capture all of your
conversations, and then to use those to the benefit of Russia against the United
States.

HEINRICH: The memos that you wrote -- you wrote, did you write all nine of them
in a way that was designed to prevent them from needing classification?

COMEY: No. And -- and, on a few of the occasions, I wrote -- I sent e-mails to
my chief of staff or others on some of the brief phone conversations that I
recall. The first one was a classified briefing.

Although it wasn't in a SCIF, it was in a conference room at Trump Tower. It was
a classified briefing and so I wrote that on a classified device. The one I
started typing...

HEINRICH: Got you.

COMEY: ... in the car -- that was a classified laptop that I started working on.

HEINRICH: Any reason, in a classified environment, in a SCIF, that this
committee would -- it would not be appropriate to see those communications, from
-- at least from your perspective as the author?

COMEY: No. HEINRICH: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

BURR: Senator Blunt.

BLUNT: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Comey, when you were terminated at the FBI, I said, and still continue to
feel, that you have provided years of great service to the country.

I also said that I'd had significant questions, over the last year, about some
of the decision you made. If -- if the president hadn't terminated your service,
would you still be, in your opinion, the director of the FBI today?

COMEY: Yes, sir.

BLUNT: So you took as a direction from the president something that you thought
was serious and troublesome, but continued to show up for work the next
day?COMEY: Yes, sir.

BLUNT: And, six weeks later we're still telling the -- we're telling the
president, on March the 30th, that he was not personally the target of any
investigation?

COMEY: Correct. On March the 30th, and I think again on -- I think on April 11th
as well, I told him we're not investigating him personally. That was true.

BLUNT: Well, the point to me -- the concern to me there is that all these things
are going on. You, now, in retrospect -- or at you, now, to this committee --
that these were -- you had serious concerns about what the president had, you
believed, directed you to do, and had taken no action -- hadn't even reported up
the chain of command, assuming you believe there is an "up the chain of
command," that these things had happened.

Do you have a sense of that, looking back, that that was a mistake?

COMEY: No. In fact, I think no action was the most important thing I could do to
make sure there was no interference with the investigation.

BLUNT: And on the -- on the Flynn issue specifically, I believe you said earlier
that you believed the president was suggesting you drop any investigation of
Flynn's account of his conversation with the Russian ambassador, which was
essentially misleading the vice president and others?

COMEY: Correct, and -- and I'm not going to go into the details, but whether
there were false statements made to government investigators, as well.

BLUNT: The -- any suggestion that the -- that General Flynn had violated the
Logan Act, I always find pretty incredible. The Logan Act's been on the books
for over 200 years. Nobody's ever been prosecuted for violating the Logan Act.

My sense would be that the discussion -- not the problem -- misleading
investigators or the vice president might have been.

COMEY: That's fair. Yes, sir.

BLUNT: And -- and you're -- had you previously, on February the 14th, discussed
with the president, in the previous meeting, anything your investigators had
learned, or their impressions from talking to Flynn?

COMEY: No, sir.

BLUNT: So he said, "He's a good guy." You said, "He's a good guy." And that was
-- no further action taken on that?

COMEY: Well, he said more than that. But there was no -- the action was I wrote
it up, briefed our senior team, tried to figure out what to do with it and just
(ph) made a decision, we're going to hold this and then see what we make of it
down the road.COMEY: Yes, sir.

BLUNT: Was it your view that not briefing up (ph) meant you really had no
responsibility to report that to the Justice Department in some way?

COMEY: I think, at some point -- and -- and I don't know what Director Mueller
is going to do with it, but at some point I was sure we were going to brief it
to the team in charge of the case.

But our judgment was, in the short term, doesn't make sense to -- no fuzz on the
fact that I reported it to the attorney general. That's why I stressed he
shouldn't be kicked out of the room. But -- didn't make sense to report to him
now.

BLUNT: You know, you said the attorney general said (ph), "I don't want to be in
the room with him alone again," but you continued to talk to him on the phone.
What is the difference in being in the room alone with him and talking to him on
the phone alone?

COMEY: Yeah, I think that what I stressed (ph) to the attorney general was a
little broader than just the room. I said "You -- I report to you. It's very
important you be between me and the White House, between..."

(CROSSTALK)

BLUNT: After that discussion with the attorney general, did you take phone calls
from the president?

COMEY: Yes, sir.

BLUNT: So why did you just say you need to talk to -- why didn't you say, "I'm
not taking that call. You need to talk to the attorney general"?

COMEY: Well, I -- I did, on the April 11th call, and I reported the calls -- the
March 30th call and the April 11th call -- to my superior, who was the acting
deputy attorney general.

BLUNT: I -- I don't want to run out of time here. Let me make one other point.

In reading your testimony, January the 3rd, January the 27th and March the 30th
-- it appears to me that, on all three of those occasions, you, unsolicited by
the president, made the point to him that he was not a target of the -- of an
investigation.

COMEY: Correct. Yes, sir.

BLUNT: One, I thought the March 30th very interesting. You said, well, even
though you don't want -- you may not want us -- that was the 27th, where he
said, "Why don't you look into that dossier thing more?" You said, "Well, you
may not want that, because then we couldn't tell you -- couldn't say with -- we
couldn't answer the question about you being a target of the investigation."

But you didn't seem to be answering that question anyhow. As Senator Rubio
pointed out, the one unanswered, unleaked question seems to have been that, in
this whole period of time.

But you said something earlier I don't want to fail to follow up on. You said,
after you were dismissed, you gave information to a friend so that friend could
get that information into the public media.

COMEY: Correct.

BLUNT: What kind of information was that? Wasn't that (ph) -- what kind of
information did you give to a friend?

COMEY: That the -- the -- the Flynn conversation, that the president asked me to
let the -- the Flynn -- I'm forgetting my exact own words, but the -- the
conversation in the Oval Office.BLUNT: So you didn't consider your memo or your
sense of that conversation to be a government document? You consider it to be
somehow your own personal document that you could share with the media as you
wanted to?

COMEY: Correct. I...

BLUNT: Through a friend?

COMEY: ... I understood this to be my recollection, recorded, of my conversation
with the president. As a private citizen, I felt free to share that. I thought
it very important to get it out.

BLUNT: So were all of your memos that you've recorded on classified or other
documents memos that might be yours as a private citizen?

COMEY: I'm sorry, I'm not following the question.

BLUNT: Well, I think you said you'd used classified -- a classified...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: Not the classified documents. Unclassified -- I don't have any of them
anymore. I gave them to the special counsel. But, yeah, my view was that the
content of those unclassified -- the memorialization of those conversations was
my recollection recorded.

BLUNT: So why didn't you give those to somebody yourself, rather than give them
through a third party?

COMEY: Because I was worried the media was camping at the end of my driveway at
that point, and I was actually going out of town with my wife to hide, and I
worried it would be like feeding seagulls at the beach...

(LAUGHTER)

...if -- if it was -- if it was I who gave it to the media. So I asked my
friend, "Make sure this gets out."

BLUNT: It does seem to me that what you do there is create a source close to the
former director of the FBI, as opposed to just taking responsibility yourself
for saying, "Here are these records."

And, like everybody else, I have other things I'd like to get into, but I'm out
of time.

COMEY: OK.

BURR: Senator King.

KING: Thank you.

First I'd like to acknowledge Senator Blumenthal and, earlier, Senator Nelson. I
think the one principal thing you'll learn today, Senator, is that the chairs
there are less comfortable than the chairs here. But I welcome you to the
hearing.

Mr. Comey, a broad question. Was the Russian activity in the 2016 election a
one-off proposition? Or is this part of a long-term strategy? Will they be back?

COMEY: Oh, it's a long-term practice of theirs. It -- it stepped up a notch in a
significant way in '16. They'll be back.

KING: I think that's very important for the American people to understand, that
this is -- this is very much a forward-looking investigation in terms of how do
we understand what they did and how do we prevent it. Would you agree that
that's a big part of our role here?COMEY: Yes, sir, and it's not a Republican
thing or Democratic thing. It really is an American thing. They're going to come
for whatever party they choose to try and work on behalf of. And they're --
they're not devoted to either, in my experience. They're just about their own
advantage. And they will be back.

KING: That's my observation. I don't think Putin is a Republican or a Democrat.
He's an opportunist.

COMEY: I think that's a fair statement.

KING: With regard to the -- several of these conversations, in his interview
with Lester Holt on NBC, the president said, "I had dinner with him. He wanted
to have dinner because he wanted to stay on." Is this an accurate statement?

COMEY: No, sir.

KING: Did you, in any way, initiate that dinner?

COMEY: No, he -- he called me at my desk at lunchtime, and asked me was I free
for dinner that night. I called himself (ph) and said, "Can you come over for
dinner tonight?"

And I said, "Yes, sir."

He said, "Will 6 work?" I think he said 6 first. And then he said, "I was going
to invite your whole family, but we'll do that next time. I wanted (ph) you to
come over. And is -- is that a good time?"

I said, "Sir, whatever works for you."

And he then said, "How about 6:30?"

And I -- I said, "Whatever works for you, sir." And then I hung up and had to
call my wife and break a date with her. I was supposed to take her out to dinner
that night, and (OFF-MIKE).

KING: That's one of the all-time great excuses for breaking a date.

(LAUGHTER)

COMEY: In retrospect, I would have -- I love spending time my wife. I wish I'd
been there that night. (LAUGHTER)

KING: That's one question I'm not going follow up, Mr. Comey.

But, in that same interview, the president said, "In one case, I called him, and
in one case, he called me." Is that an accurate statement?

COMEY: No.

KING: Did you ever call the president?

COMEY: No. I -- I might -- the only reason I'm hesitating is I think there was a
least one conversation where I was asked to call the White House switchboard to
be connected to him, but I -- I never initiated a communication with the
president.

KING: And, in his press conference on May 18th, the president was asked whether
he had urged you to shut down the investigation into Michael Flynn. The
president responded, quote, "No, no. Next question." Is that an accurate
statement?

COMEY: I don't believe it is.

KING: Thank you.

With regard to the question of him being under personal -- personally under
investigation, does that mean that the dossier is not being reviewed or
investigated or followed up on in any way?

COMEY: I obviously can't -- I can't comment either way. I can't talk in an open
setting about the investigation as it was when I was the head of the FBI. And
obviously it's -- it's Director Mueller's -- Bob Mueller's responsibility now,
so I just -- I don't know.

KING: So clearly your statements to the president back in those -- these various
times when you assured him he wasn't under investigation were as of that moment.
That -- that correct, is it not?COMEY: Correct -- correct.

KING: Now, on the Flynn investigation, is it not true that Mr. Flynn was and is
a central figure in this entire investigation of the relationship between the
Trump campaign and the Russians?

COMEY: I can't answer that in an open setting, sir.

KING: And certainly Mr. Flynn was part of the so-called Russian investigation.
Can you answer that question?

COMEY: I have to give you the same answer.

KING: All right. We'll be having a closed session shortly, so we will follow up
on that.

In terms of his comments to you about -- I think in response to Mr. Risch -- to
Senator Risch, you said he said, "I hope you will hold back on that." But when
you get a -- when a president of the United States in the Oval Office says
something like "I hope" or "I suggest" or -- or "would you," do you take that as
a -- as a -- as a directive?

COMEY: Yes. Yes, it rings in my ear as kind of, "Will no one rid me of this
meddlesome priest?"

KING: I was just going to quote that. In 1170, December 29, Henry II said, "Who
will rid me of this meddlesome priest?" and then, the next day, he was killed --
Thomas Becket. That's exactly the same situation. You're -- we're thinking along
the same lines.

Several other questions, and these are a little bit more detailed. What do you
know about the Russian bank, VEB?

COMEY: Nothing that I can talk about in an open setting. I mean, I know it...

(CROSSTALK)

KING: Well, that takes care of my next three questions.

COMEY: I know it exists. Yes, sir.

KING: You know it exists. What is the relationship of Ambassador -- the
ambassador from Russia to the United States, to the Russian intelligence
infrastructure? COMEY: Well, he's a diplomat who is the chief of mission at the
Russian embassy, which employs a robust cohort of intelligence officers. And so,
surely, he's witting of their very, very aggressive intelligence operations, at
least some of it in the United States. I don't -- I don't consider him to be an
intelligence officer himself. He's a diplomat.

KING: Did you ever -- did the FBI ever brief the Trump administration about the
-- the advisability of interacting directly with Ambassador Kislyak?

COMEY: Look (ph), all I can say sitting here is there were a variety of
defensive briefings given to the incoming administration about the
counterintelligence risk.KING: Back to Mr. Flynn, would the -- would closing out
the Flynn investigation have impeded the overall Russian investigation?

COMEY: No. Well, unlikely, except to the extent -- there's always a possibility,
if you have a criminal case against someone and you bring in and squeeze them,
you flip them, and they give you information about something else. But I saw the
two as touching each other, but separate.

KING: With regard to your memos, isn't it true that in a -- in a court case,
when you're weighing evidence, contemporaneous memos and contemporaneous
statements to third parties are considered probative in terms of the -- the --
the validity of -- of testimony?

COMEY: Yes.

KING: Thank you.

Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

BURR: Senator Cotton?

Or -- excuse me, Senator Lankford?

LANKFORD: Well, Director Comey, good to see you again.

COMEY: You, too.

LANKFORD: We've had multiple opportunities to be able to visit, as everyone on
this dais has. And I appreciate you and your service and what you have done for
the nation for a long time, which you continue to do.

I've told you before in the heat (ph) of last year, when we had an opportunity
to visit personally, that I pray for you and for your family, because you do
carry a tremendous amount of stress. And that is still true today.

COMEY: Thank you.

LANKFORD: Let me -- let me walk through a couple things with you. Your notes
were obviously exceptionally important, because they give a very rapid account
of what you -- what you wrote down and what you perceived to happen in those
different meetings.

Have you had the opportunity to be able to reference those notes when you were
preparing the written statement that you put -- for us today?

COMEY: Yes, I -- yes. I think nearly all of my written recordings of my
conversations -- had a chance to review them before filing my statement.

LANKFORD: Do you have a copy of any those notes, personally?

COMEY: I don't. I turned them over to Bob Mueller's investigators.

LANKFORD: The individual that you told about your memos, that then sent on to
the New York Times -- do they have a copy of those memos, or were they told
orally of those memos?

COMEY: Had a copy -- had a copy at the time.

LANKFORD: Do they -- do they still have a copy of those memos?

COMEY: That's a good question. I think so. I guess I can't say for sure, sitting
here, but I -- I -- I guess I don't know, but I think so.

LANKFORD: So the question is, could you ask them to hand that copy right back to
you, so you could hand them over to this committee?

COMEY: Potentially.

LANKFORD: I would like to move that from "potential" to "see if we can ask that
question," so we can have a copy of those. Obviously those notes are
exceptionally important to us to be able to go through the process so we can --
we can continue to get to the facts as -- as we see it. As you know, the written
documents are exceptionally important.LANKFORD: Are there other documents that
we need to be aware of that you used in your preparation for your written
statement that we should also have, that would assist us in helping with this?

COMEY: Not that I'm aware of, no.

LANKFORD: Past the February the 14th meeting which is a very important meeting
obviously, as we discuss the conversations here about Michael Flynn. When the
president asked you about he hopes that you would let this go, and the
conversation back and forth about him being a good guy.

After that time did the president ever bring up anything about Michael Flynn
again to you? You had multiple other conversations you have (inaudible) with the
president.

COMEY: No, I don't remember him ever bringing it up again.

LANKFORD: Did any member of the White House staff ever come to you and talk to
you about letting go of the Michael Flynn case, or dropping it or anything
referring to that?

COMEY: No, nope.

LANKFORD: Did the director of national intelligence come to you and talk to you
about that?

COMEY: No.

LANKFORD: Did anyone from the Attorney General's office, the Department of
Justice ask you about that?

COMEY: No.

LANKFORD: Did the head of NSA talk to you about that?

COMEY: No.

LANKFORD: The -- the key aspect here is, if -- if -- if this seems to be
something the president's trying to get you to drop it, this seems like a pretty
light touch to drop it, to bring it up at that moment the day after he had just
fired Flynn to come back in and say I hope we can let this go.

But then it never reappears again. Did -- did it slow down your investigation or
any investigation that may or may not be occurring with Michael Flynn?

COMEY: No, although I don't know there're any manifestations -- our (ph)
manifestations of the investigation between February 14th and when I was fired.
So I -- I don't know that the president had any way of knowing whether it was
effective or not.

LANKFORD: OK. That's fair enough. If -- if the president wanted to stop an
investigation, how would he do that? Knowing it's an ongoing criminal
investigation or counterintelligence investigation.

Would that be a matter of trying to go to you -- you perceive and to say you
make it stop because he doesn't have the authority to stop or how -- how would
the president make an ongoing investigation stop?

COMEY: Again, I'm not a legal scholar. So smarter people answer this better, but
I think as a legal matter, president is the head of the executive branch and
could direct, in theory, we have important norms against this, but direct that
anybody be investigated or anybody not be investigated.

I think he has the legal authority because all of us ultimately report in the
executive branch up to the president.

LANKFORD: OK. Would that be to you, would that be the attorney general? Would
that be to who that would do that?COMEY: Suppose he could do it to -- if he
wanted to issue a direct order, could do it in any way, could do it through the
attorney general or issue it directly to me.

LANKFORD: Well -- well, is there any question that the president is not real
fond of this investigation? I -- I can think of multiple 140 word -- character
expressions that he's done publicly to express he's not fond of the
investigation.

So I've heard you share before in this conversation that you're trying to keep
the agents that are working on it away from any comment the president might have
made. Quite frankly, the president has informed around 6 billion people that
he's not real fond of this investigation.

Do you think there's a difference in that?

COMEY: Yes.

LANKFORD: OK.

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: I think there's a big difference in kicking superior officers out of the
Oval Office, looking the FBI director in the eye and saying, "Hope you'll let
this go."

I think if our -- if the agents, as good as they are, heard the president of the
United States did that...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: ... there's a real risk of a chilling effect on their work. That's why we
kept it so tight.

LANKFORD: OK. OK. You had mentioned before about some news stories and news
accounts, but, without having to go into all the names and the specific times
and to be able dip into all that, have there been news accounts about the Russia
investigation, about collusion, about this whole event or accusations that, as
you read the story, you were stunned about how wrong they got the facts?

COMEY: Yes. There have been many, many stories purportedly based on classified
information about -- well, about lots of stuff, but especially about Russia,
that are just dead wrong. LANKFORD: I was interested in your comment that you
made, as well, that the president said to you, if there were some satellite
associates of his that did something wrong, it would be good to find that out.

That -- the president seemed to talk to you specifically on March the 30th and
say, I'm frustrated that the word is not getting out that I'm not under
investigation, but if there are people that are in my circle that are, let's
finish the investigation. Is that how you took it, as well?

COMEY: Yes, sir. Yes.

LANKFORD: And then you made a comment earlier about the attorney general --
previous attorney general -- asking you about the investigation on the Clinton
e-mails, saying that you'd been asked not to call it an "investigation" anymore,
but to call it a "matter."

And you had said that confused you. Can you give us additional details on
that?COMEY: Well, it concerned me, because we were at the point where we had
refused to confirm the existence, as we typically do, of an investigation, for
months, and it was getting to a place where that looked silly, because the
campaigns were talking about interacting with the FBI in the course of our work.

The -- the Clinton campaign, at the time, was using all kind of euphemisms --
security review, matters, things like that, for what was going on. We were
getting to a place where the attorney general and I were both going to have to
testify and talk publicly about. And I wanted to know, was she going to
authorize us to confirm we had an investigation?

And she said, yes, but don't call it that, call it a matter. And I said, why
would I do that? And she said, just call it a matter.

And, again, you look back in hindsight, you think should I have resisted harder?
I just said, all right, it isn't worth -- this isn't a hill worth dying on and
so I just said, OK, the press is going to completely ignore it. And that's what
happened.

When I said, we have opened a matter, they all reported the FBI has an
investigation open. And so that concerned me because that language tracked the
way the campaign was talking about FBI's work and that's concerning.

LANKFORD: It gave the impression that the campaign was somehow using the same
language as the FBI, because you were handed the campaign language and told to
be able (ph) to use the campaign language...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: Yeah -- and -- and again, I don't know whether it was intentional or not,
but it gave the impression that the attorney general was looking to align the
way we talked about our work with the way a political campaign was describing
the same activity, which was inaccurate.

We had a criminal investigation open with -- as I said before, the Federal
Bureau of Investigation. We had an investigation open at the time, and so that
gave me a queasy feeling.

LANKFORD: Thank you.

BURR: Senator Manchin. MANCHIN: Thank you Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Comey. I
appreciate very much your being here.

West Virginia is very interested in this -- in this hearing that we're having
today. I've had over 600 requests for questions to ask you...

(LAUGHTER)

... from my fellow West Virginians and most of them have been asked. And there's
a quite a few of them that were quite detailed that I'll (ph) ask in our
classified hearing.

I want to thank you, first of all, for coming and agreeing to be here,
volunteering. But also volunteering to stay into the classified hearing.

I don't know if you had a chance to watch our hearing yesterday.

COMEY: I watched part of it, yes, sir.

MANCHIN: And it was quite troubling. My colleagues here at some very pointed
questions they wanted answers to. They weren't classified. They could have
answered in this open setting. They refused to do so.

So that even much -- makes us much more appreciative of your cooperation.

Sir, the seriousness of the Russian aggressions in our past elections and
knowing that it'll be ongoing as senator King had alluded to, does -- what's
your concerns there? I mean, what should American public understand?MANCHIN:
People said, "Well, this is a -- why are we worried about this? Why make such a
big deal out of this Russian investigation?" Can you tell me what your thoughts
would be?

COMEY: Yes, sir.

MANCHIN: And then the final thing is on this same topic. Did the president ever
show any concern or interest or curiosity about what the Russians were doing?

COMEY: Thank you, Senator.

As I said earlier, I don't remember any conversations with the president about
the Russia election interference.

MANCHIN: Did he ever ask you any questions concerning this?

COMEY: Well, there was an initial briefing of our findings, and I think there
was conversation there -- I don't remember it exactly -- where he asked
questions about what we had found and what our sources were and what our
confidence level was. But after that, I don't remember anything.

The reason this is such a big deal has -- we have this big, messy, wonderful
country where we fight with each other all the time, but nobody tells us what to
think, what to fight about, what to vote for, except other Americans, and that's
wonderful and often painful.

But we're talking about a foreign government that, using technical intrusion,
lots of other methods, tried to shape the way we think, we vote, we act. That is
a big deal. And people need to recognize it.

It's not about Republicans or Democrats. They're coming after America, which I
hope we all love equally. They want to undermine our credibility in the face of
the world. They think that this great experiment of ours is a threat to them,
and so they're going to try to run it down and dirty it up as much as possible.

That's what this is about. And they will be back, because we remain -- as
difficult as we can be with each other, we remain that shining city on the hill,
and they don't like it.

(CROSSTALK)

MANCHIN: This is extremely important. It's extremely dangerous, what we're --
what we're dealing with, and it's needed, is what you're saying.

COMEY: Yes, sir.

MANCHIN: Do you believe there were any tapes or recordings of your conversations
with the president?

COMEY: It never occurred to me until the president's tweet. I -- I'm not being
facetious, I hope there are, and I'll consent to the release of them.

(CROSSTALK)

MANCHIN: So both of you -- both of you are in the same findings here -- you both
hope there's tapes and recordings?

COMEY: Well, I mean, all I can do is hope. The president surely knows whether he
taped me, and if he did, my feelings aren't hurt. Release the entire -- release
all the tapes, I'm good with it.MANCHIN: Got you. Got you.

Sir, do you believe that Robert Mueller, the -- our new special investigator on
Russia, will be thorough and complete, without political intervention? And would
you be confident (ph) on these findings and recommendations?

COMEY: Yes. Bob Mueller is one of the finest people and public servants this
country's ever produced. He will do it well. He is a dogged, tough person, and
you can have high confidence that, when it's done, he's turned over all the
rocks.

MANCHIN: You've been asked a wide variety of -- of questions today and we're
going to be hearing more, I'm sure, in our classified hearing. Something I'll
often (ph) ask folks when they come here -- what details of this saga would be
-- should we be focusing on, and what would you recommend us do differently? Or
to adjust (ph) our perspective on this?

COMEY: I don't know. I -- and one of the reasons that I'm pleased to be here is
I think this committee has shown the American people, although we have two
parties and we disagree about important things, we can work together when it
involves the core interests of the country.

So I would hope you'll just keep doing what you're doing. It's -- it's good in
and of itself, but it's also a model, especially for kids, that we -- we are a
functioning, adult democracy.

MANCHIN: And you also mentioned you had -- I think, what, six -- six meetings --
three times in person, six on the phone, nine times (ph) in conversation with
the president. Did he ever, at that time, allude that you were not performing
adequately -- ever indicate that at all?

COMEY: No. In fact, the contrary, quite often. Yeah, he called me one day. I was
about to get on a helicopter, the head of the DEA was waiting in the helicopter
for me, and he just called to check in and tell me I was doing an awesome job,
and wanted to see how I was doing. And I said, "I'm doing fine, sir." And then I
finished the call and got on the helicopter.

MANCHIN: Mr. Comey, do you believe you would have been fired if Hillary Clinton
had become president?

COMEY: That's a great question. I don't know. I don't know. MANCHIN: You have
any thoughts about it?

COMEY: I might have been. I -- I don't know. Look, I -- I've said before, that
was an extraordinarily difficult and painful time. I think I did what I had to
do. I knew it was going to be very bad for me personally, and the consequences
of that might have been, if Hillary Clinton was elected, I might have been
terminated. I don't know. I really don't.

MANCHIN: My final question will be, after the (ph) February 14th meeting in the
Oval Office, you mentioned that you asked Attorney General Sessions to ensure
that you were never left alone with the president. Did you ever consider why
Attorney General Sessions was not asked to stay in the room?

COMEY: Sure, I did, and -- and have. And, in that moment, I...

MANCHIN: You ever talk to him about it?

COMEY: No.

MANCHIN: You never had a discussion with -- with Jeff Sessions on this?

COMEY: No, not at all.

MANCHIN: On any of your meetings?COMEY: No, I don't...

(CROSSTALK)

MANCHIN: Did he inquire -- did he -- did he show any inquiry whatsoever what was
that meeting about?

COMEY: No. You're right, I did say to him -- I'd forgotten this -- when I talked
to him and said, "You have to be between me and the president, and that's
incredibly important," and I forget my exact words, I passed along the
president's message about the importance of aggressively pursuing leaks of
classified information, which is a -- a goal I share.

And I passed that along to -- to the attorney general, I think it was the next
morning, in our -- in a meeting. And -- but I did not tell him about the Flynn
part.

MANCHIN: Do you believe this will rise to obstruction of justice?

COMEY: I don't know. That -- that's Bob Mueller's job to sort that out.

MANCHIN: Thank you, sir.

Mr. Chairman.

BURR: Senator Cotton.

COTTON: Mr. Comey, you encouraged the president to release the tapes. Will you
encourage the Department of Justice or your friend at Columbia or Mr. Mueller to
release your memos?

COMEY: Sure.

COTTON: You said that there -- you did not record your conversations with
President Obama or President Bush in memos. Did you do so with Attorney General
Sessions or any other senior member of the Trump Department of Justice?

COMEY: No.

COTTON: Did you...

(CROSSTALK) COMEY: I think it -- I'm sorry.

COTTON: ... did you record conversations in memos with Attorney General Lynch or
any other senior member of the Obama Department of Justice?

COMEY: No, not that I recall.

COTTON: In your statement for the record, you cite nine private conversations
with the president, three meetings and two phone calls. There are four phone
calls that are not discussed in your statement for the record. What happened in
those phone calls?

COMEY: The president called me, I believe, shortly before he was inaugurated, as
a follow-up to our conversation -- private conversation on January the 6th. He
just wanted to reiterate his rejection of the allegation and talk about -- he
thought about it more, and why he thought it wasn't true -- the -- the -- the
verified -- unverified and salacious parts.

And -- and during that call, he asked me again, "Hope you're going to stay,
you're doing a a great job." And I told him that I intended to. There was
another phone call that I mentioned, I think was -- could have the date wrong --
March the 1st, where he called just to check in with me as I was about to get on
the helicopter.COMEY: There was a secure call we had about an -- an operational
matter that was not related to any of this, about something the FBI was working
on. He wanted to make sure that I understood how important he thought it was --
a totally appropriate call. And then the fourth call -- I'm probably forgetting.

May have been the -- I may have meant the call, when he called to invite me to
dinner. I'll think about as I'm answering other questions, but I think I got
that right.

COTTON: Let's turn our attention to the underlying activity at issue here:
Russia's hacking into those e-mails and releasing them, and the allegations of
collusion. Do you believe Donald Trump colluded with Russia?

COMEY: That's a question I don't think I should answer in an open setting. As I
said, that -- we didn't -- that (ph) when I left, we did not have an
investigation focused on President Trump. But that's a question that'll be
answered by the investigation, I think.

COTTON: Let me turn to a couple of statements by one of my colleagues, Senator
Feinstein. She was the ranking member on this committee until January, which
means she had access to information that only she and Chairman Burr did. She's
now the senior Democrat on the -- on the Judiciary Committee, meaning she has
access to the FBI that most of us don't.

On May 3rd, on CNN's Wolf Blitzer's show, she was asked, "Do you believe, do you
have evidence that there was in fact collusion between Trump associates and
Russia during the campaign?"

She answered, "Not at this time."

On May 18th, the same show, Mr. Blitzer said, "The last time we spoke, Senator,
I asked if you had actually seen any evidence of collusion between the Trump
campaign and the Russians, and you said to me, and I'm quoting you now -- you
said, 'Not at this time.' Has anything changed since we last spoke?"

Senator Feinstein said, "Well, no. No, it hasn't." Do you have any reason to
doubt those statements?

COMEY: I don't doubt that Senator Feinstein was saying what -- what she
understood. I just don't want to go down that path, first of all, because I'm
not in the government anymore, and answering in the negative, I just worry,
leads me deeper and deeper into talking about the investigation in an open
setting.

I don't -- I -- I want to be...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: ... I'm always trying to be fair. I don't want to be unfair to President
Trump. I'm not trying to suggest, by my answer, something nefarious, but I don't
want to get into the business of saying not as to this person, not as to that
person.

COTTON: On February 14th, the New York Times published a story, the headline of
which was, "Trump Campaign Aides Had Repeated Contacts With Russian
Intelligence."

You were asked earlier if that was an inaccurate story, and you said, in the
main. Would it be fair to characterize that story as almost entirely wrong?

COMEY: Yes.

COTTON: Did you have, at the time that story was published, any indication of
any contact between Trump people and Russians, intelligence officers, other
government officials or close associates of the Russian government?COMEY: This
one, I can't answer, sitting here.

COTTON: We can discuss that in a classified setting, then.

I want to turn attention now to Mr. Flynn and the allegations of his underlying
conduct: to be specific, his alleged interactions with the Russian ambassador on
the telephone, and then what he said to senior Trump administration officials
and Department of Justice officials.

I understand there are other issues with Mr. Flynn, related to his receipt of
foreign monies or disclosure of potential advocacy activity on behalf of foreign
governments. Those are serious and credible allegations that I'm sure will be
pursued, but I want to speak specifically about his interactions with the
Russian ambassador.

There was a story on January 23rd in the Washington Post that says -- entitled,
"FBI reviewed Flynn's calls with Russian ambassador but found nothing illicit."
Is this story accurate?

COMEY: I don't want to comment on that, Senator, because I -- I'm pretty sure
the bureau has not confirmed any interception of communications. And so I don't
want to talk about that in an open setting.

COTTON: Would it be improper for an incoming national security adviser to have a
conversation with a foreign ambassador?

COMEY: In my -- in my experience, no.

COTTON: But you can't confirm or deny that the conversation happened, and we
would need to know the contents of that conversation to know if it was, in fact,
improper?

COMEY: Yeah, I don't think I can talk about that in an open setting. And again,
I've been out of government, now, a month, so I don't -- I also don't want to
talk about things when it's now somebody's -- else's responsibility. But maybe
in the -- in the classified setting, we can talk more about that.

COTTON: You stated earlier that there wasn't an open investigation of Mr. Flynn
in (ph) the FBI. Did you or any FBI agent ever sense that Mr. Flynn attempted to
deceive you, or made false statements to an FBI agent?

COMEY: I don't want to go too far. That was the subject of the criminal inquiry.

COTTON: Did you ever come close to closing investigation on Mr. Flynn?

COMEY: I don't think I can talk about that in an open setting, either.COTTON: I
can discuss these more in a closed setting, then.

Mr. Comey, in -- in 2004, you were a part of a well-publicized event about a
intelligence program that had been recertified several times, and you were
acting attorney general when Attorney General John Ashcroft was incapacitated
due to illness. There was a dramatic showdown at the hospital here.

The next day, you've said that you wrote a letter of resignation, and signed it,
before you -- went to meet with President Bush to explain why he (ph) refused to
certify it. Is that accurate?

COMEY: Yes, I think so.

COTTON: At any time in the three and half months you were the FBI director
during the Trump administration, did you ever write and sign a letter of
recommendation, and leave it on your desk?

COMEY: Letter of resignation? No, sir.

COTTON: Letter of resignation.

COMEY: No, sir.

COTTON: So despite all of the things that you've testified to here today, you
didn't feel this rose to the level of an honest but serious difference of legal
opinion between accomplished and skilled lawyers in that 2004 episode?

COMEY: I wouldn't characterize the circumstances of 2004 that way. But to
answer, no, I -- I didn't find -- encounter any circumstance that led me to
intend to resign, consider to resign. No, sir.

COTTON: Thank you.

BURR: Senator Harris.

HARRIS: Director Comey, I want to thank you. You are now a private citizen, and
you are enduring a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing, and each of us get
seven minutes instead of five, as yesterday, to ask you questions. So thank you.

COMEY: Now I'm -- I'm between opportunities now, so...

HARRIS: Well, you're -- you are... (LAUGHTER)

... I'm sure you'll have future opportunities.

You know, you and I are both former prosecutors. Not going to require you to
answer, I just want make a statement that, in -- in my -- my experience of
prosecuting cases, when a robber held a gun to somebody's head, and -- and said,
"I hope you will give me your wallet," the word "hope" was not the most
operative word at that moment. But you don't have to respond to that point.

I have a series of questions to ask you, and -- and they're going to start with,
are you aware of any meetings between the Trump administration officials and
Russian officials during the campaign that have not been acknowledged by those
officials in the White House?

COMEY: That's not a -- even if I remember clearly, that's a not a question I can
answer in an open setting.

HARRIS: Are you aware of any efforts by Trump campaign officials or associates
of the campaign to hide their communications with Russian officials through
encrypted communications or other means?

COMEY: I have to give you same answer, Senator.

HARRIS: Sure.

In the course of the FBI's investigation, did you ever come across anything that
suggested that communications, records, documents or other evidence had been
destroyed?

COMEY: I think I've got to give you the same answer, because it -- it would
touch investigative matters.HARRIS: And are you aware of any efforts or
potential efforts to conceal communications between campaign officials and
Russian officials?

COMEY: I think I have to give you the same answer, Senator.

HARRIS: Thank you.

As a former attorney general, I have a series of questions about your connection
with the attorney general during the course of your tenure as director.

What is your understanding of the parameters of General Sessions' recusal from
the Russia -- Russia investigation?

COMEY: I think it's described in a written release or statement from DOJ, which
I don't remember, sitting here, but the gist was he would be recused from all
matters relating to Russia and the -- and the campaign, or activities of Russia
and the '16 election, I think. Something like that.

HARRIS: Is -- so is your knowledge of the extent of his recusal based on the
public statements he's made? Or the...

COMEY: Correct.

HARRIS: ... OK. So was there any kind of memorandum issued from the attorney
general or the Department of Justice to the FBI, outlining the parameters of his
recusal?

COMEY: Not that I'm aware of.

HARRIS: And do you know if he reviewed any FBI or DOJ documents pertaining to
the investigation before he was recused?

COMEY: I don't. I don't know.

HARRIS: And after he was recused, I'm assuming it's the same answer.

COMEY: Same answer.

HARRIS: And as -- aside from any notice or memorandum that was not sent or was,
what mechanism or processes were in place to ensure that the attorney general
would not have any connection with the investigation, to your knowledge? COMEY:
I don't know for sure. I know that he had consulted with career ethics officials
that know how to run a recusal at DOJ, but I don't know what mechanism they set
up.

HARRIS: And the attorney general recused himself from the investigation, but do
you believe it was appropriate for him to be involved in the firing of the chief
investigator of that case -- of that Russia interference?

COMEY: That's something I can't answer, sitting here. It -- it's a reasonable
question, but that would depend on a lot of things I don't know, like what did
he know, what was he told, did he realize that the president was doing it
because of the Russia investigation -- things like that. I just don't know the
answer.

HARRIS: You've mentioned in your written testimony and (ph) here that the
president essentially asked you for a loyalty pledge. Are you aware of him
making the same request of any other members of the Cabinet?

COMEY: I am not.

HARRIS: Do you know one way or another what he...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: I don't know one way or another. I never heard anything about it.HARRIS:
And you mentioned that on -- you had the conversation where he hoped that you
would let the Flynn matter go on February 14th or thereabouts. It's my
understanding that Mr. Sessions was recused from any involvement in the
investigation about a full two weeks later.

To your knowledge, was the attorney general -- did he have access to information
about the investigation in those interim two weeks?

COMEY: I -- I don't -- I -- in theory, sure, because he's the attorney general.
I don't know whether he had any contact with any materials related to that.

HARRIS: To your knowledge, was there any directive that he should not have any
contact with any information about the Russia investigation between the February
14th date and the day he was ultimately recused -- or recused himself, on March
2nd?

COMEY: Not to my knowledge. I don't know one way or another.

HARRIS: And did you speak to the attorney general about the Russia investigation
before his recusal?

COMEY: I don't think so, no.

HARRIS: Do you know if anyone in the department, in the FBI, forwarded any
documents or information or memos of any sort to the attention of the attorney
general before his recusal?

COMEY: I don't -- I don't know of any, remember any, sitting here. It's
possible, but I -- I don't remember any.

HARRIS: Do you know if the attorney general was involved -- in fact, involved in
any aspect of the Russia investigation after his recusal on the 2nd of March?

COMEY: I don't. I would assume not, but I don't -- I don't -- let me say it this
way. I don't know of any information that would lead me to believe he did
something to touch the Russia investigation after the recusal.

HARRIS: In your written testimony, you indicate that you -- when you -- after
you were left alone with the president, you mentioned that it was inappropriate
and should never happen again to the attorney general. And, apparently, he did
not reply, and you write that he did not reply. What did he do, if anything? Did
he just look at you? Was there a pause for a moment? What happened?

COMEY: I -- I don't remember real clearly. I -- I have a recollection of him
just kind of looking at me -- and there's a danger here I'm projecting onto him,
so this may be a faulty memory -- but I kind of got -- his body language gave me
the sense like, what am I going to do?

HARRIS: Did he shrug?

COMEY: I -- I don't remember clearly. I think the reason I have that impression
is I have some recollection of almost an imperceptible, like, what am I going to
do? But I don't have a clear recollection of that. He didn't say
anything.HARRIS: And, on that same February 14th meeting, you said you
understood the president to be requesting that you drop the investigation.

After that meeting, however, you received two calls from the president -- March
30th and April 11th -- where the president talked about a cloud over his
presidency.

Has anything you've learned in the months since your February 14th meeting
changed your understanding of the president's request? I guess it would be what
he has said in public documents or public interviews?

COMEY: Correct.

HARRIS: OK. And is there anything about this investigation that you believe is
in any way biased or is -- is -- is not being informed by a -- a process of
seeking the truth?

COMEY: No. The -- the appointment of a special counsel should offer great --
especially given who that person is -- great comfort to Americans, no matter
what your political affiliation is, that this will be done independently,
competently and honestly.

HARRIS: And do you believe that he should have full authority, Mr. Mueller, to
be able to pursue that investigation?

COMEY: Yes, and I -- and, knowing him well over the years, if there's something
that he thinks he needs, he will -- he will speak up about it.

HARRIS: Do you believe he should have full independence?

COMEY: Yeah. And he wouldn't be part of it if he wasn't going to get full
independence.

HARRIS: Thank you.

BURR: Senator Cornyn.

CORNYN: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Comey, I'll repeat what I've said at previous hearings, that I believe
you're a good and decent man who's been dealt a very difficult hand, starting
back with the Clinton e-mail investigation. And I appreciate your willingness to
appear here today voluntarily and answer our questions and cooperate with our
investigation.

As a general matter, if an FBI agent has reason to believe that a crime has been
committed, do they have a duty to report it?

COMEY: That's a good question. I don't know that there's a legal duty to report
it. They certainly have a cultural, ethical duty to report it.

CORNYN: You're unsure whether they would have a legal duty?

COMEY: It's a good question. I've not thought about it (ph) before. I don't know
where the legal -- there's a statute that prohibits misprision of a felony --
knowing of a felony and taking steps to conceal it -- but this is a different
question.

And so, look, let me be clear, I would expect any FBI agent who has reason --
information about a crime being committed to report it.

CORNYN: Me, too.

COMEY: But where you rest that obligation, I don't know. It exists.

CORNYN: And let me ask you as a general proposition, if you're trying to make an
investigation go away, is firing an FBI director a good way to make that happen?
By that, I mean...

COMEY: Yeah.

CORNYN: ... doesn't...

COMEY: It doesn't make a lot of sense to me, but I'm -- I'm obviously hopelessly
biased, given that I was the one fired.(LAUGHTER)

CORNYN: I understand it's personal.

COMEY: No (ph), given the nature of the FBI, I meant what I said. There's no
indispensable people in the world, including at the FBI. That -- there's lots of
bad things about me not being at the FBI. Most of them are for me. But the
work's going to go on as before.

CORNYN: So nothing that's happened that you've testified to here today has
impeded the investigation of the FBI or Director Mueller's commitment to get to
the bottom of this, from the standpoint of the FBI and the Department of
Justice. Would you agree with that?

COMEY: Correct, especially -- the appointment of Director -- Former Director
Mueller is a critical part of that equation.

CORNYN: Let me take you back to the Clinton e-mail investigation. I think you've
been cast as a hero or a villain depending on the -- whose political ox is being
gored at many different times during the course of the Clinton e-mail
investigation, and even -- even now, perhaps.

But you clearly were troubled by the conduct of the sitting attorney general,
Loretta Lynch, when it came to the Clinton e-mail investigation. You mentioned
the characterization that you'd been asked to accept that this was a "matter"
and not a criminal investigation, which you've said it -- it was.

There was the matter of President Clinton's meeting on the tarmac with the
sitting attorney general, at a time when his wife was subject to a criminal
investigation, and you've suggested that perhaps there are other matters that
you may be able to share with us later on in a classified setting.

But it seems to me that you clearly believe that Loretta Lynch, the attorney
general, had a -- an appearance of a conflict of interest on the Clinton e-mail
investigation. Is that correct?

COMEY: I think that's fair. I didn't believe she could credibly decline that
investigation -- at least, not without grievous damage to the Department of
Justice and to the FBI.

CORNYN: And, under Department of Justice and FBI norms, wouldn't it have been
appropriate for the attorney general, or, if she had recused herself -- which
she did not do -- for the deputy attorney general to appoint a special counsel?

That's essentially what's happened now with Director Mueller. Would that have
been an appropriate step in the Clinton e-mail investigation, in your opinion?

COMEY: Yes, certainly a possible step. Yes, sir.

CORNYN: And were you aware that Ms. Lynch had been requested numerous times to
appoint a special counsel, and had refused?COMEY: Yes, from -- I think Congress
had -- members of Congress had repeatedly asked. Yes, sir.

CORNYN: Yours truly...

COMEY: OK.

CORNYN: ... did on multiple occasions. And that heightened your concerns about
the appearance of a conflict of interest with the Department of Justice, which
caused you to make what you have described as an incredibly painful decision to
basically take the matter up yourself, and -- led to that July press conference.

COMEY: Yes, sir. I can -- after the -- President Clinton -- former President
Clinton met on the plane with the attorney general, I considered whether I
should call for the appointment of a special counsel, and had decided that that
would be an unfair thing to do, because I knew there was no case there.

We had investigated very, very thoroughly. I know this is a subject of
passionate disagreement, but I knew there was no case there. And calling for the
appointment of special counsel would be brutally unfair because it would send
the message, aha (ph), there's something here.

That was my judgment. Again, lots of people have different views of it. But
that's how I thought about it.

CORNYN: Well, if the special counsel had been appointed, they could've made that
determination that there was nothing there and declined to pursue it, right?

COMEY: Sure, but it would've been many months later, or a year later.

CORNYN: Let me just ask you to -- given the experience of the Clinton e-mail
investigation and what happened there, do you think it's unreasonable for anyone
-- any president who has been assured on multiple occasions that he's not the
subject of an FBI investigation -- do you think it's unreasonable for them to
want the FBI director to publicly announce that, so that this cloud over his
administration would be removed?

COMEY: I think that's a reasonable point of view. The concern would be,
obviously, because if that boomerang comes back, it's going to be a very big
deal, because there will be a duty to correct. CORNYN: Well, we -- we saw that
in the Clinton e-mail investigation, of course.

COMEY: Yes, I recall that.CORNYN: I know you do. So let me ask you, finally, in
the minute that we have left -- there was this conversation back and forth about
loyalty, and I think we all appreciate the fact that an FBI director is a unique
public official in the sense that he's not -- he's a political appointee in one
sense, but he has a duty of independence to pursue the law pursuant to the --
the -- the constitutional laws of the United States.

And so, when the president asked you about loyalty, you got in this
back-and-forth about, well, I'll pledge you my honesty. And then it looks like,
from what I've read, you agreed upon honest loyalty, or something like that. Is
that the characterization?

COMEY: Yes.

CORNYN: Thank you very much.

COMEY: Thank you, sir.

BURR: Senator Reed.

REED: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Thank you, Director Comey.

There have been press reports that the president, in addition to asking you to
drop the Flynn investigation, has asked other senior intelligence officials to
take steps which would tend to undermine the investigation into Russia.

There have been reports that he's asked DNI Coats and Admiral Rogers to make
public statements exonerating him or -- or taking the pressure off him, and also
reports about Admiral Rogers and Director Pompeo -- to intervene and reach out
to the FBI and ask them.

Are you aware of any of these, or do you have any information with respect to
any of these allegations?

COMEY: I don't. I'm aware of the public reporting, but I had no contact, no
conversation with any of those leaders about that subject.

REED: Thank you. You have testified that you interpret the discussion with the
president about Flynn as a direction to stop the investigation. Is that correct?

COMEY: Yes. REED: You've testified that the president asked you to lift the
cloud by essentially making public statement that exonerated him and perhaps
others. You refused, correct?

COMEY: I didn't -- I didn't do it. I didn't refuse the -- the president. I told
him we would see what we could do, and then the second time he called, I told
him, in substance, that's something your lawyer will have to take up with the
Justice Department.REED: All right (ph). And part of the underlying logic was
that we've -- we've discussed many times throughout this morning -- is the duty
to correct. That is one of -- a theoretical issue, but also a very practical
issue. It -- was there -- your feeling that (ph) the direction of the
investigation could in fact include the president?

COMEY: Well, in theory. I mean, as I explained, the concern of one of my senior
leader colleagues was, if you're looking at potential coordination between the
campaign and Russia, the person at the head of the campaign is the candidate.
So, logically, this person argued, the -- the candidate's knowledge,
understanding, will logically become a part of your inquiry if it proceeds.

And so I understood that argument. My view was that -- that what I said to the
president was accurate and fair, and fair to him. I resisted the idea of
publicly saying it, although, if the Justice Department had wanted to, that -- I
would've done it, because of the duty to correct and the slippery slope problem.

REED: And, again, also, you've testified that the president asked you repeatedly
to be loyal to him, and you responded you would be honestly loyal, which is, I
think, your way of saying, "I'll be honest, and I'll be the head of the FBI and
independent." Is that fair?

COMEY: Correct. I tried "honest" first. And also, I mean, you've -- see it in my
testimony -- also tried to explain to him why it's in his interest, and every
president's interest, for the FBI to be apart, in a way -- because its
credibility is important to a president and to the country.

And so I tried to hold the line, hold the line. It got very awkward, and I then
said, "You'll always have honesty from me." He said, "honest loyalty," and then
I acceded to that as a way to end this awkwardness.

REED: At the culmination of all these events, you're summarily fired, without
any explanation or anything else?

COMEY: Well, there was an explanation. I just don't buy it.

REED: Well, yes. So you're fired. So do you believe that you were fired because
you -- you refused to -- to take the president's direction? Is that the ultimate
reason?

COMEY: I don't know for sure. I know I was fired. Again, I take the president's
words. I know I was fired because of something about the way I was conducting
the Russia investigation was, in some way, putting pressure on him, in some way,
irritating him. And he decided to fire me because of that.

REED: Now...

COMEY: I -- I can't go farther than that.REED: ... the Russian investigation, as
you have pointed out, and as all my colleagues have reflected, is one of the
most serious hostile acts against this country in our history.

Undermining the very core of our democracy and our elections is not a discrete
event. It will likely occur -- it's probably being prepared now for '18 and '20
and beyond. And yet the president of the United States fires you because, in
your own words -- some relation to this investigation.

And then he shows up in the Oval Office with the Russian foreign minister,
first, after classifying you as crazy and a real nut job, which I think you've
effectively disproved this morning. He said, "I face great pressure because of
Russia. That's taken off." Your conclusion would be that the president, I would
think, is downplaying the seriousness of this threat.

In fact, took specific steps to stop a thorough investigation of the Russian --
Russian influence. And also, from what you've said, or what was -- been said
this morning, doesn't seem particularly interested in these hostile threats by
the Russians? Is that fair?

COMEY: I don't know that I can agree to that level of detail. There's no doubt
that it's a fair judgment -- it's my judgment that I was fired because of the
Russia investigation. I was fired, in some way, to change -- or the endeavor was
to change the way the Russia investigation was being conducted.

That is a -- that is a very big deal, and not just because it involves me. The
nature of the FBI and the nature of its work requires that it not be the subject
of political consideration.

And on top of that you have -- the Russia investigation itself is vital, because
of the threat. And I know I should've said this earlier, but it's obvious -- if
any Americans were part of helping the Russians do that to us, that is a very
big deal. And I'm confident that, if that is the case, Director Mueller will
find that evidence.

REED: Finally, the president tweeted that James Comey better hope that there are
no tapes of our conversation before he starts leaking to the press. Was that a
rather unsubtle attempt to intimidate you from testifying, and intimidate anyone
else who seriously crosses his path -- of not doing it?

COMEY: I -- I'm not going to sit here and try and interpret the president's
tweets. It -- to me, its major impact was -- as I said, occurred to me in the
middle of the night -- holy cow, there might be tapes. And if there tapes, it's
not just my word against his on -- on the direction to get rid of the Flynn
investigation.REED: Thank you very much.

BURR: Senator McCain?

MCCAIN: In the case of -- Hillary Clinton, you made the statement that there
wasn't sufficient evidence to bring a suit against her, although it had been
very careless -- in their behavior. But you did reach a conclusion in that case
that it was not necessary to further pursue her.

Yet, at the same time, in the case of Mr. Comey, you said that there was not
enough information to make a conclusion. Tell me the different between your
conclusion as far as former Secretary Clinton is concerned and -- and Mr. -- Mr.
Trump.

COMEY: The Clinton investigation was a completed investigation that the FBI been
deeply involved in. And so I had an opportunity to understand all the facts and
apply those facts against the law as I understood them. This investigation was
underway, still going when I was fired. So it's nowhere near in the same place.
At least, it wasn't when I was...

MCCAIN: But it's still ongoing?

COMEY: ... correct, so far as I know. It was when I left.

MCCAIN: That investigation was going on. This investigation is going on. You
reached separate conclusions.

COMEY: No, that one was done. The...

(CROSSTALK)

MCCAIN: That investigation of (ph) any involvement of Secretary Clinton or any
of her associates is completed?

COMEY: Yes, as of July the 5th, the FBI completed its investigative work, and
that's what I was announcing -- what we had done and what we had found.

MCCAIN: Well, at least in the minds of this member, there's a whole lot of
questions remaining about what went on, particularly considering the fact that,
as you mention, it's a, quote, "big deal" as to what went on during the
campaign.

So I'm glad you concluded that part of the investigation, but I -- I think that
the American people have a whole lot of questions out there, particularly since
you just emphasized the role that Russia played.

And, obviously, she was a candidate for president at the time, so she was
clearly involved in this whole situation where fake news -- as you just
described it, "big deal," took place.MCCAIN: And you're going to have to help me
out here. In other words, we're complete -- the investigation of anything that
former Secretary Clinton had to do with the campaign is over and we don't have
to worry about it anymore?

COMEY: With respect to Secretary -- I'm not -- I'm a little confused, Senator.
With respect to Secretary Clinton...

MCCAIN: Yeah.

COMEY: ... we investigated criminal investigation in connection with her use of
a personal e-mail server...

MCCAIN: I understand.

COMEY: ... and that's the investigation I announced the conclusion of on July
5th.

MCCAIN: So -- but, at the same time, you made the announcement there would be no
charges brought against then Secretary Clinton for any activities involved in
the Russia involvement in our -- engagement in our election.

I -- I don't quite understand how you could be done with that, but not complete
-- done with the whole investigation of their attempt to affect the outcome of
our election.

COMEY: No. I'm sorry, we're not -- at least, when I left -- when I was fired on
May the 9th, there was still an open, active investigation to understand the
Russian effort, and whether any Americans work with them.

MCCAIN: But you reached the conclusion that there was no reason to bring charges
again Secretary Clinton. So you reached a conclusion.

In the case of Mr. Comey, you -- President Comey (sic)...

COMEY: No, sir.

MCCAIN: ... I mean (ph) -- excuse me -- case of President Trump, you have an
ongoing investigation.

So you got one candidate who you're done with and another candidate that you
have a long way to go. Is that correct? COMEY: I don't know how far the -- the
FBI has to go, but yes, that -- the Clinton e-mail investigation was completed.
The investigation of Russia's efforts in connection with the election, and
whether there was any coordination, and, if so, with whom, between Russia and
the campaign...

(CROSSTALK)

MCCAIN: You just made it -- you just made it...

COMEY: ... was ongoing when I left.

MCCAIN: You just made it clear in what you said, this is a, quote, "big deal,"
unquote.

I think it's hard to reconcile, in once case you reach complete conclusion, and
the other side, you have -- you have not, and you -- in fact, obviously, there's
a lot there, as -- as we know -- as you called it a, quote, "big deal." She's
one of the candidates. But in her case, you say there will be no charges, and in
the case of President Trump, there -- the -- the investigation continues.MCCAIN:
What has been brought out in this hearing is -- is more and more emphasis on the
Russian engagement and involvement in this campaign. How serious do you think
this was?

COMEY: Very serious. But -- I want to say some -- be clear. It was -- we have
not announced, and there was no predication to announce, an investigation of
whether the Russians may have coordinated with Secretary Clinton's campaign.

Secretary Clinton's...

(CROSSTALK)

MCCAIN: ... No, but -- they may not have been involved with her campaign. They
were involved with the entire presidential campaign, obviously.

COMEY: Of course. Yes, sir. And that is an investigation that began last summer,
and, so far as I'm aware, continues.

MCCAIN: So both President Trump and former Candidate Clinton are both involved
in the investigation. Yet one of them, you said there's going to be no charges,
and the other one, the -- the investigation continues.

Well, I think there's a double standard there, to tell you the truth. Then, when
the president said to you -- you talked about the April 11th phone call, and he
said, quote, "Because I've been very loyal to you, very loyal. We had that
thing, you know," did that arouse your curiosity as what, quote, "that thing"
was?

COMEY: Yes.

MCCAIN: Why didn't you ask him?

COMEY: It didn't seem to me to be important for the conversation we were having,
to understand it. I took it to be some -- an effort to -- to communicate to me
this -- that there is a relationship between us where I've been good to you, you
should be good to me.

MCCAIN: Yeah, but I -- I think it would intensely arouse my curiosity if the
president of the United States said "We had that thing, you know" -- I'd like to
know what the hell that thing is, particularly if I'm the director of the FBI.

COMEY: Yeah, I -- I get that, Senator. Honestly, I'll tell you what -- this is
speculation, but what I concluded at the time is, in his memory, he was
searching back to our encounter at the dinner, and was preparing himself to say,
"I offered loyalty to you, you promised loyalty to me," and all of a sudden his
memory showed him that did not happen, and I think he pulled up short.

That's just a guess, but I -- I -- a lot of conversations with humans over the
years.

MCCAIN: I think I would have had some curiosity if it had been about me, to be
honest with you. So are you aware -- anything that would believe you (ph) -- to
believe that the president or the members of the administration or members of
the campaign could potentially be used to coerce or blackmail the
administration?COMEY: That's a subject for investigations, not something I can
comment on, sitting here.

MCCAIN: But you've reached that conclusion as far as Secretary Clinton was
concerned. But you're not reaching a conclusion as far as this administration is
concerned. Are you aware of anything that would lead you to believe that
information exists that could coerce members of the administration or blackmail
the administration?

COMEY: That's not a question I can answer, Senator.

BURR: Senator's time has expired.

(UNKNOWN): Thank you.

BURR: All time's expired for the hearing. Can I say, for members -- we'll
reconvene promptly at 1 p.m. in the hearing room. We have a vote scheduled for
1:45. I would suggest that all members promptly be there at 1 o'clock. We have
about three minutes.

I'd like to have order. Photographers -- photographers, return to where you
were, please. This hearing's not adjourned yet. Either that, or we'll remove
you.

To members, we have about three minutes of updates that we would love to cover
as soon as we get into the closed session, before we have an opportunity to
spend some time with Director Comey.

Based on our agreement, it would be my intentions to adjourn that closed hearing
between 2 and 2:10, so that members can go vote, and I would urge you to eat at
that time.

Jim, several of us on this committee have had the opportunity to work with you
since you walked in the door. I want to say, personally, on behalf of all this
-- all the committee members, we're grateful to you for your service to your
country, not just in the capacity as FBI director, but as prosecutor, and more
importantly, being somebody that loves this country enough to tell it like it
is.BURR: I want to say to your workforce that we're grateful to them -- with the
level of cooperation that they have shown us, with the trust we've built between
both organizations, the Congress and -- and the bureau. We couldn't do our job
if it wasn't for their willingness to share candidly with us the work that we
need to see.

This hearing's the ninth public hearing this committee has had this year. That
is twice the historical year-long average of this committee. I think the vice
chairman and my's (ph) biggest challenge, when this investigation has concluded,
is to return our hearings to the secrecy of a closed hearing, to encourage our
members not to freely talk about intelligence matters publicly and to respect
the fact that we have a huge job.

And that's to represent the entire body of the United States Senate and the
American people, to make sure that we work with the intelligence community to
provide you the tools to keep America safe, and that you do it within the legal
limit, or those limits that are set by the executive branch.

We could not do it if it wasn't for a trusted partnership that you have been
able to lead, and others before you. So as -- as we depart from this, this is a
pivotal hearing in our investigation. We're grateful to you for the
professionalism you've shown, and your willingness.

I will turn to the vice chairman.

WARNER: I simply want to echo, one, again the thanks for your appearance. And
there clearly still remain a number of questions.

And the one thing I want to commit to you, and more importantly, I think,
Chairman, I want to commit to all those who are still potentially watching and
following -- there's still a lot of unanswered questions, and we're going to get
to the bottom of this.

We're going to get the facts out. The American people deserve to know. There's
the questions around implications of Trump officials and the Russians, but
there's also the macro issue of what the Russians did and continue to do.

And I think it is very important that all Americans realize that threat is real.
It is continuous. It is not just towards our nation. It is all -- towards all
Western democracies. And we have to come to a solution set (ph).

Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

BURR: Director Comey, thank you once again on behalf on the committee.

This hearing's adjourned.

END

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

PHOTO: James B. Comey, the director of the F.B.I. before he was fired last month
by President Trump, appeared Thursday before the Senate Intelligence Committee
on Capitol Hill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Comey Testimony: Highlights of the Hearing
     ·    Trump, Comey and Obstruction of Justice: A Primer


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        June 8, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Hacking in Qatar Highlights a Shift Toward Espionage-for-Hire

BYLINE: DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK and SHEERA FRENKEL

SECTION: WORLD; middleeast

LENGTH: 1520 words



HIGHLIGHT: A dispute among Persian Gulf states suggests that cyberattacks can be
launched for the price of a few freelance hackers.


Correction Appended

DOHA, Qatar -- The report appeared just after midnight on the official Qatari
news agency's website, and its contents were stunning: The emir of Qatar was
quoted as describing "tensions" with President Trump and speculating he may not
last in office, recommending friendship with Iran, praising the Palestinian
militants of Hamas, and then attesting to his own "good" relations with Israel.

The contradictory statements could hardly have been better contrived to alienate
the United States and Arab countries around the Gulf, and Qatar immediately
began to deny the report, early on May 24. But within 20 minutes, satellite
networks controlled by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates had seized on
the damning news flash and began interviewing long lines of well-prepared
commentators to expound on the perfidy of Qatar.

The Qatari government said the news agency had been hacked, a claim now
supported by the F.B.I. and British law enforcement officials. Though they would
not say so publicly, Qatari officials blamed the Saudis and Emiratis.

Probably not coincidentally, a few days later, emails hacked from the Emirates'
ambassador to Washington began turning up in the Western news media and then the
Qatari news network Al Jazeera.

The cyber-intrigue was the opening skirmish in a pitched battle among ostensible
Gulf allies this week. Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E. rallied dependent Arab states
to cut off diplomatic relations, travel and trade with Qatar, and the unity of
the American-backed alliance against the Islamic State and Iran has been
fractured.

But the dirty tricks also heralded a broader transformation in international
espionage. The dust-upin the Gulf is the clearest sign yet that cyberattacks
coupled with disinformation campaigns are no longer the exclusive domain of
sophisticated powers like Russia. Any country can get in the game for the
relatively low price of a few freelance hackers.

The F.B.I. and other experts concluded the hack of Qatar's news agency was the
result of a computer break-in, and was most likely carried out by Russian
hackers for hire, according to American and Qatari officials briefed on the
investigation. F.B.I. officials told The New York Times that Russian mercenary
hackers have frequently come up in investigations of attacks sponsored by
nation-states.

In fact, the hacking war in the Gulf region has likely been going on for years,
though it has never played out on such a public stage. In 2015, for example, an
Arab intermediary with ties to Qatar provided The Times with internal emails
from the Emirati Foreign Ministry which stated that the U.A.E. was knowingly
violating a United Nations resolution by shipping weapons to Libyan militias.

"The fact of the matter is that the U.A.E. violated the U.N. Security Council
Resolution on Libya and continues to do so," Ahmed al-Qasimi, a senior Emirati
diplomat, wrote in an internal email that was dated Aug. 4, 2015, and provided
to The Times. Other internal Emirati emails about Libyan dealings and North
Korean arms deals surfaced through Qatari-linked websites and the Guardian
newspaper.

Qatar has, at times, backed its own Libyan client militias on the other side of
a three-year proxy war against the U.A.E -- with both sides confounding Western
attempts to broker a unity government in Libya.

In a report scheduled to be released on Friday, two independent cybersecurity
researchers claim that at least one group of hackers can be found working as
freelancers for a number of Gulf states, and that their methods bear a striking
resemblance to the methods used to hack the Emirati ambassador.

"They seem to be hackers-for-hire, freelancing for all sorts of different
clients, and adapting their skills as needed," said Collin Anderson, who is one
of the researchers. Mr. Anderson and his partner, Claudio Guarnieri, have
nicknamed the group Bahamut, after a monstrous fish floating in the Arabian Sea
in the Jorge Luis Borges novel "Book of Imaginary Beings."

The group regularly uses spear phishing attacks -- emails designed to look
innocent but contain malicious software applications. While it is not yet clear
if Bahamut was behind the hack of the ambassador's email, the group targeted a
number of Emirati diplomats as well as other public figures in the Gulf region.

Other news organizations have reported receiving leaked Emirati emails from a
group calling itself GlobalLeaks and using email addressing ending in .ru,
suggesting the mercenary hackers may be Russians or wish to pose as Russian.

The Emirati ambassador, Yousef al-Otaiba, is well known for his assiduous
efforts to convince American think tanks and government officials that Qatar had
threatened the stability of the region by cheering the Arab uprisings of 2011
and, in particular, by backing the Muslim Brotherhood.

Mr. Otaiba, a charismatic figure who speaks nearly native-sounding English, has
also served as a personal tutor in regional politics to Jared Kushner, the
son-in-law and a senior adviser to President Trump.

Several of the newly leaked emails appear to include examples of Mr. Otaiba
pressing anti-Qatari arguments with American officials, who banter with him like
old friends.

In a Feb. 10, 2015, exchange between Mr. Otaiba and Elliott Abrams, a former
Republican White House official, Mr. Abrams appears to joke about the Emirates'
support for the military coup that removed Egypt's Qatari-allied Islamist
president in 2013, almost suggesting that something similar should happen in
Qatar. "Too bad the Qatari armed forces can't... well, I shouldn't say such
things. That would be undemocratic," the email said.

In another leaked exchange, John Hannah, another former Republican White House
official, who is now with the pro-Israel Foundation for the Defense of
Democracies, emailed Mr. Otaiba to complain that an Emirati-owned hotel in Doha
was providing space for a Hamas news conference.

"How's this," Ambassador Otaiba replied. "You move the base then we'll move the
hotel :-)." (He was obliquely referring to the major American air base in Qatar,
Al Udeid, that has been the headquarters for operations against the Islamic
State. )

In fact, on Thursday, the government of Qatar listed the hacking attack as part
of a broader public influence campaign that has been appearing in American
newspapers and think tank conferences. A timeline the government distributed to
reporters, identified a series of 14 op-ed articles that appeared across the
American media in a sudden flurry beginning around the same time -- late April
-- all singling out Qatar for supporting Islamist militants or extremists.

President Trump arrived in the region on May 20, weeks after the barrage of
criticism began, for an Arab summit in Saudi Arabia. "He told us exactly: 'We
have to work together in stopping the funding of extremist groups in the region
and whenever I read reports about this region I read about Qatar and Saudi,' "
the Qatari foreign minister, Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani, recalled
on Thursday.

"Mr. President," the foreign minister said he replied, "are the reports based on
media reports or intelligence reports? If it is based on media reports, then
this is something we cannot answer."

"We assured them that we have strong cooperation with our security agencies,"
the foreign minister added.

Then, three days after the Trump meeting in Riyadh, the Foundation for the
Defense of Democracies held a conference in Washington dedicated to criticism of
Qatar, titled "Qatar and the Muslim Brotherhood's Global Affiliates."

Robert M. Gates, the former defense secretary and a friend of Mr. Otaiba, gave
the keynote. Attendees included many of the authors of the critical op-ed
articles and senior Obama administration officials. Organizers encouraged Mr.
Otaiba to attend, and his staff sent Abu Dhabi, the Emirati capital, a detailed
report.

The hack of the Qatari news agency took place after midnight that night.

Mr. Anderson, the cyber security researcher, said the low cost and relative ease
of hiring hackers meant that more such attacks would surely follow.

"This is the future for what countries all around the world can do," he said,
"if they have the money and the resources."

By Thursday night, Qatar's Al Jazeera network reported that hackers were
attempting to overload and crash its internet servers.

David D. Kirkpatrick reported from Doha, Qatar, and Sheera Frenkel from San
Francisco.


Correction: June 17, 2017, Saturday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on
June 9 about hacking attacks apparently aimed at Qatar and the United Arab
Emirates referred incorrectly to a conference in Washington last month organized
by a foreign-policy think tank, the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies,
about Qatar and the Muslim Brotherhood. The foundation did in fact send the
Qatari embassy invitations to attend the conference; it is not the case that no
representative of Qatar was invited.

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Has Busy Day in Vortex of Middle East Relations
     ·    Why Qatar Is in the Naughty Corner
     ·    5 Arab Nations Move to Isolate Qatar, Putting the U.S. in a Bind


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 8, 2017 Thursday
                        The International New York Times

The disquiet of a relaxed uncertainty

BYLINE: By HOWARD JACOBSON.

Howard Jacobson is the author of more than a dozen novels, including ''The
Finkler Question'' and, most recently, ''Pussy: A Novel.''

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg.

LENGTH: 1086 words


LONDON -- Half a century ago, wet behind the ears, I sailed from England to
Australia. My parents wept. They weren't sure they'd see me again. A journey of
three or four weeks by sea was considered perilous in those days. And even if I
did make it to Sydney safely, there was no knowing when, if ever, I'd return.

When I did arrive -- in one piece, as it happened -- I had to book an
international telephone call from the city's central post office to tell my
parents I was O.K. It was two hours before a line became free. You could say
that this was the proper way to respect distance. If you're going halfway around
the world, it should seem like it.

Since that time, the world has shrunk. We don't weep in the arms of our friends
before we travel. We can reach anywhere by air in less than a day and report on
the progress of the journey every half-hour by cellphone.

Or at least, that was the way it was the day before yesterday. Now inconvenience
and apprehension are back.

It's all more modern and streamlined apprehension, but disquiet is disquiet, and
there are humiliations thrown in today, as well. We wait like animals in pens.
We remove items of clothing before we pass through security. We are frisked. We
are questioned. We don't complain. We understand the necessity. Terrorism has
made the most perfunctory journey a jeopardy.

Board the plane itself and you can't be sure you won't be manhandled off it.
Passengers waiting to travel by British Airways last week didn't even get that
far. Crowded into departure terminals for days, they resembled the damned,
massing to cross the River Styx. The company did what companies do -- and blamed
its computer system.

It has been as bad a few weeks for computers as it has for airlines. Cyber
-extortionists took systems down around the world last month. In Britain, the
computer system of the already ailing National Health Service was hacked. Bad
luck if you were booked for an emergency operation that morning. To the anxiety
of wondering if you'd make it out of the operating theater alive was added the
anxiety of wondering if you'd make it into the operating theater alive.

We asked for trouble when we put all our eggs in technology's basket. But it's
too late to revisit that decision. We have signed up to the machine. Whatever
goes wrong is not the result of corporate mismanagement or greed, it's just
faulty software.

And yet, we go on trusting our futures to it. Soon, it will take our jobs. We
accept this with a worried shrug. Soon, also, it will drive our cars more safely
than we do. This, too, we embrace. Computers can't reliably keep your doctor's
notes or ticket us onto an airplane, and yet we are about to let them navigate
us along superhighways at perhaps 100 miles an hour.

About that, I feel twice as apprehensive as I did when I sailed to Australia. We
might be asking our self-drive Mercedes to take us only to the corner shop, but
we'll still be sobbing into the necks of those we love before it drives off with
us in it.

''Goodbye, my little ones, I'll call you from the store. If I get there.''

The phony calm of predictably untroubled travel, like the phony calm of
predictably untroubled politics, in which parties of the left exchanged power
with parties of the right at regular intervals, is over. Confusion, uncertainty
and fear are back.

But are they back because we want them back? Do we, like seafarers of old, crave
the hazards of the untraveled void?

The biggest shock to our political certainties was Brexit. No one saw that
coming. Even as the votes were being counted on the evening of June 23, 2016,
the leader of the U.K. Independence Party, whose only reason for existence was
getting Britain out of Europe, as good as conceded defeat. Mistaken as it was,
this inured defeatism set the scene for the appearance of a new phenomenon in
British politics: the sore winner.

Why those who got what they wanted are unable to be graceful in success is one
of the attendant mysteries of Brexit. That the losing Remainers should bellyache
is to be expected. I do it every day. But why aren't the Brexiteers happy?

Maybe some -- remembering that spleen directed them to vote in what they assumed
to be a losing cause -- wished they'd listened to some other humor. But most
seem to want to go on rerunning the contest, not only to savor victory again,
but also to savor its surprise. Are we becoming ''exhilaration of the
unanticipated'' junkies?

Donald Trump's unexpected victory in the presidential election followed some of
the same patterns. Certainly, Mr. Trump himself took a long time getting used to
the idea that he had won, and continues to tweet, if not like a loser exactly,
then like an outsider still knocking at the gates of the White House. And the
job is so demanding.

''I thought it would be easier,'' he said a few weeks ago. Perhaps the sense of
anticlimax that overtook so many surly Brexiteers has seized him, too.

Our prime minister, Theresa May, must know how he feels. Here, we are in the
throes of an election no one dreamed she could lose, but which she will now
struggle to win. A month ago, Mrs. May was banking on a landslide victory; this
week, her government may even lose its majority in the House of Commons.

It has been an improbable turnaround. But we have entered the era of the
unlikely. The question now arises: Are we so hooked on savoring improbable
outcomes that, consciously or otherwise, we have begun to conspire in making
them happen?

No doubt, the Labour leader, Jeremy Corbyn, would attribute the startling change
in voters' perceptions of him to his own resilience in the face of a vicious
media onslaught. And it is true that men find themselves in adversity.

It could be, though, that it's we who have found him.

If we can change, as it were, the feng shui of this election, if we can
rearrange the landscape of the possible, we restore to ourselves the illusion of
power over an incalculable event. The recent terror attack in London might
influence the way we vote on June 8, but we daren't admit it. We must be our own
masters.

So there's a paradox here. We seek the unexpected, but we want to own our fate.
Our taste for the uncertain must have its limits, then. It could be that we
arrange surprises for ourselves only in order not to be overwhelmed by those
thunderbolts and devastations over which we have no control.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/07/opinion/the-disquiet-of-a-relaxed-uncertainty
.html

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 9, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

'The Administration Then Chose to Defame Me'

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 26384 words


James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was fired by President Trump,
appeared in front of the Senate Intelligence Committee on Thursday. The
following is the full transcript of that hearing, as prepared by the Federal
News Service.

For further coverage, follow our live briefing.

--

BURR: I'd like to call this hearing to order.

Director Comey, I appreciate your willingness to appear before the committee
today, and more importantly, I thank you for your dedicated service and
leadership to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Your appearance today speaks
to the trust we have built over the years, and I'm looking forward to a very
open and candid discussion today.BURR: I'd like to remind my colleagues that we
will reconvene in closed session at 1 PM today and I ask that you reserve for
that venue any questions that might get into classified information. The
director has been very gracious with his time, but the vice chairman and I have
worked out a very specific timeline for his commitment to be on the Hill, so we
will do everything we can to meet that agreement.

The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence exists to certify for the other 85
members of the United States Senate and the American people that the
intelligence community is operating lawfully and has the necessary authorities
and tools to accomplish its mission and keep America safe. Part of our mission,
beyond the oversight we continue to provide to the intelligence community and
its activities, is to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 U.S.
elections. The committee's work continues. This hearing represents part of that
effort.

Jim, allegations have been swirling in the press for the last several weeks, and
today's your opportunity to set the record straight. Yesterday, I read with
interest your statement for the record. And I think it provides some helpful
details surrounding your interactions with the president.

It clearly lays out your understanding of those discussions, actions you took
following each conversation and your state of mind. I very much appreciate your
candor, and I think it's helpful as we work through to determine the ultimate
truth behind possible Russian interference in the 2016 elections.

Your statement also provides texture and context to your interactions with the
president, from your vantage point, and outlines a strained relationship. The
American people need to hear your side of the story just as they need to hear
the president's descriptions of events.

These interactions also highlight the importance of the committee's ongoing
investigation. Our experienced staff is interviewing all relevant parties and
some of the most sensitive intelligence in our country's possession.

We will establish the facts, separate from rampant speculation, and lay them out
for the American people to make their own judgment. Only then will we as a
nation be able to move forward and to put this episode to rest. There are
several outstanding issues not addressed in your statement that I hope you'll
clear up for the American people today. Did the president's request for loyalty
-- your impression that -- that the one-on-one dinner of January 27th was, and I
quote, ''at least in part an effort to create some sort of patronage
relationship,'' or his March 30th phone call asking what you could do to lift
the cloud of Russia investigation in any way, alter your approach of the FBI's
investigation into General Flynn or the broader investigation into Russia and
possible links to the campaign?

In your opinion, did potential Russian efforts to establish links with
individuals in the Trump orbit rise to the level we could define as collusion?
Or was it a counterintelligence concern?

There's been a significant public speculation about your decision-making related
to the Clinton e-mail investigation. Why did you decide publicly -- to publicly
announce FBI's recommendations that the Department of Justice not pursue
criminal charges? You have described it as a choice between a bad decision and a
worse decision. The American people need to understand the facts behind your
action.

This committee is uniquely suited to investigate Russia's interference in the
2016 elections. We also have a unified, bipartisan approach to what is a highly
charged partisan issue. Russian activities during 2016 election may have been
aimed at one party's candidate, but as my colleague, Senator Rubio, says
frequently, in 2018 and 2020, it could be aimed at anyone, at home or abroad.

My colleague, Senator Warner, and I have worked in -- have worked to to stay in
lockstep on this investigation. We've had our differences on approach at times.
But I've constantly stressed that we need to be a team. And I think Senator
Warner agrees with me.

We must keep these questions above politics and partisanship. It's too important
to be tainted by anyone trying to score political points.

With that, again, I welcome you, Director.

And I turn to the vice chairman for any comments he might have.

WARNER: Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman.

And let me start by, again, absolutely (ph) thanking all the members of the
committee for the seriousness in which they've taken on this task.WARNER: Mr.
Comey, thank you for agreeing to come testify as part of this committee's
investigation into Russia. I realize that this hearing has been, obviously, the
focus of a lot of Washington in the last few days. But the truth is many
Americans who may be tuning in today probably haven't focused on every twist and
turn of the investigation.

So I'd like to briefly describe, at least from this senator's standpoint, what
we already know and what we're still investigating. To be clear, this whole (ph)
investigation is not about relitigating the election. It's not about who won or
lost. And it sure as heck is not about Democrats versus Republicans.

We're here because a foreign adversary attacked us right here at home, plain and
simple, not by guns or missiles, but by foreign operatives seeking to hijack our
most important democratic process -- our presidential election.

Russian spies engaged in a series of online cyber raids and a broad campaign of
disinformation, all ultimately aimed at sowing chaos to us to undermine public
faith in our process, in our leadership and ultimately in ourselves.

And that's not just this senator's opinion, it is the unanimous determination of
the entire U.S. intelligence community. So we must find out the full story, what
the Russians did, and, candidly, as some other colleagues have mentioned, why
they were so successful. And, more importantly, we must determine the necessary
steps to take to protect our democracy and ensure they can't do it again.

Chairman mentioned elections in 2018 and 2020. In my home state of Virginia, we
have elections this year, in 2017. Simply put, we cannot let anything or anyone
prevent us from getting to the bottom of this.

Now, Mr. Comey, let me say at the outset we haven't always agreed on every
issue. In fact, I've occasionally questioned some of the actions you've taken.
But I've never had any reason to question your integrity, your expertise or your
intelligence.

You've been a straight shooter with this committee, and have been willing to
speak truth to power, even at the risk of your own career, which makes the way
in which you were fired by the president ultimately shocking.WARNER: Recall, we
began this entire process with the president and his staff first denying that
the Russians were ever involved, and then falsely claiming that no one from his
team was never in touch with any Russians.

We know that's just not the truth. Numerous Trump associates had undisclosed
contacts with Russians before and after the election, including the president's
attorney general, his former national security adviser and his current senior
adviser, Mr. Kushner.

That doesn't even begin to count the host of additional campaign associates and
advisers who've also been caught up in this massive web. We saw Mr. Trump's
campaign manager, Mr. Manafort, forced to step down over ties to Russian-backed
entities. The national security adviser, General Flynn, had to resign over his
lies about engagements with the Russians.

And we saw the candidate him -- himself, express an odd and unexplained
affection for the Russian dictator, while calling for the hacking of his
opponent. There's a lot to investigate. Enough, in fact that then Director Comey
publicly acknowledged that he was leading an investigation into those links
between Mr. Trump's campaign and the Russian government.

As the director of the FBI, Mr. Comey was ultimately responsible for conducting
that investigation, which might explain why you're sitting now as a private
citizen.

What we didn't know was, at the same time that this investigation was
proceeding, the president himself appears to have been engaged in an effort to
influence, or at least co-opt, the director of the FBI. The testimony that Mr.
Comey has submitted for today's hearing is very disturbing.

For example, on January 27th, after summoning Director Comey to dinner, the
president appears to have threatened the (ph) director's job while telling him,
quote, ''I need loyalty. I expect loyalty.''WARNER: At a later meeting, on
February 14th, the president asked the attorney general to leave the Oval Office
so that he could privately ask Director Comey, again, quote, ''to see way clear
(ph) to letting Flynn go.''

That is a statement that Director Comey interpreted as a -- as a request that he
drop the investigation, connected to General Flynn's false statements. Think
about it: the president of the United States asking the FBI director to drop an
ongoing investigation.

And, after that, the president called the FBI director on two additional
occasions, March 30th and April 11th, and asked him again, quote, ''to lift the
cloud'' on the Russian investigation.

Now, Director Comey denied each of these improper requests. The loyalty pledge,
the admonition to drop the Flynn investigation, the request to lift the cloud on
the Russia investigation. Of course, after his refusals, Director Comey was
fired.

The initial explanation for the firing didn't pass any smell test. So now
Director Comey was fired because (ph) he didn't treat Hillary Clinton
appropriately. Of course, that explanation lasted about a day, because the
president himself then made very clear that he was thinking about Russia when he
decided to fire Director Comey.

Shockingly, reports suggest that the president admitted as much in an Oval
Office meeting with the Russians the day after Director Comey was fired,
disparaging our country's top law enforcement official as a, quote/unquote,
''nut job.'' The president allegedly suggested that his firing relieved great
pressure on his feelings about Russia.

This is not happening in isolation. At the same time the president was engaged
in these efforts with Director Comey, he was also, at least allegedly, asking
senior leaders of the intelligence community to downplay the Russia
investigation or to intervene with the director.

Yesterday, we had DNI Director Coats and NSA Director Admiral Rogers, who were
offered a number of opportunities to flatly deny those press reports. They
expressed their opinions, but they did not take that opportunity to deny those
reports. They did not take advantage of that opportunity. In my belief, that's
not how the president of the United States should behave.

Regardless of the outcome of our investigation into the Russia links, Director
Comey's firing and his testimony raise separate and troubling questions that we
must get to the bottom of.

Again, as I said at the outset, I've seen firsthand how seriously every member
of this committee is taking his work. I'm proud of the committee's efforts so
far. Let me be clear: This is not a witch hunt. This is not fake news. It is an
effort to protect our country from a new threat that, quite honestly, will not
go away any time soon.

So, Mr. Comey, your testimony here today will help us move towards that goal. I
look forward to that testimony.WARNER: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

BURR: Thank you, Vice Chairman.

Director, as discussed, when you agreed to appear before the committee, it would
be under oath. I'd ask you to please stand. Raise your right hand. Do you
solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so
help you God?

COMEY: (OFF-MIKE)

BURR: Please be seated.

Director Comey, you're now under oath.

And I would just note to members, you will be recognized by seniority for a
period up to seven minutes. And again, it is the intent to move to a closed
session no later than 1 p.m.

With that, Director Comey, you are recognized. You have the floor for as long as
you might need.

COMEY: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ranking Member Warner, members of the committee,
thank you for inviting me here to testify today. I've submitted my statement for
the record and I'm not going to repeat it here this morning. I thought I would
just offer some very brief introductory remarks and then I would welcome your
questions.

When I was appointed FBI director in 2013, I understood that I served at the
pleasure of the president. Even though I was appointed to a 10 year term, which
Congress created in order to underscore the importance of the FBI being outside
of politics and independent, I understood that I could be fired by a president
for any reason, or for no reason at all.

And on May the 9th, when I learned that I had been fired, for that reason, I
immediately came home as a private citizen. But then, the explanations -- the
shifting explanations, confused me and increasingly concerned me.COMEY: They
confused me because the president and I had had multiple conversations about my
job, both before and after he took office. And he had repeatedly told me I was
doing a great job and he hoped I would stay. And I had repeatedly assured him
that I did intend to stay and serve out the remaining six years of my term.

He told me repeatedly that he had talked to lots of people about me, including
our current attorney general, and had learned that I was doing a great job and
that I was extremely well-liked by the FBI workforce.

So it confused me when I saw on television the president saying that he actually
fired me because of the Russia investigation and learned, again, from the media
that he was telling, privately, other parties that my firing had relieved great
pressure on the Russia investigation.

I was also confused by the initial explanation that was offered publicly, that I
was fired because of the decisions I had made during the election year. That
didn't make sense to me for a whole bunch of reasons, including the time and all
the water that had gone under the bridge since those hard decisions that had to
be made. That didn't make any sense to me.

And although the law required no reason at all to fire an FBI director, the
administration then chose to defame me and, more importantly, the FBI by saying
that the organization was in disarray, that it was poorly led, that the
workforce had lost confidence in its leader.

Those were lies, plain and simple, and I am so sorry that the FBI workforce had
to hear them and I'm so sorry that the American people were told them.

I worked every day at the FBI to help make that great organization better. And I
say ''help'' because I did nothing alone at the FBI. There are no indispensable
people at the FBI. The organization's great strength is that its values and
abilities run deep and wide.

The FBI will be fine without me. The FBI's mission will be relentlessly pursued
by its people, and that mission is to protect the American people and uphold the
Constitution of the United States.COMEY: I will deeply miss being part of that
mission, but this organization and its mission will go on long beyond me and
long beyond any particular administration.

I have a message before I close for the -- my former colleagues at the FBI. But
first, I want the American people to know this truth: The FBI is honest. The FBI
is strong. And the FBI is, and always will be, independent.

And now to my former colleagues, if I may. I am so sorry that I didn't get the
chance to say goodbye to you properly. It was the honor of my life to serve
beside you, to be part of the FBI family. And I will miss it for the rest of my
life.

Thank you for standing watch. Thank you for doing so much good for this country.
Do that good as long as ever you can.

And, Senators, I look forward to your questions.

BURR: Director, thank you for that testimony, both oral and the written
testimony that you provided to the committee yesterday and made public to the
American people.

The chair would recognize himself, first, for 12 minutes, vice chair for 12
minutes, based upon the agreement we have.

Director, did the Special Counsel's Office review and/or edit your written
testimony?

COMEY: No.

BURR: Do you have any doubt that Russia attempted to interfere in the 2016

elections?

COMEY: None.

BURR: Do you have any doubt that the Russian government was behind the
intrusions in the DNC and the DCCC systems, and the subsequent leaks of that
information?

COMEY: No, no doubt.

BURR: Do you have any doubt that the Russian government was behind the cyber
intrusion in the state voter files? COMEY: No.

BURR: Do you have any doubt that officials of the Russian government were fully
aware of these activities?

COMEY: No doubt.

BURR: Are you confident that no votes cast in the 2016 presidential election
were altered?

COMEY: I'm confident. By the time -- when I left as director, I had seen no
indication of that whatsoever.

BURR: Director Comey, did the president at any time ask you to stop the FBI
investigation into Russian involvement in the 2016 U.S. elections?

COMEY: Not to my understanding, no.

BURR: Did any individual working for this administration, including the Justice
Department, ask you to stop the Russian investigation?COMEY: No.

BURR: Director, when the president requested that you, and I quote, ''let Flynn
go,'' General Flynn had an unreported contact with the Russians, which is an
offense. And if press accounts are right, there might have been discrepancies
between facts and his FBI testimony.

In your estimation, was General Flynn, at that time, in serious legal jeopardy?
And in addition to that, do you sense that the president was trying to obstruct
justice, or just seek for a way for Mike Flynn to save face, given he had
already been fired?

COMEY: General Flynn, at that point in time, was in legal jeopardy. There was an
open FBI criminal investigation of his statements in connection with the Russian
contacts and the contacts themselves. And so that was my assessment at the time.

I don't think it's for me to say whether the conversation I had with the
president was an effort to obstruct. I took it as a very disturbing thing, very
concerning, but that's a conclusion I'm sure the special counsel will work
towards, to try and understand what the intention was there, and whether that's
an offense.

BURR: Director, is it possible that, as part of this FBI investigation, the FBI
could find evidence of criminality that is not tied to -- to the 2016 elections
-- possible collusion or coordination with Russians?

COMEY: Sure.

BURR: So there could be something that just fits a criminal aspect to this that
doesn't have anything to do with the 2016 election cycle?

COMEY: Correct. In any complex investigation, when you start turning over rocks,
sometimes you find things that are unrelated to the primary investigation, that
are criminal in nature.

BURR: Director Comey, you have been criticized publicly for the decision to
present your findings on the e-mail investigation directly to the American
people. Have you learned anything since that time that would've changed what you
said, or how you chose to inform the American people?

COMEY: Honestly, no. I mean, it caused a whole lot of personal pain for me, but,
as I look back, given what I knew at the time and even what I've learned since,
I think it was the best way to try and protect the justice institution,
including the FBI.BURR: In the public domain is this question of the Steele
dossier, a document that has been around, now, for over a year. I'm not sure
when the FBI first took possession of it, but the media had it before you had it
and we had it.

At the time of your departure from the FBI, was the FBI able to confirm any
criminal allegations contained in the Steele document?

COMEY: Mr. Chairman, I don't think that's a question I can answer in an open
setting because it goes into the details of the investigation.

BURR: Director, the term we hear most often is ''collusion.'' When people are
describing possible links between Americans and Russian government entities
related to the interference in our election, would you say that it's normal for
foreign governments to reach out to members of an incoming administration?

COMEY: Yes.

BURR: At what point does the normal contact cross the line into an attempt to
recruit agents or influence (ph) or spies?

COMEY: Difficult to say in the abstract. It depends upon the context, whether
there's an effort to keep it covert, what the nature of the requests made of the
American by the foreign government are. It's a -- it's a judgment call based on
a whole lot of facts.

BURR: At what point would that recruitment become a counterintelligence threat
to our country?

COMEY: Again, difficult to answer in the abstract. But when -- when a foreign
power is using especially coercion or some sort of pressure to try and co-opt an
American, especially a government official, to act on its behalf, that's a
serious concern to the FBI and at the heart of the FBI's counterintelligence
mission.

BURR: So if you've got a -- a -- a 36-page document of -- of specific claims
that are out there, the FBI would have to, for counterintelligence reasons, try
to verify anything that might be claimed in there. One, and probably first and
foremost, is the counterintelligence concerns that we have about blackmail.
Would that be an accurate statement?

COMEY: Yes. If the FBI receives a credible allegation that there is some effort
to co-opt, coerce, direct, employ covertly an American on behalf of the foreign
power, that's the basis on which a counterintelligence investigation is opened.

BURR: And when you read the dossier, what was your reaction, given that it was
100 percent directed at the president-elect?

COMEY: Not a question I can answer in an open setting, Mr. Chairman.

BURR: OK. When did you become aware of the cyber intrusion?COMEY: The first
cyber -- it was all kinds of cyber intrusions going on all the time. The first
Russia-connected cyber intrusion, I became aware of in the late summer of 2015.

BURR: And in that timeframe, there were more than the DNC and the DCCC that were
targets.

COMEY: Correct. There was a massive effort to target government and
nongovernmental -- near-governmental agencies like nonprofits.

BURR: What would be the estimate of how many entities out there the Russians
specifically targeted in that timeframe?

COMEY: It's hundreds. I suppose it could be more than 1,000, but it's at least
hundreds.

BURR: When did you become aware that data had been exfiltrated?

COMEY: I'm not sure, exactly. I think either late '15 or early '16.

BURR: And did -- did you, the director of the FBI, have conversations with the
last administration about the risk that this posed?

COMEY: Yes.

BURR: And share with us, if you will, what actions they took.

COMEY: Well, the FBI had already undertaken an effort to notify all the victims
-- and that's what we consider the entities that were attacked as part of this
massive spear phishing campaign. And so we notified them in an effort to disrupt
what might be ongoing.

Then there was a series of continuing interactions with entities through the
rest of '15 into '16, and then, throughout '16, the administration was trying to
decide how to respond to the intrusion activity that it saw.

BURR: And the FBI, in this case, unlike other cases that you might investigate
-- did you ever have access to the actual hardware that was hacked? Or did you
have to rely on a third party to provide you the data that they had collected?

COMEY: In the case of the DNC, and, I believe, the DCCC, but I'm sure the DNC,
we did not have access to the devices themselves. We got relevant forensic
information from a private party, a high-class entity, that had done the work.
But we didn't get direct access.

BURR: But no content?

COMEY: Correct.

BURR: Isn't content an important part of the forensics from a
counterintelligence standpoint?

COMEY: It is, although what was briefed to me by my folks -- the people who were
my folks at the time is that they had gotten the information from the private
party that they needed to understand the intrusion by the spring of 2016.BURR:
Let me go back, if I can, very briefly, to the decision to publicly go out with
your results on the e-mail.

Was your decision influenced by the attorney general's tarmac meeting with the
former president, Bill Clinton?

COMEY: Yes. In -- in an ultimately conclusive way, that was the thing that
capped it for me, that I had to do something separately to protect the
credibility of the investigation, which meant both the FBI and the Justice
Department.

BURR: Were there other things that contributed to that that you can describe in
an open session?

COMEY: There were other things that contributed to that. One significant item I
can't, I know the committee's been briefed on. There's been some public accounts
of it, which are nonsense, but I understand the committee's been briefed on the
classified facts.

Probably the only other consideration that I guess I can talk about in an open
setting is, at one point, the attorney general had directed me not to call it an
investigation, but instead to call it a matter, which confused me and concerned
me.

But that was one of the bricks in the load that led me to conclude, I have to
step away from the department if we're to close this case credibly.

BURR: Director, my last question: You're not only a seasoned prosecutor, you've
led the FBI for years. You understand the investigative process. You've worked
with this committee closely, and we're grateful to you because I think we've --
we've mutually built trust in what your organization does and -- and what we do.

Is there any doubt in your mind that this committee can carry out its oversight
role in the 2016 Russian involvement in the elections in parallel with the --
now -- special counsel that's been set up?

COMEY: No -- no doubt. It can be done. It requires lots of conversations, but
Bob Mueller is one of this country's great, great pros. And I'm sure you all
will be able to work it out with him to run it in parallel.

BURR: I want to thank you once again, and I want to turn to the vice
chairman.WARNER: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And, again, Director Comey, thank you
for your service.

And your comments to your FBI family, I know, were heartfelt. Know that, even
though there are some in the administration who've tried to smear your
reputation, you had Acting Director McCabe, in public testimony a few weeks back
and in public testimony yesterday, reaffirm that the vast majority of the (ph)
FBI community had great trust in your leadership and, obviously, trust in your
integrity.

I want to go through a number of the meetings that you referenced in your
testimony. And let's start with the January 6th meeting in Trump Tower, where
you went up with a series of officials to brief the president-elect on the
Russia investigation. My understanding is you remained afterwards to brief him
on, again, quote, ''some personally sensitive aspects'' of the information you
relayed.

Now, you said, after that briefing, you felt compelled to document that
conversation, that you actually started documenting it soon as you got into the
car.

Now, you've had extensive experience at the Department of Justice and at the
FBI. You've worked under presidents of both parties. What was it about that
meeting that led you to determine that you needed to start putting down a
written record?

COMEY: A combination of things, I think -- the circumstances, the subject matter
and the person I was interacting with. Circumstances first: I was alone with the
president of the United States -- or the president-elect, soon to be president.

The subject matter: I was talking about matters that touch on the FBI's core
responsibility and that relate to the president -- president-elect personally.

And then the nature of the person: I was honestly concerned that he might lie
about the nature of our meeting, and so I thought it really important to
document.

That combination of things, I'd never experienced before, but it led me to
believe I've got to write it down, and I've got to write it down in a very
detailed way.

WARNER: I think that's a very important statement you just made. And my
understanding is that then, again, unlike your dealings with presidents of
either parties in your past experience, in every subsequent meeting or
conversation with this president, you created a written record.

Did you feel that you needed to create this written record or (ph) these memos
because they might need to be relied on at some future date?COMEY: Sure. I
created records after conversations, and I think I did it after each of our nine
conversations. If I didn't, I did it for nearly all of them, especially the ones
that were substantive.

I knew that there might come a day when I would need a record of what had
happened, not just to defend myself, but to defend the FBI and -- and our
integrity as an institution and the independence of our investigative function.
That's what made this so -- so difficult, is it was a combination of
circumstances, subject matter, and the particular person.

WARNER: And so, in all your experience, this was the only president that you
felt like, in every meeting, you needed to document, because at some point,
using your words, he might put out a non-truthful representation of that
meeting?

Now...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: That's right, Senator.

And I -- I -- as I said in my written testimony, as FBI director, I interacted
with President Obama. I spoke only twice in three years, and didn't document it.
When I was deputy attorney general, I had one one-on-one meeting with President
Bush about a very important and difficult national security matter.

I didn't write a memo documenting that conversation either -- sent a quick
e-mail to my staff to let them know there was something going on, but I didn't
feel, with President Bush, the need to document it in that way, again (ph),
because of -- the combination of those factors just wasn't present with either
President Bush or President Obama.

WARNER: I -- I think that is very significant. I think others will probably
question that.

Now, our chairman and I have requested those memos. It is our hope that the FBI
will get this committee access to those memos so that, again, we can read that
contemporaneous rendition, so that we've got your side of the story.

Now, I know members have said, and press has said, that if you were -- a great
deal's been made of whether the president -- you were asked to, in effect,
indicate whether the president was the subject of any investigation.

And my understanding is, prior to your meeting on January 6th, you discussed
with your leadership team whether or not you should be prepared to assure then
President-Elect Trump that the FBI was not investigating him personally.

Now, my understanding is your leadership team agreed with that. But was that a
unanimous decision? Was there any debate about that?COMEY: Was it unanimous? One
of the members of the leadership team had a view that, although it was
technically true, we did not have a counterintelligence file case open on
then-President-elect Trump.

His concern was, because we're looking at the potential -- again, that's the
subject of the investigation -- coordination between the campaign and Russia,
because it was President Trump -- President-elect Trump's campaign, this
person's view was, inevitably, his behavior, his conduct will fall within the
scope of that work.

And so he was reluctant to make the statement that I made. I disagreed. I
thought it was fair to say what was literally true: There is not a
counterintelligence investigation of Mr. Trump. And I decided, in the moment, to
say it, given the nature of our conversation.

WARNER: At that moment in time, did you ever revisit that as a -- in -- in these
subsequent sessions?

COMEY: With the FBI leadership team?

WARNER: With the team -- with your (ph) team.

COMEY: Sure, and -- and the -- the leader who had that view -- it didn't change.
His view was still that it was probably -- although literally true, his concern
was it could be misleading, because the nature of the investigation was such
that it might well touch -- obviously, it would touch the campaign, and the
person at the head of the campaign would be the candidate. And so that was his
view throughout.

WARNER: Let me move to the January 27th dinner, where you said, quote, ''The
president began by asking me whether I wanted to stay on as FBI director. He
also indicated that lots of people'' -- again, your words -- ''wanted the job.''

You go on to say that the dinner itself was seemingly an effort to, quote,
''have you ask him for your job,'' and create some sort of, quote/unquote,
''patronage relationship.''

The president's (ph) -- seems, from my reading of your memo, to be holding your
job, or your possibility of continuing in your job, over your head in a fairly
direct way. What was your impression, and what did you mean by this notion of a
patronage relationship? COMEY: Well, my impression -- and, again, it's my
impression. I could always be wrong. But my common sense told me that what was
going on is either he had concluded, or someone had told him, that you didn't --
you've already asked Comey to stay, and you didn't get anything for it, and that
the dinner was an effort to build a relationship -- in fact, he asked
specifically -- of loyalty in the context of asking me to stay.

And, as I said, what was odd about that is we'd already talked twice about it by
that point. And he'd said, I very much hope you'll stay, I hope you'll stay.

In fact, I just remembered, sitting here, a third one. When -- you've seen the
picture of me walking across the Blue Room. And what the president whispered in
my ear was, ''I really look forward to working with you.'' So, after those
encounters...

WARNER: And that was just a few days before you were fired.

COMEY: ... yeah, that was on the 20 -- the Sunday after the inauguration.

The next Friday, I have dinner, and the president begins by wanting to talk
about my job. And so I'm sitting there, thinking, wait a minute, three times,
we've already -- you've already asked me to stay, or talked about me
staying.COMEY: And my common sense -- again, I could be wrong, but my common
sense told me what's going on here is that he's looking to get something in
exchange for granting my request to stay in the job.

WARNER: And again, we all understand -- I was a governor, I had people work for
me. But this constant request -- and, again, quoting you, him saying that he --
despite you explaining your independence, he kept coming back to ''I need
loyalty.'' ''I expect loyalty.''

Had you ever had any of those kind of requests before, from anyone else you'd
worked for in the government?

COMEY: No, and what made me uneasy was I'm, at that point, the director of the
FBI. The reason that Congress created a ten-year term is so that the director is
not feeling as if they're serving at -- with political loyalty owed to any
particular person.

The -- the statue of Justice has a blindfold on because you're not supposed to
be peeking out to see whether your patron is pleased or not with what you're
doing.

It should be about the facts and the law. That's why I was -- that's why I
became FBI director: to be in that kind of position. So that's why I was so
uneasy.

WARNER: Well, let me -- let me move on. My time's running out. February 14th --
again, it seems a bit strange. You were in a meeting. And your direct superior,
the attorney general, was in that meeting, as well.

Yet the president asked everyone to leave, including the attorney general -- to
leave, before he brought up the matter of General Flynn. What was your
impression of that type of action? Had you ever seen anything like that before?

COMEY: No. My impression was, something big is about to happen. I need to
remember every single word that is spoken. And, again, I could be wrong, but I'm
56 years old. I've been -- seen a few things.

My sense was the attorney general knew he shouldn't be leaving, which is why he
was lingering. And I don't know Mr. Kushner well, but I think he picked up on
the same thing. And so I knew something was about to happen that I needed to pay
very close attention to.WARNER: And I -- I found it very interesting that, in
the memo that you wrote after this February 14th pull-aside, you made clear that
you wrote that memo in a way that was unclassified.

If you affirmatively made the decision to write a memo that was unclassified,
was that because you felt, at some point, the facts of that meeting would have
to come clean and come clear and actually be able to be cleared in a way that
could be shared with the American people?

COMEY: Well, I remember thinking, this is a very disturbing development, really
important to our work. I need to document it and preserve it in a way -- and --
and this committee gets this, but sometimes when things are classified, it
tangles them up. It's hard...

WARNER: Amen.

COMEY: ... to share it within an investigative team. It's -- you have to be very
careful about how you handle it, for good reason.

So my thinking was, if I write it in such a way that I don't include anything
that would trigger a classification, that'll make it easier for us to discuss,
within the FBI and the government, and to -- to hold on to it in a way that
makes it accessible to us.

WARNER: Well, again, it's our hope, particularly since you're a pretty
knowledgeable guy and you wrote this in a way that was unclassified, that this
committee will get access to that unclassified document. I think it'll be very
important to our investigation.

Let me just ask this in closing: How many ongoing investigations, at any time,
does the FBI have going on?

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: Tens of thousands.

WARNER: Tens of thousands. Did the president ever ask about any other ongoing
investigation?

COMEY: No.

WARNER: Did he ever ask about you trying to interfere on any other
investigation?

COMEY: No.

WARNER: I think, again, this speaks volumes. This doesn't even get to the
questions around the -- the phone calls about lifting the cloud. I know other
members will get to that, but I really appreciate your testimony and appreciate
your service to our nation.

COMEY: Thank you, Senator Warner.

You know, I just -- I'm sitting here, going through my contacts with him. I had
one conversation with the president that was classified, where he asked about
our -- an ongoing intelligence investigation. It was brief and entirely
professional.

WARNER: But he didn't ask you to take any specific action on that...

COMEY: No, no.

WARNER: ... unlike what he had done vis-a-vis Mr. Flynn and the overall Russia
investigation?

COMEY: Correct.

WARNER: Thank you, sir.

BURR: Senator Risch?

RISCH: Thank you very much.

Mr. Comey, thank you for your service. America needs more like you, and we
really appreciate it.RISCH: Yesterday, I got, and everybody got, the seven pages
of your direct testimony that's now a part of the record, here. And the first --
I read it, then I read it again, and all I could think was, number one, how much
I hated the class of legal writing when I was in law school.

And you were the guy that probably got the A, after -- after reading this. So I
-- I find it clear, I find it concise and, having been a prosecutor for a number
of years and handling hundred -- maybe thousands of cases and read police
reports, investigative reports, this is as good as it gets.

And -- and I really appreciate that -- not only -- not only the conciseness and
the clearness of it, but also the fact that you have things that were written
down contemporaneously when they happened, and you actually put them in quotes,
so we know exactly what happened and we're -- and we're not getting some
rendition of it that -- that's in your mind. So...

COMEY: Thank you, Senator.

RISCH: ... so you're -- you're to be complimented for that.

COMEY: I had great parents and great teachers who beat that into me.

(CROSSTALK)

RISCH: That's obvious, sir.

The -- the chairman walked you through a number of things that -- that the
American people need to know and want to know. Number one, obviously we're --
all know about the active measures that the Russians have taken.

I think a lot of people were surprised at this. Those of us that work in the
intelligence community didn't -- it didn't come as a surprise. But now, the
American people know this, and it's good they know this, because this is serious
and it's a problem.

I -- I think, secondly, I gather from all this that you're willing to say now
that, while you were director, the president of the United States was not under
investigation. Is that a fair statement?

COMEY: That's correct.

RISCH: All right. So that's a fact that we can rely at this...

COMEY: Yes, sir.

RISCH: ... OK.

On -- I remember, you -- you talked with us shortly after February 14th, when
the New York Times wrote an article that suggested that the Trump campaign was
colluding with the Russians. You remember reading that article when it first
came out?

COMEY: I do. It was about allegedly extensive electronic surveillance...

RISCH: Correct.

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: ... communications. Yes, sir.

RISCH: And -- and that upset you to the point where you actually went out and
surveyed the intelligence community to see whether -- whether you were missing
something in that. Is that correct?

COMEY: That's correct. I want to be careful in open setting. But...

RISCH: I -- I'm -- I'm not going to any further than that with it.

COMEY: OK.

RISCH: So thank you.

In addition to that, after that, you sought out both Republican and Democrat
senators to tell them that, hey, I don't know where this is coming from, but
this is not the -- this is not factual. Do you recall that?

COMEY: Yes.

RISCH: OK. So -- so, again, so the American people can understand this, that
report by the New York Times was not true. Is that a fair statement?COMEY: In --
in the main, it was not true. And, again, all of you know this, maybe the
American people don't. The challenge -- and I'm not picking on reporters about
writing stories about classified information, is that people talking about it
often don't really know what's going on.

And those of us who actually know what's going on are not talking about it. And
we don't call the press to say, hey, you got that thing wrong about this
sensitive topic. We just have to leave it there.

I mentioned to the chairman the nonsense around what influenced me to make the
July 5th statement. Nonsense, but I can't go explaining how it's nonsense.

RISCH: Thank you.

All right. So -- so those three things, we now know, regarding the active
measures, whether (ph) the president's under investigation and the collusion
between the -- the Russian -- the Trump campaign and the Russians.

I -- I want to drill right down, as my time is limited, to the most recent
dust-up regarding allegations that the president of the United States obstructed
justice. And, boy, you nailed this down on page 5, paragraph 3. You put this in
quotes -- words matter.

You wrote down the words so we can all have the words in front of us now.
There's 28 words there that are in quotes, and it says, quote, ''I hope'' --
this is the president speaking -- ''I hope you can see your way clear to letting
this go, to letting Flynn go. He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go.''

Now those are his exact words, is that correct?

COMEY: Correct.

RISCH: And you wrote them here, and you put them in quotes?

COMEY: Correct.

RISCH: Thank you for that. He did not direct you to let it go.

COMEY: Not in his words, no.

RISCH: He did not order you to let it go.

COMEY: Again, those words are not an order.

RISCH: He said, ''I hope.'' Now, like me, you probably did hundreds of cases,
maybe thousands of cases charging people with criminal offenses. And, of course,
you have knowledge of the thousands of cases out there that -- where people have
been charged.

Do you know of any case where a person has been charged for obstruction of
justice or, for that matter, any other criminal offense, where this -- they
said, or thought, they hoped for an outcome?

COMEY: I don't know well enough to answer. And the reason I keep saying his
words is I took it as a direction.

RISCH: Right.

COMEY: I mean, this is the president of the United States, with me alone,
saying, ''I hope'' this. I took it as, this is what he wants me to do.

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: Now I -- I didn't obey that, but that's the way I took it.

RISCH: You -- you may have taken it as a direction, but that's not what he said.

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: Correct. I -- that's why...

RISCH: He said -- he said, ''I hope.''

COMEY: Those are exact words, correct.

RISCH: OK, do you (ph) -- you don't know of anyone that's ever been charged for
hoping something. Is that a fair statement?

COMEY: I don't, as I sit here.

RISCH: Yeah. Thank you.

Thank you, Mr. Chairman.BURR: Senator Feinstein?

FEINSTEIN: Thanks very much, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Comey, I just want you to know that I have great respect for you. Senator
Cornyn and I sit on the Judiciary Committee, so we have occasion to have you
before us. And I know that you're a man of strength and integrity, and I really
regret the situation that we all find ourselves in. I just want to say that.

Let me begin with one overarching question. Why do you believe you were fired?

COMEY: Guess I don't know for sure. I believe the -- I take the president at his
word, that I was fired because of the Russia investigation. Something about the
way I was conducting it, the president felt, created pressure on him that he
wanted to relieve.

Again, I didn't know that at the time, but I watched his interview, I've read
the press accounts of his conversations. So I take him at his word there.

Now, look, I -- I could be wrong. Maybe he's saying something that's not true.
But I take him at his word, at least based on what I know now.

FEINSTEIN: Talk for a moment about his request that you pledge loyalty, and your
response to that and what impact you believe that had.

COMEY: I -- I don't know for sure, because I don't know the president well
enough to read him well. I think it was -- because our relationship didn't get
off to a great start, given the conversation I had to have on January 6th, this
was not -- this didn't improve the relationship, because it was very, very
awkward.

He was asking for something, and I was refusing to give it. But again, I don't
know him well enough to know how he reacted to that, exactly.

FEINSTEIN: Do you believe the Russia investigation played a role?

COMEY: In why I was fired?

FEINSTEIN: Yes. COMEY: Yes, because I've seen the president say so.

FEINSTEIN: OK. Let's -- let's go to the Flynn issue.

Senator Risch outlined a -- ''I hope you could see your way (sic) to letting
Flynn go. He's a good guy. I hope you can let this go.''

But you also said, in your written remarks, and I quote, that you had
''understood the president to be requesting that we drop any investigation of
Flynn in connection with false statements about his conversations with the
Russian ambassador in December,'' end quote.FEINSTEIN: Please go into that with
more detail.

COMEY: Well, the -- the context and the president's words are what led me to
that conclusion.

As I said in my statement, I could be wrong, but Flynn had been forced to resign
the day before, and -- and the controversy around General Flynn at that point in
time was centered on whether he had lied to the vice president about the nature
of his conversations with the Russians, whether he had been candid with others
in the course of that.

And so that happens on the day before. On the 14th, the president makes specific
reference to that. And so that's why I understood him to be saying that what he
wanted me to do was drop any investigation connected to Flynn's account of his
conversations with the Russians.

FEINSTEIN: Now, here's the question: You're big. You're strong. I know the Oval
Office, and I know what happens to people when they walk in. There is a certain
amount of intimidation. But why didn't you stop and say, ''Mr. President, this
is wrong. I cannot discuss this with you''?

COMEY: It's a great question. Maybe if I were stronger, I would have. I was so
stunned by the conversation that I just...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: ... took it in. And the only thing I could think to say, because I was
playing in my mind, because I could (ph) remember every word he said -- I was
playing in my mind, what should my response be? And that's why I very carefully
chose the words.

And, look, I -- I've seen the tweet about tapes. Lordy, I hope there are tapes.
I -- I remember saying, ''I agree he's a good guy,'' as a way of saying, ''I'm
not agreeing with what you just asked me to do.''

Again, maybe other people would be stronger in that circumstance but that --
that was -- that's how I conducted myself. I -- I hope I'll never have another
opportunity. Maybe if I did it again, I would do it better.

FEINSTEIN: You described two phone calls that you received from President Trump,
one on March 30 and one on April 11, where he, quote, ''described the Russia
investigation as a cloud that was impairing his ability,'' end quote, as
president, and asked you, quote, ''to lift the cloud,'' end quote.

What -- how did you interpret that? And what did you believe he wanted you to
do?

COMEY: I interpreted that as he was frustrated that the Russia investigation was
taking up so much time and energy, I -- I think he meant, of the executive
branch, but in the -- in the public square in general, and it was making it
difficult for him to focus on other priorities of his. But what he asked me was
actually narrower than that.COMEY: So I think what he meant by the cloud, and
again, I could be wrong, but what I think he meant by the cloud was the entire
investigation is -- is taking up oxygen and making it hard for me to focus on
the things I want to focus on.

The ask was to get it out that I, the president, am not personally under
investigation.

FEINSTEIN: After April 11th, did he ask you more, ever, about the Russia
investigation? Did he ask you any questions?

COMEY: We never spoke again after April 11th.

FEINSTEIN: You told the president, I -- I would see what we could do. What did
you mean?

COMEY: Well, it (ph) was kind of a slightly cowardly way of trying to avoid
telling him, we're not going to do that -- that I would see what we could do. It
was a way of kind of getting off the phone, frankly. And then I turned and
handed it to the acting deputy attorney general, Mr. Boente.

FEINSTEIN: So I wanted to go into that. Who did you talk with about that --
lifting the cloud, stopping the investigation -- back at the FBI, and what was
their response?

COMEY: Well, the FBI, during one of the two conversations -- I'm not remembering
exactly. I think the first -- my chief of staff was actually sitting in front of
me, and heard my end of the conversation, because the president's call was a
surprise.

And I discussed the lifting the cloud and the request with the senior leadership
team, who in -- in -- typically, and I think in all these circumstances, was the
deputy director, my chief of staff, the general counsel, the deputy director's
chief counsel and, I think, in a number of circumstances, the number three in
the FBI, and a few of the conversations included the head of the national
security branch, so that group of us that lead the FBI when it comes to national
security.

FEINSTEIN: OK. You have the president of the United States asking you to stop an
investigation that's an important investigation. What was the response of your
colleagues?COMEY: I think they were as shocked and troubled by it as I was. Some
said things that led me to believe that. I don't remember exactly, but the
reaction was similar to mine. They're all experienced people who had never
experienced such a thing. So they were very concerned.

And then the conversation turned to about, so what should we do with this
information? And that was a struggle for us, because we are the leaders of the
FBI. So it's been reported to us, in that I heard it and now I've shared it with
the leaders of the FBI -- our -- our conversation was, should we share this with
any senior officials at the Justice Department?

Our -- our absolute primary concern was, we can't infect the investigative team.
We don't want the agents and analysts working on this to know the president of
the United States has -- has asked -- and when it comes from the president, I
took it as a direction -- to get rid of this investigation, because we're not
going to follow that -- that request.

And so we decided we gotta keep it away from our troops. But is there anybody
else we ought to tell at the Justice Department? And, as I laid out in my -- in
my statement, we considered whether to tell the attorney general, decided that
didn't make sense because we believed, rightly, that he was shortly going to
recuse.

There were no other Senate-confirmed leaders in the Justice Department at that
point. The deputy attorney general was Mr. Boente, who was acting and going to
be shortly in that seat. And we decided the best move would be to hold it, keep
it in a box, document it as we'd already done, and then this investigation's
going to go on -- figure out what to do with it down the road.

Is there way to corroborate this? Our view, at the time, was, look, it's your
word against the president's. There's no way to corroborate this. That -- my
view of that changed when the prospect of tapes was raised, but that's how we
thought about it then.

FEINSTEIN: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

BURR: Senator Rubio.

RUBIO: Thank you.

Director Comey, the meeting in the Oval Office where he made the request about
Mike Flynn -- was that the only time he asked you to hopefully let it go?

COMEY: Yes.

RUBIO: And in that meeting, as you understood it, that was -- he was asking not
about the general Russia investigation, he was asking very specifically about
the jeopardy that Flynn was in himself?

COMEY: That's how I understood it, yes, sir.

RUBIO: And as you perceived it, while it was a request that -- he hoped you did
away with it, you perceived it as an order, given his position, the setting and
the like, and some of the circumstances?

COMEY: Yes.

RUBIO: At the time, did you say anything to the president about -- that is not
an appropriate request, or did you tell the White House counsel, that is not an
appropriate request, someone needs to go tell the president that he can't do
these things?

COMEY: I didn't, no.

RUBIO: OK. Why?

COMEY: I don't know. I think the -- as I said earlier, I think the circumstances
were such that it was -- I was a bit stunned, and didn't have the presence of
mind.

And I don't know -- you know, I don't want to make you -- sound like I'm Captain
Courageous. I don't know whether, even if I had the presence of mind, I would
have said to the president, ''Sir, that's wrong.'' I don't know whether I would
have.

RUBIO: OK.

COMEY: But in the moment, it -- it didn't -- it didn't come to my mind. What
came to my mind is, be careful what you say. And so I said, ''I agree Flynn is a
good guy.''RUBIO: So, on the cloud -- we keep talking about this cloud -- you
perceived the cloud to be the Russian investigation in general, correct?

COMEY: Yes, sir.

RUBIO: But the specific ask was that you would tell the American people what you
had already told him, what you had already told the leaders of Congress, both
Democrats and Republicans: that he was not personally under investigation.

COMEY: Yes, sir, that's how I...

RUBIO: In fact (ph), he was asking you to do what you have done here today.

COMEY: ... correct. Yes, sir.

RUBIO: OK. And again, at that setting, did you say to the president that it
would be inappropriate for you to do so, and then talk to the White House
counsel or anybody so hopefully they would talk to him and tell him that he
couldn't do this?

COMEY: First time, I said, ''I'll see what we can do.'' Second time, I explained
how it should work, that the White House counsel should contact the deputy
attorney general.

RUBIO: You told him that?

COMEY: The president said, OK, then I think that's what I'll do.

RUBIO: And just to be clear, for you to make a public statement that he was not
under investigation would not have been illegal, but you felt it made no sense
because it could potentially create a duty to correct, if circumstances changed?

COMEY: Yes, sir. We wrestled with it before my testimony where I confirmed that
there was an investigation. And there were two primary concerns. One was it
creates a duty to correct, which I've lived before, and you want to be very
careful about doing that.

And second, it's a slippery slope, because if we say the president and the vice
president aren't under investigation, what's the principled basis for -- for
stopping?

RUBIO: OK. COMEY: And so the leadership at -- at justice, Acting Attorney
General Boente, said, ''You're not going to do that.''

RUBIO: Now, on March 30th, during the phone call about General Flynn, you said
he abruptly shifted and brought up something that you call, quote, unquote,
''the McCabe thing.'' Specifically, the McCabe thing, as you understood it, was
that McCabe's wife had received campaign money from what I assume means Terry
McAuliffe...

COMEY: Yes, sir.

(CROSSTALK)

RUBIO: ... who (ph) was very close to the Clintons. And -- and so why did you --
had the president at any point in time expressed to you concern, opposition,
potential opposition to McCabe? ''I don't like this guy because he got money
from someone this close to Clinton?''COMEY: He had asked me, during previous
conversations, about Andy McCabe, and said, in essence, ''How's he going to be
with me as president? I was pretty rough on them (ph) on the campaign trail.''
And...

RUBIO: He was rough on McCabe?

COMEY: ... he was -- by his own account, he said he was rough on McCabe and Mrs.
McCabe on the campaign trail -- how's he going to be? And I assured the
president, Andy is a total pro. No issue at all. You got to know the people of
the FBI, they are not...

(CROSSTALK)

RUBIO: So -- so, when the president turns to you and says, ''Remember, I never
brought up the McCabe thing because you said he was a good guy,'' did you
perceive that to be a statement that -- I took care of you, I -- I didn't do
something because you told me he was a good guy. So now, you know, I'm asking
you, potentially, for something in return? Is that how you perceived it?

COMEY: I wasn't sure what to make of it, honestly. That's possible, but it -- it
was so out of context that I didn't have a clear view of what it was.

RUBIO: Now, on a number of occasions here, you bring up -- let's talk (ph) now
about the general Russia investigation, OK? In page 6 of your testimony, you say
-- the first thing you say is, he asked what we could do to, quote/unquote,
''lift the cloud,'' the general Russia investigation.

And you responded that we were investigating the matter as quickly as we could
and that there would be great benefit, if we didn't find anything, to having
done the work well. And he agreed. He reemphasized the problems it was causing
him, but he agreed.

So, in essence, the president agreed with your statement that it would be great
if we could have an investigation, all the facts came out and we found nothing.
So he agreed that that would be ideal, but this cloud is still messing up my
ability to do the rest of my agenda. Is that an accurate assessment of...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: Yes, sir. He actually went farther than that. He -- he said, ''And if
some of my satellites did something wrong, it'd be good to find that out.''

RUBIO: Well, that's the second part, and that is the satellites. He said, ''If
(ph) one of my satellites'' -- I imagine, by that, he meant some of the other
people surrounding his campaign -- ''did something wrong, it would be great to
know that, as well''?

COMEY: Yes, sir. That's what he said.

RUBIO: So are those the other -- are those the only two instances in which that
sort of back-and-forth happened, where the president was basically saying, and
I'm paraphrasing here, it's OK, do the Russia investigation. I hope it all comes
out. I have nothing to do with anything Russia. It'd be great if it all came
out, if people around me were doing things that were wrong.

COMEY: Yes. As I -- I recorded it accurately there. That was the sentiment he
was expressing. Yes, sir.

RUBIO: So what it basically (ph) comes down to is the president has asked three
things of you. He asked for your loyalty, and you said you would be loyally
honest.

COMEY: Honestly loyal.

RUBIO: Honestly loyal. The -- the -- he asked you, on one occasion, to let the
Mike Flynn thing go because he was a good guy -- but (ph) you're aware that he
said the exact same thing in the press the next day. ''He's a good guy,'' ''He's
been treated unfairly,'' et cetera, et cetera. So I imagine your FBI agents read
that.

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: I'm sure they did.

RUBIO: Your -- the president's wishes were known to them, certainly, by the next
day, when he had a press conference with the prime minister.RUBIO: But going
back, the three requests were; number one, be loyal; number two, let the Mike
Flynn thing go, he's a good guy, he's been treated unfairly; and, number three,
can you please tell the American people what these leaders in Congress already
know, what you already know, what you've told me three times -- that I'm not
under -- personally under investigation?

COMEY: Those are the three things he asked. Yes, sir.

RUBIO: You know, this investigation is full of leaks, left and right. I mean,
we've learned more from the newspapers sometimes than we do from our open
hearings, for sure.

You ever wonder why, of all the things in this investigation, the only thing
that's never been leaked is the fact that the president was not personally under
investigation, despite the fact that both Democrats and Republicans in (ph) the
leadership of Congress knew that, and have known that for weeks?

COMEY: I don't know. I find matters that are briefed to the Gang of Eight are
pretty tightly held, in my experience.

RUBIO: Finally, who are those senior leaders at the FBI that you shared these
conversations with?

COMEY: As I said in response to Senator Feinstein's question, deputy director,
my chief of staff, general counsel, the deputy director's chief counsel, and
then, more often than not, the number three person at the FBI, who is the
associate deputy director, and then, quite often, the head of the national
security branch.

BURR: Senator Wyden.

WYDEN: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Comey, welcome. You and I have had significant policy differences over the
years, particularly protecting Americans' access to secure encryption. But I
believe the timing of your firing stinks.

And yesterday, you put on the record testimony that demonstrates why the odor of
presidential abuse of power is so strong.

Now, to my questions. In talking to Senator Warner about this dinner that you
had with president, I believe, January 27th, all in one dinner, the president
raised your job prospects, he asked for your loyalty and denied allegations
against him -- all took place over one supper.WYDEN: Now, you told Senator
Warner that the president was looking to, quote, ''get something.'' Looking
back, did that dinner suggest that your job might be contingent on how you
handled the investigation?

COMEY: I don't know that I'd go that far. I -- I got the sense my job would be
contingent upon how he felt I -- excuse me -- how he felt I conducted myself and
whether I demonstrated loyalty. But I don't know whether I'd go so far as to
connect it to the investigation (ph).

(CROSSTALK)

WYDEN: You said the president was trying to create some sort of patronage
relationship. In a patronage relationship isn't the underling expected to behave
in a manner consistent with the wishes of the boss?

COMEY: Yes.

WYDEN: OK.

COMEY: Or at least consider how what you're doing will affect the boss as a
significant consideration.

WYDEN: Let me turn to the Attorney General. In your statement, you said that you
and the FBI leadership team decided not to discuss the president's actions with
Attorney General Sessions, even though he had not recused himself.

What was it about the Attorney General's own interactions with the Russians, or
his behavior with regard to the investigation, that would have led the entire
leadership of the FBI to make this decision?

COMEY: Our judgment, as I recall, was that he was very close to and inevitably
going to recuse himself for a variety of reasons. We also were aware of facts
that I can't discuss in an open setting that would make his continued engagement
in a Russia-related investigation problematic.

And so we were -- we were convinced -- and, in fact, I think we had already
heard that the career people were recommending that he recuse himself -- that he
was not going to be in contact with Russia- related matters much longer, and
that turned out to be the case.

WYDEN: How would you characterize Attorney General Sessions's adherence to his
recusal, in particular with regard to his involvement in your firing, which the
president has acknowledged was because of the Russian investigation?

COMEY: That's a question I can't answer. I think it's a reasonable question. If
-- if, as the president said, I was fired because of the Russia investigation,
why was the attorney general involved in that chain? I don't know, and so I
don't have an answer for the question.

WYDEN: Your testimony was that the president's request about Flynn could infect
the investigation. Had the president got what he wanted and what he asked of
you, what would have been the effect on the investigation?COMEY: Well we would
have closed any investigation of General Flynn in connection with his statements
and encounter -- statements about and encounters (ph) with Russians in the late
part of December.

WYDEN: Well...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: So we -- we would have dropped an open criminal investigation.

WYDEN: So, in effect, when you talk about infecting the enterprise, you would
have dropped something major that would have spoken to the overall ability of
the American people to get the facts?

COMEY: Correct. And -- and, as good as our people are, our judgment was we don't
want them hearing that the president of the United States wants this to go away,
because it might have an effect of their ability to be fair and impartial and
aggressive.

WYDEN: Now, the -- Acting Attorney General Yates found out that Michael Flynn
could be blackmailed by the Russians, and she went immediately to warn the White
House.

Flynn is gone, but other individuals with contacts with the Russians are still
in extremely important positions of power. Should the American people have the
same sense of urgency now, with respect to them?

COMEY: I think all I can say, Senator, is it's a -- the special counsel's
investigation is very important. Understanding what efforts there were or are by
the Russian government to influence our government is a critical part of the
FBI's mission, so -- and you've got the right person in Bob Mueller to lead it.

So it's a very important piece of work.

WYDEN: Vice President Pence was the head of the transition. To your knowledge,
was he aware of the concerns about Michael Flynn prior to or during General
Flynn's tenure as national security adviser?

COMEY: I don't -- you're asking -- including up to the time when Flynn was...

WYDEN: Right (ph). COMEY: ... forced to resign? My understanding is that he was,
and I'm trying to remember where I get that understanding from -- I think from
Acting Attorney General Yates.

WYDEN: So former Acting Attorney General Yates testified that concerns about
General Flynn were discussed with the intelligence community. Would that have
included anyone at the CIA or Dan Coats' office at the DNI?COMEY: I would assume
yes.

WYDEN: Michael Flynn resigned four days after Attorney General Sessions was
sworn in. Do you know if the attorney general was aware of the concerns about
Michael Flynn during that period?

COMEY: I don't, as I sit here -- I don't -- I don't recall that he was. I could
be wrong, but I don't remember that he was.

WYDEN: And, finally, let's see if you can give us some sense of who recommended
your firing. Besides the letters from the attorney general, the deputy attorney
general, do you have any information on who may have recommended or have been
involved in your firing?

COMEY: I don't. I don't.

WYDEN: OK (ph).

Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

BURR: Senator Collins.

COLLINS: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Comey, let me begin by thanking you for your voluntary compliance with our
request to appear before this committee, and it's discussing (ph) this very
important investigation.

I want, first, to ask you about your conversations with the president, the three
conversations in which you told him that he was not under investigation.

The first was during your January 6th meeting, according to your testimony, in
which it appears that you actually volunteered that assurance. Is that correct?

COMEY: That's correct.

COLLINS: Did you limit that statement to counterintelligence investigations, or
were you talking about any kind of FBI investigation?

COMEY: I didn't -- I didn't use the term ''counterintelligence.'' I was speaking
to him, and briefing him about some salacious and unverified material. It was in
the context of that that he had a strong and defensive reaction about that not
being true. And my reading of it was it was important for me to assure him we
were not personally investigating him. And so the context then was actually
narrower, focused on what I had just talked to him about.

It was very important because it was, first, true. And second, I was worried
very much about being in kind of a -- kind of a J. Edgar Hoover-type situation.
I didn't want him thinking that I was briefing him on this to sort of hang it
over him in some way. I was briefing him on it because we were (ph) -- had been
told by the media it was about to launch. We didn't want to be keeping that from
him.COMEY: And if there was some -- he needed to know this was being said. But I
was very keen not to leave him with an impression that the bureau was trying to
do something to him. And so that's the context in which I said, ''Sir, we're not
personally investigating you.''

COLLINS: And then, on -- and that's why you volunteered the information...

COMEY: Yes, ma'am.

COLLINS: ... correct?

Then, on the January 27th dinner, you show -- you told the president that he
should be careful about asking you to investigate, because, quote, ''You might
create a narrative that we are investigating him personally,'' which we weren't.

Again, were you limiting that statement to counterintelligence investigations,
or more broadly, such as a criminal investigation?

COMEY: The context was very similar. I didn't -- I didn't modify the word
''investigation.'' It was -- again, he was reacting strongly again to that
unverified material, saying, ''I'm tempted to order you to investigate it.'' And
that -- in the context of that, I said ''Sir, you want to be careful about that,
because it might create a narrative we're investigating you personally.''

COLLINS: And then there was the March 30th phone call in -- with the president,
in which you reminded him that congressional leaders have been briefed that we
were not personally -- the FBI was not personally investigating President Trump.

And again, was that statement to congressional leaders and to the president
limited to counterintelligence investigations? Or was it a broader statement?

(CROSSTALK)

COLLINS: I'm trying to understand whether there was any kind of investigation of
the president under way.

COMEY: No. I'm sorry, and -- and if I misunderstood, I apologize. We briefed the
congressional leadership about what Americans we had opened counterintelligence
investigation cases on, and we specifically said the president is not one of
those Americans, but -- that there was no other investigation of the president
that we were not mentioning at that time.

What (ph) -- the context was counterintelligence, but I wasn't trying to hide
some criminal investigation of the president.COLLINS: And was the president
under investigation at the time of your dismissal on May 9th?

COMEY: No.

COLLINS: I'd like to now turn to the conversations with the president about
Michael Flynn, which have been discussed at great length. And, first, let me
make very clear that the president never should have cleared the room, and he
never should have asked you, as you reported, to let it go -- to let the
investigation go.

But I remain puzzled by your response. Your response was, ''I agree that Michael
Flynn is a good guy.'' You could have said, ''Mr. President, this meeting is
inappropriate. This response could compromise the investigation. You should not
be making such a request.''

It's fundamental to the operation of our government that the FBI be insulated
from this kind of political pressure. And you've talked a bit today about that
you were stunned by the president making the request.

But my question to you is, later on, upon reflection, did you go to anyone at
the Department of Justice and ask them to call the White House counsel's office
and explain that the president had to have a far better understanding and
appreciation of his role vis-a-vis the FBI?

COMEY: In general, I did. I spoke to the attorney general, and I spoke to the
new deputy attorney general, Mr. Rosenstein, when he took office, and explained
my serious concern about the way in which the president is interacting,
especially with the FBI.

And I specifically, as I said my testimony, asked the -- told the attorney
general, it can't happen that you get kicked out of the room and the president
talks to me.

Look, in the room -- and -- and -- but why didn't we raise the specific (ph)? It
was of investigative interest us to try and figure out, so -- what just happened
with the president's request. So I would not have wanted to alert the White
House that it had happened until we figured out, what are we going to do with
this investigatively?

COLLINS: Your testimony was that you went to Attorney General Sessions and said,
''Don't ever leave me alone with him again.'' Are you saying that you also told
him that he had made a request that you let it go, with regard to part of the
investigation of Michael Flynn?

COMEY: No, I specifically did not. I did not.COLLINS: OK, you mentioned that,
from your very first meeting with the president, you decided to write a memo
memorializing the conversation. What was it about that very first meeting that
made you write a memo, when you had not done that with two previous presidents?

COMEY: As I said, a combination of things. A gut feeling is an important overlay
on it (ph). But the circumstances -- that I was alone, the subject matter, and
the nature of the person that I was interacting with and my read of that person.

(UNKNOWN): The nature of that person (ph)?

COMEY: Yeah, and -- and -- and, really, just a gut feel, laying on top of all of
that, that this -- it's going to be important, to protect this organization,
that I make records of this.

COLLINS: And finally, did you show copies of your memos to anyone outside of the
Department of Justice?

COMEY: Yes.

COLLINS: And to whom did you show copies?

COMEY: I asked -- the president tweeted on Friday, after I got fired, that I
better hope there's not tapes. I woke up in the middle of the night on Monday
night, because it didn't dawn on me originally that there might be corroboration
for our conversation. There might be a tape.

And my judgment was, I needed to get that out into the public square. And so I
asked a friend of mine to share the content of the memo with a reporter. Didn't
do it myself, for a variety of reasons. But I asked him to, because I thought
that might prompt the appointment of a special counsel. And so I asked a close
friend of mine to do it.

COLLINS: And was that Mr. Wittes?

COMEY: No, no.

COLLINS: Who was that?

COMEY: A good friend of mine who's a professor at Columbia Law School.

COLLINS: Thank you. BURR: Senator Heinrich?

HEINRICH: Mr. Comey, prior to January 27th of this year, have you ever had a
one-on-one meeting or -- or a private dinner with a president of the United
States?

COMEY: No, I met -- dinner, no. I had two one-on-ones with President Obama that
I laid out in my testimony: once, to talk about law enforcement issues -- law
enforcement and race, which was an important topic throughout for me and for the
president; and then once, very briefly, for him to say goodbye.

HEINRICH: Were those brief interactions?

COMEY: No. The one about law enforcement and race in policing, we spoke for
probably over an hour, just the two of us.

HEINRICH: How unusual is it to have a -- a one-on-one dinner with the president?
Did that strike you as odd?COMEY: Yeah, so much so that I assumed there would be
others -- that he couldn't possibly be having dinner with me alone.

HEINRICH: If -- do you have an impression that, if you had found -- if you had
behaved differently in that dinner -- and I am quite pleased that you did not --
but if you had found a way to express some sort of expression of loyalty, or
given some suggestion that the Flynn criminal investigation might be pursued
less vigorously, do you think you would've still been fired?

COMEY: I don't know. I -- it's impossible to say, looking back. I don't know.

HEINRICH: But you felt like those two things were -- were directly relevant to
your -- the kind of relationship that the president was seeking to establish
with you?

COMEY: Sure, yes.

HEINRICH: The -- the president has repeatedly talked about the Russian
investigation into the U.S. -- or the Russian -- Russia's involvement in the
U.S. election cycle as a hoax and as fake news.

Can you talk a little bit about what you saw as FBI director -- and, obviously,
only the parts that you can share in this setting -- that -- that demonstrate
how serious this action actually was, and why there was an investigation in the
first place?

COMEY: Yes, sir.

The -- there should be no fuzz on this whatsoever. The Russians interfered in
our election during the 2016 cycle. They did it with purpose. They did it with
sophistication. They did it with overwhelming technical efforts. And it was an
active-measures campaign driven from the top of that government. There is no
fuzz on that.

It is a high-confidence judgment of the entire intelligence community, and --
and the members of this committee have -- have seen the intelligence. It's not a
close call. That happened. That's about as un-fake as you can possibly get, and
is very, very serious, which is why it's so refreshing to see a bipartisan focus
on that, because this is about America, not about any particular party.

HEINRICH: So that was a hostile act by the Russian government against this
country? COMEY: Yes, sir.

HEINRICH: Did the president, in any of those interactions that you've shared
with us today, ask you what you should be doing, or what our government should
be doing, or the intelligence community, to protect America against Russian
interference in our election system?COMEY: I don't recall a conversation like
that.

HEINRICH: Never?

COMEY: No.

HEINRICH: Do you -- do you find it odd...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: Not with -- not with -- not with President Trump.

HEINRICH: Right.

COMEY: I attended a fair number of meetings on that with President Obama.

HEINRICH: Do you find it odd that the president seemed unconcerned by Russia's
actions in our election?

COMEY: I -- I can't answer that, because I don't know what other conversations
he had with other advisers or other intelligence community leaders. So I -- I --
I just don't know, sitting here.

HEINRICH: Did you have any interactions with the president that suggested he was
taking that hostile action seriously?

COMEY: I don't remember any interactions with the president, other than the
initial briefing on January the 6th. I don't remember -- could be wrong, but I
don't remember any conversations with him at all about that.

HEINRICH: As you're very aware, it was only the two of you in the room for that
dinner. You've told us the president asked you to back off the Flynn
investigation. The president told a reporter...

COMEY: Not in that dinner.

HEINRICH: Fair enough -- told the (ph) reporter he did -- never did that. You've
testified that the president asked for your loyalty in that dinner. The White
House denies that. A lot of this comes down to, who should we believe? Do you
want to say anything as to why we should believe you?

COMEY: Probably (ph) -- my mother raised me not to say things like this about
myself, so not I'm going to. I think people should look at the whole body of my
testimony, because, as I used to say to juries, and when I talked about a
witness, you can't cherry-pick it. You can't say, ''I like these things he said,
but on this, he's a -- he's a dirty, rotten liar.''

HEINRICH: Right.

COMEY: You got to take it all together. And I've tried to be open and fair and
transparent and accurate. A really significant fact to me is, so why did he kick
everybody out of the Oval Office?

Why would you kick the attorney general, the president (ph), the chief of staff
out, to talk to me, if it was about something else? And so that -- that, to me,
is -- as an investigator, is a very significant fact.

HEINRICH: And as we look at -- at testimony, or as -- communication from both of
you, we should probably be looking for consistency.COMEY: Well, in looking at
any witness, you look at consistency, track record, demeanor, record over time,
that sort of thing.

HEINRICH: Thank you.

So there are reports that the incoming Trump administration, either during the
transition and/or after the inauguration, attempted to set up a sort of
back-door communication channel with the Russian government using their
infrastructure, their devices or facilities.

What would be the risks particularly for a transition, someone not actually in
the office of the president yet, to setting up unauthorized channels with a
hostile foreign government, especially if they were to evade our own American
intelligence services?

COMEY: I'm not going to comment on whether that happened in an open setting. But
the risk is -- primary risk is obvious: you spare the Russians the cost and
effort of having to break into our communications channels by using theirs.

And so you make it a whole lot easier for them to capture all of your
conversations, and then to use those to the benefit of Russia against the United
States.

HEINRICH: The memos that you wrote -- you wrote, did you write all nine of them
in a way that was designed to prevent them from needing classification?

COMEY: No. And -- and, on a few of the occasions, I wrote -- I sent e-mails to
my chief of staff or others on some of the brief phone conversations that I
recall. The first one was a classified briefing.

Although it wasn't in a SCIF, it was in a conference room at Trump Tower. It was
a classified briefing and so I wrote that on a classified device. The one I
started typing...

HEINRICH: Got you.

COMEY: ... in the car -- that was a classified laptop that I started working on.

HEINRICH: Any reason, in a classified environment, in a SCIF, that this
committee would -- it would not be appropriate to see those communications, from
-- at least from your perspective as the author?

COMEY: No. HEINRICH: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

BURR: Senator Blunt.

BLUNT: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Comey, when you were terminated at the FBI, I said, and still continue to
feel, that you have provided years of great service to the country.

I also said that I'd had significant questions, over the last year, about some
of the decision you made. If -- if the president hadn't terminated your service,
would you still be, in your opinion, the director of the FBI today?

COMEY: Yes, sir.

BLUNT: So you took as a direction from the president something that you thought
was serious and troublesome, but continued to show up for work the next
day?COMEY: Yes, sir.

BLUNT: And, six weeks later we're still telling the -- we're telling the
president, on March the 30th, that he was not personally the target of any
investigation?

COMEY: Correct. On March the 30th, and I think again on -- I think on April 11th
as well, I told him we're not investigating him personally. That was true.

BLUNT: Well, the point to me -- the concern to me there is that all these things
are going on. You, now, in retrospect -- or at you, now, to this committee --
that these were -- you had serious concerns about what the president had, you
believed, directed you to do, and had taken no action -- hadn't even reported up
the chain of command, assuming you believe there is an ''up the chain of
command,'' that these things had happened.

Do you have a sense of that, looking back, that that was a mistake?

COMEY: No. In fact, I think no action was the most important thing I could do to
make sure there was no interference with the investigation.

BLUNT: And on the -- on the Flynn issue specifically, I believe you said earlier
that you believed the president was suggesting you drop any investigation of
Flynn's account of his conversation with the Russian ambassador, which was
essentially misleading the vice president and others?

COMEY: Correct, and -- and I'm not going to go into the details, but whether
there were false statements made to government investigators, as well.

BLUNT: The -- any suggestion that the -- that General Flynn had violated the
Logan Act, I always find pretty incredible. The Logan Act's been on the books
for over 200 years. Nobody's ever been prosecuted for violating the Logan Act.

My sense would be that the discussion -- not the problem -- misleading
investigators or the vice president might have been.

COMEY: That's fair. Yes, sir.

BLUNT: And -- and you're -- had you previously, on February the 14th, discussed
with the president, in the previous meeting, anything your investigators had
learned, or their impressions from talking to Flynn?

COMEY: No, sir.

BLUNT: So he said, ''He's a good guy.'' You said, ''He's a good guy.'' And that
was -- no further action taken on that?

COMEY: Well, he said more than that. But there was no -- the action was I wrote
it up, briefed our senior team, tried to figure out what to do with it and just
(ph) made a decision, we're going to hold this and then see what we make of it
down the road.COMEY: Yes, sir.

BLUNT: Was it your view that not briefing up (ph) meant you really had no
responsibility to report that to the Justice Department in some way?

COMEY: I think, at some point -- and -- and I don't know what Director Mueller
is going to do with it, but at some point I was sure we were going to brief it
to the team in charge of the case.

But our judgment was, in the short term, doesn't make sense to -- no fuzz on the
fact that I reported it to the attorney general. That's why I stressed he
shouldn't be kicked out of the room. But -- didn't make sense to report to him
now.

BLUNT: You know, you said the attorney general said (ph), ''I don't want to be
in the room with him alone again,'' but you continued to talk to him on the
phone. What is the difference in being in the room alone with him and talking to
him on the phone alone?

COMEY: Yeah, I think that what I stressed (ph) to the attorney general was a
little broader than just the room. I said ''You -- I report to you. It's very
important you be between me and the White House, between...''

(CROSSTALK)

BLUNT: After that discussion with the attorney general, did you take phone calls
from the president?

COMEY: Yes, sir.

BLUNT: So why did you just say you need to talk to -- why didn't you say, ''I'm
not taking that call. You need to talk to the attorney general''?

COMEY: Well, I -- I did, on the April 11th call, and I reported the calls -- the
March 30th call and the April 11th call -- to my superior, who was the acting
deputy attorney general.

BLUNT: I -- I don't want to run out of time here. Let me make one other point.

In reading your testimony, January the 3rd, January the 27th and March the 30th
-- it appears to me that, on all three of those occasions, you, unsolicited by
the president, made the point to him that he was not a target of the -- of an
investigation.

COMEY: Correct. Yes, sir.

BLUNT: One, I thought the March 30th very interesting. You said, well, even
though you don't want -- you may not want us -- that was the 27th, where he
said, ''Why don't you look into that dossier thing more?'' You said, ''Well, you
may not want that, because then we couldn't tell you -- couldn't say with -- we
couldn't answer the question about you being a target of the investigation.''

But you didn't seem to be answering that question anyhow. As Senator Rubio
pointed out, the one unanswered, unleaked question seems to have been that, in
this whole period of time.

But you said something earlier I don't want to fail to follow up on. You said,
after you were dismissed, you gave information to a friend so that friend could
get that information into the public media.

COMEY: Correct.

BLUNT: What kind of information was that? Wasn't that (ph) -- what kind of
information did you give to a friend?

COMEY: That the -- the -- the Flynn conversation, that the president asked me to
let the -- the Flynn -- I'm forgetting my exact own words, but the -- the
conversation in the Oval Office.BLUNT: So you didn't consider your memo or your
sense of that conversation to be a government document? You consider it to be
somehow your own personal document that you could share with the media as you
wanted to?

COMEY: Correct. I...

BLUNT: Through a friend?

COMEY: ... I understood this to be my recollection, recorded, of my conversation
with the president. As a private citizen, I felt free to share that. I thought
it very important to get it out.

BLUNT: So were all of your memos that you've recorded on classified or other
documents memos that might be yours as a private citizen?

COMEY: I'm sorry, I'm not following the question.

BLUNT: Well, I think you said you'd used classified -- a classified...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: Not the classified documents. Unclassified -- I don't have any of them
anymore. I gave them to the special counsel. But, yeah, my view was that the
content of those unclassified -- the memorialization of those conversations was
my recollection recorded.

BLUNT: So why didn't you give those to somebody yourself, rather than give them
through a third party?

COMEY: Because I was worried the media was camping at the end of my driveway at
that point, and I was actually going out of town with my wife to hide, and I
worried it would be like feeding seagulls at the beach...

(LAUGHTER)

...if -- if it was -- if it was I who gave it to the media. So I asked my
friend, ''Make sure this gets out.''

BLUNT: It does seem to me that what you do there is create a source close to the
former director of the FBI, as opposed to just taking responsibility yourself
for saying, ''Here are these records.''

And, like everybody else, I have other things I'd like to get into, but I'm out
of time.

COMEY: OK.

BURR: Senator King.

KING: Thank you.

First I'd like to acknowledge Senator Blumenthal and, earlier, Senator Nelson. I
think the one principal thing you'll learn today, Senator, is that the chairs
there are less comfortable than the chairs here. But I welcome you to the
hearing.

Mr. Comey, a broad question. Was the Russian activity in the 2016 election a
one-off proposition? Or is this part of a long-term strategy? Will they be back?

COMEY: Oh, it's a long-term practice of theirs. It -- it stepped up a notch in a
significant way in '16. They'll be back.

KING: I think that's very important for the American people to understand, that
this is -- this is very much a forward-looking investigation in terms of how do
we understand what they did and how do we prevent it. Would you agree that
that's a big part of our role here?COMEY: Yes, sir, and it's not a Republican
thing or Democratic thing. It really is an American thing. They're going to come
for whatever party they choose to try and work on behalf of. And they're --
they're not devoted to either, in my experience. They're just about their own
advantage. And they will be back.

KING: That's my observation. I don't think Putin is a Republican or a Democrat.
He's an opportunist.

COMEY: I think that's a fair statement.

KING: With regard to the -- several of these conversations, in his interview
with Lester Holt on NBC, the president said, ''I had dinner with him. He wanted
to have dinner because he wanted to stay on.'' Is this an accurate statement?

COMEY: No, sir.

KING: Did you, in any way, initiate that dinner?

COMEY: No, he -- he called me at my desk at lunchtime, and asked me was I free
for dinner that night. I called himself (ph) and said, ''Can you come over for
dinner tonight?''

And I said, ''Yes, sir.''

He said, ''Will 6 work?'' I think he said 6 first. And then he said, ''I was
going to invite your whole family, but we'll do that next time. I wanted (ph)
you to come over. And is -- is that a good time?''

I said, ''Sir, whatever works for you.''

And he then said, ''How about 6:30?''

And I -- I said, ''Whatever works for you, sir.'' And then I hung up and had to
call my wife and break a date with her. I was supposed to take her out to dinner
that night, and (OFF-MIKE).

KING: That's one of the all-time great excuses for breaking a date.

(LAUGHTER)

COMEY: In retrospect, I would have -- I love spending time my wife. I wish I'd
been there that night. (LAUGHTER)

KING: That's one question I'm not going follow up, Mr. Comey.

But, in that same interview, the president said, ''In one case, I called him,
and in one case, he called me.'' Is that an accurate statement?

COMEY: No.

KING: Did you ever call the president?

COMEY: No. I -- I might -- the only reason I'm hesitating is I think there was a
least one conversation where I was asked to call the White House switchboard to
be connected to him, but I -- I never initiated a communication with the
president.

KING: And, in his press conference on May 18th, the president was asked whether
he had urged you to shut down the investigation into Michael Flynn. The
president responded, quote, ''No, no. Next question.'' Is that an accurate
statement?

COMEY: I don't believe it is.

KING: Thank you.

With regard to the question of him being under personal -- personally under
investigation, does that mean that the dossier is not being reviewed or
investigated or followed up on in any way?

COMEY: I obviously can't -- I can't comment either way. I can't talk in an open
setting about the investigation as it was when I was the head of the FBI. And
obviously it's -- it's Director Mueller's -- Bob Mueller's responsibility now,
so I just -- I don't know.

KING: So clearly your statements to the president back in those -- these various
times when you assured him he wasn't under investigation were as of that moment.
That -- that correct, is it not?COMEY: Correct -- correct.

KING: Now, on the Flynn investigation, is it not true that Mr. Flynn was and is
a central figure in this entire investigation of the relationship between the
Trump campaign and the Russians?

COMEY: I can't answer that in an open setting, sir.

KING: And certainly Mr. Flynn was part of the so-called Russian investigation.
Can you answer that question?

COMEY: I have to give you the same answer.

KING: All right. We'll be having a closed session shortly, so we will follow up
on that.

In terms of his comments to you about -- I think in response to Mr. Risch -- to
Senator Risch, you said he said, ''I hope you will hold back on that.'' But when
you get a -- when a president of the United States in the Oval Office says
something like ''I hope'' or ''I suggest'' or -- or ''would you,'' do you take
that as a -- as a -- as a directive?

COMEY: Yes. Yes, it rings in my ear as kind of, ''Will no one rid me of this
meddlesome priest?''

KING: I was just going to quote that. In 1170, December 29, Henry II said, ''Who
will rid me of this meddlesome priest?'' and then, the next day, he was killed
-- Thomas Becket. That's exactly the same situation. You're -- we're thinking
along the same lines.

Several other questions, and these are a little bit more detailed. What do you
know about the Russian bank, VEB?

COMEY: Nothing that I can talk about in an open setting. I mean, I know it...

(CROSSTALK)

KING: Well, that takes care of my next three questions.

COMEY: I know it exists. Yes, sir.

KING: You know it exists. What is the relationship of Ambassador -- the
ambassador from Russia to the United States, to the Russian intelligence
infrastructure? COMEY: Well, he's a diplomat who is the chief of mission at the
Russian embassy, which employs a robust cohort of intelligence officers. And so,
surely, he's witting of their very, very aggressive intelligence operations, at
least some of it in the United States. I don't -- I don't consider him to be an
intelligence officer himself. He's a diplomat.

KING: Did you ever -- did the FBI ever brief the Trump administration about the
-- the advisability of interacting directly with Ambassador Kislyak?

COMEY: Look (ph), all I can say sitting here is there were a variety of
defensive briefings given to the incoming administration about the
counterintelligence risk.KING: Back to Mr. Flynn, would the -- would closing out
the Flynn investigation have impeded the overall Russian investigation?

COMEY: No. Well, unlikely, except to the extent -- there's always a possibility,
if you have a criminal case against someone and you bring in and squeeze them,
you flip them, and they give you information about something else. But I saw the
two as touching each other, but separate.

KING: With regard to your memos, isn't it true that in a -- in a court case,
when you're weighing evidence, contemporaneous memos and contemporaneous
statements to third parties are considered probative in terms of the -- the --
the validity of -- of testimony?

COMEY: Yes.

KING: Thank you.

Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

BURR: Senator Cotton?

Or -- excuse me, Senator Lankford?

LANKFORD: Well, Director Comey, good to see you again.

COMEY: You, too.

LANKFORD: We've had multiple opportunities to be able to visit, as everyone on
this dais has. And I appreciate you and your service and what you have done for
the nation for a long time, which you continue to do.

I've told you before in the heat (ph) of last year, when we had an opportunity
to visit personally, that I pray for you and for your family, because you do
carry a tremendous amount of stress. And that is still true today.

COMEY: Thank you.

LANKFORD: Let me -- let me walk through a couple things with you. Your notes
were obviously exceptionally important, because they give a very rapid account
of what you -- what you wrote down and what you perceived to happen in those
different meetings.

Have you had the opportunity to be able to reference those notes when you were
preparing the written statement that you put -- for us today?

COMEY: Yes, I -- yes. I think nearly all of my written recordings of my
conversations -- had a chance to review them before filing my statement.

LANKFORD: Do you have a copy of any those notes, personally?

COMEY: I don't. I turned them over to Bob Mueller's investigators.

LANKFORD: The individual that you told about your memos, that then sent on to
the New York Times -- do they have a copy of those memos, or were they told
orally of those memos?

COMEY: Had a copy -- had a copy at the time.

LANKFORD: Do they -- do they still have a copy of those memos?

COMEY: That's a good question. I think so. I guess I can't say for sure, sitting
here, but I -- I -- I guess I don't know, but I think so.

LANKFORD: So the question is, could you ask them to hand that copy right back to
you, so you could hand them over to this committee?

COMEY: Potentially.

LANKFORD: I would like to move that from ''potential'' to ''see if we can ask
that question,'' so we can have a copy of those. Obviously those notes are
exceptionally important to us to be able to go through the process so we can --
we can continue to get to the facts as -- as we see it. As you know, the written
documents are exceptionally important.LANKFORD: Are there other documents that
we need to be aware of that you used in your preparation for your written
statement that we should also have, that would assist us in helping with this?

COMEY: Not that I'm aware of, no.

LANKFORD: Past the February the 14th meeting which is a very important meeting
obviously, as we discuss the conversations here about Michael Flynn. When the
president asked you about he hopes that you would let this go, and the
conversation back and forth about him being a good guy.

After that time did the president ever bring up anything about Michael Flynn
again to you? You had multiple other conversations you have (inaudible) with the
president.

COMEY: No, I don't remember him ever bringing it up again.

LANKFORD: Did any member of the White House staff ever come to you and talk to
you about letting go of the Michael Flynn case, or dropping it or anything
referring to that?

COMEY: No, nope.

LANKFORD: Did the director of national intelligence come to you and talk to you
about that?

COMEY: No.

LANKFORD: Did anyone from the Attorney General's office, the Department of
Justice ask you about that?

COMEY: No.

LANKFORD: Did the head of NSA talk to you about that?

COMEY: No.

LANKFORD: The -- the key aspect here is, if -- if -- if this seems to be
something the president's trying to get you to drop it, this seems like a pretty
light touch to drop it, to bring it up at that moment the day after he had just
fired Flynn to come back in and say I hope we can let this go.

But then it never reappears again. Did -- did it slow down your investigation or
any investigation that may or may not be occurring with Michael Flynn?

COMEY: No, although I don't know there're any manifestations -- our (ph)
manifestations of the investigation between February 14th and when I was fired.
So I -- I don't know that the president had any way of knowing whether it was
effective or not.

LANKFORD: OK. That's fair enough. If -- if the president wanted to stop an
investigation, how would he do that? Knowing it's an ongoing criminal
investigation or counterintelligence investigation.

Would that be a matter of trying to go to you -- you perceive and to say you
make it stop because he doesn't have the authority to stop or how -- how would
the president make an ongoing investigation stop?

COMEY: Again, I'm not a legal scholar. So smarter people answer this better, but
I think as a legal matter, president is the head of the executive branch and
could direct, in theory, we have important norms against this, but direct that
anybody be investigated or anybody not be investigated.

I think he has the legal authority because all of us ultimately report in the
executive branch up to the president.

LANKFORD: OK. Would that be to you, would that be the attorney general? Would
that be to who that would do that?COMEY: Suppose he could do it to -- if he
wanted to issue a direct order, could do it in any way, could do it through the
attorney general or issue it directly to me.

LANKFORD: Well -- well, is there any question that the president is not real
fond of this investigation? I -- I can think of multiple 140 word -- character
expressions that he's done publicly to express he's not fond of the
investigation.

So I've heard you share before in this conversation that you're trying to keep
the agents that are working on it away from any comment the president might have
made. Quite frankly, the president has informed around 6 billion people that
he's not real fond of this investigation.

Do you think there's a difference in that?

COMEY: Yes.

LANKFORD: OK.

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: I think there's a big difference in kicking superior officers out of the
Oval Office, looking the FBI director in the eye and saying, ''Hope you'll let
this go.''

I think if our -- if the agents, as good as they are, heard the president of the
United States did that...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: ... there's a real risk of a chilling effect on their work. That's why we
kept it so tight.

LANKFORD: OK. OK. You had mentioned before about some news stories and news
accounts, but, without having to go into all the names and the specific times
and to be able dip into all that, have there been news accounts about the Russia
investigation, about collusion, about this whole event or accusations that, as
you read the story, you were stunned about how wrong they got the facts?

COMEY: Yes. There have been many, many stories purportedly based on classified
information about -- well, about lots of stuff, but especially about Russia,
that are just dead wrong. LANKFORD: I was interested in your comment that you
made, as well, that the president said to you, if there were some satellite
associates of his that did something wrong, it would be good to find that out.

That -- the president seemed to talk to you specifically on March the 30th and
say, I'm frustrated that the word is not getting out that I'm not under
investigation, but if there are people that are in my circle that are, let's
finish the investigation. Is that how you took it, as well?

COMEY: Yes, sir. Yes.

LANKFORD: And then you made a comment earlier about the attorney general --
previous attorney general -- asking you about the investigation on the Clinton
e-mails, saying that you'd been asked not to call it an ''investigation''
anymore, but to call it a ''matter.''

And you had said that confused you. Can you give us additional details on
that?COMEY: Well, it concerned me, because we were at the point where we had
refused to confirm the existence, as we typically do, of an investigation, for
months, and it was getting to a place where that looked silly, because the
campaigns were talking about interacting with the FBI in the course of our work.

The -- the Clinton campaign, at the time, was using all kind of euphemisms --
security review, matters, things like that, for what was going on. We were
getting to a place where the attorney general and I were both going to have to
testify and talk publicly about. And I wanted to know, was she going to
authorize us to confirm we had an investigation?

And she said, yes, but don't call it that, call it a matter. And I said, why
would I do that? And she said, just call it a matter.

And, again, you look back in hindsight, you think should I have resisted harder?
I just said, all right, it isn't worth -- this isn't a hill worth dying on and
so I just said, OK, the press is going to completely ignore it. And that's what
happened.

When I said, we have opened a matter, they all reported the FBI has an
investigation open. And so that concerned me because that language tracked the
way the campaign was talking about FBI's work and that's concerning.

LANKFORD: It gave the impression that the campaign was somehow using the same
language as the FBI, because you were handed the campaign language and told to
be able (ph) to use the campaign language...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: Yeah -- and -- and again, I don't know whether it was intentional or not,
but it gave the impression that the attorney general was looking to align the
way we talked about our work with the way a political campaign was describing
the same activity, which was inaccurate.

We had a criminal investigation open with -- as I said before, the Federal
Bureau of Investigation. We had an investigation open at the time, and so that
gave me a queasy feeling.

LANKFORD: Thank you.

BURR: Senator Manchin. MANCHIN: Thank you Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Comey. I
appreciate very much your being here.

West Virginia is very interested in this -- in this hearing that we're having
today. I've had over 600 requests for questions to ask you...

(LAUGHTER)

... from my fellow West Virginians and most of them have been asked. And there's
a quite a few of them that were quite detailed that I'll (ph) ask in our
classified hearing.

I want to thank you, first of all, for coming and agreeing to be here,
volunteering. But also volunteering to stay into the classified hearing.

I don't know if you had a chance to watch our hearing yesterday.

COMEY: I watched part of it, yes, sir.

MANCHIN: And it was quite troubling. My colleagues here at some very pointed
questions they wanted answers to. They weren't classified. They could have
answered in this open setting. They refused to do so.

So that even much -- makes us much more appreciative of your cooperation.

Sir, the seriousness of the Russian aggressions in our past elections and
knowing that it'll be ongoing as senator King had alluded to, does -- what's
your concerns there? I mean, what should American public understand?MANCHIN:
People said, ''Well, this is a -- why are we worried about this? Why make such a
big deal out of this Russian investigation?'' Can you tell me what your thoughts
would be?

COMEY: Yes, sir.

MANCHIN: And then the final thing is on this same topic. Did the president ever
show any concern or interest or curiosity about what the Russians were doing?

COMEY: Thank you, Senator.

As I said earlier, I don't remember any conversations with the president about
the Russia election interference.

MANCHIN: Did he ever ask you any questions concerning this?

COMEY: Well, there was an initial briefing of our findings, and I think there
was conversation there -- I don't remember it exactly -- where he asked
questions about what we had found and what our sources were and what our
confidence level was. But after that, I don't remember anything.

The reason this is such a big deal has -- we have this big, messy, wonderful
country where we fight with each other all the time, but nobody tells us what to
think, what to fight about, what to vote for, except other Americans, and that's
wonderful and often painful.

But we're talking about a foreign government that, using technical intrusion,
lots of other methods, tried to shape the way we think, we vote, we act. That is
a big deal. And people need to recognize it.

It's not about Republicans or Democrats. They're coming after America, which I
hope we all love equally. They want to undermine our credibility in the face of
the world. They think that this great experiment of ours is a threat to them,
and so they're going to try to run it down and dirty it up as much as possible.

That's what this is about. And they will be back, because we remain -- as
difficult as we can be with each other, we remain that shining city on the hill,
and they don't like it.

(CROSSTALK)

MANCHIN: This is extremely important. It's extremely dangerous, what we're --
what we're dealing with, and it's needed, is what you're saying.

COMEY: Yes, sir.

MANCHIN: Do you believe there were any tapes or recordings of your conversations
with the president?

COMEY: It never occurred to me until the president's tweet. I -- I'm not being
facetious, I hope there are, and I'll consent to the release of them.

(CROSSTALK)

MANCHIN: So both of you -- both of you are in the same findings here -- you both
hope there's tapes and recordings?

COMEY: Well, I mean, all I can do is hope. The president surely knows whether he
taped me, and if he did, my feelings aren't hurt. Release the entire -- release
all the tapes, I'm good with it.MANCHIN: Got you. Got you.

Sir, do you believe that Robert Mueller, the -- our new special investigator on
Russia, will be thorough and complete, without political intervention? And would
you be confident (ph) on these findings and recommendations?

COMEY: Yes. Bob Mueller is one of the finest people and public servants this
country's ever produced. He will do it well. He is a dogged, tough person, and
you can have high confidence that, when it's done, he's turned over all the
rocks.

MANCHIN: You've been asked a wide variety of -- of questions today and we're
going to be hearing more, I'm sure, in our classified hearing. Something I'll
often (ph) ask folks when they come here -- what details of this saga would be
-- should we be focusing on, and what would you recommend us do differently? Or
to adjust (ph) our perspective on this?

COMEY: I don't know. I -- and one of the reasons that I'm pleased to be here is
I think this committee has shown the American people, although we have two
parties and we disagree about important things, we can work together when it
involves the core interests of the country.

So I would hope you'll just keep doing what you're doing. It's -- it's good in
and of itself, but it's also a model, especially for kids, that we -- we are a
functioning, adult democracy.

MANCHIN: And you also mentioned you had -- I think, what, six -- six meetings --
three times in person, six on the phone, nine times (ph) in conversation with
the president. Did he ever, at that time, allude that you were not performing
adequately -- ever indicate that at all?

COMEY: No. In fact, the contrary, quite often. Yeah, he called me one day. I was
about to get on a helicopter, the head of the DEA was waiting in the helicopter
for me, and he just called to check in and tell me I was doing an awesome job,
and wanted to see how I was doing. And I said, ''I'm doing fine, sir.'' And then
I finished the call and got on the helicopter.

MANCHIN: Mr. Comey, do you believe you would have been fired if Hillary Clinton
had become president?

COMEY: That's a great question. I don't know. I don't know. MANCHIN: You have
any thoughts about it?

COMEY: I might have been. I -- I don't know. Look, I -- I've said before, that
was an extraordinarily difficult and painful time. I think I did what I had to
do. I knew it was going to be very bad for me personally, and the consequences
of that might have been, if Hillary Clinton was elected, I might have been
terminated. I don't know. I really don't.

MANCHIN: My final question will be, after the (ph) February 14th meeting in the
Oval Office, you mentioned that you asked Attorney General Sessions to ensure
that you were never left alone with the president. Did you ever consider why
Attorney General Sessions was not asked to stay in the room?

COMEY: Sure, I did, and -- and have. And, in that moment, I...

MANCHIN: You ever talk to him about it?

COMEY: No.

MANCHIN: You never had a discussion with -- with Jeff Sessions on this?

COMEY: No, not at all.

MANCHIN: On any of your meetings?COMEY: No, I don't...

(CROSSTALK)

MANCHIN: Did he inquire -- did he -- did he show any inquiry whatsoever what was
that meeting about?

COMEY: No. You're right, I did say to him -- I'd forgotten this -- when I talked
to him and said, ''You have to be between me and the president, and that's
incredibly important,'' and I forget my exact words, I passed along the
president's message about the importance of aggressively pursuing leaks of
classified information, which is a -- a goal I share.

And I passed that along to -- to the attorney general, I think it was the next
morning, in our -- in a meeting. And -- but I did not tell him about the Flynn
part.

MANCHIN: Do you believe this will rise to obstruction of justice?

COMEY: I don't know. That -- that's Bob Mueller's job to sort that out.

MANCHIN: Thank you, sir.

Mr. Chairman.

BURR: Senator Cotton.

COTTON: Mr. Comey, you encouraged the president to release the tapes. Will you
encourage the Department of Justice or your friend at Columbia or Mr. Mueller to
release your memos?

COMEY: Sure.

COTTON: You said that there -- you did not record your conversations with
President Obama or President Bush in memos. Did you do so with Attorney General
Sessions or any other senior member of the Trump Department of Justice?

COMEY: No.

COTTON: Did you...

(CROSSTALK) COMEY: I think it -- I'm sorry.

COTTON: ... did you record conversations in memos with Attorney General Lynch or
any other senior member of the Obama Department of Justice?

COMEY: No, not that I recall.

COTTON: In your statement for the record, you cite nine private conversations
with the president, three meetings and two phone calls. There are four phone
calls that are not discussed in your statement for the record. What happened in
those phone calls?

COMEY: The president called me, I believe, shortly before he was inaugurated, as
a follow-up to our conversation -- private conversation on January the 6th. He
just wanted to reiterate his rejection of the allegation and talk about -- he
thought about it more, and why he thought it wasn't true -- the -- the -- the
verified -- unverified and salacious parts.

And -- and during that call, he asked me again, ''Hope you're going to stay,
you're doing a a great job.'' And I told him that I intended to. There was
another phone call that I mentioned, I think was -- could have the date wrong --
March the 1st, where he called just to check in with me as I was about to get on
the helicopter.COMEY: There was a secure call we had about an -- an operational
matter that was not related to any of this, about something the FBI was working
on. He wanted to make sure that I understood how important he thought it was --
a totally appropriate call. And then the fourth call -- I'm probably forgetting.

May have been the -- I may have meant the call, when he called to invite me to
dinner. I'll think about as I'm answering other questions, but I think I got
that right.

COTTON: Let's turn our attention to the underlying activity at issue here:
Russia's hacking into those e-mails and releasing them, and the allegations of
collusion. Do you believe Donald Trump colluded with Russia?

COMEY: That's a question I don't think I should answer in an open setting. As I
said, that -- we didn't -- that (ph) when I left, we did not have an
investigation focused on President Trump. But that's a question that'll be
answered by the investigation, I think.

COTTON: Let me turn to a couple of statements by one of my colleagues, Senator
Feinstein. She was the ranking member on this committee until January, which
means she had access to information that only she and Chairman Burr did. She's
now the senior Democrat on the -- on the Judiciary Committee, meaning she has
access to the FBI that most of us don't.

On May 3rd, on CNN's Wolf Blitzer's show, she was asked, ''Do you believe, do
you have evidence that there was in fact collusion between Trump associates and
Russia during the campaign?''

She answered, ''Not at this time.''

On May 18th, the same show, Mr. Blitzer said, ''The last time we spoke, Senator,
I asked if you had actually seen any evidence of collusion between the Trump
campaign and the Russians, and you said to me, and I'm quoting you now -- you
said, 'Not at this time.' Has anything changed since we last spoke?''

Senator Feinstein said, ''Well, no. No, it hasn't.'' Do you have any reason to
doubt those statements?

COMEY: I don't doubt that Senator Feinstein was saying what -- what she
understood. I just don't want to go down that path, first of all, because I'm
not in the government anymore, and answering in the negative, I just worry,
leads me deeper and deeper into talking about the investigation in an open
setting.

I don't -- I -- I want to be...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: ... I'm always trying to be fair. I don't want to be unfair to President
Trump. I'm not trying to suggest, by my answer, something nefarious, but I don't
want to get into the business of saying not as to this person, not as to that
person.

COTTON: On February 14th, the New York Times published a story, the headline of
which was, ''Trump Campaign Aides Had Repeated Contacts With Russian
Intelligence.''

You were asked earlier if that was an inaccurate story, and you said, in the
main. Would it be fair to characterize that story as almost entirely wrong?

COMEY: Yes.

COTTON: Did you have, at the time that story was published, any indication of
any contact between Trump people and Russians, intelligence officers, other
government officials or close associates of the Russian government?COMEY: This
one, I can't answer, sitting here.

COTTON: We can discuss that in a classified setting, then.

I want to turn attention now to Mr. Flynn and the allegations of his underlying
conduct: to be specific, his alleged interactions with the Russian ambassador on
the telephone, and then what he said to senior Trump administration officials
and Department of Justice officials.

I understand there are other issues with Mr. Flynn, related to his receipt of
foreign monies or disclosure of potential advocacy activity on behalf of foreign
governments. Those are serious and credible allegations that I'm sure will be
pursued, but I want to speak specifically about his interactions with the
Russian ambassador.

There was a story on January 23rd in the Washington Post that says -- entitled,
''FBI reviewed Flynn's calls with Russian ambassador but found nothing
illicit.'' Is this story accurate?

COMEY: I don't want to comment on that, Senator, because I -- I'm pretty sure
the bureau has not confirmed any interception of communications. And so I don't
want to talk about that in an open setting.

COTTON: Would it be improper for an incoming national security adviser to have a
conversation with a foreign ambassador?

COMEY: In my -- in my experience, no.

COTTON: But you can't confirm or deny that the conversation happened, and we
would need to know the contents of that conversation to know if it was, in fact,
improper?

COMEY: Yeah, I don't think I can talk about that in an open setting. And again,
I've been out of government, now, a month, so I don't -- I also don't want to
talk about things when it's now somebody's -- else's responsibility. But maybe
in the -- in the classified setting, we can talk more about that.

COTTON: You stated earlier that there wasn't an open investigation of Mr. Flynn
in (ph) the FBI. Did you or any FBI agent ever sense that Mr. Flynn attempted to
deceive you, or made false statements to an FBI agent?

COMEY: I don't want to go too far. That was the subject of the criminal inquiry.

COTTON: Did you ever come close to closing investigation on Mr. Flynn?

COMEY: I don't think I can talk about that in an open setting, either.COTTON: I
can discuss these more in a closed setting, then.

Mr. Comey, in -- in 2004, you were a part of a well-publicized event about a
intelligence program that had been recertified several times, and you were
acting attorney general when Attorney General John Ashcroft was incapacitated
due to illness. There was a dramatic showdown at the hospital here.

The next day, you've said that you wrote a letter of resignation, and signed it,
before you -- went to meet with President Bush to explain why he (ph) refused to
certify it. Is that accurate?

COMEY: Yes, I think so.

COTTON: At any time in the three and half months you were the FBI director
during the Trump administration, did you ever write and sign a letter of
recommendation, and leave it on your desk?

COMEY: Letter of resignation? No, sir.

COTTON: Letter of resignation.

COMEY: No, sir.

COTTON: So despite all of the things that you've testified to here today, you
didn't feel this rose to the level of an honest but serious difference of legal
opinion between accomplished and skilled lawyers in that 2004 episode?

COMEY: I wouldn't characterize the circumstances of 2004 that way. But to
answer, no, I -- I didn't find -- encounter any circumstance that led me to
intend to resign, consider to resign. No, sir.

COTTON: Thank you.

BURR: Senator Harris.

HARRIS: Director Comey, I want to thank you. You are now a private citizen, and
you are enduring a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing, and each of us get
seven minutes instead of five, as yesterday, to ask you questions. So thank you.

COMEY: Now I'm -- I'm between opportunities now, so...

HARRIS: Well, you're -- you are... (LAUGHTER)

... I'm sure you'll have future opportunities.

You know, you and I are both former prosecutors. Not going to require you to
answer, I just want make a statement that, in -- in my -- my experience of
prosecuting cases, when a robber held a gun to somebody's head, and -- and said,
''I hope you will give me your wallet,'' the word ''hope'' was not the most
operative word at that moment. But you don't have to respond to that point.

I have a series of questions to ask you, and -- and they're going to start with,
are you aware of any meetings between the Trump administration officials and
Russian officials during the campaign that have not been acknowledged by those
officials in the White House?

COMEY: That's not a -- even if I remember clearly, that's a not a question I can
answer in an open setting.

HARRIS: Are you aware of any efforts by Trump campaign officials or associates
of the campaign to hide their communications with Russian officials through
encrypted communications or other means?

COMEY: I have to give you same answer, Senator.

HARRIS: Sure.

In the course of the FBI's investigation, did you ever come across anything that
suggested that communications, records, documents or other evidence had been
destroyed?

COMEY: I think I've got to give you the same answer, because it -- it would
touch investigative matters.HARRIS: And are you aware of any efforts or
potential efforts to conceal communications between campaign officials and
Russian officials?

COMEY: I think I have to give you the same answer, Senator.

HARRIS: Thank you.

As a former attorney general, I have a series of questions about your connection
with the attorney general during the course of your tenure as director.

What is your understanding of the parameters of General Sessions' recusal from
the Russia -- Russia investigation?

COMEY: I think it's described in a written release or statement from DOJ, which
I don't remember, sitting here, but the gist was he would be recused from all
matters relating to Russia and the -- and the campaign, or activities of Russia
and the '16 election, I think. Something like that.

HARRIS: Is -- so is your knowledge of the extent of his recusal based on the
public statements he's made? Or the...

COMEY: Correct.

HARRIS: ... OK. So was there any kind of memorandum issued from the attorney
general or the Department of Justice to the FBI, outlining the parameters of his
recusal?

COMEY: Not that I'm aware of.

HARRIS: And do you know if he reviewed any FBI or DOJ documents pertaining to
the investigation before he was recused?

COMEY: I don't. I don't know.

HARRIS: And after he was recused, I'm assuming it's the same answer.

COMEY: Same answer.

HARRIS: And as -- aside from any notice or memorandum that was not sent or was,
what mechanism or processes were in place to ensure that the attorney general
would not have any connection with the investigation, to your knowledge? COMEY:
I don't know for sure. I know that he had consulted with career ethics officials
that know how to run a recusal at DOJ, but I don't know what mechanism they set
up.

HARRIS: And the attorney general recused himself from the investigation, but do
you believe it was appropriate for him to be involved in the firing of the chief
investigator of that case -- of that Russia interference?

COMEY: That's something I can't answer, sitting here. It -- it's a reasonable
question, but that would depend on a lot of things I don't know, like what did
he know, what was he told, did he realize that the president was doing it
because of the Russia investigation -- things like that. I just don't know the
answer.

HARRIS: You've mentioned in your written testimony and (ph) here that the
president essentially asked you for a loyalty pledge. Are you aware of him
making the same request of any other members of the Cabinet?

COMEY: I am not.

HARRIS: Do you know one way or another what he...

(CROSSTALK)

COMEY: I don't know one way or another. I never heard anything about it.HARRIS:
And you mentioned that on -- you had the conversation where he hoped that you
would let the Flynn matter go on February 14th or thereabouts. It's my
understanding that Mr. Sessions was recused from any involvement in the
investigation about a full two weeks later.

To your knowledge, was the attorney general -- did he have access to information
about the investigation in those interim two weeks?

COMEY: I -- I don't -- I -- in theory, sure, because he's the attorney general.
I don't know whether he had any contact with any materials related to that.

HARRIS: To your knowledge, was there any directive that he should not have any
contact with any information about the Russia investigation between the February
14th date and the day he was ultimately recused -- or recused himself, on March
2nd?

COMEY: Not to my knowledge. I don't know one way or another.

HARRIS: And did you speak to the attorney general about the Russia investigation
before his recusal?

COMEY: I don't think so, no.

HARRIS: Do you know if anyone in the department, in the FBI, forwarded any
documents or information or memos of any sort to the attention of the attorney
general before his recusal?

COMEY: I don't -- I don't know of any, remember any, sitting here. It's
possible, but I -- I don't remember any.

HARRIS: Do you know if the attorney general was involved -- in fact, involved in
any aspect of the Russia investigation after his recusal on the 2nd of March?

COMEY: I don't. I would assume not, but I don't -- I don't -- let me say it this
way. I don't know of any information that would lead me to believe he did
something to touch the Russia investigation after the recusal.

HARRIS: In your written testimony, you indicate that you -- when you -- after
you were left alone with the president, you mentioned that it was inappropriate
and should never happen again to the attorney general. And, apparently, he did
not reply, and you write that he did not reply. What did he do, if anything? Did
he just look at you? Was there a pause for a moment? What happened?

COMEY: I -- I don't remember real clearly. I -- I have a recollection of him
just kind of looking at me -- and there's a danger here I'm projecting onto him,
so this may be a faulty memory -- but I kind of got -- his body language gave me
the sense like, what am I going to do?

HARRIS: Did he shrug?

COMEY: I -- I don't remember clearly. I think the reason I have that impression
is I have some recollection of almost an imperceptible, like, what am I going to
do? But I don't have a clear recollection of that. He didn't say
anything.HARRIS: And, on that same February 14th meeting, you said you
understood the president to be requesting that you drop the investigation.

After that meeting, however, you received two calls from the president -- March
30th and April 11th -- where the president talked about a cloud over his
presidency.

Has anything you've learned in the months since your February 14th meeting
changed your understanding of the president's request? I guess it would be what
he has said in public documents or public interviews?

COMEY: Correct.

HARRIS: OK. And is there anything about this investigation that you believe is
in any way biased or is -- is -- is not being informed by a -- a process of
seeking the truth?

COMEY: No. The -- the appointment of a special counsel should offer great --
especially given who that person is -- great comfort to Americans, no matter
what your political affiliation is, that this will be done independently,
competently and honestly.

HARRIS: And do you believe that he should have full authority, Mr. Mueller, to
be able to pursue that investigation?

COMEY: Yes, and I -- and, knowing him well over the years, if there's something
that he thinks he needs, he will -- he will speak up about it.

HARRIS: Do you believe he should have full independence?

COMEY: Yeah. And he wouldn't be part of it if he wasn't going to get full
independence.

HARRIS: Thank you.

BURR: Senator Cornyn.

CORNYN: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Comey, I'll repeat what I've said at previous hearings, that I believe
you're a good and decent man who's been dealt a very difficult hand, starting
back with the Clinton e-mail investigation. And I appreciate your willingness to
appear here today voluntarily and answer our questions and cooperate with our
investigation.

As a general matter, if an FBI agent has reason to believe that a crime has been
committed, do they have a duty to report it?

COMEY: That's a good question. I don't know that there's a legal duty to report
it. They certainly have a cultural, ethical duty to report it.

CORNYN: You're unsure whether they would have a legal duty?

COMEY: It's a good question. I've not thought about it (ph) before. I don't know
where the legal -- there's a statute that prohibits misprision of a felony --
knowing of a felony and taking steps to conceal it -- but this is a different
question.

And so, look, let me be clear, I would expect any FBI agent who has reason --
information about a crime being committed to report it.

CORNYN: Me, too.

COMEY: But where you rest that obligation, I don't know. It exists.

CORNYN: And let me ask you as a general proposition, if you're trying to make an
investigation go away, is firing an FBI director a good way to make that happen?
By that, I mean...

COMEY: Yeah.

CORNYN: ... doesn't...

COMEY: It doesn't make a lot of sense to me, but I'm -- I'm obviously hopelessly
biased, given that I was the one fired.(LAUGHTER)

CORNYN: I understand it's personal.

COMEY: No (ph), given the nature of the FBI, I meant what I said. There's no
indispensable people in the world, including at the FBI. That -- there's lots of
bad things about me not being at the FBI. Most of them are for me. But the
work's going to go on as before.

CORNYN: So nothing that's happened that you've testified to here today has
impeded the investigation of the FBI or Director Mueller's commitment to get to
the bottom of this, from the standpoint of the FBI and the Department of
Justice. Would you agree with that?

COMEY: Correct, especially -- the appointment of Director -- Former Director
Mueller is a critical part of that equation.

CORNYN: Let me take you back to the Clinton e-mail investigation. I think you've
been cast as a hero or a villain depending on the -- whose political ox is being
gored at many different times during the course of the Clinton e-mail
investigation, and even -- even now, perhaps.

But you clearly were troubled by the conduct of the sitting attorney general,
Loretta Lynch, when it came to the Clinton e-mail investigation. You mentioned
the characterization that you'd been asked to accept that this was a ''matter''
and not a criminal investigation, which you've said it -- it was.

There was the matter of President Clinton's meeting on the tarmac with the
sitting attorney general, at a time when his wife was subject to a criminal
investigation, and you've suggested that perhaps there are other matters that
you may be able to share with us later on in a classified setting.

But it seems to me that you clearly believe that Loretta Lynch, the attorney
general, had a -- an appearance of a conflict of interest on the Clinton e-mail
investigation. Is that correct?

COMEY: I think that's fair. I didn't believe she could credibly decline that
investigation -- at least, not without grievous damage to the Department of
Justice and to the FBI.

CORNYN: And, under Department of Justice and FBI norms, wouldn't it have been
appropriate for the attorney general, or, if she had recused herself -- which
she did not do -- for the deputy attorney general to appoint a special counsel?

That's essentially what's happened now with Director Mueller. Would that have
been an appropriate step in the Clinton e-mail investigation, in your opinion?

COMEY: Yes, certainly a possible step. Yes, sir.

CORNYN: And were you aware that Ms. Lynch had been requested numerous times to
appoint a special counsel, and had refused?COMEY: Yes, from -- I think Congress
had -- members of Congress had repeatedly asked. Yes, sir.

CORNYN: Yours truly...

COMEY: OK.

CORNYN: ... did on multiple occasions. And that heightened your concerns about
the appearance of a conflict of interest with the Department of Justice, which
caused you to make what you have described as an incredibly painful decision to
basically take the matter up yourself, and -- led to that July press conference.

COMEY: Yes, sir. I can -- after the -- President Clinton -- former President
Clinton met on the plane with the attorney general, I considered whether I
should call for the appointment of a special counsel, and had decided that that
would be an unfair thing to do, because I knew there was no case there.

We had investigated very, very thoroughly. I know this is a subject of
passionate disagreement, but I knew there was no case there. And calling for the
appointment of special counsel would be brutally unfair because it would send
the message, aha (ph), there's something here.

That was my judgment. Again, lots of people have different views of it. But
that's how I thought about it.

CORNYN: Well, if the special counsel had been appointed, they could've made that
determination that there was nothing there and declined to pursue it, right?

COMEY: Sure, but it would've been many months later, or a year later.

CORNYN: Let me just ask you to -- given the experience of the Clinton e-mail
investigation and what happened there, do you think it's unreasonable for anyone
-- any president who has been assured on multiple occasions that he's not the
subject of an FBI investigation -- do you think it's unreasonable for them to
want the FBI director to publicly announce that, so that this cloud over his
administration would be removed?

COMEY: I think that's a reasonable point of view. The concern would be,
obviously, because if that boomerang comes back, it's going to be a very big
deal, because there will be a duty to correct. CORNYN: Well, we -- we saw that
in the Clinton e-mail investigation, of course.

COMEY: Yes, I recall that.CORNYN: I know you do. So let me ask you, finally, in
the minute that we have left -- there was this conversation back and forth about
loyalty, and I think we all appreciate the fact that an FBI director is a unique
public official in the sense that he's not -- he's a political appointee in one
sense, but he has a duty of independence to pursue the law pursuant to the --
the -- the constitutional laws of the United States.

And so, when the president asked you about loyalty, you got in this
back-and-forth about, well, I'll pledge you my honesty. And then it looks like,
from what I've read, you agreed upon honest loyalty, or something like that. Is
that the characterization?

COMEY: Yes.

CORNYN: Thank you very much.

COMEY: Thank you, sir.

BURR: Senator Reed.

REED: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Thank you, Director Comey.

There have been press reports that the president, in addition to asking you to
drop the Flynn investigation, has asked other senior intelligence officials to
take steps which would tend to undermine the investigation into Russia.

There have been reports that he's asked DNI Coats and Admiral Rogers to make
public statements exonerating him or -- or taking the pressure off him, and also
reports about Admiral Rogers and Director Pompeo -- to intervene and reach out
to the FBI and ask them.

Are you aware of any of these, or do you have any information with respect to
any of these allegations?

COMEY: I don't. I'm aware of the public reporting, but I had no contact, no
conversation with any of those leaders about that subject.

REED: Thank you. You have testified that you interpret the discussion with the
president about Flynn as a direction to stop the investigation. Is that correct?

COMEY: Yes. REED: You've testified that the president asked you to lift the
cloud by essentially making public statement that exonerated him and perhaps
others. You refused, correct?

COMEY: I didn't -- I didn't do it. I didn't refuse the -- the president. I told
him we would see what we could do, and then the second time he called, I told
him, in substance, that's something your lawyer will have to take up with the
Justice Department.REED: All right (ph). And part of the underlying logic was
that we've -- we've discussed many times throughout this morning -- is the duty
to correct. That is one of -- a theoretical issue, but also a very practical
issue. It -- was there -- your feeling that (ph) the direction of the
investigation could in fact include the president?

COMEY: Well, in theory. I mean, as I explained, the concern of one of my senior
leader colleagues was, if you're looking at potential coordination between the
campaign and Russia, the person at the head of the campaign is the candidate.
So, logically, this person argued, the -- the candidate's knowledge,
understanding, will logically become a part of your inquiry if it proceeds.

And so I understood that argument. My view was that -- that what I said to the
president was accurate and fair, and fair to him. I resisted the idea of
publicly saying it, although, if the Justice Department had wanted to, that -- I
would've done it, because of the duty to correct and the slippery slope problem.

REED: And, again, also, you've testified that the president asked you repeatedly
to be loyal to him, and you responded you would be honestly loyal, which is, I
think, your way of saying, ''I'll be honest, and I'll be the head of the FBI and
independent.'' Is that fair?

COMEY: Correct. I tried ''honest'' first. And also, I mean, you've -- see it in
my testimony -- also tried to explain to him why it's in his interest, and every
president's interest, for the FBI to be apart, in a way -- because its
credibility is important to a president and to the country.

And so I tried to hold the line, hold the line. It got very awkward, and I then
said, ''You'll always have honesty from me.'' He said, ''honest loyalty,'' and
then I acceded to that as a way to end this awkwardness.

REED: At the culmination of all these events, you're summarily fired, without
any explanation or anything else?

COMEY: Well, there was an explanation. I just don't buy it.

REED: Well, yes. So you're fired. So do you believe that you were fired because
you -- you refused to -- to take the president's direction? Is that the ultimate
reason?

COMEY: I don't know for sure. I know I was fired. Again, I take the president's
words. I know I was fired because of something about the way I was conducting
the Russia investigation was, in some way, putting pressure on him, in some way,
irritating him. And he decided to fire me because of that.

REED: Now...

COMEY: I -- I can't go farther than that.REED: ... the Russian investigation, as
you have pointed out, and as all my colleagues have reflected, is one of the
most serious hostile acts against this country in our history.

Undermining the very core of our democracy and our elections is not a discrete
event. It will likely occur -- it's probably being prepared now for '18 and '20
and beyond. And yet the president of the United States fires you because, in
your own words -- some relation to this investigation.

And then he shows up in the Oval Office with the Russian foreign minister,
first, after classifying you as crazy and a real nut job, which I think you've
effectively disproved this morning. He said, ''I face great pressure because of
Russia. That's taken off.'' Your conclusion would be that the president, I would
think, is downplaying the seriousness of this threat.

In fact, took specific steps to stop a thorough investigation of the Russian --
Russian influence. And also, from what you've said, or what was -- been said
this morning, doesn't seem particularly interested in these hostile threats by
the Russians? Is that fair?

COMEY: I don't know that I can agree to that level of detail. There's no doubt
that it's a fair judgment -- it's my judgment that I was fired because of the
Russia investigation. I was fired, in some way, to change -- or the endeavor was
to change the way the Russia investigation was being conducted.

That is a -- that is a very big deal, and not just because it involves me. The
nature of the FBI and the nature of its work requires that it not be the subject
of political consideration.

And on top of that you have -- the Russia investigation itself is vital, because
of the threat. And I know I should've said this earlier, but it's obvious -- if
any Americans were part of helping the Russians do that to us, that is a very
big deal. And I'm confident that, if that is the case, Director Mueller will
find that evidence.

REED: Finally, the president tweeted that James Comey better hope that there are
no tapes of our conversation before he starts leaking to the press. Was that a
rather unsubtle attempt to intimidate you from testifying, and intimidate anyone
else who seriously crosses his path -- of not doing it?

COMEY: I -- I'm not going to sit here and try and interpret the president's
tweets. It -- to me, its major impact was -- as I said, occurred to me in the
middle of the night -- holy cow, there might be tapes. And if there tapes, it's
not just my word against his on -- on the direction to get rid of the Flynn
investigation.REED: Thank you very much.

BURR: Senator McCain?

MCCAIN: In the case of -- Hillary Clinton, you made the statement that there
wasn't sufficient evidence to bring a suit against her, although it had been
very careless -- in their behavior. But you did reach a conclusion in that case
that it was not necessary to further pursue her.

Yet, at the same time, in the case of Mr. Comey, you said that there was not
enough information to make a conclusion. Tell me the different between your
conclusion as far as former Secretary Clinton is concerned and -- and Mr. -- Mr.
Trump.

COMEY: The Clinton investigation was a completed investigation that the FBI been
deeply involved in. And so I had an opportunity to understand all the facts and
apply those facts against the law as I understood them. This investigation was
underway, still going when I was fired. So it's nowhere near in the same place.
At least, it wasn't when I was...

MCCAIN: But it's still ongoing?

COMEY: ... correct, so far as I know. It was when I left.

MCCAIN: That investigation was going on. This investigation is going on. You
reached separate conclusions.

COMEY: No, that one was done. The...

(CROSSTALK)

MCCAIN: That investigation of (ph) any involvement of Secretary Clinton or any
of her associates is completed?

COMEY: Yes, as of July the 5th, the FBI completed its investigative work, and
that's what I was announcing -- what we had done and what we had found.

MCCAIN: Well, at least in the minds of this member, there's a whole lot of
questions remaining about what went on, particularly considering the fact that,
as you mention, it's a, quote, ''big deal'' as to what went on during the
campaign.

So I'm glad you concluded that part of the investigation, but I -- I think that
the American people have a whole lot of questions out there, particularly since
you just emphasized the role that Russia played.

And, obviously, she was a candidate for president at the time, so she was
clearly involved in this whole situation where fake news -- as you just
described it, ''big deal,'' took place.MCCAIN: And you're going to have to help
me out here. In other words, we're complete -- the investigation of anything
that former Secretary Clinton had to do with the campaign is over and we don't
have to worry about it anymore?

COMEY: With respect to Secretary -- I'm not -- I'm a little confused, Senator.
With respect to Secretary Clinton...

MCCAIN: Yeah.

COMEY: ... we investigated criminal investigation in connection with her use of
a personal e-mail server...

MCCAIN: I understand.

COMEY: ... and that's the investigation I announced the conclusion of on July
5th.

MCCAIN: So -- but, at the same time, you made the announcement there would be no
charges brought against then Secretary Clinton for any activities involved in
the Russia involvement in our -- engagement in our election.

I -- I don't quite understand how you could be done with that, but not complete
-- done with the whole investigation of their attempt to affect the outcome of
our election.

COMEY: No. I'm sorry, we're not -- at least, when I left -- when I was fired on
May the 9th, there was still an open, active investigation to understand the
Russian effort, and whether any Americans work with them.

MCCAIN: But you reached the conclusion that there was no reason to bring charges
again Secretary Clinton. So you reached a conclusion.

In the case of Mr. Comey, you -- President Comey (sic)...

COMEY: No, sir.

MCCAIN: ... I mean (ph) -- excuse me -- case of President Trump, you have an
ongoing investigation.

So you got one candidate who you're done with and another candidate that you
have a long way to go. Is that correct? COMEY: I don't know how far the -- the
FBI has to go, but yes, that -- the Clinton e-mail investigation was completed.
The investigation of Russia's efforts in connection with the election, and
whether there was any coordination, and, if so, with whom, between Russia and
the campaign...

(CROSSTALK)

MCCAIN: You just made it -- you just made it...

COMEY: ... was ongoing when I left.

MCCAIN: You just made it clear in what you said, this is a, quote, ''big deal,''
unquote.

I think it's hard to reconcile, in once case you reach complete conclusion, and
the other side, you have -- you have not, and you -- in fact, obviously, there's
a lot there, as -- as we know -- as you called it a, quote, ''big deal.'' She's
one of the candidates. But in her case, you say there will be no charges, and in
the case of President Trump, there -- the -- the investigation continues.MCCAIN:
What has been brought out in this hearing is -- is more and more emphasis on the
Russian engagement and involvement in this campaign. How serious do you think
this was?

COMEY: Very serious. But -- I want to say some -- be clear. It was -- we have
not announced, and there was no predication to announce, an investigation of
whether the Russians may have coordinated with Secretary Clinton's campaign.

Secretary Clinton's...

(CROSSTALK)

MCCAIN: ... No, but -- they may not have been involved with her campaign. They
were involved with the entire presidential campaign, obviously.

COMEY: Of course. Yes, sir. And that is an investigation that began last summer,
and, so far as I'm aware, continues.

MCCAIN: So both President Trump and former Candidate Clinton are both involved
in the investigation. Yet one of them, you said there's going to be no charges,
and the other one, the -- the investigation continues.

Well, I think there's a double standard there, to tell you the truth. Then, when
the president said to you -- you talked about the April 11th phone call, and he
said, quote, ''Because I've been very loyal to you, very loyal. We had that
thing, you know,'' did that arouse your curiosity as what, quote, ''that thing''
was?

COMEY: Yes.

MCCAIN: Why didn't you ask him?

COMEY: It didn't seem to me to be important for the conversation we were having,
to understand it. I took it to be some -- an effort to -- to communicate to me
this -- that there is a relationship between us where I've been good to you, you
should be good to me.

MCCAIN: Yeah, but I -- I think it would intensely arouse my curiosity if the
president of the United States said ''We had that thing, you know'' -- I'd like
to know what the hell that thing is, particularly if I'm the director of the
FBI.

COMEY: Yeah, I -- I get that, Senator. Honestly, I'll tell you what -- this is
speculation, but what I concluded at the time is, in his memory, he was
searching back to our encounter at the dinner, and was preparing himself to say,
''I offered loyalty to you, you promised loyalty to me,'' and all of a sudden
his memory showed him that did not happen, and I think he pulled up short.

That's just a guess, but I -- I -- a lot of conversations with humans over the
years.

MCCAIN: I think I would have had some curiosity if it had been about me, to be
honest with you. So are you aware -- anything that would believe you (ph) -- to
believe that the president or the members of the administration or members of
the campaign could potentially be used to coerce or blackmail the
administration?COMEY: That's a subject for investigations, not something I can
comment on, sitting here.

MCCAIN: But you've reached that conclusion as far as Secretary Clinton was
concerned. But you're not reaching a conclusion as far as this administration is
concerned. Are you aware of anything that would lead you to believe that
information exists that could coerce members of the administration or blackmail
the administration?

COMEY: That's not a question I can answer, Senator.

BURR: Senator's time has expired.

(UNKNOWN): Thank you.

BURR: All time's expired for the hearing. Can I say, for members -- we'll
reconvene promptly at 1 p.m. in the hearing room. We have a vote scheduled for
1:45. I would suggest that all members promptly be there at 1 o'clock. We have
about three minutes.

I'd like to have order. Photographers -- photographers, return to where you
were, please. This hearing's not adjourned yet. Either that, or we'll remove
you.

To members, we have about three minutes of updates that we would love to cover
as soon as we get into the closed session, before we have an opportunity to
spend some time with Director Comey.

Based on our agreement, it would be my intentions to adjourn that closed hearing
between 2 and 2:10, so that members can go vote, and I would urge you to eat at
that time.

Jim, several of us on this committee have had the opportunity to work with you
since you walked in the door. I want to say, personally, on behalf of all this
-- all the committee members, we're grateful to you for your service to your
country, not just in the capacity as FBI director, but as prosecutor, and more
importantly, being somebody that loves this country enough to tell it like it
is.BURR: I want to say to your workforce that we're grateful to them -- with the
level of cooperation that they have shown us, with the trust we've built between
both organizations, the Congress and -- and the bureau. We couldn't do our job
if it wasn't for their willingness to share candidly with us the work that we
need to see.

This hearing's the ninth public hearing this committee has had this year. That
is twice the historical year-long average of this committee. I think the vice
chairman and my's (ph) biggest challenge, when this investigation has concluded,
is to return our hearings to the secrecy of a closed hearing, to encourage our
members not to freely talk about intelligence matters publicly and to respect
the fact that we have a huge job.

And that's to represent the entire body of the United States Senate and the
American people, to make sure that we work with the intelligence community to
provide you the tools to keep America safe, and that you do it within the legal
limit, or those limits that are set by the executive branch.

We could not do it if it wasn't for a trusted partnership that you have been
able to lead, and others before you. So as -- as we depart from this, this is a
pivotal hearing in our investigation. We're grateful to you for the
professionalism you've shown, and your willingness.

I will turn to the vice chairman.

WARNER: I simply want to echo, one, again the thanks for your appearance. And
there clearly still remain a number of questions.

And the one thing I want to commit to you, and more importantly, I think,
Chairman, I want to commit to all those who are still potentially watching and
following -- there's still a lot of unanswered questions, and we're going to get
to the bottom of this.

We're going to get the facts out. The American people deserve to know. There's
the questions around implications of Trump officials and the Russians, but
there's also the macro issue of what the Russians did and continue to do.

And I think it is very important that all Americans realize that threat is real.
It is continuous. It is not just towards our nation. It is all -- towards all
Western democracies. And we have to come to a solution set (ph).

Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

BURR: Director Comey, thank you once again on behalf on the committee.

This hearing's adjourned.

END

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/08/us/politics/senate-hearing-transcript.html

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James B. Comey, the director of the F.B.I. before he was fired
last month by President Trump, appeared Thursday before the Senate Intelligence
Committee on Capitol Hill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 9, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

International Espionage on a Budget: Qatar Cyberattacks Point to a New Reality

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK and SHEERA FRENKEL; David D. Kirkpatrick
reported from Doha, Qatar, and Sheera Frenkel from San Francisco.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1400 words


DOHA, Qatar -- The report appeared just after midnight on the official Qatari
news agency's website, and its contents were stunning: The emir of Qatar was
quoted as describing ''tensions'' with President Trump and speculating he may
not last in office, recommending friendship with Iran, praising the Palestinian
militants of Hamas, and then attesting to his own ''good'' relations with
Israel.

The contradictory statements could hardly have been better contrived to alienate
the United States and Arab countries around the Gulf, and Qatar immediately
began to deny the report, early on May 24. But within 20 minutes, satellite
networks controlled by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates had seized on
the damning news flash and began interviewing long lines of well-prepared
commentators to expound on the perfidy of Qatar.

The Qatari government said the news agency had been hacked, a claim now
supported by the F.B.I. and British law enforcement officials. Though they would
not say so publicly, Qatari officials blamed the Saudis and Emiratis.

Probably not coincidentally, a few days later, emails hacked from the Emirates'
ambassador to Washington began turning up in the Western news media and then the
Qatari news network Al Jazeera.

The cyber-intrigue was the opening skirmish in a pitched battle among ostensible
Gulf allies this week. Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E. rallied dependent Arab states
to cut off diplomatic relations, travel and trade with Qatar, and the unity of
the American-backed alliance against the Islamic State and Iran has been
fractured.

But the dirty tricks also heralded a broader transformation in international
espionage. The dust-up in the Gulf is the clearest sign yet that cyberattacks
coupled with disinformation campaigns are no longer the exclusive domain of
sophisticated powers like Russia. Any country can get in the game for the
relatively low price of a few freelance hackers.

The F.B.I. and other experts concluded the hack of Qatar's news agency was the
result of a computer break-in, and was most likely carried out by Russian
hackers for hire, according to American and Qatari officials briefed on the
investigation. F.B.I. officials told The New York Times that Russian mercenary
hackers have frequently come up in investigations of attacks sponsored by
nation-states.

In fact, the hacking war in the Gulf region has likely been going on for years,
though it has never played out on such a public stage. In 2015, for example, an
Arab intermediary with ties to Qatar provided The Times with internal emails
from the Emirati Foreign Ministry which stated that the U.A.E. was knowingly
violating a United Nations resolution by shipping weapons to Libyan militias.

''The fact of the matter is that the U.A.E. violated the U.N. Security Council
Resolution on Libya and continues to do so,'' Ahmed al-Qasimi, a senior Emirati
diplomat, wrote in an internal email that was dated Aug. 4, 2015, and provided
to The Times. Other internal Emirati emails about Libyan dealings and North
Korean arms deals surfaced through Qatari-linked websites and the Guardian
newspaper.

Qatar has, at times, backed its own Libyan client militias on the other side of
a three-year proxy war against the U.A.E -- with both sides confounding Western
attempts to broker a unity government in Libya.

In a report scheduled to be released on Friday, two independent cybersecurity
researchers claim that at least one group of hackers can be found working as
freelancers for a number of Gulf states, and that their methods bear a striking
resemblance to the methods used to hack the Emirati ambassador.

''They seem to be hackers-for-hire, freelancing for all sorts of different
clients, and adapting their skills as needed,'' said Collin Anderson, who is one
of the researchers. Mr. Anderson and his partner, Claudio Guarnieri, have
nicknamed the group Bahamut, after a monstrous fish floating in the Arabian Sea
in the Jorge Luis Borges novel ''Book of Imaginary Beings.''

The group regularly uses spear phishing attacks -- emails designed to look
innocent but contain malicious software applications. While it is not yet clear
if Bahamut was behind the hack of the ambassador's email, the group targeted a
number of Emirati diplomats as well as other public figures in the Gulf region.

Other news organizations have reported receiving leaked Emirati emails from a
group calling itself GlobalLeaks and using email addressing ending in .ru,
suggesting the mercenary hackers may be Russians or wish to pose as Russian.

The Emirati ambassador, Yousef al-Otaiba, is well known for his assiduous
efforts to convince American think tanks and government officials that Qatar had
threatened the stability of the region by cheering the Arab uprisings of 2011
and, in particular, by backing the Muslim Brotherhood.

Mr. Otaiba, a charismatic figure who speaks nearly native-sounding English, has
also served as a personal tutor in regional politics to Jared Kushner, the
son-in-law and a senior adviser to President Trump.

Several of the newly leaked emails appear to include examples of Mr. Otaiba
pressing anti-Qatari arguments with American officials, who banter with him like
old friends.

In a Feb. 10, 2015, exchange between Mr. Otaiba and Elliott Abrams, a former
Republican White House official, Mr. Abrams appears to joke about the Emirates'
support for the military coup that removed Egypt's Qatari-allied Islamist
president in 2013, almost suggesting that something similar should happen in
Qatar. ''Too bad the Qatari armed forces can't... well, I shouldn't say such
things. That would be undemocratic,'' the email said.

In another leaked exchange, John Hannah, another former Republican White House
official, who is now with the pro-Israel Foundation for the Defense of
Democracies, emailed Mr. Otaiba to complain that an Emirati-owned hotel in Doha
was providing space for a Hamas news conference.

''How's this,'' Ambassador Otaiba replied. ''You move the base then we'll move
the hotel :-).'' (He was obliquely referring to the major American air base in
Qatar, Al Udeid, that has been the headquarters for operations against the
Islamic State. )

In fact, on Thursday, the government of Qatar listed the hacking attack as part
of a broader public influence campaign that has been appearing in American
newspapers and think tank conferences. A timeline the government distributed to
reporters, identified a series of 14 op-ed articles that appeared across the
American media in a sudden flurry beginning around the same time -- late April
-- all singling out Qatar for supporting Islamist militants or extremists.

President Trump arrived in the region on May 20, weeks after the barrage of
criticism began, for an Arab summit in Saudi Arabia. ''He told us exactly: 'We
have to work together in stopping the funding of extremist groups in the region
and whenever I read reports about this region I read about Qatar and Saudi,' ''
the Qatari foreign minister, Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani, recalled
on Thursday.

''Mr. President,'' the foreign minister said he replied, ''are the reports based
on media reports or intelligence reports? If it is based on media reports, then
this is something we cannot answer.''

''We assured them that we have strong cooperation with our security agencies,''
the foreign minister added.

Then, three days after the Trump meeting in Riyadh, the Foundation for the
Defense of Democracies held a conference in Washington dedicated to criticism of
Qatar, titled ''Qatar and the Muslim Brotherhood's Global Affiliates.''

Robert M. Gates, the former defense secretary and a friend of Mr. Otaiba, gave
the keynote. Attendees included many of the authors of the critical op-ed
articles and senior Obama administration officials. Organizers encouraged Mr.
Otaiba to attend, and his staff sent Abu Dhabi, the Emirati capital, a detailed
report.

The hack of the Qatari news agency took place after midnight that night.

Mr. Anderson, the cyber security researcher, said the low cost and relative ease
of hiring hackers meant that more such attacks would surely follow.

''This is the future for what countries all around the world can do,'' he said,
''if they have the money and the resources.''

By Thursday night, Qatar's Al Jazeera network reported that hackers were
attempting to overload and crash its internet servers.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/08/world/middleeast/qatar-cyberattack-espionage-
for-hire.html

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         June 12, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

U.S. Cyberweapons, Used Against Iran and North Korea, Are a Disappointment
Against ISIS

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: WORLD; middleeast

LENGTH: 1856 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Islamic State's internet use has proved a more elusive target
than missile systems or centrifuges, American officials say.


WASHINGTON -- America's fast-growing ranks of secret cyberwarriors have in
recent years blown up nuclear centrifuges in Iran and turned to computer code
and electronic warfare to sabotage North Korea's missile launches, with mixed
results.

But since they began training their arsenal of cyberweapons on a more elusive
target, internet use by the Islamic State, the results have been a consistent
disappointment, American officials say. The effectiveness of the nation's
arsenal of cyberweapons hit its limits, they have discovered, against an enemy
that exploits the internet largely to recruit, spread propaganda and use
encrypted communications, all of which can be quickly reconstituted after
American "mission teams" freeze their computers or manipulate their data.

It has been more than a year since the Pentagon announced that it was opening a
new line of combatagainst the Islamic State, directing Cyber Command, then six
years old, to mount computer-network attacks. The mission was clear: Disrupt the
ability of the Islamic State to spread its message, attract new adherents, pay
fighters and circulate orders from commanders.

But in the aftermath of the recent attacks in Britain and Iran claimed by the
Islamic State, it has become clear that recruitment efforts and communications
hubs reappear almost as quickly as they are torn down. This is prompting
officials to rethink how cyberwarfare techniques, first designed for fixed
targets like nuclear facilities, must be refashioned to fight terrorist groups
that are becoming more adept at turning the web into a weapon.

"In general, there was some sense of disappointment in the overall ability for
cyberoperations to land a major blow against ISIS," or the Islamic State, said
Joshua Geltzer, who was the senior director for counterterrorism at the National
Security Council until March. "This is just much harder in practice than people
think. It's almost never as cool as getting into a system and thinking you'll
see things disappear for good."

Even one of the rare successes against the Islamic State belongs at least in
part to Israel, which was America's partner in the attacks against Iran's
nuclear facilities. Top Israeli cyberoperators penetrated a small cell of
extremist bombmakers in Syria months ago, the officials said. That was how the
United States learned that the terrorist group was working to make explosives
that fooled airport X-ray machines and other screening by looking exactly like
batteries for laptop computers.

The intelligence was so exquisite that it enabled the United States to
understand how the weapons could be detonated, according to two American
officials familiar with the operation. The information helped prompt a ban in
March on large electronic devices in carry-on luggage on flights from 10
airports in eight Muslim-majority countries to the United States and Britain.

It was also part of the classified intelligence that President Trump is accused
of revealing when he met in the Oval Office last month with the Russian foreign
minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, and the ambassador to the United States, Sergey I.
Kislyak. His disclosure infuriated Israeli officials.

The Islamic State's agenda and tactics make it a particularly tough foe for
cyberwarfare. The jihadists use computers and social media not to develop or
launch weapons systems but to recruit, raise money and coordinate future
attacks.

Such activity is not tied to a single place, as Iran's centrifuges were, and the
militants can take advantage of remarkably advanced, low-cost encryption
technologies. The Islamic State, officials said, has made tremendous use of
Telegram, an encrypted messaging system developed largely in Germany.

The most sophisticated offensive cyberoperation the United States has conducted
against the Islamic State sought to sabotage the group's online videos and
propaganda beginning in November, according to American officials.

In the endeavor, called Operation Glowing Symphony, the National Security Agency
and its military cousin, United States Cyber Command, obtained the passwords of
several Islamic State administrator accounts and used them to block out fighters
and delete content. It was initially deemed a success because battlefield videos
disappeared.

But the results were only temporary. American officials later discovered that
the material had been either restored or moved to other servers. That setback
was first reported by The Washington Post.

The experience did not surprise veteran cyberoperators, who have learned,
through hard experience, that cyberweapons buy time but rarely are a permanent
solution. The attacks on Iran's Natanz nuclear facility, begun in the George W.
Bush administration and code-named Olympic Games, destroyed roughly 1,000
centrifuges and set back the Iranians by a year or so -- the amount of time is
still hotly disputed. But it created some room for a diplomatic negotiation.

The attacks on North Korea's missile program, which President Barack Obama
accelerated in 2014, were followed by a remarkable series of missile failures
that Mr. Trump noted in a conversation, which leaked recently, with the
president of the Philippines. But recent evidence suggests that the North, using
a different kind of missile, has overcome at least some of the problems.

The shortcomings of Glowing Symphony illustrated the challenges confronting the
government as it seeks to cripple the Islamic State in cyberspace.

The disruptions often require fighters to move to less secure communications,
making them more vulnerable. Yet because the Islamic State fighters are so
mobile, and their equipment relatively commonplace, reconstituting
communications and putting material up on new servers are not difficult. Some of
it has been encrypted and stored in the cloud, according to intelligence
officials, meaning it can be downloaded in a new place.

"There were folks working hard on this stuff, and there were some
accomplishments that had an impact, but there was no steady stream of
jaw-dropping stuff coming forward as some expected," said Mr. Geltzer, who now
teaches law at Georgetown University Law Center. "There was no sort of shining
cybertool."

The Obama administration's frustration with the lack of success against the
Islamic State was one factor in its effort to oust Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the
director of the N.S.A. and the commander of Cyber Command, according to several
former administration officials. They complained that the organizations were too
focused on traditional espionage and highly sophisticated efforts to use
networks to blow up or incapacitate adversary facilities, like those in Iran and
North Korea.

The former defense secretary Ashton B. Carter traveled to Admiral Rogers's
headquarters in Fort Meade, Md., on several occasions, the officials said, to
voice his displeasure at the slow pace of the effort and to stoke new
initiatives, like Glowing Symphony.

Obama administration officials backed off around the time that President-elect
Trump appeared to be considering Admiral Rogers, who had run the Navy's Fleet
Cyber Command operations, as director of national intelligence -- and the Trump
administration appears to have embraced him.

But the fundamental problem of how to use cybertechniques effectively against
the Islamic State remains.

That was evident in the frustration voiced by Prime Minister Theresa May of
Britain after the recent attack on London Bridge and in nearby restaurants. She
focused on how the internet creates "a safe space" for radical ideology, and
said that "the big companies that provide internet-based services" would have to
join the fight more fully.

They already police for gruesome videos and overt recruitment, and a former
N.S.A. official noted recently that Cyber Command was also highly attuned to
taking down anything that seemed to celebrate the deaths of Americans or other
Westerners.

But in the United States, any crackdown is likely to run headlong into First
Amendment issues, where the advocacy of an ideology, short of direct incitement
to violence, is protected speech.

American officials say that even with the loss of territory in Syria and Iraq,
and a broad military effort to disrupt the Islamic State's activities, the
militants have proved remarkably resilient.

"The global reach of ISIS right now is largely intact," Nicholas Rasmussen, the
director of the National Counterterrorism Center, said in a speech in Washington
last month. "The group also continues to publish thousands of pieces of official
propaganda and to use online apps to organize its supporters and inspire
attacks."

Mr. Rasmussen's assessment came a year after some of the best of the newly
created cyber mission teams joined more traditional military units in the fight.
The teams are the cyber equivalent of Special Forces teams, dispatched around
the world to work on defending Pentagon networks or launching cyberattacks in
coordination with more traditional operations.

Cyberoperations are also closely integrated with Iraqi ground combat and allied
air missions to maximize the impact on Islamic State fighters hunkered down in
the extremist group's two major strongholds: Mosul, Iraq, and Raqqa, Syria.

"We're able to either blind them so they can't see or make sure they can't hear
us," Lt. Gen. Jeffrey L. Harrigian, the allied air commander, said in an
interview at his headquarters in Qatar in December. "There are things we are
doing both with space and cyber that are being effectively synchronized to
achieve important effects even in Mosul and Raqqa."

Lt. Gen. Sean MacFarland, who was the top American military commander in Iraq
until August, said specialists at Cyber Command had assisted his troops in
"disrupting enemy command and control during our offensive operations, and that
support improved over the time I was in command."

Other senior military officials said the number and quality of tools in the
United States' cyberarsenal against the Islamic State had expanded over the past
year. Some of the effects are employed repeatedly over days. Locking Islamic
State propaganda specialists out of their accounts -- or using the coordinates
of their phones and computers to target them for a drone attack -- is now
standard operating procedure.

General Harrigian said allied countries were also employing cyberweapons and
techniques against the Islamic State that the United States did not. Without
identifying specific countries or skills, he said the allies "can do things we
can't do -- some cyberactivities that they have authorities to execute that we
do not."

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

PHOTO: The National Security Agency's headquarters in Fort Meade, Md. An N.S.A.
program to delete ISIS material was initially deemed a success, but the content
reappeared on other servers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO
AGENCY)

Related Articles


     ·    Weakened Militarily, ISIS Still Has Power to Sow Deadly Mayhem
     ·    ISIS Officially Taunts Trump, Ending a Conspicuous Silence
     ·    Suit Calling War on ISIS Illegal Is Rejected
     ·    ISIS Says British Militant Carried Out Suicide Attack in Iraq


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        June 13, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Gifts for Grads

BYLINE: GREGORY HAN

SECTION: SMARTER-LIVING

LENGTH: 1159 words



HIGHLIGHT: This selection of our favorite gift ideas is meant to help start that
new chapter in your grad's life on the right foot.


Graduation usually marks the end of a long road. But in truth, when the caps and
gowns come off, new graduates need help getting their lives started. They may be
going back to school in the fall, starting a new job after getting their diploma
or just moving out from living with mom and dad.

This selection of our favorite gift ideas -- some pragmatic and thoroughly
tested by our colleagues at The Wirecutter, others just fun or inspiring -- is
meant to help start that new chapter in your grad's life on the right foot.

______

Casper Sheets ($120)

All graduates, whether they're moving into their own place or rooming with
friends, will need a fresh set of sheets. Casper's are particularly crisp and
lightweight -- imagine high-end hotel -- and they machine wash in a snap. Once
they're on the bed, they offer even the weariest student a retreat to burrow
into each night.

______

OXO On 9-Cup Coffee Maker ($159)

Just seven minutes. That's all it takes for this drip coffee maker to deliver a
well-balanced cup of good morning without the burned, hard-to-clean drawbacks of
other coffee machines. Grumpy non-morning types will be grateful for the
intuitive controls, even before the caffeine kicks in. The thermal carafe will
keep coffee warm well after you brew it, and a built-in timer tells you exactly
how old that coffee is.

______

Dyson V6 ($279)

Powerful, agile and aggressively styled like a prop from a Michael Bay movie --
the Dyson V6's digital motor spins at a dizzying 110,000 r.p.m., no power cord
required. Dust disappears in the blink of an eye, whether hunted across carpet
or bare floors, yet this vacuum requires only the space of a broom to store and
recharge its battery.

______

Instant Pot IP-DUO60 ($100)

The Instant Pot electric pressure cooker is hands-off, one-pot cooking designed
for those graduating from instant ramen suppers. It's several kitchen appliances
in one: a slow cooker, a pressure cooker, a rice cooker and a sauté pan. It's
perfect for stews, chili, beans, a whole chicken -- even dessert (which you'll
try once you wake up to the enthusiastic internet community around these tiny
wonders).

______

Roku Premiere+ ($89)

A streaming device designed for cable cutters, the Roku Premiere+ covers nearly
all entertainment services available, including Amazon, Google Play Movies & TV,
HBO Go and Now, Hulu, Netflix, Pandora, Showtime, Sling TV, Spotify, and Vudu.
Best of all, it'll stand up to even the newest HDR and 4K TVs, and the highest
definition movies and TV shows.

______

Sony Cyber-Shot DSC-RX100 III ($698)

Sure, smartphones can take pretty nice photos. But none can match the accuracy
of the RX100 III, a compact point-and-shoot that strikes the balance between
portability and performance. Whether you're shooting photos to remember or
videos for the internet, it's an ideal travel partner that really does fit into
most pockets.

______

Raden A22 ($295)

A "smart" carry-on luggage piece that includes a built-in scale, Bluetooth
tracker and a removable USB battery -- all packaged in a nondescript hard shell
case that'll keep your gear safe. You can charge your phone without even opening
the case. Throw in a round-trip ticket somewhere special for an especially
memorable graduation gift.

______

Joybird Korver Sofa ($1,239)

A big-ticket item for someone very special, the Korver Sofa erases memories of
wobbly and worn college furnishings with the foundation of something more
lasting. The Korver seats three people comfortably (four if everyone is O.K.
with getting cozy). It's not cheap, but it's definitely an upgrade from Ikea.

______

Bose QuietComfort 25 ($299)

The Bose QuietComfort 25's noise magic is so pronounced, it's not unreasonable
to wear them everywhere, even without music playing through them. Bose is the
industry standard for noise cancellation, so whether your grad is headed to a
noisy open office or just wants to block out a roommate's movie, these will do
the trick.

______

Rowenta DW 9280 SteamForce ($120)

The Rowenta SteamForce is an insurance policy against wrinkled clothing, erasing
unwanted lines and creases like an icing knife over frosting. It's a top-of-the
line choice for grads who need to look professional for job interviews or that
new gig they landed out of school.

______

Lodge Pre-Seasoned 12-inch Cast Iron Skillet ($27)

A cooking tool that's praised by chefs and cowboys alike. Properly maintained, a
Lodge cast iron skillet is the gift grads will give to their own grads someday.
Beyond its longevity, cast iron can't be beat when it comes to searing steaks,
frying eggs and even baking golden-brown cornbread.

______

The ¡Buenos Nachos! Set ($55)

Who doesn't love nachos? This set has a four-sided pyramid grater that shreds
and slices cheeses with ease, a "baking blanket" to transport that hot plate and
a cookbook packed with more recipes than types of cheese at the grocery store.

______

Sliding Coat Rack ($140)

When you need a place to hang your coat but you don't have a ton of space, this
wall-mountable sliding coat rack is ideal. The top rail slides left or right if
you have guests and need room to hang more coats.

______

Slow Brew Iced Tea Maker ($50)

Slow brewing results in a cleaner, better tasting cup of tea, and this tea maker
uses ice cubes and time to make a drink worth savoring. Drip by drip, ice water
travels down to a bed of tea leaves inside a clear infuser. The resulting tea is
absent of bitterness, and rewards your patience with clean refreshment.

______

Monstera Deliciosa Plant Mobile ($130)

Whether your grad has a green thumb or struggles to keep plants alive, this
mobile adds the look of nature to a space without the time and energy of hanging
plants. This split leaf philodendron mobile requires little care beyond moments
of occasional admiration, and makes a great statement in a new home.

______

Helado Throw ($155)

Give your grad the gift of warmth and style at once with this throw. Soft, warm,
Alpaca wool handwoven by traditional Peruvian weavers into a tastefully modern
plaid of cream, and black makes the message clear: You've got your grad covered
when it comes to style, and more important, comfort.

______

In the Works Tote ($495)

For the woman on your list, a tote perfectly equipped for every situation.
Spacious and easy to carry with cushioned straps and enough space for a laptop
and tablet, this one tote to rule them all features interior pockets for small
items and an exterior zipper pocket for a phone, keys or wallet.

______

Fear Less/Fearless Unisex Heather Grey Pullover Sweater ($50)

A simple pullover that's comfortable enough to wear around the house but good
looking enough to wear out and about, this heather gray pullover sports some
powerful word play as a reminder for those entering the post-collegiate world.

This guide includes "affiliate links" for readers who want to buy. While all the
products are independently chosen by our journalists, The Times may earn a
commission on purchases through the affiliate links.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 13, 2017 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Digital Weapons That Worked in Iran Miss Mark Against ISIS, Officials Say

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1791 words


WASHINGTON -- America's fast-growing ranks of secret cyberwarriors have in
recent years blown up nuclear centrifuges in Iran and turned to computer code
and electronic warfare to sabotage North Korea's missile launches, with mixed
results.

But since they began training their arsenal of cyberweapons on a more elusive
target, internet use by the Islamic State, the results have been a consistent
disappointment, American officials say. The effectiveness of the nation's
arsenal of cyberweapons hit its limits, they have discovered, against an enemy
that exploits the internet largely to recruit, spread propaganda and use
encrypted communications, all of which can be quickly reconstituted after
American ''mission teams'' freeze their computers or manipulate their data.

It has been more than a year since the Pentagon announced that it was opening a
new line of combat against the Islamic State, directing Cyber Command, then six
years old, to mount computer-network attacks. The mission was clear: Disrupt the
ability of the Islamic State to spread its message, attract new adherents, pay
fighters and circulate orders from commanders.

But in the aftermath of the recent attacks in Britain and Iran claimed by the
Islamic State, it has become clear that recruitment efforts and communications
hubs reappear almost as quickly as they are torn down. This is prompting
officials to rethink how cyberwarfare techniques, first designed for fixed
targets like nuclear facilities, must be refashioned to fight terrorist groups
that are becoming more adept at turning the web into a weapon.

''In general, there was some sense of disappointment in the overall ability for
cyberoperations to land a major blow against ISIS,'' or the Islamic State, said
Joshua Geltzer, who was the senior director for counterterrorism at the National
Security Council until March. ''This is just much harder in practice than people
think. It's almost never as cool as getting into a system and thinking you'll
see things disappear for good.''

Even one of the rare successes against the Islamic State belongs at least in
part to Israel, which was America's partner in the attacks against Iran's
nuclear facilities. Top Israeli cyberoperators penetrated a small cell of
extremist bombmakers in Syria months ago, the officials said. That was how the
United States learned that the terrorist group was working to make explosives
that fooled airport X-ray machines and other screening by looking exactly like
batteries for laptop computers.

The intelligence was so exquisite that it enabled the United States to
understand how the weapons could be detonated, according to two American
officials familiar with the operation. The information helped prompt a ban in
March on large electronic devices in carry-on luggage on flights from 10
airports in eight Muslim-majority countries to the United States and Britain.

It was also part of the classified intelligence that President Trump is accused
of revealing when he met in the Oval Office last month with the Russian foreign
minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, and the ambassador to the United States, Sergey I.
Kislyak. His disclosure infuriated Israeli officials.

The Islamic State's agenda and tactics make it a particularly tough foe for
cyberwarfare. The jihadists use computers and social media not to develop or
launch weapons systems but to recruit, raise money and coordinate future
attacks.

Such activity is not tied to a single place, as Iran's centrifuges were, and the
militants can take advantage of remarkably advanced, low-cost encryption
technologies. The Islamic State, officials said, has made tremendous use of
Telegram, an encrypted messaging system developed largely in Germany.

The most sophisticated offensive cyberoperation the United States has conducted
against the Islamic State sought to sabotage the group's online videos and
propaganda beginning in November, according to American officials.

In the endeavor, called Operation Glowing Symphony, the National Security Agency
and its military cousin, United States Cyber Command, obtained the passwords of
several Islamic State administrator accounts and used them to block out fighters
and delete content. It was initially deemed a success because battlefield videos
disappeared.

But the results were only temporary. American officials later discovered that
the material had been either restored or moved to other servers. That setback
was first reported by The Washington Post.

The experience did not surprise veteran cyberoperators, who have learned,
through hard experience, that cyberweapons buy time but rarely are a permanent
solution. The attacks on Iran's Natanz nuclear facility, begun in the George W.
Bush administration and code-named Olympic Games, destroyed roughly 1,000
centrifuges and set back the Iranians by a year or so -- the amount of time is
still hotly disputed. But it created some room for a diplomatic negotiation.

The attacks on North Korea's missile program, which President Barack Obama
accelerated in 2014, were followed by a remarkable series of missile failures
that Mr. Trump noted in a conversation, which leaked recently, with the
president of the Philippines. But recent evidence suggests that the North, using
a different kind of missile, has overcome at least some of the problems.

The shortcomings of Glowing Symphony illustrated the challenges confronting the
government as it seeks to cripple the Islamic State in cyberspace.

The disruptions often require fighters to move to less secure communications,
making them more vulnerable. Yet because the Islamic State fighters are so
mobile, and their equipment relatively commonplace, reconstituting
communications and putting material up on new servers are not difficult. Some of
it has been encrypted and stored in the cloud, according to intelligence
officials, meaning it can be downloaded in a new place.

''There were folks working hard on this stuff, and there were some
accomplishments that had an impact, but there was no steady stream of
jaw-dropping stuff coming forward as some expected,'' said Mr. Geltzer, who now
teaches law at Georgetown University Law Center. ''There was no sort of shining
cybertool.''

The Obama administration's frustration with the lack of success against the
Islamic State was one factor in its effort to oust Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the
director of the N.S.A. and the commander of Cyber Command, according to several
former administration officials. They complained that the organizations were too
focused on traditional espionage and highly sophisticated efforts to use
networks to blow up or incapacitate adversary facilities, like those in Iran and
North Korea.

The former defense secretary Ashton B. Carter traveled to Admiral Rogers's
headquarters in Fort Meade, Md., on several occasions, the officials said, to
voice his displeasure at the slow pace of the effort and to stoke new
initiatives, like Glowing Symphony.

Obama administration officials backed off around the time that President-elect
Trump appeared to be considering Admiral Rogers, who had run the Navy's Fleet
Cyber Command operations, as director of national intelligence -- and the Trump
administration appears to have embraced him.

But the fundamental problem of how to use cybertechniques effectively against
the Islamic State remains.

That was evident in the frustration voiced by Prime Minister Theresa May of
Britain after the recent attack on London Bridge and in nearby restaurants. She
focused on how the internet creates ''a safe space'' for radical ideology, and
said that ''the big companies that provide internet-based services'' would have
to join the fight more fully.

They already police for gruesome videos and overt recruitment, and a former
N.S.A. official noted recently that Cyber Command was also highly attuned to
taking down anything that seemed to celebrate the deaths of Americans or other
Westerners.

But in the United States, any crackdown is likely to run headlong into First
Amendment issues, where the advocacy of an ideology, short of direct incitement
to violence, is protected speech.

American officials say that even with the loss of territory in Syria and Iraq,
and a broad military effort to disrupt the Islamic State's activities, the
militants have proved remarkably resilient.

''The global reach of ISIS right now is largely intact,'' Nicholas Rasmussen,
the director of the National Counterterrorism Center, said in a speech in
Washington last month. ''The group also continues to publish thousands of pieces
of official propaganda and to use online apps to organize its supporters and
inspire attacks.''

Mr. Rasmussen's assessment came a year after some of the best of the newly
created cyber mission teams joined more traditional military units in the fight.
The teams are the cyber equivalent of Special Forces teams, dispatched around
the world to work on defending Pentagon networks or launching cyberattacks in
coordination with more traditional operations.

Cyberoperations are also closely integrated with Iraqi ground combat and allied
air missions to maximize the impact on Islamic State fighters hunkered down in
the extremist group's two major strongholds: Mosul, Iraq, and Raqqa, Syria.

''We're able to either blind them so they can't see or make sure they can't hear
us,'' Lt. Gen. Jeffrey L. Harrigian, the allied air commander, said in an
interview at his headquarters in Qatar in December. ''There are things we are
doing both with space and cyber that are being effectively synchronized to
achieve important effects even in Mosul and Raqqa.''

Lt. Gen. Sean MacFarland, who was the top American military commander in Iraq
until August, said specialists at Cyber Command had assisted his troops in
''disrupting enemy command and control during our offensive operations, and that
support improved over the time I was in command.''

Other senior military officials said the number and quality of tools in the
United States' cyberarsenal against the Islamic State had expanded over the past
year. Some of the effects are employed repeatedly over days. Locking Islamic
State propaganda specialists out of their accounts -- or using the coordinates
of their phones and computers to target them for a drone attack -- is now
standard operating procedure.

General Harrigian said allied countries were also employing cyberweapons and
techniques against the Islamic State that the United States did not. Without
identifying specific countries or skills, he said the allies ''can do things we
can't do -- some cyberactivities that they have authorities to execute that we
do not.''

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/12/world/middleeast/isis-cyber.html

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The National Security Agency's headquarters in Fort Meade, Md.
An N.S.A. program to delete ISIS material was initially deemed a success, but
the content reappeared on other servers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO/EUROPEAN
PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 16, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dutch Face Rising Seas. The World Is Watching.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN.

Follow Michael Kimmelman on Twitter at @kimmelman; and on Facebook at
facebook.com/michaelkimmelman

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3240 words


ROTTERDAM, the Netherlands -- The wind over the canal stirred up whitecaps and
rattled cafe umbrellas. Rowers strained toward a finish line and spectators
hugged the shore. Henk Ovink, hawkish, wiry, head shaved, watched from a V.I.P.
deck, one eye on the boats, the other, as usual, on his phone.

Mr. Ovink is the country's globe-trotting salesman in chief for Dutch expertise
on rising water and climate change. Like cheese in France or cars in Germany,
climate change is a business in the Netherlands. Month in, month out,
delegations from as far away as Jakarta, Ho Chi Minh City, New York and New
Orleans make the rounds in the port city of Rotterdam. They often end up hiring
Dutch firms, which dominate the global market in high-tech engineering and water
management.

That's because from the first moment settlers in this small nation started
pumping water to clear land for farms and houses, water has been the central,
existential fact of life in the Netherlands, a daily matter of survival and
national identity. No place in Europe is under greater threat than this
waterlogged country on the edge of the Continent. Much of the nation sits below
sea level and is gradually sinking. Now climate change brings the prospect of
rising tides and fiercer storms.

From a Dutch mind-set, climate change is not a hypothetical or a drag on the
economy, but an opportunity. While the Trump administration withdraws from the
Paris accord, the Dutch are pioneering a singular way forward.

It is, in essence, to let water in, where possible, not hope to subdue Mother
Nature: to live with the water, rather than struggle to defeat it. The Dutch
devise lakes, garages, parks and plazas that are a boon to daily life but also
double as enormous reservoirs for when the seas and rivers spill over. You may
wish to pretend that rising seas are a hoax perpetrated by scientists and a
gullible news media. Or you can build barriers galore. But in the end, neither
will provide adequate defense, the Dutch say.

And what holds true for managing climate change applies to the social fabric,
too. Environmental and social resilience should go hand in hand, officials here
believe, improving neighborhoods, spreading equity and taming water during
catastrophes. Climate adaptation, if addressed head-on and properly, ought to
yield a stronger, richer state.

This is the message the Dutch have been taking out into the world. Dutch
consultants advising the Bangladeshi authorities about emergency shelters and
evacuation routes recently helped reduce the numbers of deaths suffered in
recent floods to ''hundreds instead of thousands,'' according to Mr. Ovink.

''That's what we're trying to do,'' he said. ''You can say we are marketing our
expertise, but thousands of people die every year because of rising water, and
the world is failing collectively to deal with the crisis, losing money and
lives.'' He ticks off the latest findings: 2016 was the warmest year on record;
global sea levels rose to new highs.

He proudly shows off the new rowing course just outside Rotterdam, where the
World Rowing Championships were staged last summer. The course forms part of an
area called the Eendragtspolder, a 22-acre patchwork of reclaimed fields and
canals -- a prime example of a site built as a public amenity that collects
floodwater in emergencies. It is near the lowest point in the Netherlands, about
20 feet below sea level. With its bike paths and water sports, the
Eendragtspolder has become a popular retreat. Now it also serves as a reservoir
for the Rotte River Basin when the nearby Rhine overflows, which, because of
climate change, it's expected to do every decade.

The project is among dozens in a nationwide program, years in the making, called
Room for the River, which overturned centuries-old strategies of seizing
territory from rivers and canals to build dams and dikes. The Netherlands
effectively occupies the gutter of Europe, a lowlands bounded on one end by the
North Sea, into which immense rivers like the Rhine and the Meuse flow from
Germany, Belgium and France. Dutch thinking changed after floods forced hundreds
of thousands to evacuate during the 1990s. The floods ''were a wake-up call to
give back to the rivers some of the room we had taken,'' as Harold van Waveren,
a senior government adviser, recently explained.

''We can't just keep building higher levees, because we will end up living
behind 10-meter walls,'' he said. ''We need to give the rivers more places to
flow. Protection against climate change is only as strong as the weakest link in
the chain, and the chain in our case includes not just the big gates and dams at
the sea but a whole philosophy of spatial planning, crisis management,
children's education, online apps and public spaces.''

Mr. van Waveren was talking about a national GPS-guided app created so that
residents always know exactly how far below sea level they are. To use public
pools unrestricted, Dutch children must first earn diplomas that require
swimming in their clothes and shoes. ''It's a basic part of our culture, like
riding a bike,'' Rem Koolhaas, the Dutch architect, told me.

In the Netherlands, scholarly articles about changes to the Arctic ice cap make
front-page headlines. Long before climate change deniers began to campaign
against science in the United States, Dutch engineers were preparing for
apocalyptic, once-every-10,000-years storms. ''For us, climate change is beyond
ideology,'' said Rotterdam's mayor, Ahmed Aboutaleb. He took me one morning
around new waterfront development in a formerly poor, industrial neighborhood,
to show how urban renewal dovetails with strategies to mitigate the effects of
climate change.

''If there is a shooting in a bar, I am asked a million questions,'' Mr.
Aboutaleb said of his city. ''But if I say everyone should own a boat because we
predict a tremendous increase in the intensity of rain, nobody questions the
politics. Rotterdam lies in the most vulnerable part of the Netherlands, both
economically and geographically. If the water comes in, from the rivers or the
sea, we can evacuate maybe 15 out of 100 people. So evacuation isn't an option.
We can escape only into high buildings. We have no choice. We must learn to live
with water.''

A Moroccan-born Muslim and a rising star in the Dutch political world who
denounces religious radicals and reactionary nationalists alike, the mayor runs
a traditionally tough, working-class city. Rotterdam today is anything but a
paradise. It is riven by social fissures and discord over immigration. But it
has begun to improve in recent years as it has become greener and more diverse.
When asked about climate threats, the mayor talks about creating a less divided,
more attractive, healthier city -- more capable of facing the stresses climate
change imposes on society.

''That's just common sense,'' Mr. Aboutaleb said. The Eendragtspolder is one
example, he pointed out, repaying Rotterdam's investment with green spaces and
the rowing course, which has the added perk of aiding a prospective Dutch bid
for the 2028 Olympics.

Leveled by bombs during World War II, Rotterdam is not quaint and touristic like
Amsterdam but industrial, down to earth, a surprisingly stylish sleeper among
Europe's cultural hubs, with a legacy of radical architecture, attracting young
designers and entrepreneurs. Its tradition of openness has made it a magnet for
outsiders and helped it recover from years of hardship, when, during the 1970s,
'80s and '90s, it became notoriously crime-ridden and filthy, a place wealthy
people fled.

Lately the city, accustomed to starting over, has reinvented itself as a capital
of enterprise and environmental ingenuity. It has pioneered the construction of
facilities like those parking garages that become emergency reservoirs, ensuring
that the city can prevent sewage overflow from storms now predicted to happen
every five or 10 years. It has installed plazas with fountains, gardens and
basketball courts in underserved neighborhoods that can act as retention ponds.
It has reimagined its harbors and stretches of its formerly industrial
waterfront as incubators for new businesses, schools, housing and parks.

These are all stops on the standard tour for visiting foreign delegations:
proof-of-concept urban interventions, if not actually all-encompassing
solutions, that address climate threats in ways that incrementally serve the
economy and social needs.

''A smart city has to have a comprehensive, holistic vision beyond levees and
gates,'' as Arnoud Molenaar, the city's climate chief, put it. ''The challenge
of climate adaptation is to include safety, sewers, housing, roads, emergency
services. You need public awareness. You also need cyber-resilience, because the
next challenge in climate safety is cybersafety. You can't have vulnerable
systems that control your sea gates and bridges and sewers. And you need good
policies, big and small.

''This starts with little things, like getting people to remove the concrete
pavement from their gardens so the soil underneath absorbs rainwater,'' Mr.
Molenaar said. ''It ends with the giant storm surge barrier at the North Sea.''

A Vast Floodgate

That would be the Maeslantkering, built near the mouth of the sea, about a
half-hour drive west from downtown Rotterdam -- the city's first line of
defense. It is the size of two tubular Eiffel Towers, toppled over.

In the 20 years since it opened, the Maeslantkering hasn't actually been needed
to prevent a flood, but it is tested regularly just in case. Picnickers line the
shore to watch. The trial closings are a little like the Dutch version of the
Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade.

I drove with Mr. van Waveren to see it one day. It is not uncommon here to
witness the astonishing sight of ships cruising by overhead. This happens in a
country where the highways are frequently below sea level.

The Maeslantkering is a consequence of repeated historic calamities. In 1916,
the North Sea overwhelmed the Dutch coastline, inaugurating a spate of
protective construction that failed to hold back the water in 1953 when an
overnight storm killed more than 1,800 people. The Dutch still call it the
Disaster. They redoubled national efforts, inaugurating the Delta Works project
that dammed two major waterways and produced the Maeslantkering -- the giant sea
gate, completed in 1997, keeping open the immense waterway that services the
entire port of Rotterdam.

Protecting the port is paramount. Once the world's busiest, Rotterdam's port
remains the most important in Europe, each year serving tens of thousands of
ships from around the world, supplying steel to Germany, petrochemicals to South
America and pretty much everything else to everywhere. The port is still the
bedrock industry in this city of more than 600,000, according to port officials,
accounting for 90,000 jobs, not to mention another 90,000 workers whose
businesses depend on the port, too.

The port supports five oil refineries, whose owners include Shell and the Koch
brothers, along with a massive coal-fire power plant. Officials say the port
accounts for 17 percent of the entire nation's carbon footprint. A central
paradox -- and to skeptics, the ultimate hypocrisy -- of this city's
environmental self-branding is that, at heart, Rotterdam's economy continues to
rely on the fossil fuel industry.

How the port eventually transitions to a greener economy, authorities concede,
is the greatest challenge they face, along with climate change. They describe
plans for immense wind farms in the North Sea and strategies to capture heat
from fuel-burning factories to warm the greenhouses that supply the country's
agricultural yield. The Netherlands exports nearly $100 billion a year in
agricultural products, second only to the United States.

In any case, the safe transport of all those raw materials, not to mention the
responsibility of keeping the feet of people in the city dry, now and in the
future, depends on the Maeslantkering.

The idea behind it, first discussed decades ago, was unprecedented -- a
monumental gate with two arms, resting on either side of the canal, each arm as
tall and twice as heavy as the Eiffel Tower. It was a staggering work of
engineering. Wim Quist, the architect, devised an object of surpassing beauty,
one of modern Europe's lesser-known marvels.

Mr. van Waveren described how it works. When the gate is closed, the arms float
out onto the canal, meet and lock, the tubes filling with water and sinking onto
a concrete bed, making an impenetrable steel wall against the North Sea. The
process takes two and a half hours. Pressure from the sea is then transferred
from the wall to the largest ball joints in the world, embedded in the banks on
either side of the river.

Computers, using a closed electronic system to avoid cyberattack, monitor sea
levels hourly and can shut the gate automatically -- or open it. This is
critical: Thirty pumps inside the gate are linked to one of the country's power
grids. They extract water from the tubes when it is time for the Maeslantkering
to be reopened.

If the grid fails, there is a backup grid and, as a last resort, a generator,
because even more dangerous than the gate's not closing is the gate's not
reopening. In that case, water pouring down from the Rhine and Meuse rivers
could not flow into the sea and would overwhelm Rotterdam even more swiftly than
the North Sea could. As Mr. Aboutaleb noted, escape would be impossible.

Mr. Ovink said only half-jokingly, ''the last resort would be to blow it up.''
The Maeslantkering was clearly built with Hollywood disaster-movie scenarios in
mind: There are redundancies to redundancies, and the barrier is prepared for
the most extreme climate change models, with sea levels rising beyond current
forecasts.

Even so, Rotterdam port officials have plans underway to add another two feet to
the height of the gate.

Reshaping Neighborhoods

Beyond the Maeslantkering, back in town, there are countless fortifications, big
and small, knitted into streets and squares. One sunny afternoon, I met Wynand
Dassen, manager of Rotterdam's resilience team, and Paul van Roosmalen, who
oversees rooftop development for the city, at the Dakpark, a dike in a poor,
largely immigrant neighborhood bordering industrial waterfront. The site of the
Dakpark used to be a railway switching station, a grim nowhere place abutting a
cluster of social housing blocks. This was a red-light district, notorious for
drug dealers and crime.

The dike does a lot more than just hold back water. It has a shopping center,
which the neighborhood needed, and a park on the roof. Shops face the waterfront
and help pay to keep up the park. The park slopes from the roof down to streets
and housing blocks, creating a grassy hill that links park and neighborhood.

When the weather is good, sunbathers sprawl on the grassy roof and toss
Frisbees. Formal gardens open onto acres of well-kept lawns. The park is a
kilometer long. And wonderful. Its success -- not only as a barrier but also as
a boon to business and the area -- has persuaded officials to consult
neighborhoods and set aside money for community-initiated projects. ''We became
invested in getting more people involved in all kinds of civic issues,'' Mr.
Dassen told me, ''and water inevitably becomes an integral part of this process.
We believe you get the smartest solutions when communities are engaged and help
make the links between water and neighborhood development.''

Mr. van Roosmalen agreed. ''It's an example of what you can do if you connect
storm-water management with social welfare and neighborhood improvements,'' he
said. ''It's what we mean here in Rotterdam by 'resilience planning.'''

In a neighborhood nearby, where drug addicts used to trek all the way from
France to buy cheap heroin, I came across Marleen ten Vergert, a single parent
supporting a young daughter on a civil servant's modest salary. Women in hijabs
lugged groceries, old men lounged on park benches and children rode skateboards
over broken concrete paths, past aged housing blocks. One block of houses
surrounded a water plaza created to capture floodwater. Young families were
enticed by prices of a single euro to buy abandoned houses around it. Many
families came and went. The water park was vandalized. But, slowly, little by
little, it has come to be embraced by the neighborhood.

''Now, for the most part, it works,'' Ms. Vergert told me. ''People want the
water square, so they take better care of it. There's a greenhouse nearby run by
a Turkish community. The value of houses in the neighborhood has gone up.''

A few blocks away, a start-up in a converted industrial waterfront building is
developing solar-powered sailing drones for collecting plastic trash from the
sea, and, back in the middle of the city, a warehouse with a Brooklynesque mix
of artisanal food stalls, a circus academy and a pinball museum has rejuvenated
a formerly dingy pier. Where the old Hotel New York, a century-old landmark,
used to be the tallest building along a stretch of waterfront, skyscrapers have
sprung up, producing a whole new business district in Rotterdam, with a
photography museum across the street from the city's signature office tower, De
Rotterdam, by Mr. Koolhaas, and Ben van Berkel's harplike Erasmus Bridge.

Rotterdam is clearly trying to cast itself as a model of inventive urbanism. A
local businessman, Peter van Wingerden, envisions floating dairy farms along the
waterfront. One in every three trucks coming into the city carries food, he
said. Floating farms would reduce truck traffic and carbon emissions, supplying
the city with its own milk. With the city's encouragement, he is constructing a
$2.2 million prototype, for 40 cows, producing a half-million liters (about
130,000 gallons) of milk a year. ''The river is no longer just for industry,''
he told me. ''We need to find new uses, which keep us safe from climate change,
and help the city grow and prosper.''

That's the city's mantra. When I asked Mr. van Wingerden if it was unsettling to
live in a waterfront city mostly below sea level, he said: ''It seems to us less
dangerous than living on the San Andreas Fault. At least when we flood, we'll
have some warning before our feet get wet.''

To the Dutch, what's truly incomprehensible, he added, is New York after
Hurricane Sandy, where too little has been done to prepare for the next
disaster. People in the Netherlands believe that the places with the most people
and the most to lose economically should get the most protection.

The idea that a global economic hub like Lower Manhattan flooded during
Hurricane Sandy, costing the public billions of dollars, yet still has so few
protections, leaves climate experts here dumbfounded.

Mr. Molenaar, Rotterdam's climate chief, summed up the Dutch view: ''We have
been able to put climate change adaptation high on the public agenda without
suffering a disaster in many years because we have shown the benefits of
improving public space -- the added economic value of investing in resilience.

''It's in our genes,'' he said. ''Water managers were the first rulers of the
land. Designing the city to deal with water was the first task of survival here
and it remains our defining job. It's a process, a movement.

''It is not just a bunch of dikes and dams, but a way of life.''




URL:

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rotterdam, a vital port reliant on fossil fuels, in a nation
leading the charge on climate adaptation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A1)
Near right, a storm surge in 1953 flooded the Dutch coastline, killing more than
1,800. Far right, fifth graders practice swimming with their clothes and shoes
on. In the Netherlands, water is a daily matter of survival and national
identity. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CO ZEYLEMAKER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
At right, from top: Rowers at the Eendragtspolder, a site intended to be both a
public amenity and an emergency reservoir
and a water plaza in the Spangen neighborhood of Rotterdam created to capture
floodwater. (A12)
Each of the two arms of the Maeslantkering, the immense sea gate protecting the
port of Rotterdam, is as tall as -- and twice as heavy as -- the Eiffel Tower.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12-A13)
PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANS LEMMENS/HOLLANDSE HOOGTE -- REDUX) (A13) MAPS: Area
of Rotterdam below sea level (Source: Municipality of Rotterdam | Note:
Elevation data is only shown for Rotterdam city limits.) (MAPS BY JUGAL K.
PATEL/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)
 CHART (A13)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         June 23, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

New York Today: Where Every Day Is 'Take Your Dog to Work Day';
New York Today

BYLINE: ALEXANDRA S. LEVINE

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1305 words



HIGHLIGHT: Friday: Pip the office dog, weekend events and Michelangelo in
Manhattan.


Good morning on this soggy Friday.

Meet Pip.

He's a 10-month-old rescue pup who goes to the office every day with his owner,
not just on Take Your Dog to Work Day, which is today.

(The unofficial holiday was first promoted in 1999 by Pet SittersInternational,
a group that offers certification by correspondence course for professional pet
sitters.)

Pip doesn't have to deal with subway delays on his morning commute. Instead, he
takes a leisurely walk from his East Village apartment to Alley, a co-working
space in Chelsea. He rolls in between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m., and attends or skips
company meetings as he pleases. He often spends his workday looking for new
toys, foraging for treats and snoozing on a plush gray couch.

"He views himself as king of the office," said his owner, Carl Niedbala, the
chief operating officer of Founder Shield, an insurance brokerage aimed at
start-ups, which operates out of the building. "But a benevolent king, not a
tyrant."

Pip, who was found on the streets of Los Angeles and was then transferred to
Waggytail Rescue in New York in October, is part Chihuahua, part Pomeranian and
part Jack Russell terrier.

We sat through an afternoon meeting with Pip, who was riveted by a slide show
presentation -- his tail curled and his ears pricked up. But when the terms
"search engine optimization" and "cyber insurance" started being thrown around,
Pip began to yawn, shift between a chair and the floor, and sniff wires and
electrical sockets beneath the table.

Then his focus turned to a French bulldog named Emma, who strutted by on a neon
pink leash. But she is not his only canine co-worker. There's also a Scottish
terrier named Roosevelt and a golden doodle named Dawkins.

Pip's unofficial role at the company is bringing people together.

He has "started conversations from running up to people, and they've become
clients," Mr. Niedbala said. Having dogs on staff (and even on a person's lap)
can put potential clients and investors at ease, he explained.

Pip, he said, is also a major morale booster.

"It's the same way people look at a campfire -- something that fully takes your
attention away from whatever is stressing you out at the time," Mr. Niedbala
said. "You get distracted by Pip for 10 minutes, and then you feel better."

What do you think of Take Your Dog to Work Day? Should it be every day, or
never? Let us know in the comments.

Here's what else is happening:

Weather

We're in for a damp one.

Showers are likely all day, with a chance of thunder in the afternoon.

The high is 83, but it'll feel like 88 with all the moisture in the air.

Let's hope there aren't too many wet dogs in the office today.

In the News

After the legislative session ended with no deal on mayoral control of schools,
lawmakers had plenty of blame to offer but few solutions. [New York Times]

Joseph J. Lhota, who stepped down as chair of the Metropolitan Transportation
Authority in 2012 to run for mayor, will return to the post. [New York Times]

A Bronx man who the authorities said had been on his way to join the Islamic
State in Syria was arrested at Kennedy International Airport on Wednesday night.
[New York Times]

The Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn announced plans to compensate hundreds of
people abused as children by its priests and deacons. [New York Times]

The Buffalo Board of Education is weighing whether to remove one of its members,
who made racist remarks about the Obamas in December. [New York Times]

A last-minute bill to name the new Tappan Zee Bridge after Gov. Andrew M.
Cuomo's father failed to pass the Assembly. [New York Times]

Pete Flynn, a groundskeeper for the Mets since the team's inception in 1962, has
died at 79. [New York Times]

In "Big City," Ginia Bellafante writes about a publicly subsidized middle-income
housing complex that is telling its poorer neighbors to keep out. [New York
Times]

The 25 miles of the Belt Parkway may be New York's version of California's
Pacific Coast Highway. [New York Times]

 City officials started a campaign to fight housing discrimination against
immigrants. [DNAinfo]

The City Council voted to ban wild animals at circuses, but the bill will only
affect UniverSoul, the city's one remaining circus. [NY1]

Today's Metropolitan Diary: "Who's That Cat?"

Scoreboard: Angels purify Yankees, 10-5. Dodgers wallop Mets, 6-3.

For a global look at what's happening, see Your Friday Briefing.

Coming Up Today

Day 1 of the Harlem Arts Festival in Marcus Garvey Park, which continues through
Sunday. Schedule and ticket prices vary.

Celebrate NYC Pride at the Met with a silent dance party, a "selfie station,"
drinks and panel discussions. 5 p.m. [$25 suggested admission]

Enjoy a night of blues, rock and folk music in the chapel at Green-Wood Cemetery
in Brooklyn. 7:30 p.m. [$100]

Dance Week continues with free dance, fitness and wellness classes at studios
across the city. Times vary. [Register here]

Yankees host Rangers, 7:05 p.m. (YES). Liberty host Sun, 7:30 p.m. Mets at
Giants, 10:15 p.m. (SNY).

Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Sunday.

Weekend travel hassles: Check subway disruptions and a list of street closings.

The Weekend

Saturday

La IslaBonita arts and music festival takes over Faber Pool & Park on Staten
Island. 3 to 8 p.m. [Free]

Enjoy an outdoor concert by the Ricardo "Panman" Steel Panband, at the Beach
20th Street Pedestrian Plaza in Far Rockaway, Queens. 4 p.m. [Free]

Visit Chihuly Nights, an illuminated display of the artist Dale Chihuly's
vibrant glass sculptures, at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx. 6:30 to
10:30 p.m. [$35, tickets here]

The NYC Pride festivities continue with Slay:Pride Edition, a hip-hop party at
Brooklyn Bowl on Wythe Avenue. 12 a.m. [Tickets start at $10]

Yankees host Rangers, 1:05 p.m. (YES). New York Red Bulls host New York City
F.C., 1:30 p.m. (MLS LIVE). Mets at Giants, 7:15 p.m. (FOX).

Sunday

The Pride March parades from 36th Street and Fifth Avenue to Christopher and
Greenwich Streets in the West Village, beginning at noon.

... And the PrideFest street fair, Femme Fatale rooftop party for women, and
Pride Island concert take place in Manhattan. Times and prices vary.

Watch some "Magic at Coney" at the Coney Island Museum in Brooklyn. Noon. [$5
for children, $10 for adults]

Aasif Mandvi, the comedian and former "Daily Show" correspondent, performs at
the Peoples Improv Theater in Flatiron. 8 p.m. [$10]

Yankees host Rangers, 2:05 p.m. (YES). Mets at Giants, 4:05 p.m. (SNY).

For more events, see The New York Times's Arts & Entertainment guide.

And Finally...

If you've always wanted to visit Michelangelo's masterpieces in the Sistine
Chapel, but can't make it to Rome anytime soon, now is your chance to see the
frescoes a few subway stops away.

Beginning today, you can view life-size reproductions of the artist's work from
the Vatican in a monthlong immersive exhibit inside the World Trade Center
Transportation Hub.

Here's a sneak peek. You might be as delighted as we were to learn that you can
see "The Creation of Adam" and "The Last Judgment" up close. And, hey -- perhaps
Renaissance art at a major transit hub is just what this city needs to soothe
commuting nerves.

Tickets to "Up Close: Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel" start at $15 with
discounts, and you can buy them here. The exhibit is open daily from 10 a.m. to
9 p.m. at 186 Greenwich Street.

New York Today is a weekday roundup that stays live from 6 a.m. till late
morning. If you don't get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive
it by email here.

For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.

What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at
nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.

Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on
Twitter.

You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        June 24, 2017 Saturday 00:00 EST

British Parliament Hit by Cyberattack, Affecting Email Access

BYLINE: STEVEN ERLANGER

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 343 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hackers targeted the British Parliament, leaving many legislators
unable to access their emails on Saturday, officials said.


LONDON -- The British Parliament was the target of a cyberattack that left many
legislators unable to connect to their email on Saturday as remote access to
accounts was disabled as a security measure.

Legislators were made aware of the problem on Friday night, and Chris Rennard, a
Liberal Democrat member of the House of Lords, publicized the problem in a
Twitter message on Saturday, saying those with "urgent messages" should text
him.

Cyber security attack on Westminster Parliamentary e.mails may not work remotely
Text urgent messages @LibDemLords@LabourLordsUK@Torypeers -- Chris Rennard
(@LordRennard) June 24, 2017

Last week, there were reports in The Times of London that the passwords of
British cabinet ministers, ambassadors and senior police officers were being
sold online after Russian hacking groups gained access.

According to The Times, the stolen data revealed the private login details of
1,000 British members of Parliament and parliamentary staff, 7,000 police
employees and more than 1,000 Foreign Office officials.

The National Cyber Security Center, which was set up to protect the country
against cyberattacks, said that it would reissue guidance to government
departments after being presented with the findings.

The parliamentary authorities are also working with the center to protect the
network and ascertain the scale of the damage, according to a spokeswoman for
the House of Commons, who did not provide a name by British convention.

In a statement, the spokeswoman said that "the Houses of Parliament have
discovered unauthorized attempts to access parliamentary user accounts. We are
continuing to investigate this incident and take further measures to secure the
computer network, liaising with the National Cyber Security Center."

To protect member and staff accounts and "secure our network," the statement
added, "we have temporarily restricted remote access to the network. As a
result, some members of Parliament and staff cannot access their email accounts
outside of Westminster."

Mark Scott contributed reporting from Rome.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         June 25, 2017 Sunday 00:00 EST

At Cannes, the Great Gusher of Content Comes With Warning Signs;
Mediator

BYLINE: JIM RUTENBERG

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 1429 words



HIGHLIGHT: The hottest ticket is your eyeballs, and every content creator and
distributor wants them. Can the worst consequences be forestalled?


CANNES, France -- I imagine that covering the annual Cannes Lions advertising
festival here is a little bit like covering the great Texas oil boom a century
ago -- only with better food, cocktails and scenery.

Then, prospectors were chasing the real world currency of crude. Now, they're
after the new currency of the connected world: your attention.

As it was in those early days of oil discovery, there was a sense in Cannes last
week that happy days were here or just around the corner. It was a week of
seaside fireworks; popping magnum corks; private performances by Eddie Vedder,
Solange Knowles, and Stevie Nicks; and behind-the-scenes deal making.

But, similar to Texas in the early 1900s, there was also an undercurrent of
lawlessness. And there was the creeping realization that no one really knows
where it's all going -- how the new digital media innovations will reshape
politics, culture and even the world order.

The great geyser of our times, of course, is the hand-held connectivity that
Steve Jobs tapped with his iPhone, and that Google, Facebook, Twitter and
Snapchat now so powerfully refine and distribute on their social media
platforms.

They've allowed more players to rush in to give you the exact sorts of videos,
music, news and entertainment you want, exactly when you want them. They've also
sent the media industry off its moorings. The last remaining tethers -- cable
television cords -- are rapidly snapping.

The evolving media order has created its share of innovative winners and
disrupted losers. Generally, though, it has been a boon for the advertising
world, giving marketers the ability to make sales pitches to you based on your
precise moods and interests -- derived by your likes, dislikes, clicks and thumb
swipes.

Given that the limit is no longer the number of channels on the television dial
but the daily human capacity to consume media, the rush is on to get even better
at divining what you want before you even know you want it -- and to make sure
it's available in ample supply.

"It's chaos," Shane Smith, the brash co-founder and chief executive of Vice
Media, told me Thursday afternoon as he sipped wine on the rocks at his
sumptuous seaside villa in Cap d'Antibes, Cannes' even more exclusive neighbor.
"But in the midst of the chaos there's never been more content created, more
money being made. There's never been more stuff being sold, and for me on my
end, there's never been more people buying content."

Mr. Smith was a coveted dance partner at the festival, which was founded as a
celebration of quality advertising but is now overwhelmed by deal making and
schmoozing. His young audience -- which lives on its devices -- is the one that
advertisers covet.

Vice opened the week here announcing that it had landed a new, $450 million
investment from the private equity firm TPG, bringing its valuation to $5.7
billion. And, Mr. Smith said, in terms of deals being made here, "I've never
seen anything like it."

Mr. Smith is known for his promotional acumen, but others reported similar
success. And so, in Cannes, you could see the frenzied activity feeding itself,
pitching forward into the abyss.

A clarifying moment for me came Tuesday when Fox's president of ad revenue, Joe
Marchese, joined YouTube executives at Google's pop-up beach club here to
announce that Fox would heed YouTube's call to reduce the length of commercials
to six seconds from the standard 30.

"What's really scarce is attention," and people are being more selective with
it, the YouTube managing director Debbie Weinstein told reporters. Six seconds,
her colleague Tara Walpert Levy said, was "just short enough and yet long
enough" to get a story told.

The message is clear. Content costs money, and marketers will continue to
subsidize it if it allows them to pitch their wares effectively. But people
don't want to spend time watching 30-second ads, not when information moves at
the speed of Twitter.

It made me think of the old joke: Why do the "8 Minute Abs" exercise program
when you can do seven? Given that the most important advertising slogan of the
past year, "Make America Great Again," runs just three seconds, tops, the
six-second limit may even seem long.

But where does that leave messaging for far more complex issues like health care
-- a life-or-death subject for millions of Americans -- in the coming political
advertising season?

The race to grab your attention and hold it is leading to a new era of
informational hedonism that's doing more than shortening attention spans. It has
given rise to the online silos that allow people to live in vastly different
realities. If you enjoy and engage most with news that supports your worldview
-- no matter its veracity -- algorithms will naturally want to give you more of
it.

Though big Silicon Valley players are working to fix that, it wasn't a topic
they really wanted to elaborate on as they made rounds here.

I was hoping, for instance, that the Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey would
address the thornier issues of social media that became so apparent last year
during a talk he gave at the oceanside cabana of the OMD advertising agency.

He stuck to more self-congratulatory ground, saying, "If there's one word I had
to choose to represent Twitter and our force of good in the world," it was "the
word 'open.'"

It was too rich when I tried to approach him afterward and his press
representative told me to scram. The transparency evangelist wasn't taking
questions from journalists in Cannes, I was told.

Similarly, on the same week that Snapchat was winning the Murrow award for its
newscast, "Good Luck, America," it was insisting its executives' talks were off
the record, and ordering guests at its party -- closed to the press -- not to
take pictures. As Digiday pointed out, Snap "is a camera company."

Yet there were some signs that our unaccountable yet increasingly powerful
social media platforms are coming to terms with the real-world consequences of
their algorithmic siren calls.

On Friday, Facebook took what appeared to be a positive step, with a new
initiative aimed at bringing disparate people together on the platform more
frequently, to share different perspectives.

Nowhere did I find more hope here than on my visit to Spotify, the streaming
music service (and -- full disclosure -- a Times partner).

Its algorithms do an uncanny job of tailoring its music streams for individual
users. But it has done an even better job at taking the next step, and subtly
drawing them out of their own bubbles by introducing new music they might not
have tried on their own.

Too often, data is being used to "distill you to your smallest self," Spotify's
chief marketer, Seth Farbman, told me. "If we're leading people into discovering
'new,' and being comfortable with the unfamiliar, aren't we training people to
be far more accepting and far more open?"

We're going to need more of that. As Ben Lerer, a big media investor and a
co-founder of Thrillist Media Group said during a seaside stroll here with me,
"The cable pipes of yesterday are the social pipes of today." That means the
personalized feed is going to regulate even more of the digital oxygen we
breathe.

But the air sure seems polluted these days.

As the caravan prepared to pull out of town here on Friday, I sat down with the
chief executive of Vox Media, Jim Bankoff, who wrote an open letter to Cannes
attendees warning against trading quality and trust for the easy routes to our
attention.

Toward the end of our meeting, Marc Pritchard, the branding chief for the
world's largest advertiser, Procter & Gamble, walked by and concurred. "It's
fool's gold," he said.

But I started this column on another commodity, oil, and I'll end on it, too.

Oil fed and enabled the great advancements that came with the rise of the
automobile, and made the jet age possible. But then, there were the
consequences: highway blight, ozone depletion, climate change.

The infoboom is taking place in a new environment -- the cyber environment --
where we're all spending more time. All the new opportunity it's bringing will
also have consequences. Hopefully we'll head off the worst of them while we
still can.

PHOTOS: A Snapchat-branded Ferris wheel at the Cannes Lions advertising festival
in France. Several advertisers said they were taking a harder line with social
media platforms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAPNA MAHESHWARI) (B1); Schmoozing at Spotify's
beach party at the Cannes Lions advertising festival on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
FRANCOIS DURAND/GETTY IMAGES FOR SPOTIFY) (B4)

Related Articles


     ·    In Advertising Paradise, Reality Is Just a Conversation Away


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 25, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

British Parliament Is Hit by a Cyberattack, Affecting Emails

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Mark Scott contributed reporting from Rome.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 340 words


LONDON -- The British Parliament was the target of a cyberattack that left many
legislators unable to connect to their email on Saturday as remote access to
accounts was disabled as a security measure.

Legislators were made aware of the problem on Friday night, and Chris Rennard, a
Liberal Democrat member of the House of Lords, publicized the problem in a
Twitter message on Saturday, saying those with ''urgent messages'' should text
him.

Cyber security attack on Westminster Parliamentary e.mails may not work remotely
Text urgent messages @LibDemLords @LabourLordsUK @Torypeers -- Chris Rennard
(@LordRennard) June 24, 2017

Last week, there were reports in The Times of London that the passwords of
British cabinet ministers, ambassadors and senior police officers were being
sold online after Russian hacking groups gained access.

According to The Times, the stolen data revealed the private login details of
1,000 British members of Parliament and parliamentary staff, 7,000 police
employees and more than 1,000 Foreign Office officials.

The National Cyber Security Center, which was set up to protect the country
against cyberattacks, said that it would reissue guidance to government
departments after being presented with the findings.

The parliamentary authorities are also working with the center to protect the
network and ascertain the scale of the damage, according to a spokeswoman for
the House of Commons, who did not provide a name by British convention.

In a statement, the spokeswoman said that ''the Houses of Parliament have
discovered unauthorized attempts to access parliamentary user accounts. We are
continuing to investigate this incident and take further measures to secure the
computer network, liaising with the National Cyber Security Center.''

To protect member and staff accounts and ''secure our network,'' the statement
added, ''we have temporarily restricted remote access to the network. As a
result, some members of Parliament and staff cannot access their email accounts
outside of Westminster.''




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/24/world/europe/british-parliament-cyberattack-h
acking-london.html

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 26, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Can the Content Monster Be Tamed?

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIATOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1374 words


CANNES, France -- I imagine that covering the annual Cannes Lions advertising
festival here is a little bit like covering the great Texas oil boom a century
ago -- only with better food, cocktails and scenery.

Then, prospectors were chasing the real world currency of crude. Now, they're
after the new currency of the connected world: your attention.

As it was in those early days of oil discovery, there was a sense in Cannes last
week that happy days were here or just around the corner. It was a week of
seaside fireworks; popping magnum corks; private performances by Eddie Vedder,
Solange Knowles, and Stevie Nicks; and behind-the-scenes deal making.

But, similar to Texas in the early 1900s, there was also an undercurrent of
lawlessness. And there was the creeping realization that no one really knows
where it's all going -- how the new digital media innovations will reshape
politics, culture and even the world order.

The great geyser of our times, of course, is the hand-held connectivity that
Steve Jobs tapped with his iPhone, and that Google, Facebook, Twitter and
Snapchat now so powerfully refine and distribute on their social media
platforms.

They've allowed more players to rush in to give you the exact sorts of videos,
music, news and entertainment you want, exactly when you want them. They've also
sent the media industry off its moorings. The last remaining tethers -- cable
television cords -- are rapidly snapping.

The evolving media order has created its share of innovative winners and
disrupted losers. Generally, though, it has been a boon for the advertising
world, giving marketers the ability to make sales pitches to you based on your
precise moods and interests -- derived by your likes, dislikes, clicks and thumb
swipes.

Given that the limit is no longer the number of channels on the television dial
but the daily human capacity to consume media, the rush is on to get even better
at divining what you want before you even know you want it -- and to make sure
it's available in ample supply.

''It's chaos,'' Shane Smith, the brash co-founder and chief executive of Vice
Media, told me Thursday afternoon as he sipped wine on the rocks at his
sumptuous seaside villa in Cap d'Antibes, Cannes' even more exclusive neighbor.
''But in the midst of the chaos there's never been more content created, more
money being made. There's never been more stuff being sold, and for me on my
end, there's never been more people buying content.''

Mr. Smith was a coveted dance partner at the festival, which was founded as a
celebration of quality advertising but is now overwhelmed by deal making and
schmoozing. His young audience -- which lives on its devices -- is the one that
advertisers covet.

Vice opened the week here announcing that it had landed a new,  $450 million
investment from the private equity firm TPG, bringing its valuation to $5.7
billion. And, Mr. Smith said, in terms of deals being made here, ''I've never
seen anything like it.''

Mr. Smith is known for his promotional acumen, but others reported similar
success. And so, in Cannes, you could see the frenzied activity feeding itself,
pitching forward into the abyss.

A clarifying moment for me came Tuesday when Fox's president of ad revenue, Joe
Marchese, joined YouTube executives at Google's pop-up beach club here to
announce that Fox would heed YouTube's call to reduce the length of commercials
to six seconds from the standard 30.

''What's really scarce is attention,'' and people are being more selective with
it, the YouTube managing director Debbie Weinstein told reporters. Six seconds,
her colleague Tara Walpert Levy said, was ''just short enough and yet long
enough'' to get a story told.

The message is clear. Content costs money, and marketers will continue to
subsidize it if it allows them to pitch their wares effectively. But people
don't want to spend time watching 30-second ads, not when information moves at
the speed of Twitter.

It made me think of the old joke: Why do the ''8 Minute Abs'' exercise program
when you can do seven? Given that the most important advertising slogan of the
past year, ''Make America Great Again,'' runs just three seconds, tops, the
six-second limit may even seem long.

But where does that leave messaging for far more complex issues like health care
-- a life-or-death subject for millions of Americans -- in the coming political
advertising season?

The race to grab your attention and hold it is leading to a new era of
informational hedonism that's doing more than shortening attention spans. It has
given rise to the online silos that allow people to live in vastly different
realities. If you enjoy and engage most with news that supports your worldview
-- no matter its veracity -- algorithms will naturally want to give you more of
it.

Though big Silicon Valley players are working to fix that, it wasn't a topic
they really wanted to elaborate on as they made rounds here.

I was hoping, for instance, that the Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey would
address the thornier issues of social media that became so apparent last year
during a talk he gave at the oceanside cabana of the OMD advertising agency.

He stuck to more self-congratulatory ground, saying, ''If there's one word I had
to choose to represent Twitter and our force of good in the world,'' it was
''the word 'open.'''

It was too rich when I tried to approach him afterward and his press
representative told me to scram. The transparency evangelist wasn't taking
questions from journalists in Cannes, I was told.

Similarly, on the same week that Snapchat was winning the Murrow award for its
newscast, ''Good Luck, America,'' it was insisting its executives' talks were
off the record, and ordering guests at its party -- closed to the press -- not
to take pictures. As Digiday pointed out, Snap ''is a camera company.''

Yet there were some signs that our unaccountable yet increasingly powerful
social media platforms are coming to terms with the real-world consequences of
their algorithmic siren calls.

On Friday, Facebook took what appeared to be a positive step, with a new
initiative aimed at bringing disparate people together on the platform more
frequently, to share different perspectives.

Nowhere did I find more hope here than on my visit to Spotify, the streaming
music service (and -- full disclosure -- a Times partner).

Its algorithms do an uncanny job of tailoring its music streams for individual
users. But it has done an even better job at taking the next step, and subtly
drawing them out of their own bubbles by introducing new music they might not
have tried on their own.

Too often, data is being used to ''distill you to your smallest self,''
Spotify's chief marketer, Seth Farbman, told me. ''If we're leading people into
discovering 'new,' and being comfortable with the unfamiliar, aren't we training
people to be far more accepting and far more open?''

We're going to need more of that. As Ben Lerer, a big media investor and a
co-founder of Thrillist Media Group said during a seaside stroll here with me,
''The cable pipes of yesterday are the social pipes of today.'' That means the
personalized feed is going to regulate even more of the digital oxygen we
breathe.

But the air sure seems polluted these days.

As the caravan prepared to pull out of town here on Friday, I sat down with the
chief executive of Vox Media, Jim Bankoff, who wrote an open letter to Cannes
attendees warning against trading quality and trust for the easy routes to our
attention.

Toward the end of our meeting, Marc Pritchard, the branding chief for the
world's largest advertiser, Procter & Gamble, walked by and concurred. ''It's
fool's gold,'' he said.

But I started this column on another commodity, oil, and I'll end on it, too.

Oil fed and enabled the great advancements that came with the rise of the
automobile, and made the jet age possible. But then, there were the
consequences: highway blight, ozone depletion, climate change.

The infoboom is taking place in a new environment -- the cyber environment --
where we're all spending more time. All the new opportunity it's bringing will
also have consequences. Hopefully we'll head off the worst of them while we
still can.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/25/business/media/at-cannes-the-great-gusher-of-
content-comes-with-warning-signs.html

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Snapchat-branded Ferris wheel at the Cannes Lions advertising
festival in France. Several advertisers said they were taking a harder line with
social media platforms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAPNA MAHESHWARI) (B1)
 Schmoozing at Spotify's beach party at the Cannes Lions advertising festival on
Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCOIS DURAND/GETTY IMAGES FOR SPOTIFY) (B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        June 27, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Cyberattack Hits Ukraine Then Spreads Internationally

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH, MARK SCOTT and SHEERA FRENKEL

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1857 words



HIGHLIGHT: This ransomware attack, a more sophisticated assault based on a
vulnerability exploited in May, hit companies across the globe.


Correction Appended

Computer systems from Ukraine to the United States were struck on Tuesday in an
international cyberattack that was similar to a recent assault that crippled
tens of thousands of machines worldwide.

In Kiev, the capital of Ukraine, A.T.M.s stopped working. About 80 miles away,
workers were forced to manually monitor radiation at the old Chernobyl nuclear
plant when their computers failed. And tech managers at companies around the
world -- from Maersk, the Danish shipping conglomerate, to Merck, the drug giant
in the United States -- were scrambling to respond. Even an Australian factory
for the chocolate giant Cadbury was affected.

It was unclear who was behind this cyberattack, and the extent of its impact was
still hard to gauge Tuesday. It started as an attack on Ukrainian government and
business computer systems -- an assault that appeared to have been intended to
hit the day before a holiday marking the adoption in 1996 of Ukraine's first
Constitution after its break from the Soviet Union. The attack spread from
there, causing collateral damage around the world.

The outbreak was the latest and perhaps the most sophisticated in a series of
attacks making use of dozens of hacking tools that were stolen from the National
Security Agency and leaked online in April by a group called the Shadow Brokers.

Like the WannaCry attacksin May, the latest global hacking took control of
computers and demanded digital ransom from their owners to regain access. The
new attack used the same National Security Agency hacking tool, Eternal Blue,
that was used in the WannaCry episode, as well as two other methods to promote
its spread, according to researchers at the computer security company Symantec.

The National Security Agency has not acknowledged its tools were used in
WannaCry or other attacks. But computer security specialists are demanding that
the agency help the rest of the world defend against the weapons it created.

"The N.S.A. needs to take a leadership role in working closely with security and
operating system platform vendors such as Apple and Microsoft to address the
plague that they've unleashed," said Golan Ben-Oni, the global chief information
officer at IDT, a Newark-based conglomerate hit by a separate attack in April
that used the agency's hacking tools. Mr. Ben-Oni warned federal officials that
more serious attacks were probably on the horizon.

The vulnerability in Windows software used by Eternal Blue was patched by
Microsoft in March, but as the WannaCry attacks demonstrated, hundreds of
thousands of groups around the world failed to properly install the fix.

"Just because you roll out a patch doesn't mean it'll be put in place quickly,"
said Carl Herberger, vice president for security at Radware. "The more
bureaucratic an organization is, the higher chance it won't have updated its
software."

Because the ransomware used at least two other ways to spread on Tuesday --
including stealing victims' credentials -- even those who used the Microsoft
patch could be vulnerable and potential targets for later attacks, according to
researchers at F-Secure, a Finnish cybersecurity firm, and others.

A Microsoft spokesman said the company's latest antivirus software should
protect against the attack.

The Ukrainian government said several of its ministries, local banks and metro
systems had been affected. A number of other European companies, including
Rosneft, the Russian energy giant; Saint-Gobain, the French construction
materials company; and WPP, the British advertising agency, also said they had
been targeted.

Ukrainian officials pointed a finger at Russia on Tuesday, although Russian
companies were also affected. Home Credit bank, one of Russia's top 50 lenders,
was paralyzed, with all of its offices closed, according to the RBC news
website. The attack also affected Evraz, a steel manufacturing and mining
company that employs about 80,000 people, the RBC website reported.

In the United States, the multinational law firm DLA Piper also reported being
hit. Hospitals in Pennsylvania were being forced to cancel operations after the
attack hit computers at Heritage Valley Health Systems, a Pennsylvania health
care provider, and its hospitals in Beaver and Sewickley, Penn., and satellite
locations across the state.

The ransomware also hurt Australian branches of international companies. DLA
Piper's Australian offices warned clients that they were dealing with a "serious
global cyber incident" and had disabled email as a precautionary measure. Local
news reports said that in Hobart, Tasmania, on Tuesday evening, computers in a
Cadbury chocolate factory, owned by Mondelez International, had displayed
ransomware messages that demanded $300 in bitcoins.

Qantas Airways' booking system failed for a time on Tuesday, but the company
said the breakdown was due to an unrelated hardware issue.

The Australian government has urged companies to install security updates and
isolate any infected computers from their networks.

"This ransomware attack is a wake-up call to all Australian businesses to
regularly back up their data and install the latest security patches," said Dan
Tehan, the cybersecurity minister. "We are aware of the situation and monitoring
it closely."

A National Security Agency spokesman referred questions about the attack to the
Department of Homeland Security. "The Department of Homeland Security is
monitoring reports of cyberattacks affecting multiple global entities and is
coordinating with our international and domestic cyber partners," Scott
McConnell, a department spokesman, said in a statement.

Computer specialists said the ransomware was very similar to a virus that
emerged last year called Petya. Petya means "Little Peter," in Russian, leading
some to speculate the name referred to Sergei Prokofiev's 1936 symphony "Peter
and the Wolf," about a boy who captures a wolf.

Reports that the computer virus was a variant of Petya suggest the attackers
will be hard to trace. Petya was for sale on the so-called dark web, where its
creators made the ransomware available as "ransomware as a service" -- a play on
Silicon Valley terminology for delivering software over the internet, according
to the security firm Avast Threat Labs.

That means anyone could launch the ransomware with the click of a button,
encrypt someone's systems and demand a ransom to unlock it. If the victim pays,
the authors of the Petya ransomware, who call themselves Janus Cybercrime
Solutions, get a cut of the payment.

That distribution method means that pinning down the people responsible for
Tuesday's attack could be difficult.

The attack is "an improved and more lethal version of WannaCry," said Matthieu
Suiche, a security researcher who helped contain the spread of the WannaCry
ransomware when he created a kill switch that stopped the attacks.

In just the last seven days, Mr. Suiche noted, WannaCry had tried to hit an
additional 80,000 organizations but was prevented from executing attack code
because of the kill switch. Petya does not have a kill switch.

Petya also encrypts and locks entire hard drives, whereas the earlier ransomware
attacks locked only individual files, said Chris Hinkley, a researcher at the
security firm Armor.

The hackers behind Petya demanded $300 worth of the cybercurrency Bitcoin to
unlock victims' machines. By Tuesday afternoon, online records showed that 30
victims had paid the ransom, although it was not clear whether they had regained
access to their files. Other victims may be out of luck, after Posteo, the
German email service provider, shut down the hackers' email account.

In Ukraine, people turned up at post offices, A.T.M.s and airports to find blank
computer screens, or signs about closures. At Kiev's central post office, a few
bewildered customers milled about, holding parcels and letters, looking at a
sign that said, "Closed for technical reasons."

The hackers compromised Ukrainian accounting software mandated to be used in
various industries in the country, including government agencies and banks,
according to researchers at Cisco Talos, the security division of the computer
networking company. That allowed them to unleash their ransomware when the
software, which is also used in other countries, was updated.

The ransomware spread for five days across Ukraine, and around the world, before
activating Tuesday evening.

"If I had to guess, I would think this was done to send a political message,"
said Craig Williams, the senior technical researcher at Talos.

One Kiev resident, Tetiana Vasylieva, was forced to borrow money from a relative
after failing to withdraw money at four automated teller machines. At one A.T.M.
in Kiev belonging to the Ukrainian branch of the Austrian bank Raiffeisen, a
message on the screen said the machine was not functioning.

Ukraine's Infrastructure Ministry, the postal service, the national railway
company, and one of the country's largest communications companies, Ukrtelecom,
had been affected, Volodymyr Omelyan, the country's infrastructure minister,
said in a Facebook post.

Officials for the metro system in Kiev said card payments could not be accepted.
The national power grid company Kievenergo had to switch off all of its
computers, but the situation was under control, according to the
Interfax-Ukraine news agency. Metro Group, a German company that runs wholesale
food stores, said its operations in Ukraine had been affected.

At the Chernobyl plant, the computers affected by the attack collected data on
radiation levels and were not connected to industrial systems at the site,
where, although all reactors have been decommissioned, huge volumes of
radioactive waste remain. Operators said radiation monitoring was being done
manually.

Cybersecurity researchers questioned whether collecting ransom was the true
objective of the attack.

"It's entirely possible that this attack could have been a smoke screen," said
Justin Harvey, the managing director of global incident response at Accenture
Security. "If you are an evildoer and you wanted to cause mayhem, why wouldn't
you try to first mask it as something else?"

Reporting was contributed by Liz Alderman, Andrew E. Kramer, Iuliia Mendel, Ivan
Nechepurenko and Isabella Kwai.


Correction: June 27, 2017, Tuesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article referred incorrectly to the occupation of Justin Harvey.
He is the managing director of global incident response at Accenture Security,
not the chief security officer for the Fidelis cybersecurity company.

PHOTOS: Maersk, the Danish shipping conglomerate, and Merck, the drug giant in
the United States, were among the many companies affected by a cyberattack on
Tuesday that caused damage worldwide. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ENRIQUE CASTRO
SANCHEZ/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES; MATT ROURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
(A10)

Related Articles


     ·    Global Ransomware Attack: What We Know and Don't Know
     ·    A Cyberattack 'the World Isn't Ready For'
     ·    Ponzi Scheme Meets Ransomware for a Doubly Malicious Attack
     ·    Victims Call Hackers' Bluff as Ransomware Deadline Nears
     ·    How to Protect Yourself From Ransomware Attacks


LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       June 28, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Fighting Anti-Feminist Trolls. Also: Ransomware Victimhood, and a Dramatic
Citizen's Arrest.;
The Breakdown

BYLINE: ADAM BAIDAWI and ISABELLA KWAI

SECTION: WORLD; australia

LENGTH: 958 words



HIGHLIGHT: Conversation starters and context, drawn from the day's news in
Australia.


The Breakdown puts a selection of Australia's daily news into context. Today's
picks:

The bookish man who learned what it's like to be a feminist author attacked by
trolls.

The ransomware victim list: Qantas, no; DLA Piper, yes; Cadbury, maybe.

A citizen's arrest in Western Australia that deserves to go viral.

Bookworms Battle Trolls

On Monday night, while feeding his 1-year-old son, Chris Currie encountered what
many women and few men have to confront: vicious online attacks from
anti-feminist trolls.

"It was a bit of a shock," he told us on Wednesday.

All he'd done was publish a short post that morning on the Facebook page of Avid
Reader, a Brisbane independent bookshop where he's the social media manager. It
simply celebrated the news that Clementine Ford, the Australian feminist author
and commentator, had secured a publishing deal for her second book.

But that was enough.

Bad reviews on Avid Reader's Facebook page flooded in. Mr. Currie's phone was
inundated with abusive messages. The notifications were wild, violent,
persistent -- and all from men.

"It's something that I don't have to deal with on a daily basis, like Clementine
certainly does," Mr. Currie said. "It's scary how it develops so quickly, and
how people from all over the world get roped in."

Can online harassment ever be stopped? The campaign -- sloppy, abusive and
spiteful -- was the brainchild of an Australia-based anti-feminism Facebook
page. Through a bizarre Facebook poll, the group's administrators proposed
"fighting fire with fire" by flooding any business supporting Ms. Ford with bad
Facebook reviews.

It seems to be retaliation aimed directly at Ms. Ford, whose first book, "Fight
Like a Girl," established her image as a feminist willing to be combative. This
week she also called out the group for, well, being losers with nothing better
to do.

This guy's life sounds super awesome. https://t.co/tqwgzKJZeL -- Clementine Ford
(@clementine_ford) June 27, 2017

Mr. Currie said he never considered seeking official support from Facebook.
After a bit of Twitter-shaming that went nowhere, he said of Facebook: "They
seem particularly ineffectual."

This is a common problem.

"Most social-media platforms don't want to be crucified with claims of
censorship for regulating what people can say online," our New York Times
Magazine tech columnist, Jenna Wortham, wrote a couple of months ago.

And they get away with it, in part, experts say, because, there is still no
consensus in the digital or real world about how to define a digital hate crime,
harassment and assault. Governments certainly aren't doing much to wrestle with
the problem; as we wrote yesterday, they're more interested in finding ways into
encrypted messages from terrorists.

In this case, at least, the internet itself came to Avid Reader's aid. Prodded
by Ms. Ford, who did not respond to emails seeking comment, a cavalry of
do-gooders arrived from Twitter and elsewhere, restoring the bookstore's online
reputation and visiting in droves.

And it's packed pic.twitter.com/Cr6FNPaywV -- Andrew Stafford (@staffo_sez) June
27, 2017

[2:46 p.m. AEST]

The Ransomware Blame Game

Travelers on Qantas Airlines hoping to sail through check-in discovered a nasty
surprise today, as a booking-system outage prevented passengers from gaining
access to their reservations online. At first, it seemed that Qantas, like a
number of other international companies, had fallen prey to a ransomware virus,
known as Petya, that started in Ukraine and swept the world.

But the truth soon emerged: The problem was an unrelated hardware issue in the
airline's third-party booking system, Amadeus. "To be clear, Qantas has not been
impacted by the Petya ransomware attack," the company said in a statement.

Looks as if ransomware victimhood is more embarrassing than just a technical
breakdown.

So who was affected by the attack? Here's a list of victims compiled by New York
Times reporters around the world. It includes Australian branches of several
international companies.

DLA Piper, a global law firm with offices in Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth and
Sydney, for example, warned its clients that they were dealing with a "serious
global cyber incident" and suspended its systems as a precaution.

Other companies in Australia tried to play it coy. A picture purportedly of an
infected screen at a Cadbury chocolate factory in Tasmania, which included a
demand for $300 in Bitcoin in exchange for the recovery of files, was
circulating Monday on Twitter. But while Qantas was quick to own its technical
flaws, the candy maker kept it vague.

When we reached out to the company to ask what was going on, a spokeswoman for
Mondelez International, the American company that owns Cadbury, admitted that
its systems were down without explicitly confirming that it was a victim of
ransomware.

It did say it was working quickly to address the global outage. One Twitter user
joked that it could pay the ransom in chocolate.

Cadbury chocolate factory targeted in ransom ware attack! "Zend us zirty cartons
of Caramelo Bears or elze!" -- Shane Withington. (@ripperriver) June 27, 2017

[3:30 p.m. AEST]

Analog Justice Out West

Meanwhile in Western Australia, a suburban man took justice into his own hands.
After his 6-year-old daughter discovered a burglar in their house, James Burton
performed a dramatic citizen's arrest. Watch the action (and re-enactment);
you'll want to see what happens at the one-minute mark.

It reminded us of these local heroes who stopped a robbery at an Oporto last
year. Know of other examples of local hero coverage worth highlighting? Email us
at nytaustralia@nytimes.com.

[4:07 p.m. AEST]

Adam Baidawi wishes he had as much free time as men's rights activists. Isabella
Kwai hopes to one day make a citizen's arrest.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       June 28, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Hacks Raise Fear Over N.S.A.'s Hold on Cyberweapons

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1351 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hackers in two global attacks have used cyberweapons stolen from a
dangerous collection that had been amassed by the agency.


Twice in the past month, National Security Agency cyberweapons stolen from its
arsenal have been turned against two very different partners of the United
States -- Britain and Ukraine.

The N.S.A. has kept quiet, not acknowledging its role in developing the weapons.
White House officials have deflected many questions, and responded to others by
arguing that the focus should be on the attackers themselves, not the
manufacturer of their weapons.

But the silence is wearing thin for victims of the assaults, as a series of
escalating attacks using N.S.A. cyberweapons have hit hospitals, a nuclear site
and American businesses. Now there is growing concern that United States
intelligence agencies have rushed to create digital weapons that they cannot
keep safe from adversaries or disable once they fall into the wrong hands.

On Wednesday, the calls for the agency to address its role in the latest attacks
grew louder, as victims and technology companies cried foul. Representative Ted
Lieu, a California Democrat and a former Air Force officer who serves on the
House Judiciary and Foreign Affairs Committees, urged the N.S.A. to help stop
the attacks and to stop hoarding knowledge of the computer vulnerabilities upon
which these weapons rely.

In an email on Wednesday evening, Michael Anton, a spokesman for the National
Security Council at the White House, noted that the government "employs a
disciplined, high-level interagency decision-making process for disclosure of
known vulnerabilities" in software, "unlike any other country in the world."

Mr. Anton said the administration "is committed to responsibly balancing
national security interests and public safety and security," but declined to
comment "on the origin of any of the code making up this malware."

Beyond that, the government has blamed others. Two weeks ago, the United States
-- through the Department of Homeland Security -- said it had evidence North
Korea was responsible for a wave of attacks in May using ransomware called
WannaCry that shut down hospitals, rail traffic and production lines. The
attacks on Tuesday against targets in Ukraine, which spread worldwide, appeared
more likely to be the work of Russian hackers, though no culprit has been
formally identified.

In both cases, the attackers used hacking tools that exploited vulnerabilities
in Microsoft software. The tools were stolen from the N.S.A., and a group called
the Shadow Brokers made them public in April. The group first started offering
N.S.A. weapons for sale in August, and recently even offered to provide N.S.A.
exploits to paid monthly subscribers.

Though the identities of the Shadow Brokers remain a mystery, former
intelligence officials say there is no question from where the weapons came: a
unit deep within the agency that was until recently called "Tailored Access
Operations."

While the government has remained quiet, private industry has not. Brad Smith,
the president of Microsoft, said outright that the National Security Agency was
the source of the "vulnerabilities" now wreaking havoc and called on the agency
to "consider the damage to civilians that comes from hoarding these
vulnerabilities and the use of these exploits."

For the American spy agency, which has invested billions of dollars developing
an arsenal of weapons that have been used against the Iranian nuclear program,
North Korea's missile launches and Islamic State militants, what is unfolding
across the world amounts to a digital nightmare. It was as if the Air Force lost
some of its most sophisticated missiles and discovered an adversary was
launching them against American allies -- yet refused to respond, or even to
acknowledge that the missiles were built for American use.

Officials fret that the potential damage from the Shadow Brokers leaks could go
much further, and the agency's own weaponry could be used to destroy critical
infrastructure in allied nations or in the United States.

"Whether it's North Korea, Russia, China, Iran or ISIS, almost all of the flash
points out there now involve a cyber element," Leon E. Panetta, the former
defense secretary and Central Intelligence Agency chief said in a recent
interview, before the weapons were turned against American interests.

"I'm not sure we understand the full capability of what can happen, that these
sophisticated viruses can suddenly mutate into other areas you didn't intend,
more and more," Mr. Panetta said. "That's the threat we're going to face in the
near future."

Using the remnants of American weapons is not entirely new. Elements of Stuxnet,
the computer worm that disabled the centrifuges used in Iran's nuclear weapons
program seven years ago, have been incorporated in some attacks.

In the past two months, attackers have retrofitted the agency's more recent
weapons to steal credentials from American companies. Cybercriminals have used
them to pilfer digital currency. North Korean hackers are believed to have used
them to obtain badly needed currency from easy hacking targets like hospitals in
England and manufacturing plants in Japan.

And on Tuesday, on the eve of Ukraine's Constitution Day -- which commemorates
the country's first constitution after breaking away from the Soviet Union --
attackers used N.S.A.-developed techniques to freeze computers in Ukrainian
hospitals, supermarkets, and even the systems for radiation monitoring at the
old Chernobyl nuclear plant.

The so-called ransomware that gained the most attention in the Ukraine attack is
believed to have been a smoke screen for a deeper assault aimed at destroying
victims' computers entirely. And while WannaCry had a kill switch that was used
to contain it, the attackers hitting Ukraine made sure there was no such
mechanism. They also ensured that their code could infect computers that had
received software patches intended to protect them.

"You're seeing a refinement of these capabilities, and it only heads in one
direction," said Robert Silvers, the former assistant secretary of cyber policy
at the Department of Homeland Security, now a partner at the law firm Paul
Hastings.

Though the original targets of Tuesday's attacks appear to have been government
agencies and businesses in Ukraine, the attacks inflicted enormous collateral
damage, taking down some 2,000 global targets in more than 65 countries,
including Merck, the American drug giant, Maersk, the Danish shipping company,
and Rosneft, the Russian state owned energy giant. The attack so crippled
operations at a subsidiary of Federal Express that trading had to be briefly
halted for FedEx stock.

"When these viruses fall into the wrong hands, people can use them for financial
gain, or whatever incentive they have -- and the greatest fear is one of
miscalculation, that something unintended can happen," Mr. Panetta said.

Mr. Panetta was among the officials warning years ago of a "cyber Pearl Harbor"
that could bring down the American power grid. But he and others never imagined
that those same enemies might use the N.S.A.'s own cyberweapons.

For the past six years, government officials were comforted by the fact that
their most fervent adversaries -- North Korea, Iran, extremist groups -- did not
have the skills or digital tools to inflict major damage. The bigger
cyberpowers, Russia and China in particular, seemed to exercise some restraint,
though Russia's meddling in the 2016 presidential election added a new, more
subtle threat.

But armed with the N.S.A.'s own tools, the limits are gone.

"We now have actors, like North Korea and segments of the Islamic State, who
have access to N.S.A. tools who don't care about economic and other ties between
nation states," said Jon Wellinghoff, the former chairman of the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission.

So long as flaws in computer code exist to create openings for digital weapons
and spy tools, security experts say, the N.S.A. is not likely to stop hoarding
software vulnerabilities any time soon.

Related Articles


     ·    Mystery of Motive for a Ransomware Attack: Money, Mayhem or a Message?
     ·    Global Ransomware Attack: What We Know and Don't Know
     ·    Cyberattack Hits Ukraine Then Spreads Internationally


LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       June 28, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Mystery of Motive for a Ransomware Attack: Money, Mayhem or a Message?

BYLINE: SHEERA FRENKEL, MARK SCOTT and PAUL MOZUR

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1407 words



HIGHLIGHT: The latest strike, which affected computers from Ukraine to the
United States, has intensified worries that such events will become everyday
dangers.


Correction Appended

SAN FRANCISCO -- As governments and organizations around the world grappled on
Wednesday with the impact of a cyberattack that froze computers and demanded a
ransom for their release, victims received a clear warning from security experts
not to pay a dime in the hopes of getting back their data.

The hackers' email address was shut down and they had lost the ability to
communicate with their victims, and by extension, to restore access to
computers. If the hackers had wanted to collect ransom money, said cybersecurity
experts, their attack was an utter failure. That is, if that was actually their
goal.

Increasingly sophisticated ransomware assaults now have cybersecurity experts
questioning what the attackers are truly after. Is it money? Mayhem? Delivering
a political message?

In the attack that hit computers from Ukraine to the United States on Tuesday,
financial gain may be the least likely motive.

"Either it was a sophisticated actor who knew what they were doing -- except
screwed up horribly on the part where they actually get paid," said Nicholas
Weaver, a researcher at the International Computer Science Institute and a
lecturer at the University of California, Berkeley, "or it wasn't about the
ransom in the first place."

Ransomware, one of the oldest and most prolific forms of cyberattack, relies on
encrypting a victims' files, essentially locking them out of their own computer
systems, until they pay a ransom. Last year, cybersecurity researchers estimate
that criminals made over $1 billion through ransomware, with victims ranging
from the chief executives of Fortune 500 companies to mom-and-pop businesses and
private individuals.

The attack on Tuesday, like a similar assault in May called WannaCry, spread
wider and faster than previous forms of known ransomware. But combined, they
barely banked $100,000.

WannaCry spread by combining traditional ransomware with a worm, or a mechanism
by which the attack could quickly grow. It was the first of its kind, said
cybersecurity researchers, in that its goal appeared to be spreading as quickly
as possible, rather than to successfully collect ransoms from victims.

The attack on Tuesday is being called by different names, including Petya,
NotPetya and GoldenEye. Like WannaCry, it also appeared built for speed, as it
spread across systems, exploiting a single unprotected machine to then infect
machines across a network.

WannaCry's spread was halted by an independent cybersecurity researcher, who
discovered that by registering a single domain for about $10 he could stop the
attack in its tracks. Though Tuesday's assault does not appear to have finished,
it is no longer likely to generate significant payments, because a German email
provider shut down the email address associated with the ransom.

"They are no longer collecting a ransom," said Justin Harvey, managing director
of global incident response at Accenture Security. "They are just being
destructive."

When criminals stage a ransomware to make money, they set up multiple avenues to
collect funds from their victims, Mr. Harvey said. By contrast, the recent,
widespread attacks used "immature" methods, like a single email address and a
single Bitcoin wallet for electronic payments.

But considerable attention was paid to the technical details of launching the
attacks and ensuring they would spread as fast as possible.

Security researchers said the attack on Tuesday originated in Ukraine, seemingly
timed to hit a day before a holiday marking the 1996 adoption of Ukraine's first
constitution. More than 12,500 machines in the country were targeted, according
to Microsoft, though the online attack spread to 64 other countries.

While law enforcement officials struggled to determine who was behind the
attack, Microsoft said the assailants initially focused on software run by
M.E.Doc, a Ukrainian company specializing in tax accountancy. M.E.Doc
acknowledged that its servers had been affected and said in a statement that it
was cooperating with Ukrainian cyberpolice.

The attack targeted businesses in Ukraine, Russia and Poland, according to a
post from Kaspersky Lab, a Moscow-based security firm. According to the report,
those three countries as well as Italy and Germany were most affected. A number
of companies in other European countries and the United States were also hit.

Still, companies and government offices worldwide appeared less affected than
they were by the WannaCry attack, notably in places like China, which was hit
hard in May. Reports from Asia suggested that many of the companies hit were the
local arms of European and American companies that were struck on Tuesday.

In Mumbai, India, a port terminal operated by A. P. Moller-Maersk, a Danish
shipping giant, was shut down on Tuesday afternoon after it disclosed that it
had been affected by the malware. In a statement, Indian port authorities said
they were working to relieve congestion, including finding places to park
stranded cargo.

On the Australian island of Tasmania, computers in a Cadbury chocolate factory
owned by Mondelez International, an American food company, displayed the
ransomware message, the local news media reported.

"We continue to work quickly to address the current global I.T. outage across
Mondelez International and to contain any further exposure to our network," a
spokeswoman for the company said, adding that it was not clear when the
company's systems would be back up.

The virus also spread to the Australian branches of DLA Piper, a law firm with
offices around the world. The firm warned clients that it was dealing with a
"serious global cyber incident" and said that it had taken down its
communications as a precaution.

In China, there were only scattered reports of the malware. Qihoo 360, a Chinese
computer security company, said the attack hit far fewer companies and
government offices than WannaCry.

Yet who was behind WannaCry and Tuesday's attack, and why they did it, remained
unclear.

Brian Lord, former deputy director for intelligence and cyber operations at
Britain's Government Communications Headquarters, the country's equivalent to
the National Security Agency, said that rather than aiming for financial
rewards, the hackers were trying to create the largest amount of disruption --
particularly in Ukraine.

But he is not convinced it was a Russian attack. "The Russians are very smart,"
said Mr. Lord, who is now managing director for cyber and technology at PGI
Cyber, an online security company. "There's something about the blatantness of
hitting Ukraine that doesn't sit well with me about this being a Russian
attack."

Both the I.P. address and the phone number connected to the internet domain
registration used in this week's attack were from Iran, said Ido Wulkan, head of
intelligence at the cybersecurity firm IntSights, based in Tel Aviv. The same
information was connected to a different attack two months ago. "It is possible
that this is Iran, or it is possible that this is someone trying to mask
themselves as Iran," he said.

But since the tools used in the recent attacks are widely available, a range of
hackers -- criminals and state-sponsored -- would have been capable of carrying
them out.

"These types of attacks are just going to keep happening, and we've known this
since we first saw how big WannaCry was going to be last month," Mr. Harvey, of
Accenture Security, said. "The real questions is whether these are all just
practice runs for the big one."

Sheera Frenkel reported from San Francisco, Mark Scott from Rome and Paul Mozur
from Shanghai. Isabella Kwai contributed reporting from Sydney, Australia, and
Hari Kumar from New Delhi. Carolyn Zhang contributed research.


Correction: June 30, 2017, Friday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on
Thursday about the search for a motive behind a recent cyberattack that spread
around the world misstated the name of a cybersecurity firm based in Tel Aviv.
It is IntSights, not Insight.

PHOTO: A message on the screen of a laptop in Geldrop, the Netherlands, that had
been infected in this week's major ransomware attack. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB
ENGELAAR/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

Related Articles


     ·    Hacks Raise Fear Over N.S.A.'s Hold on Cyberweapons
     ·    Cyberattack Hits Ukraine Then Spreads Internationally
     ·    A Cyberattack 'the World Isn't Ready For'
     ·    Victims Call Hackers' Bluff as Ransomware Deadline Nears
     ·    How to Protect Yourself From Ransomware Attacks


LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 28, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Cyberattack Hits Ukraine, Then Spreads

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH, MARK SCOTT and SHEERA FRENKEL; Reporting was
contributed by Liz Alderman, Andrew E. Kramer, Iuliia Mendel, Ivan Nechepurenko
and Isabella Kwai.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1700 words


Computer systems from Ukraine to the United States were struck on Tuesday in an
international cyberattack that was similar to a recent assault that crippled
tens of thousands of machines worldwide.

In Kiev, the capital of Ukraine, A.T.M.s stopped working. About 80 miles away,
workers were forced to manually monitor radiation at the old Chernobyl nuclear
plant when their computers failed. And tech managers at companies around the
world -- from Maersk, the Danish shipping conglomerate, to Merck, the drug giant
in the United States -- were scrambling to respond. Even an Australian factory
for the chocolate giant Cadbury was affected.

It was unclear who was behind this cyberattack, and the extent of its impact was
still hard to gauge Tuesday. It started as an attack on Ukrainian government and
business computer systems -- an assault that appeared to have been intended to
hit the day before a holiday marking the adoption in 1996 of Ukraine's first
Constitution after its break from the Soviet Union. The attack spread from
there, causing collateral damage around the world.

The outbreak was the latest and perhaps the most sophisticated in a series of
attacks making use of dozens of hacking tools that were stolen from the National
Security Agency and leaked online in April by a group called the Shadow Brokers.

Like the WannaCry attacks in May, the latest global hacking took control of
computers and demanded digital ransom from their owners to regain access. The
new attack used the same National Security Agency hacking tool, Eternal Blue,
that was used in the WannaCry episode, as well as two other methods to promote
its spread, according to researchers at the computer security company Symantec.

The National Security Agency has not acknowledged its tools were used in
WannaCry or other attacks. But computer security specialists are demanding that
the agency help the rest of the world defend against the weapons it created.

''The N.S.A. needs to take a leadership role in working closely with security
and operating system platform vendors such as Apple and Microsoft to address the
plague that they've unleashed,'' said Golan Ben-Oni, the global chief
information officer at IDT, a Newark-based conglomerate hit by a separate attack
in April that used the agency's hacking tools. Mr. Ben-Oni warned federal
officials that more serious attacks were probably on the horizon.

The vulnerability in Windows software used by Eternal Blue was patched by
Microsoft in March, but as the WannaCry attacks demonstrated, hundreds of
thousands of groups around the world failed to properly install the fix.

''Just because you roll out a patch doesn't mean it'll be put in place
quickly,'' said Carl Herberger, vice president for security at Radware. ''The
more bureaucratic an organization is, the higher chance it won't have updated
its software.''

Because the ransomware used at least two other ways to spread on Tuesday --
including stealing victims' credentials -- even those who used the Microsoft
patch could be vulnerable and potential targets for later attacks, according to
researchers at F-Secure, a Finnish cybersecurity firm, and others.

A Microsoft spokesman said the company's latest antivirus software should
protect against the attack.

The Ukrainian government said several of its ministries, local banks and metro
systems had been affected. A number of other European companies, including
Rosneft, the Russian energy giant; Saint-Gobain, the French construction
materials company; and WPP, the British advertising agency, also said they had
been targeted.

Ukrainian officials pointed a finger at Russia on Tuesday, although Russian
companies were also affected. Home Credit bank, one of Russia's top 50 lenders,
was paralyzed, with all of its offices closed, according to the RBC news
website. The attack also affected Evraz, a steel manufacturing and mining
company that employs about 80,000 people, the RBC website reported.

In the United States, the multinational law firm DLA Piper also reported being
hit. Hospitals in Pennsylvania were being forced to cancel operations after the
attack hit computers at Heritage Valley Health Systems, a Pennsylvania health
care provider, and its hospitals in Beaver and Sewickley, Penn., and satellite
locations across the state.

The ransomware also hurt Australian branches of international companies. DLA
Piper's Australian offices warned clients that they were dealing with a
''serious global cyber incident'' and had disabled email as a precautionary
measure. Local news reports said that in Hobart, Tasmania, on Tuesday evening,
computers in a Cadbury chocolate factory, owned by Mondelez International, had
displayed ransomware messages that demanded $300 in bitcoins.

Qantas Airways' booking system failed for a time on Tuesday, but the company
said the breakdown was due to an unrelated hardware issue.

The Australian government has urged companies to install security updates and
isolate any infected computers from their networks.

''This ransomware attack is a wake-up call to all Australian businesses to
regularly back up their data and install the latest security patches,'' said Dan
Tehan, the cybersecurity minister. ''We are aware of the situation and
monitoring it closely.''

A National Security Agency spokesman referred questions about the attack to the
Department of Homeland Security. ''The Department of Homeland Security is
monitoring reports of cyberattacks affecting multiple global entities and is
coordinating with our international and domestic cyber partners,'' Scott
McConnell, a department spokesman, said in a statement.

Computer specialists said the ransomware was very similar to a virus that
emerged last year called Petya. Petya means ''Little Peter,'' in Russian,
leading some to speculate the name referred to Sergei Prokofiev's 1936 symphony
''Peter and the Wolf,'' about a boy who captures a wolf.

Reports that the computer virus was a variant of Petya suggest the attackers
will be hard to trace. Petya was for sale on the so-called dark web, where its
creators made the ransomware available as ''ransomware as a service'' -- a play
on Silicon Valley terminology for delivering software over the internet,
according to the security firm Avast Threat Labs.

That means anyone could launch the ransomware with the click of a button,
encrypt someone's systems and demand a ransom to unlock it. If the victim pays,
the authors of the Petya ransomware, who call themselves Janus Cybercrime
Solutions, get a cut of the payment.

That distribution method means that pinning down the people responsible for
Tuesday's attack could be difficult.

The attack is ''an improved and more lethal version of WannaCry,'' said Matthieu
Suiche, a security researcher who helped contain the spread of the WannaCry
ransomware when he created a kill switch that stopped the attacks.

In just the last seven days, Mr. Suiche noted, WannaCry had tried to hit an
additional 80,000 organizations but was prevented from executing attack code
because of the kill switch. Petya does not have a kill switch.

Petya also encrypts and locks entire hard drives, whereas the earlier ransomware
attacks locked only individual files, said Chris Hinkley, a researcher at the
security firm Armor.

The hackers behind Petya demanded $300 worth of the cybercurrency Bitcoin to
unlock victims' machines. By Tuesday afternoon, online records showed that 30
victims had paid the ransom, although it was not clear whether they had regained
access to their files. Other victims may be out of luck, after Posteo, the
German email service provider, shut down the hackers' email account.

In Ukraine, people turned up at post offices, A.T.M.s and airports to find blank
computer screens, or signs about closures. At Kiev's central post office, a few
bewildered customers milled about, holding parcels and letters, looking at a
sign that said, ''Closed for technical reasons.''

The hackers compromised Ukrainian accounting software mandated to be used in
various industries in the country, including government agencies and banks,
according to researchers at Cisco Talos, the security division of the computer
networking company. That allowed them to unleash their ransomware when the
software, which is also used in other countries, was updated.

The ransomware spread for five days across Ukraine, and around the world, before
activating Tuesday evening.

''If I had to guess, I would think this was done to send a political message,''
said Craig Williams, the senior technical researcher at Talos.

One Kiev resident, Tetiana Vasylieva, was forced to borrow money from a relative
after failing to withdraw money at four automated teller machines. At one A.T.M.
in Kiev belonging to the Ukrainian branch of the Austrian bank Raiffeisen, a
message on the screen said the machine was not functioning.

Ukraine's Infrastructure Ministry, the postal service, the national railway
company, and one of the country's largest communications companies, Ukrtelecom,
had been affected, Volodymyr Omelyan, the country's infrastructure minister,
said in a Facebook post.

Officials for the metro system in Kiev said card payments could not be accepted.
The national power grid company Kievenergo had to switch off all of its
computers, but the situation was under control, according to the
Interfax-Ukraine news agency. Metro Group, a German company that runs wholesale
food stores, said its operations in Ukraine had been affected.

At the Chernobyl plant, the computers affected by the attack collected data on
radiation levels and were not connected to industrial systems at the site,
where, although all reactors have been decommissioned, huge volumes of
radioactive waste remain. Operators said radiation monitoring was being done
manually.

Cybersecurity researchers questioned whether collecting ransom was the true
objective of the attack.

''It's entirely possible that this attack could have been a smoke screen,'' said
Justin Harvey, the managing director of global incident response at Accenture
Security. ''If you are an evildoer and you wanted to cause mayhem, why wouldn't
you try to first mask it as something else?''




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/27/technology/ransomware-hackers.html

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Maersk, the Danish shipping conglomerate, and Merck, the drug
giant in the United States, were among the many companies affected by a
cyberattack on Tuesday that caused damage worldwide. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ENRIQUE
CASTRO SANCHEZ/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 MATT ROURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 29, 2017 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mystery of Motive for a Ransomware Attack: Money, Mayhem or a Message?

BYLINE: By SHEERA FRENKEL, MARK SCOTT and PAUL MOZUR; Sheera Frenkel reported
from San Francisco, Mark Scott from Rome and Paul Mozur from Shanghai. Isabella
Kwai contributed reporting from Sydney, Australia, and Hari Kumar from New
Delhi. Carolyn Zhang contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1255 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- As governments and organizations around the world grappled on
Wednesday with the impact of a cyberattack that froze computers and demanded a
ransom for their release, victims received a clear warning from security experts
not to pay a dime in the hopes of getting back their data.

The hackers' email address was shut down and they had lost the ability to
communicate with their victims, and by extension, to restore access to
computers. If the hackers had wanted to collect ransom money, said cybersecurity
experts, their attack was an utter failure. That is, if that was actually their
goal.

Increasingly sophisticated ransomware assaults now have cybersecurity experts
questioning what the attackers are truly after. Is it money? Mayhem? Delivering
a political message?

In the attack that hit computers from Ukraine to the United States on Tuesday,
financial gain may be the least likely motive.

''Either it was a sophisticated actor who knew what they were doing -- except
screwed up horribly on the part where they actually get paid,'' said Nicholas
Weaver, a researcher at the International Computer Science Institute and a
lecturer at the University of California, Berkeley, ''or it wasn't about the
ransom in the first place.''

Ransomware, one of the oldest and most prolific forms of cyberattack, relies on
encrypting a victims' files, essentially locking them out of their own computer
systems, until they pay a ransom. Last year, cybersecurity researchers estimate
that criminals made over $1 billion through ransomware, with victims ranging
from the chief executives of Fortune 500 companies to mom-and-pop businesses and
private individuals.

The attack on Tuesday, like a similar assault in May called WannaCry, spread
wider and faster than previous forms of known ransomware. But combined, they
barely banked $100,000.

WannaCry spread by combining traditional ransomware with a worm, or a mechanism
by which the attack could quickly grow. It was the first of its kind, said
cybersecurity researchers, in that its goal appeared to be spreading as quickly
as possible, rather than to successfully collect ransoms from victims.

The attack on Tuesday is being called by different names, including Petya,
NotPetya and GoldenEye. Like WannaCry, it also appeared built for speed, as it
spread across systems, exploiting a single unprotected machine to then infect
machines across a network.

WannaCry's spread was halted by an independent cybersecurity researcher, who
discovered that by registering a single domain for about $10 he could stop the
attack in its tracks. Though Tuesday's assault does not appear to have finished,
it is no longer likely to generate significant payments, because a German email
provider shut down the email address associated with the ransom.

''They are no longer collecting a ransom,'' said Justin Harvey, managing
director of global incident response at Accenture Security. ''They are just
being destructive.''

When criminals stage a ransomware to make money, they set up multiple avenues to
collect funds from their victims, Mr. Harvey said. By contrast, the recent,
widespread attacks used ''immature'' methods, like a single email address and a
single Bitcoin wallet for electronic payments.

But considerable attention was paid to the technical details of launching the
attacks and ensuring they would spread as fast as possible.

Security researchers said the attack on Tuesday originated in Ukraine, seemingly
timed to hit a day before a holiday marking the 1996 adoption of Ukraine's first
constitution. More than 12,500 machines in the country were targeted, according
to Microsoft, though the online attack spread to 64 other countries.

While law enforcement officials struggled to determine who was behind the
attack, Microsoft said the assailants initially focused on software run by
M.E.Doc, a Ukrainian company specializing in tax accountancy. M.E.Doc
acknowledged that its servers had been affected and said in a statement that it
was cooperating with Ukrainian cyberpolice.

The attack targeted businesses in Ukraine, Russia and Poland, according to a
post from Kaspersky Lab, a Moscow-based security firm. According to the report,
those three countries as well as Italy and Germany were most affected. A number
of companies in other European countries and the United States were also hit.

Still, companies and government offices worldwide appeared less affected than
they were by the WannaCry attack, notably in places like China, which was hit
hard in May. Reports from Asia suggested that many of the companies hit were the
local arms of European and American companies that were struck on Tuesday.

In Mumbai, India, a port terminal operated by A. P. Moller-Maersk, a Danish
shipping giant, was shut down on Tuesday afternoon after it disclosed that it
had been affected by the malware. In a statement, Indian port authorities said
they were working to relieve congestion, including finding places to park
stranded cargo.

On the Australian island of Tasmania, computers in a Cadbury chocolate factory
owned by Mondelez International, an American food company, displayed the
ransomware message, the local news media reported.

''We continue to work quickly to address the current global I.T. outage across
Mondelez International and to contain any further exposure to our network,'' a
spokeswoman for the company said, adding that it was not clear when the
company's systems would be back up.

The virus also spread to the Australian branches of DLA Piper, a law firm with
offices around the world. The firm warned clients that it was dealing with a
''serious global cyber incident'' and said that it had taken down its
communications as a precaution.

In China, there were only scattered reports of the malware. Qihoo 360, a Chinese
computer security company, said the attack hit far fewer companies and
government offices than WannaCry.

Yet who was behind WannaCry and Tuesday's attack, and why they did it, remained
unclear.

Brian Lord, former deputy director for intelligence and cyber operations at
Britain's Government Communications Headquarters, the country's equivalent to
the National Security Agency, said that rather than aiming for financial
rewards, the hackers were trying to create the largest amount of disruption --
particularly in Ukraine.

But he is not convinced it was a Russian attack. ''The Russians are very
smart,'' said Mr. Lord, who is now managing director for cyber and technology at
PGI Cyber, an online security company. ''There's something about the blatantness
of hitting Ukraine that doesn't sit well with me about this being a Russian
attack.''

Both the I.P. address and the phone number connected to the internet domain
registration used in this week's attack were from Iran, said Ido Wulkan, head of
intelligence at the cybersecurity firm IntSights, based in Tel Aviv. The same
information was connected to a different attack two months ago. ''It is possible
that this is Iran, or it is possible that this is someone trying to mask
themselves as Iran,'' he said.

But since the tools used in the recent attacks are widely available, a range of
hackers -- criminals and state-sponsored -- would have been capable of carrying
them out.

''These types of attacks are just going to keep happening, and we've known this
since we first saw how big WannaCry was going to be last month,'' Mr. Harvey, of
Accenture Security, said. ''The real questions is whether these are all just
practice runs for the big one.''




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/28/business/ramsonware-hackers-cybersecurity-pet
ya-impact.html

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A message on the screen of a laptop in Geldrop, the Netherlands,
that had been infected in this week's major ransomware attack. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ROB ENGELAAR/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 29, 2017 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hacks Raise Fear Of N.S.A. ARSENAL

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1334 words


Twice in the past month, National Security Agency cyberweapons stolen from its
arsenal have been turned against two very different partners of the United
States -- Britain and Ukraine.

The N.S.A. has kept quiet, not acknowledging its role in developing the weapons.
White House officials have deflected many questions, and responded to others by
arguing that the focus should be on the attackers themselves, not the
manufacturer of their weapons.

But the silence is wearing thin for victims of the assaults, as a series of
escalating attacks using N.S.A. cyberweapons have hit hospitals, a nuclear site
and American businesses. Now there is growing concern that United States
intelligence agencies have rushed to create digital weapons that they cannot
keep safe from adversaries or disable once they fall into the wrong hands.

On Wednesday, the calls for the agency to address its role in the latest attacks
grew louder, as victims and technology companies cried foul. Representative Ted
Lieu, a California Democrat and a former Air Force officer who serves on the
House Judiciary and Foreign Affairs Committees, urged the N.S.A. to help stop
the attacks and to stop hoarding knowledge of the computer vulnerabilities upon
which these weapons rely.

In an email on Wednesday evening, Michael Anton, a spokesman for the National
Security Council at the White House, noted that the government ''employs a
disciplined, high-level interagency decision-making process for disclosure of
known vulnerabilities'' in software, ''unlike any other country in the world.''

Mr. Anton said the administration ''is committed to responsibly balancing
national security interests and public safety and security,'' but declined to
comment ''on the origin of any of the code making up this malware.''

Beyond that, the government has blamed others. Two weeks ago, the United States
-- through the Department of Homeland Security -- said it had evidence North
Korea was responsible for a wave of attacks in May using ransomware called
WannaCry that shut down hospitals, rail traffic and production lines. The
attacks on Tuesday against targets in Ukraine, which spread worldwide, appeared
more likely to be the work of Russian hackers, though no culprit has been
formally identified.

In both cases, the attackers used hacking tools that exploited vulnerabilities
in Microsoft software. The tools were stolen from the N.S.A., and a group called
the Shadow Brokers made them public in April. The group first started offering
N.S.A. weapons for sale in August, and recently even offered to provide N.S.A.
exploits to paid monthly subscribers.

Though the identities of the Shadow Brokers remain a mystery, former
intelligence officials say there is no question from where the weapons came: a
unit deep within the agency that was until recently called ''Tailored Access
Operations.''

While the government has remained quiet, private industry has not. Brad Smith,
the president of Microsoft, said outright that the National Security Agency was
the source of the ''vulnerabilities'' now wreaking havoc and called on the
agency to ''consider the damage to civilians that comes from hoarding these
vulnerabilities and the use of these exploits.''

For the American spy agency, which has invested billions of dollars developing
an arsenal of weapons that have been used against the Iranian nuclear program,
North Korea's missile launches and Islamic State militants, what is unfolding
across the world amounts to a digital nightmare. It was as if the Air Force lost
some of its most sophisticated missiles and discovered an adversary was
launching them against American allies -- yet refused to respond, or even to
acknowledge that the missiles were built for American use.

Officials fret that the potential damage from the Shadow Brokers leaks could go
much further, and the agency's own weaponry could be used to destroy critical
infrastructure in allied nations or in the United States.

''Whether it's North Korea, Russia, China, Iran or ISIS, almost all of the flash
points out there now involve a cyber element,'' Leon E. Panetta, the former
defense secretary and Central Intelligence Agency chief said in a recent
interview, before the weapons were turned against American interests.

''I'm not sure we understand the full capability of what can happen, that these
sophisticated viruses can suddenly mutate into other areas you didn't intend,
more and more,'' Mr. Panetta said. ''That's the threat we're going to face in
the near future.''

Using the remnants of American weapons is not entirely new. Elements of Stuxnet,
the computer worm that disabled the centrifuges used in Iran's nuclear weapons
program seven years ago, have been incorporated in some attacks.

In the past two months, attackers have retrofitted the agency's more recent
weapons to steal credentials from American companies. Cybercriminals have used
them to pilfer digital currency. North Korean hackers are believed to have used
them to obtain badly needed currency from easy hacking targets like hospitals in
England and manufacturing plants in Japan.

And on Tuesday, on the eve of Ukraine's Constitution Day -- which commemorates
the country's first constitution after breaking away from the Soviet Union --
attackers used N.S.A.-developed techniques to freeze computers in Ukrainian
hospitals, supermarkets, and even the systems for radiation monitoring at the
old Chernobyl nuclear plant.

The so-called ransomware that gained the most attention in the Ukraine attack is
believed to have been a smoke screen for a deeper assault aimed at destroying
victims' computers entirely. And while WannaCry had a kill switch that was used
to contain it, the attackers hitting Ukraine made sure there was no such
mechanism. They also ensured that their code could infect computers that had
received software patches intended to protect them.

''You're seeing a refinement of these capabilities, and it only heads in one
direction,'' said Robert Silvers, the former assistant secretary of cyber policy
at the Department of Homeland Security, now a partner at the law firm Paul
Hastings.

Though the original targets of Tuesday's attacks appear to have been government
agencies and businesses in Ukraine, the attacks inflicted enormous collateral
damage, taking down some 2,000 global targets in more than 65 countries,
including Merck, the American drug giant, Maersk, the Danish shipping company,
and Rosneft, the Russian state owned energy giant. The attack so crippled
operations at a subsidiary of Federal Express that trading had to be briefly
halted for FedEx stock.

''When these viruses fall into the wrong hands, people can use them for
financial gain, or whatever incentive they have -- and the greatest fear is one
of miscalculation, that something unintended can happen,'' Mr. Panetta said.

Mr. Panetta was among the officials warning years ago of a ''cyber Pearl
Harbor'' that could bring down the American power grid. But he and others never
imagined that those same enemies might use the N.S.A.'s own cyberweapons.

For the past six years, government officials were comforted by the fact that
their most fervent adversaries -- North Korea, Iran, extremist groups -- did not
have the skills or digital tools to inflict major damage. The bigger
cyberpowers, Russia and China in particular, seemed to exercise some restraint,
though Russia's meddling in the 2016 presidential election added a new, more
subtle threat.

But armed with the N.S.A.'s own tools, the limits are gone.

''We now have actors, like North Korea and segments of the Islamic State, who
have access to N.S.A. tools who don't care about economic and other ties between
nation states,'' said Jon Wellinghoff, the former chairman of the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission.

So long as flaws in computer code exist to create openings for digital weapons
and spy tools, security experts say, the N.S.A. is not likely to stop hoarding
software vulnerabilities any time soon.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/28/technology/ransomware-nsa-hacking-tools.html

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         June 30, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

How an Agency of Oddballs Transformed Modern War and Modern Life;
Nonfiction

BYLINE: FRED KAPLAN

SECTION: BOOKS; review

LENGTH: 1124 words



HIGHLIGHT: One small Pentagon enclave spawned stealth aircraft, armed drones and
the internet. Fred Kaplan tells the story of Darpa in "The Imagineers of War."


Correction Appended

THE IMAGINEERS OF WAR
The Untold History of DARPA, the Pentagon Agency That Changed the World
By Sharon Weinberger
Illustrated. 475 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $32.50.

Few have heard of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, but this small
Pentagon enclave has spawned some of the transformative inventions not just of
modern war but of modern life: the Saturn rocket, stealth aircraft, armed
drones, biofeedback systems and -- biggest of all -- the internet.

Yet Darpa has also devised some of the most disastrous fusions of science and
war, including Agent Orange (the defoliant that disabled thousands of American
troops, as well as untold numbers of civilians, in Vietnam) and myriad other
projects that treated the world as a giant laboratory but neglected to notice
the people inside. In "The Imagineers of War: The Untold Story of DARPA, the
Pentagon Agency That Changed the World," Sharon Weinberger, an executive editor
at Foreign Policy and the author or co-author of two previous books about the
military-scientific complex, traces the ups and downs of this agency, with its
"mix of geniuses and mediocre bureaucrats" and the "procession of nuts,
opportunists and salesmen" who pitched wild ideas and often won contracts to
pursue them.

The agency was established, originally as ARPA, in 1958, to get the United
States into space after the Soviets beat us to the punch with the Sputnik
satellite. Within a year, a new civilian agency, NASA, assumed that mission. So
ARPA, "struggling to find a new role for itself," turned to the escalating war
in Vietnam. President John F. Kennedy, an enthusiast of counterinsurgency,
funded ARPA's Combat Development and Test Center, which put in motion Project
Agile, a "covert-operations shop" run by William Godel, a veteran spy who helped
recruit former Nazi rocket scientists in the late 1940s, then took on various
roles in the N.S.A. and the Pentagon's special-operations directorate.

It was Godel who turned ARPA into a forum for ideas that were "completely
screwball," in Weinberger's words, but got funded anyway because they were "bold
and scientifically interesting." These included a plan to control Vietnamese
villages through mass hypnosis, an acoustic sniper-detection system (which
produced 5,000 false positives in field tests), an interplanetary spaceship
powered by thousands of nuclear explosions and a magnetic force-field to repel
incoming Soviet warheads, among others.

With access to Godel's unpublished memoir (from his daughter), Weinberger paints
him as not only the driving force in this story -- "more than any other ARPA
official," she writes, he "shaped the agency's future" -- but also a colorful
character. His house was filled with gadgets straight out of James Bond's Q lab.
He traveled the world with cash-stuffed briefcases and, in connection with that,
was sentenced to five years in prison on fraud-related charges in the mid-1960s.
After leaving ARPA, he ran guns to Southeast Asia. Some suspected he was a
security risk. This shadowy figure doesn't quite come fully to life -- the
chapters on him could have used a biographer's flair -- but the sketches are
ripe enough with intrigue.

The book -- deeply researched and briskly paced -- saunters down a gallery of
oddballs apart from Godel. There's Nicholas Christofilos, a flamboyant Greek,
whose ideas were "scientifically sound but required technological miracles to
make them work" and whose charisma stemmed from his lacking "any self-awareness
that the concepts he proposed were outrageous." There's Herman Kahn, the
ur-strategist of nuclear war and the probable model for Dr. Strangelove, who
proposed building a moat around Saigon to keep out the Vietcong. Anthony Tether,
a more recent Darpa director, told Weinberger that the agency's best program
managers "have inside them the desire to be a science fiction writer."

Yet a desire to write science fiction could lead to inventions like the
internet. Tether, for instance, started the Darpa Grand Challenge, which spurred
the development of driverless cars. And who could have judged, when they were
first pitched, that armed drones or brain-controlled prosthetics were any less
the stuff of fantasy than many of the projects dismissed here, in retrospect, as
"lunatic" or "comical"?

The key to Darpa's successes and failures, apparently, was that it operated
"below the radar," as Weinberger writes, "unencumbered by the typical
bureaucratic oversight and uninhibited by the restraints of scientific peer
review." The initial $1 million budget for a cross-country computer network --
the beginnings of the internet -- was given the go-ahead after a 15-minute
conversation.

That was in 1965, when the agency was ensconced in the elite E Ring of the
Pentagon. In later years, as it lost favor and was moved out farther into the
suburbs, it also lost some of its élan and autonomy. In her final chapter,
Weinberger laments the current Darpa's focus on narrow "technical problems" and
all but pines for the days when it "sought to understand the fundamentals of
society and the causes of insurgency." Yet a recurring theme of her book, up to
this point, has been the fallacy of believing that technology can win a war for
hearts and minds and the "arrogance" of "treating nations as living test beds."

Just a few pages before her concluding nostalgic dip, she condemns the "allure
of applying the wizardry of science and technology to warfare," which makes wars
"more inviting" and has "entangled the United States in a 'forever war.'" This
is a cogent (though not original) critique, worthy of a separate book, but it's
a bit overstated for this one. Darpa invented the armed drone, but, as she
notes, a quarter-century passed before it came into wide production and use.
"The agency has largely been absent from the past 10 years of national security
debates," she observes. The question, which she leaves uncertain, is whether
that's good or bad.

Fred Kaplan is Slate's War Stories columnist and the author of "Dark Territory:
The Secret History of Cyber War," now in paperback.


Correction: July 9, 2017, Sunday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A review last
Sunday about "The Imagineers of War: The Untold History of DARPA, the Pentagon
Agency That Changed the World" included outdated information about the book's
author, Sharon Weinberger, relying in part on her website. While she was indeed
the national security editor for The Intercept in March, when the book was
published, she subsequently left that position and is now an executive editor at
Foreign Policy.

PHOTO: Below the radar: The Individual Mobility System, a.k.a. the Jet Belt.
(PHOTOGRAPH FROM NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORD ADMINISTRATION, COLLEGE PARK)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 2, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Geniuses, Bureaucrats and Nuts

BYLINE: By FRED KAPLAN.

Fred Kaplan is Slate's War Stories columnist and the author of ''Dark Territory:
The Secret History of Cyber War,'' now in paperback.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; NONFICTION; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1000 words


THE IMAGINEERS OF WAR The Untold History of DARPA, the Pentagon Agency That
Changed the World By Sharon Weinberger Illustrated. 475 pp. Alfred A. Knopf.
$32.50.

Few have heard of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, but this small
Pentagon enclave has spawned some of the transformative inventions not just of
modern war but of modern life: the Saturn rocket, stealth aircraft, armed
drones, biofeedback systems and -- biggest of all -- the internet.

Yet Darpa has also devised some of the most disastrous fusions of science and
war, including Agent Orange (the defoliant that disabled thousands of American
troops, as well as untold numbers of civilians, in Vietnam) and myriad other
projects that treated the world as a giant laboratory but neglected to notice
the people inside. In ''The Imagineers of War: The Untold Story of DARPA, the
Pentagon Agency That Changed the World,'' Sharon Weinberger, an executive editor
at Foreign Policy and the author or co-author of two previous books about the
military-scientific complex, traces the ups and downs of this agency, with its
''mix of geniuses and mediocre bureaucrats'' and the ''procession of nuts,
opportunists and salesmen'' who pitched wild ideas and often won contracts to
pursue them.

The agency was established, originally as ARPA, in 1958, to get the United
States into space after the Soviets beat us to the punch with the Sputnik
satellite. Within a year, a new civilian agency, NASA, assumed that mission. So
ARPA, ''struggling to find a new role for itself,'' turned to the escalating war
in Vietnam. President John F. Kennedy, an enthusiast of counterinsurgency,
funded ARPA's Combat Development and Test Center, which put in motion Project
Agile, a ''covert-operations shop'' run by William Godel, a veteran spy who
helped recruit former Nazi rocket scientists in the late 1940s, then took on
various roles in the N.S.A. and the Pentagon's special-operations directorate.

It was Godel who turned ARPA into a forum for ideas that were ''completely
screwball,'' in Weinberger's words, but got funded anyway because they were
''bold and scientifically interesting.'' These included a plan to control
Vietnamese villages through mass hypnosis, an acoustic sniper-detection system
(which produced 5,000 false positives in field tests), an interplanetary
spaceship powered by thousands of nuclear explosions and a magnetic force-field
to repel incoming Soviet warheads, among others.

With access to Godel's unpublished memoir (from his daughter), Weinberger paints
him as not only the driving force in this story -- ''more than any other ARPA
official,'' she writes, he ''shaped the agency's future'' -- but also a colorful
character. His house was filled with gadgets straight out of James Bond's Q lab.
He traveled the world with cash-stuffed briefcases and, in connection with that,
was sentenced to five years in prison on fraud-related charges in the mid-1960s.
After leaving ARPA, he ran guns to Southeast Asia. Some suspected he was a
security risk. This shadowy figure doesn't quite come fully to life -- the
chapters on him could have used a biographer's flair -- but the sketches are
ripe enough with intrigue.

The book -- deeply researched and briskly paced -- saunters down a gallery of
oddballs apart from Godel. There's Nicholas Christofilos, a flamboyant Greek,
whose ideas were ''scientifically sound but required technological miracles to
make them work'' and whose charisma stemmed from his lacking ''any
self-awareness that the concepts he proposed were outrageous.'' There's Herman
Kahn, the ur-strategist of nuclear war and the probable model for Dr.
Strangelove, who proposed building a moat around Saigon to keep out the
Vietcong. Anthony Tether, a more recent Darpa director, told Weinberger that the
agency's best program managers ''have inside them the desire to be a science
fiction writer.''

Yet a desire to write science fiction could lead to inventions like the
internet. Tether, for instance, started the Darpa Grand Challenge, which spurred
the development of driverless cars. And who could have judged, when they were
first pitched, that armed drones or brain-controlled prosthetics were any less
the stuff of fantasy than many of the projects dismissed here, in retrospect, as
''lunatic'' or ''comical''?

The key to Darpa's successes and failures, apparently, was that it operated
''below the radar,'' as Weinberger writes, ''unencumbered by the typical
bureaucratic oversight and uninhibited by the restraints of scientific peer
review.'' The initial $1 million budget for a cross-country computer network --
the beginnings of the internet -- was given the go-ahead after a 15-minute
conversation.

That was in 1965, when the agency was ensconced in the elite E Ring of the
Pentagon. In later years, as it lost favor and was moved out farther into the
suburbs, it also lost some of its élan and autonomy. In her final chapter,
Weinberger laments the current Darpa's focus on narrow ''technical problems''
and all but pines for the days when it ''sought to understand the fundamentals
of society and the causes of insurgency.'' Yet a recurring theme of her book, up
to this point, has been the fallacy of believing that technology can win a war
for hearts and minds and the ''arrogance'' of ''treating nations as living test
beds.''

Just a few pages before her concluding nostalgic dip, she condemns the ''allure
of applying the wizardry of science and technology to warfare,'' which makes
wars ''more inviting'' and has ''entangled the United States in a 'forever
war.''' This is a cogent (though not original) critique, worthy of a separate
book, but it's a bit overstated for this one. Darpa invented the armed drone,
but, as she notes, a quarter-century passed before it came into wide production
and use. ''The agency has largely been absent from the past 10 years of national
security debates,'' she observes. The question, which she leaves uncertain, is
whether that's good or bad.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/30/books/review/imagineers-of-war-untold-history
-of-darpa-sharon-weinberger.html

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Below the radar: The Individual Mobility System, a.k.a. the Jet
Belt. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORD ADMINISTRATION, COLLEGE
PARK)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         July 3, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

The Hijacked American Presidency;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: CHARLES M. BLOW

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 908 words



HIGHLIGHT: A madman and his legislative minions are holding America hostage.


Every now and then we are going to have to do this: Step back from the daily
onslaughts of insanity emanating from Donald Trump's parasitic presidency and
remind ourselves of the obscenity of it all, registering its magnitude in its
full, devastating truth.

There is something insidious and corrosive about trying to evaluate the severity
of every offense, trying to give each an individual grade on the scale of
absurdity. Trump himself is the offense. Everything that springs from him, every
person who supports him, every staffer who shields him, every legislator who
defends him, is an offense. Every partisan who uses him -- against all he or she
has ever claimed to champion -- to advance a political agenda and, in so doing,
places party over country, is an offense.

We must remind ourselves that Trump's very presence in the White House defiles
it and the institution of the presidency. Rather than rising to the honor of the
office, Trump has lowered the office with his whiny, fragile, vindictive
pettiness.

The presidency has been hijacked.

Last week, when Donald Trump attacked two MSNBC hosts, people were aghast. The
condemnation came quickly and from all quarters.

But his words shouldn't have shocked. His tweet was just another pebble on a
mountain of vulgarities. This act of coarseness was in fact an act of
continuity. Trump was being Trump: the grossest of the gross, a profanity
against propriety.

This latest episode is simply part of a body of work demonstrating the man's
utter contempt for decency. We all know what it will add up to: nothing.

Republicans have bound themselves up with Trump. His fate is their fate. They
have surrendered any moral authority to which they once laid claim -- rightly or
not. If Trump goes down, they all do.

It's all quite odd, this moral impotence, this cowering before the belligerent,
would-be king. A madman and his legislative minions are holding America hostage.

There are no new words to express it; there is no new and novel way to catalog
it. It is what it is and has been from day one: The most extraordinary and
profound electoral mistake America has made in our lifetimes and possibly ever.

We must say without ceasing, and without growing weary by the redundancy, that
what we are witnessing is not normal and cannot go unchallenged. We must
reaffirm our commitment to resistance. We must always remember that although
individual Americans made the choice to vote affirmatively for him or actively
withhold their support from his opponent, those decisions were influenced, in
ways we cannot calculate, by Russian interference in our election, designed to
privilege Trump.

We must remember that we now have a president exerting power to which he may
only have access because a foreign power hostile to our interests wanted him
installed. We must remember that he has not only praised that foreign power, he
has proven mysteriously averse to condemning it or even acknowledging its
meddling.

We must remember that there are multiple investigations ongoing about the degree
of that interference in our election -- including a criminal investigation --
and that those investigations are not constrained to collusion and are far from
fake news. These investigations are deadly serious, are about protecting the
integrity of our elections and the sovereignty of our country and are about a
genuine quest for truth and desire for justice.

Every action by this administration is an effort to push forward the appearance
of normality, to squelch scrutiny, to diminish the authority and credibility of
the ongoing investigations.

Last week, after a growing list of states publicly refused to hand over
sensitive voter information to Trump's ironic and quixotic election integrity
commission, White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders blasted the pushback
as a "political stunt."

But in fact the commission itself is the political stunt. The committee is
searching for an illegal voting problem that doesn't exist. Trump simply lied
when he said that he would have won the popular vote were it not for millions of
illegal votes. And then he established this bogus commission -- using taxpayer
money -- to search for a truth that doesn't exist, to try to prove right a lie
that he should never have told.

This commission is classic Trump projection: There is a real problem with the
integrity of our last election because the Russians helped power his win, but
rather than deal with that very real attack on this country, he is instead
tilting at windmills concerning in-person voter fraud.

Last week, CNN reported:

"The Trump administration has taken no public steps to punish Russia for its
interference in the 2016 election. Multiple senior administration officials said
there are few signs the president is devoting his time or attention to the
ongoing election-related cyber threat from Russia."

Donald Trump is depending on people's fatigue. He is banking on your becoming
overwhelmed by his never-ending antics. He is counting on his capacity to wear
down the resistance by sheer force.

We must be adamant that that will never come to pass. Trump is an abomination,
and a cancer on the country, and none of us can rest until he is no longer
holding the reins of power.

I invite you to join me on Facebook and follow me on Twitter (@CharlesMBlow), or
email me at chblow@nytimes.com.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         July 3, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

China, Russia, Israel: Your Morning Briefing;
Asia and Australia Edition

BYLINE: STEPHEN HILTNER

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 1098 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know to start your day.


Good morning.

Here's what you need to know:

President Xi Jinping of China is in Moscow for a meeting with President Vladimir
Putin, their third this year.

Up for discussion during the two-day visit: trade deals, their mutual
unhappiness about an American missile shield in South Korea.

President Trump, frustrated by China's unwillingness to lean on North Korea,
told Mr. Xi on Monday that the U.S. was prepared to act on its own in pressuring
the nuclear-armed regime in Pyongyang, according to senior administration
officials.

North has tested another ballistic missile. "Does this guy have anything better
to do with his life?," Mr. Trump reacted on Twitter, in an apparent reference to
Kim Jong-un, the North's leader.

_____

American-backed forces have nearly sealed the capital of the Islamic State's
self-proclaimed caliphate.

Syrian Kurds and Arabs fighting as the Syrian Democratic Forces are trying to
trap as many as 2,500 Islamic State militants in Raqqa, Syria. An American-led
coalition supporting the S.D.F. has blown up bridges over the Euphrates and is
even shooting boats.

"If you want to get out of Raqqa right now," the American commander said,
"you've got to build a poncho raft."

_____

A "very severe judgment": That's what Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called voters'
resounding rejection of his party, the Liberal Democrats, in Tokyo elections.

All but one of the 50 municipal seats went to the upstart Tomin First Party,
founded by Tokyo's governor, Yuriko Koike. She is widely believed to have
ambitions to become Japan's first female prime minister, possibly as Mr. Abe's
successor.

_____

Narendra Modi visits Israel, a first for an Indian prime minister. Three days of
talks are expected to focus on defense deals and cyber security.

But the visit is shadowed by fury among Israeli and diaspora Jews over moves by
Israel's prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, that follow the agenda of his
ultra-Orthodox coalition partners.

His suspension of a plan for the sexes to pray together at the Western Wall and
protection of the Orthodox monopoly over religious conversions reawakened a
searing debate over identity and belonging.

_____

Accounts of sexual harassment in Silicon Valley -- and the tech industry around
the world -- are mushrooming, as women take strength from storiespublished in
The Times and elsewhere.

Repercussions include the resignation of a prominent investor, Dave McClure of
500 Startups, who admitted to having been "a creep."

The company apologizedto LaunchVic, its new Australian partner, for not
revealing that Mr. McClure was under investigation. And Australian tech leaders
condemned predatory investor behavior and urged the industry to take "a long
hard look" at itself.

_____

Our latest edition of The Breakdown, news and notes from Australia, asks who
will pay for the trial of Cardinal George Pell, and examines the cracks in the
gig economy. Check back at 3 p.m. Sydney for a new edition.

Business

Economists offered an unexpected explanation for why younger American men are
working fewer hours than their counterparts did in 2000: video games.

Tesla's first mass-market car, the Model 3, goes into production on Friday, two
weeks earlier than planned.

A pioneering engineer turned entrepreneur turned executive has founded a
community-based club in Silicon Valley, one that aims to shape new ideas through
conversation and shared experience.

U.S. markets are closed for the July 4 holiday. Here's a snapshot of global
markets.

In the News

In Central America, President Trump's hard-line approach to immigration is
stemming the flow of migrants bound for the U.S. [The New York Times]

A team of volunteers in the Philippines known as the Suicide Squad is enacting
daring civilian rescues throughout the embattled city of Marawi. [Reuters]

Summer highway construction in Germany set the stage for a tour bus's collision
with a trailer truck that killed at least 18 people. [The New York Times]

In Thailand, newly implemented fines for hiring undocumented foreigners have
caused tens of thousands of workers from countries like Cambodia and Myanmar to
flee. [ABC]

"Have you misplaced a lazy $1.6 million in cash?" The Australian Federal Police
took to Facebook to locate the owner of a briefcase stuffed with money. [The
Sydney Morning Herald]

Smarter Living

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

Find out what the internet knows about you, and how to stop the surveillance, in
our weekly newsletter.

Recipe of the day: If you're looking for a meatless meal, a soba salad is a
great choice.

Noteworthy

An American governor, Chris Christie of New Jersey, was widely ridiculed after
an aerial photographer captured him sunning himself with his family on a beach
closed to the public by a government shutdown.

Developing countries like Bangladesh are serving as an "ideal testing ground"
for hackers engaged in the newest, most creative and potentially most dangerous
types of cyberattacks.

 Think you're too old to enjoy Walt Disney World? Millions of foreign tourists
head there every year. Here's our guide to enjoying its theme parks as a
grown-up.

Back Story

Sixty years ago today, the Italian carmaker Fiat introduced its Nuova 500, a
model now seen as a symbol of elegant Italian craftsmanship and the renewal of
hope after World War II.

The Fiat 500 had been around since 1936 in another design, nicknamed Topolino
(Italian for Mickey Mouse). Then came the long years of war. But by 1957, Italy
was in the middle of a rapid boom some even called a miracle.

Italians started to have discretionary income, and many aspired to a new
middle-class lifestyle, complete with personal car. This 1960 video captures the
excitement the new 500 inspired.

In The Corriere della Sera, a leading newspaper, a reviewer recalled "looking at
it with suspicion" but being won over by the ease with which the tiny car
climbed an Alpine pass. (The New York Times later described it as "midget
Italian car with a sewing-machine-sized-air-cooled engine.")

The Corriere reviewer praised Fiat's engineer, Dante Giacosa, for creating a
"jewel" and predicted that it would not be long before Italian streets were
filled with them.

Indeed, over 3.6 million such cars had been sold by 1975, when the model was
discontinued. Thousands remain in use.

Patrick Boehler contributed reporting.

_____

We have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian, European and American
mornings. You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         July 3, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

How to Pack an Emergency Kit for Any Disaster

BYLINE: KENNETH R. ROSEN

SECTION: SMARTER-LIVING

LENGTH: 2002 words



HIGHLIGHT: It is never too early to talk with friends and family about emergency
plans -- and how to build the perfect go-bag in case disaster strikes.


Correction Appended

The Atlantic hurricane season started in June and runs through November, but if
you're more worried about fire, flood, earthquake or even man-made disasters,
it's never too early to talk with friends and family about their emergency
plans. Those plans should also include an emergency go-bag, no matter where in
the world you live.

The geographical issues you and your family face -- wildfires, hurricanes,
tornadoes, terrorist attacks, flooding, earthquakes -- are among the most
important factors to consider in deciding what goes in your emergency bag, said
William Booher, a spokesman for the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

"It's important to build an emergency supply kit and have it ready and available
at a moment's notice," he said.

Frank Smyth, the executive director of Global Journalist Security, a hostile
environments training and consulting firm, cautioned that "what might make sense
in one place might not be recommended in another." Variables in putting together
the right kit for your needs include everything from how much money and in what
currencies you'd like to store, whether you want to keep a bag at home and at
your office, and how many people you're packing for.

FEMA, the American Red Cross and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
all provide checklists to help you get started, and many items they recommend
overlap. Each agency offers a basic list, which includes water, food, a battery-
or hand-powered radio, a flashlight, batteries and a first-aid kit.

Building from there, here's what you should include in an emergency bag if
you're on your own, have a family of four or have a pet in the mix.

The Bare Basics

Ready.gov has guidance and materials for virtually every emergency scenario:
biological and chemical attacks, cyber-incidents, droughts, landslides, home
fires, snowstorms and even space weather. The Sweethome, a product review
website owned by The New York Times, spent 120 hours researching and testing
nearly 100 products to assemble the perfect emergency kit. Whether you buy one
or build it, here's what every kit should include.

Water: Nearly every professional preparedness organization will suggest stocking
away bottles or pouches of water and gallons of potable water in the event of an
emergency. But if you have to move, it's best to carry a portable filtration
system. "People think you need to stash gallons and gallons, but a filter
carries better and means as long as you have access to running water, your
supply is nearly unlimited," said Will Egensteiner, an associate editor at
Outside Magazine. The LifeStraw is Mr. Smyth's choice for purification straws
you can drink water through. If you have a container to drink from, iodine water
purification tablets are a simpler, nearly weightless alternative.

Food: Three days' worth of nonperishable food can come in many forms, including
massive hunks of survival food bars that contain 2,000 calories. But setting
aside a few boxes of Clif Bars or your preferred energy bar is a better tasting,
reliable option.

Portable Lighting: Flashlights and tea candles are ideal for setting up
emergency lighting around a home or in a primitive dwelling, but a headlamp is
compact and frees up both hands. "At night, even minor problems can be a hassle
if you can't see what you're doing," said Rik Paul, an editor at The Wirecutter,
a product review website owned by The New York Times. "While a flashlight is
handy, we recommend having a headlamp." He suggested the Black Diamond Spot,
which lasts up to 200 hours on three AAA batteries (50 hours at its maximum
illumination setting).

An Emergency Whistle: If your cellphone cannot get service or the battery is
drained, a simple signaling whistle is great for alerting emergency rescue crews
of your location or for locating others in hazardous conditions.

A Dust Mask: Airborne debris, fumes or gas from accidents or natural disasters
can cause respiratory problems. A simple painter's mask or surgical mask will do
in any kit, although more advanced models can filter out a wide variety of
smaller particulates and last much longer before they need to be replaced.
Consider what you may need to filter out of the air, and buy the right type of
mask for that purpose.

Solar Chargers: If you don't have access to an electrical outlet or reliable
power, a solar charger like the Anker PowerPort Solar Lite, a favorite of The
Wirecutter, will charge devices as large as a tablet with a day's worth of sun.
If there is very little sunlight, rechargeable battery packs are the next-best
option (and The Wirecutter has some suggestions there,too.) As with any
technology and most other things in the bag, "It's a good idea to check the bag
every couple of years in case tech has become outdated or batteries have lost
their power," Mr. Egensteiner said.

Miscellaneous Items: Don't forget to pack a few days' supply of personal
medications and prescriptions (especially life-preserving ones), as well as
medical items you rely on, like glucose and blood-pressure monitoring equipment
and supplies. Make sure you also pack a spare pair of glasses, sanitary
towelettes, paper maps of your area, tweezers, scissors, duct tape,
wind-resistant matches, and cash, traveler's checks or change.

For One Person

An emergency can occur at any time, even when you're alone. In those cases, you
need to plan for yourself, but also how you'll find and reach friends or family
in an emergency.

"You should have a general evacuation plan as well as a communication plan. You
should sit down with your family and discuss," said Mr. Booher, the FEMA
spokesman, "but also share with your friends and colleagues in case something
was to happen -- someone outside your immediate family would be able to track
you down."

Here are some items to keep on you or at the ready in your home or office, in
addition to the basics.

A Multi-Tool: "I have one I bring climbing, one I bring camping/hiking and one
for rafting/SUPing," Mr. Egensteiner said, referring to stand-up paddling. "They
can do everything, and the list of tools packed into the big ones today is
staggering." These tools, likeThe Wirecutter's favorite, the Leatherman New
Wave, can also help with performing first-aid, making fires and repairing
machinery or electronics. The best come with everything from a sharp knife and
pair of pliers or tweezers to a can opener.

Spare Clothing: Consider your climate and pack for the most common weather. From
an extra coat and gloves to a pair of walking shoes, consider the three basic
layers for weatherproofing: base, insulation and shell. The base layer should
include something that wicks away moisture and maintains body temperature such
as synthetics or merino wool. Insulation layers can include puffy jackets
stuffed with wool or down, or a fleece hooded sweatshirt or vest. The shell
layer should be wind- and rain-resistant, but also breathable.

A Weather/Emergency Radio: The Sweethome suggested the Midland ER310, "an
emergency radio that can tune in to AM/FM and National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration channel." In the event of an emergency, especially a
weather-related emergency, radio is your best bet to get up-to-date information
on weather patterns, evacuation orders or official news from the authorities. A
portable, easily powered radio like this one can keep you connected to the
outside world even if you're stuck in a cellar, or a shelter. This one can be
powered by battery, hand crank, solar energy or USB.

For a Family

If you're packing for a family, including children, build off the basics and
necessities for one person, and make sure you pack enough supplies for everyone.
Here are some more items to include if you're considering more people.

Mylar Blankets: Full sleeping bags are too cumbersome for an emergency kit, so
these are a lighter alternative. "Mylar thermal blankets or bags are windproof,
waterproof and capable of reflecting more than 90 percent of your body heat,"
Mr. Paul, of The Wirecutter, said. "Inexpensive and easy to store, this should
be the minimum you carry for warmth."

Bleach: Household chlorine bleach when diluted, nine parts water to one part
bleach, can be used as a disinfectant, according to FEMA. "Or in an emergency,
you can use it to treat water by using 16 drops of regular household liquid
bleach per gallon of water," the agency said.

Waterproof Container: While practical for storing perishable or sensitive
materials, a waterproof container that can easily fit in a backpack is also a
secure place to keep insurance polices, copies of identification and any other
documents you want to stay dry and safe.

Miscellaneous Items: Consider your family's specific additional needs, and pack
accordingly. Infant formula and diapers shouldn't be overlooked and can be
difficult to find on the go, especially in an emergency. You should also pack
books, games, puzzles or other activities for children, to keep them busy and
occupied during what could be a stressful time for you. If you can, pack mess
kits, shelf-stable foods and snacks (like trail mix and energy bars) and paper
cups.

For Your Pets

"There was a huge increase in awareness and demand for pet kits after the
wildfires that we had in Southern California in 2007," Jeff Primes, the
president of the disaster-preparedness company Ready America, told The
Sweethome. "Over a million people had to evacuate their homes. All of a sudden
there was a realization: Not only do I need supplies for me, I have to take care
of the pets."

A few days' supply of pet food, extra water and any medications your pet may
need are essential to keeping them happy in an uncomfortable situation. If the
weather is particularly cold, dog owners may want something like Ruffwear's
Float Coat or Track Jacket, which is also good for travel, Mr. Egensteiner said.
"The Float helps dogs in water situations and has a sturdy handle for picking
them up, and the Track is very visible," he said. "If there's hoisting or high
drops involved, there's the Doubleback."

For cat owners or anyone with other small animals, consider packing some extra
blankets in their pet carrier, so you can grab it all on the way out in an
emergency.

First-Aid Essentials

No emergency kit is complete without a first-aid kit inside. The Sweethome
suggests the Adventure Medical Kits Sportsman Whitetail. "The Sportsman
Whitetail comes with a wide variety of supplies, instructional flash cards, and
organization that makes providing first aid as simple as possible (even for the
untrained)," they wrote in a review.

If you're inclined to personalize, Mr. Smyth, who is also an adviser to the
Committee to Protect Journalists, offered a basic list that he provided to
journalists in hostile environments.

Among the essentials in his D.I.Y. first-aid kit are moleskin fabric, liquid
bandages, soft-wrap elastic bandages, micropore paper tape, fabric adhesive
dressings and bandages in a variety of sizes, coverlet adhesive 4-wing dressing,
non-adherent bandage pads, a sterile gauze bandage roll, adhesive wound
closures, triangular bandages, alcohol swabs and antiseptic wipes, packets of
Bacitracin antibiotic ointment with zinc, burn ointment, eye wash, a
thermometer, petroleum jelly, pain relievers, anti-diarrheal medications,
antacids and laxatives.

Finally, as with most things in your emergency go-bag, it's important to
periodically check that any medication, food or other perishable supplies (which
can even include water or pain relievers) have not expired, and that the
technology, such as your radio and battery packs, are still in working condition
and compatible with your other equipment.

Sign up here to get the Smarter Living newsletter, a weekly roundup of the best
advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life.


Correction: August 9, 2017, Wednesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article misstated the length of the Atlantic Hurricane Season.
It ends on November 30, not in September.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 3, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Hijacked American Presidency

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 917 words


Every now and then we are going to have to do this: Step back from the daily
onslaughts of insanity emanating from Donald Trump's parasitic presidency and
remind ourselves of the obscenity of it all, registering its magnitude in its
full, devastating truth.

There is something insidious and corrosive about trying to evaluate the severity
of every offense, trying to give each an individual grade on the scale of
absurdity. Trump himself is the offense. Everything that springs from him, every
person who supports him, every staffer who shields him, every legislator who
defends him, is an offense. Every partisan who uses him -- against all he or she
has ever claimed to champion -- to advance a political agenda and, in so doing,
places party over country, is an offense.

We must remind ourselves that Trump's very presence in the White House defiles
it and the institution of the presidency. Rather than rising to the honor of the
office, Trump has lowered the office with his whiny, fragile, vindictive
pettiness.

The presidency has been hijacked.

Last week, when Donald Trump attacked two MSNBC hosts, people were aghast. The
condemnation came quickly and from all quarters.

But his words shouldn't have shocked. His tweet was just another pebble on a
mountain of vulgarities. This act of coarseness was in fact an act of
continuity. Trump was being Trump: the grossest of the gross, a profanity
against propriety.

This latest episode is simply part of a body of work demonstrating the man's
utter contempt for decency. We all know what it will add up to: nothing.

Republicans have bound themselves up with Trump. His fate is their fate. They
have surrendered any moral authority to which they once laid claim -- rightly or
not. If Trump goes down, they all do.

It's all quite odd, this moral impotence, this cowering before the belligerent,
would-be king. A madman and his legislative minions are holding America hostage.

There are no new words to express it; there is no new and novel way to catalog
it. It is what it is and has been from day one: The most extraordinary and
profound electoral mistake America has made in our lifetimes and possibly ever.

We must say without ceasing, and without growing weary by the redundancy, that
what we are witnessing is not normal and cannot go unchallenged. We must
reaffirm our commitment to resistance. We must always remember that although
individual Americans made the choice to vote affirmatively for him or actively
withhold their support from his opponent, those decisions were influenced, in
ways we cannot calculate, by Russian interference in our election, designed to
privilege Trump.

We must remember that we now have a president exerting power to which he may
only have access because a foreign power hostile to our interests wanted him
installed. We must remember that he has not only praised that foreign power, he
has proven mysteriously averse to condemning it or even acknowledging its
meddling.

We must remember that there are multiple investigations ongoing about the degree
of that interference in our election -- including a criminal investigation --
and that those investigations are not constrained to collusion and are far from
fake news. These investigations are deadly serious, are about protecting the
integrity of our elections and the sovereignty of our country and are about a
genuine quest for truth and desire for justice.

Every action by this administration is an effort to push forward the appearance
of normality, to squelch scrutiny, to diminish the authority and credibility of
the ongoing investigations.

Last week, after a growing list of states publicly refused to hand over
sensitive voter information to Trump's ironic and quixotic election integrity
commission, White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders blasted the pushback
as a ''political stunt.''

But in fact the commission itself is the political stunt. The committee is
searching for an illegal voting problem that doesn't exist. Trump simply lied
when he said that he would have won the popular vote were it not for millions of
illegal votes. And then he established this bogus commission -- using taxpayer
money -- to search for a truth that doesn't exist, to try to prove right a lie
that he should never have told.

This commission is classic Trump projection: There is a real problem with the
integrity of our last election because the Russians helped power his win, but
rather than deal with that very real attack on this country, he is instead
tilting at windmills concerning in-person voter fraud.

Last week, CNN reported:

''The Trump administration has taken no public steps to punish Russia for its
interference in the 2016 election. Multiple senior administration officials said
there are few signs the president is devoting his time or attention to the
ongoing election-related cyber threat from Russia.''

Donald Trump is depending on people's fatigue. He is banking on your becoming
overwhelmed by his never-ending antics. He is counting on his capacity to wear
down the resistance by sheer force.

We must be adamant that that will never come to pass. Trump is an abomination,
and a cancer on the country, and none of us can rest until he is no longer
holding the reins of power.

I invite you to join me on Facebook and follow me on Twitter (@CharlesMBlow), or
email me at chblow@nytimes.com

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/03/opinion/trump-hijacked-american-presidency.ht
ml

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         July 7, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

In the Best New Crime, Lethal Lasagna, Honor Killings and Nanny Cams;
Crime

BYLINE: MARILYN STASIO

SECTION: BOOKS; review

LENGTH: 875 words



HIGHLIGHT: Marilyn Stasio's mystery column investigates honor killings and
prostitution in Britain, then takes readers on crime sprees in Paris and New
York.


Honor-based violence -- which covers everything from beatings and kidnapping to
mutilation and murder -- is a scourge in Britain, where the Crown Prosecution
Service estimates that the 12 or so honor killings reported each year are only a
fraction of the true number committed in Muslim, Sikh and Hindu communities. In
LOVE LIKE BLOOD (Atlantic Monthly, $26), Mark Billingham puts human faces on one
such case, telling the story of Amaya and Kamal, two Bangladeshi teenagers who
run away together to avoid arranged marriages. They make it as far as the London
Underground, and the rest is pure savagery.

"There isn't an ounce of anything like nobility in what these people do,"
Detective Inspector Nicola Tanner hotly informs her colleague Tom Thorne. "It's
murder, pure and simple, pretending to be something else." Although "dishonored"
male relatives are prime suspects in most cases of punitive violence, squeamish
families often prefer to shop the job to a middleman with access to professional
hit men -- thugs like Muldoon and Riaz, who collaborate efficiently but whose
cultural clashes can be morbidly funny. (Riaz enjoys Bollywood movies, while
Muldoon is amused by these musical fantasies about forlorn lovers. "In a film or
whatever, you get to sing about it," he observes, "but in real life you get the
likes of us turning up.")

Billingham allows his plot to wander down some pretty dark alleys. A friend of
Amaya's is gang-raped, considered appropriate retribution for talking to the
police. And it's disconcerting to learn that in Pakistan some honor killings can
be forgiven by the victim's family, with no punishment for the murderers. But
Billingham saves his real animus for the Metropolitan Police's Honor Crimes
Unit, which receives 3,000 incident reports a year but doesn't have a website --
or even a sign on the door. "There's a Royal Protection Unit and a Marine Unit
and a big, hairy Dog Support Unit," Thorne notes, but nothing about an Honor
Crimes Unit. "It's as if it doesn't officially exist." Which is what the victims
assumed all along.

[diams]

Detective Manon Bradshaw was endearingly klutzy in last year's "Missing,
Presumed," by Susie Steiner. Since she's five months pregnant in PERSONS UNKNOWN
(Random House, $27), she's even more ungainly, but still endearing, in a novel
that's nominally a mystery but is actually a smart and funny rumination on
motherhood. Manon has returned to Cambridgeshire with her adopted 12-year-old
son, Fly, to protect him from the indignities of growing up black in London. The
irony is that the boy becomes a major suspect in the murder of a London banker
who turns out to be the ex-husband of Manon's sister, Ellie, and the father of
her 3-year-old son.

Although the plot -- involving the sleaze merchants of an international
prostitution ring -- is a mess, the racial theme cuts deep enough to hurt, and
the characters are distinctive. Secondary players like Detective Sergeant Davy
Walker, who lives to help others, and Birdie Fielding, a prize specimen of the
Beatles' lonely people, are sweethearts. But since Steiner seems to judge all
her characters on the strength of their mothering instincts, the Latvian
gangsters don't get any love.

Margaret Maron is one of those authors whose devoted fans would follow them
anywhere. Now that she has retired her wonderful Deborah Knott series set in
North Carolina, readers must head for New York City, the setting of TAKE OUT
(Grand Central, $27), the final mystery in another series, which features Sigrid
Harald. Lieutenant Harald's policing may seem old-fashioned, but that's because
the novel's action takes place in the 1990s. When two homeless men are found
dead on a bench, the detective learns they were poisoned by some takeout food.
But this part of Greenwich Village is very neighborly and the locals, who
include the widow of a mafia don and a former opera star, were always bringing
them home-cooked meals. Which one was meant to die? And who delivered the lethal
lasagna? Sigrid has a coolly analytic mind; it's sad to think we're watching her
puzzle out her last case.

[diams]

Aside from mounting surveillance with a nanny cam, will having an 8-month-old
bébé cramp Aimée Leduc's ineffable style? The modish heroine of MURDER IN
SAINT-GERMAIN (Soho Crime, $27.95) and other delicious Parisian mysteries by
Cara Black must juggle motherhood with finding a nasty blackmailer, overseeing
computer security at the École des Beaux-Arts and hunting down a Serbian
warlord. This is Black's 17th Leduc novel, each set in a different neighborhood,
and the formula still charms.

Although the business of the warlord is a lot more interesting than Aimée's
bread-and-butter cyber security jobs, finding a babysitter in July and August,
when "toute Paris had disappeared," is even more challenging. The criminal
elements of the story aren't taxing, but the abiding pleasure of this series is
the chance to ride with a cabdriver who wants to discuss Sartre or just tearing
around Paris on Aimée's pink Vespa, making stops at the Jardin du Luxembourg and
the Île Saint-Louis, where Aimée has an apartment. Lucky girl.

Marilyn Stasio has covered crime fiction for the Book Review since 1988. Her
column appears twice a month.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         July 9, 2017 Sunday 00:00 EST

'Time to Move Forward' on Russia, Trump Says, as Criticism Intensifies

BYLINE: JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1452 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Trump tried to put the matter of election meddling behind him
after meeting with Russia's president, but found himself under searing criticism
from both parties.


WASHINGTON -- President Trump tried without success on Sunday to put the matter
of Russia's election meddling behind him, insisting that he had "strongly
pressed" President Vladimir V. Putin on the matter twice in a private meeting
last week and declaring that it was "time to move forward."

But if Mr. Trump believed his willingness to raise the election interference
directly with Mr. Putin would quiet questions about whether he could be trusted
to stand up to Moscow -- an issue that has shadowed his presidency -- he
grappled instead on Sunday with the reality that the meeting might have raised
more suspicions than it quelled.

Lawmakers in both parties said Mr. Trump had appeased the Russian president by
failing to insist that he was responsible for the breach or threaten any
consequences, and empowered him by appearing willing to partner on a
cybersecurity effort to prevent future incursions.

"You are hurting your ability to govern this nation by forgiving and forgetting
and empowering," Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said of
Mr. Trump, calling his meeting with Mr. Putin "disastrous."

"The more he talks about this in terms of not being sure, the more he throws our
intelligence communities under the bus, the more he's willing to forgive and
forget Putin, the more suspicion," Mr. Graham added in an interview on NBC's
"Meet the Press." "And I think it's going to dog his presidency until he breaks
this cycle."

As if to underscore the point, the White House confronted reports laterSunday
that Donald Trump Jr., Mr. Trump's eldest son, was promised damaging information
about Hillary Clinton before agreeing to meet with a Kremlin-connected Russian
lawyer at Trump Tower during the campaign last year. The accounts of the
meeting, by three White House advisers briefed on it and two others with
knowledge of it, represent the first public indication that at least some people
in Mr. Trump's campaign were willing to accept Russian help.

Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, had played down that meeting
during an appearance on "Fox News Sunday," calling it a "nothing meeting," and a
"big nothing burger."

President Trump's account of his lengthy and closely scrutinized closed-door
meeting with Mr. Putin on the sidelines of the Group of 20 summit meeting came
in a series of Twitter posts the morning after he had returned from the
gathering in Hamburg, Germany. They appeared to be an attempt to move beyond the
controversy after Moscow characterized the election discussion as a meeting of
minds rather than a showdown between the American president and his Russian
counterpart.

Administration officials knew that Mr. Trump's much-anticipated meeting with Mr.
Putin was risky and in some ways a no-win situation. The tangle of
investigations into his campaign's possible dealings with Russia raised the
stakes and created a damaging backdrop for Mr. Trump, while Mr. Putin's
well-earned reputation for outfoxing and manipulating adversaries suggested that
he would stage manage the meeting for maximum advantage, making himself appear
to have the upper hand.

On Sunday, it appeared that Mr. Putin had to some degree succeeded in doing just
that, after Mr. Trump's refusal to answer questions about the encounter
essentially ceded the narrative to Mr. Putin.

Mr. Trump broke with tradition and declined to hold a news conference at the end
of the G-20 summit meeting, instead sending three top officials to brief a small
group of reporters on Air Force One as he was returning on Saturday to
Washington. None of them would address the claims of Mr. Putin and Sergey V.
Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, that Mr. Trump had seemed satisfied with
Mr. Putin's denial of involvement in the hacking.

Mr. Trump's tweets on Sunday did little to dispel the notion that he had backed
down on the election meddling issue. He characterized his position as an
"opinion" and asserted that he was prepared to team with Moscow -- which United
States intelligence agencies say carried out a large-scale effort to interfere
with American democracy last year, and will try to again -- on forming an
"impenetrable Cyber Security unit" to thwart future breaches.

"I strongly pressed President Putin twice about Russian meddling in our
election," Mr. Trump said in one post. "He vehemently denied it. I've already
given my opinion."

"We negotiated a ceasefire in parts of Syria which will save lives," Mr. Trump
continued in another message. "Now it is time to move forward in working
constructively with Russia!"

Mr. Trump's highlighting of the potential cybersecurity initiative with Moscow
-- which he backed away from hours later in a tweet that said it would never
happen -- prompted derision from Republicans and Democrats who said Russia was
the last country the United States should trust on such matters.

"I am sure that Vladimir Putin could be of enormous assistance in that effort,
since he's doing the hacking," Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and
the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said on CBS's "Face the Nation."

Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California and the ranking member of
the House Intelligence Committee, called the idea "dangerously naïve."

"I don't think we can expect the Russians to be any kind of a credible partner
in some cybersecurity unit," he said on CNN's "State of the Union." "If that's
our best election defense, we might as well just mail our ballot boxes to
Moscow."

Mr. Trump appeared to abandon the idea on Sunday night, saying on Twitter that
while he had discussed a cybersecurity unit with Mr. Putin, it "doesn't mean I
think it can happen. It can't." He noted again that a cease-fire in a part of
southwestern Syria that was discussed at the meeting had gone into effect on
Sunday, an apparent effort to show concrete results from the discussion.

Mr. Trump has dispatched administration officials to defend his performance at
the meeting. On Sunday, Mr. Priebus flatly said Mr. Lavrov's version was "not
true," and described a confrontational meeting between the two presidents,
saying that Mr. Trump "absolutely did not believe the denial of President
Putin."

"This was an extensive portion of the meeting," Mr. Priebus said of the election
interference discussion.

Senior administration officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity because
they did not have authorization to talk about the private meeting, have said the
discussion of the election interference occupied about 40 minutes of the
135-minute discussion.

In separate interviews that aired over the weekend, Nikki R. Haley, the United
Nations ambassador, said Mr. Putin's description of the meeting was an attempt
to obfuscate.

"This is Russia trying to save face, and they can't," she said on CNN's "State
of the Union." "Everybody knows that Russia meddled in our elections."

In a brief question-and-answer session aboard Air Force One as Mr. Trump
returned from the summit meeting on Saturday, senior officials did not address
or dispute the Russian version of events. But Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury
secretary, said three times that Mr. Trump had handled the meeting "brilliantly"
and had "made his position felt."

"After a very substantive discussion on this, they reached an agreement that
they would start a cyberunit to make sure that there was absolutely no
interference whatsoever, that they would work on cybersecurity together," Mr.
Mnuchin said. "And President Trump focused the conversation on Syria and the
Ukraine and North Korea."

But Mr. Putin, a former K.G.B. agent and a martial arts master, showed none of
Mr. Trump's reluctance to answer questions about the meeting. At his news
conference on Saturday, he told reporters that Mr. Trump had asked about
election interference repeatedly and "agreed" with his statements about it.

"When possible, I answered his questions in detail," Mr. Putin said. "I got the
impression that my answers satisfied him."

Given Mr. Trump's past questioning of the extent of Russia's role -- including
in Warsawthe day before his meeting with Mr. Putin -- that impression is likely
to persist.

"He's worse off now, not better," said Michael A. McFaul, a former United States
ambassador to Russia who served under President Barack Obama. "I don't think
this meeting in any way advanced American national interests or took the air out
of people's suspicions about Trump's relationship with Russia."

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Noah Weiland contributed reporting.

PHOTO: President Trump returned to the White House on Saturday after the G-20
summit meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL DRAGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Putin Meets His Progeny


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         July 9, 2017 Sunday 00:00 EST

Tillerson Says Russia Must Restore Ukraine Territory, or Sanctions Stay

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 1128 words



HIGHLIGHT: The secretary of state, on a visit to Kiev, appeared to set the same
high bar for sanctions relief that the Obama administration did.


KIEV, Ukraine -- Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson assured Ukraine's leader on
Sunday that the United States would not lift economic sanctions against Russia
until it "reverses the actions" that prompted them and restores the country's
"territorial integrity," appearing to set the same high bar for sanctions relief
that the Obama administration did.

Mr. Tillerson's strongly worded statement, issued at a news conference in Kiev
alongside President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine, seemed to insist that Moscow
withdraw Russian troops and heavy weapons from eastern Ukraine and return
Crimea, the Black Sea territory that Russia annexed in 2014 -- though Mr.
Tillerson never specifically mentioned that disputed peninsula by name.

His comments came on the same day that President Trump said sanctions were not
discussed at his meeting on Friday with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.
And Mr. Trump walked into a new controversy with his declaration on Twitter that
he and Mr. Putin had agreed to create "an impenetrableCyber Security unit,"
suggesting for the first time that the two biggest adversaries in cyberspace
would somehow police it together.

Putin & I discussed forming an impenetrable Cyber Security unit so that election
hacking, & many other negative things, will be guarded.. -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) July 9, 2017

Mr. Trump's tweet came as intelligence officials appeared increasingly convinced
that Russian cyberactivity continued well after the election, and that the
Russian government was likely behind recent intrusions into business systems at
American nuclear power plants.

Mr. Trump said Sunday he had "strongly pressed" Mr. Putin twice during their
meeting last week on the sidelines of the Group of 20 summit meeting in Hamburg,
Germany, over interference in the election. Mr. Putin's primary diplomatic
objective during their meeting was thought to be the lifting of Western
sanctions. Mr. Trump had questioned the value of those sanctions during his 2016
campaign for president, and Mr. Putin may have seen his best opportunity to
achieve that goal.

But in a statement posted on Twitter minutes after Mr. Tillerson finished
speaking, Mr. Trump wrote that "sanctions were not discussed in my meeting with
President Putin," and added, "Nothing will be done until the Ukrainian & Syrian
problems are solved!"

Sanctions were not discussed at my meeting with President Putin. Nothing will be
done until the Ukrainian & Syrian problems are solved! -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) July 9, 2017

Mr. Tillerson's statement Sunday in Kiev was more definitive on the issue of
sanctions than his boss's tweet, perhaps a reflection of the political reality
in Washington, where the Senate voted, 97 to 2, last month to toughen sanctions
because of Russia's continued intervention in eastern Ukraine, Moscow's attempts
to intimidate former Soviet states and the conclusion of American intelligence
agencies that Russia had interfered in the 2016 election.

The administration has sought to water down the sanctions bill to give itself
more leeway in dealing with Russia, an effort that was viewed by many
Republicans and Democrats as a way to relax sanctions without congressional
approval.

It was unclear how the Russians might react to Mr. Tillerson's comments
insisting that Moscow restore Ukraine's territorial integrity. A few days ago,
Mr. Tillerson announced he was appointing a new special envoy, Kurt Volker, to
help settle the dispute in Ukraine in part at the request of Mr. Putin. And
Russian officials believed they had made progress in Mr. Putin's meeting with
Mr. Trump.

As Mr. Tillerson spoke Sunday, Mr. Volker sat in the front row, and he was to
remain in Kiev after Mr. Tillerson departed to discuss how to enforce the
largely ignored Minsk accordagreed in 2015 that envisioned a way out of the
Ukraine impasse.

During his short news conference in Kiev with Mr. Poroshenko, who took office
after one of Mr. Putin's acolytes was pushed from power, Mr. Tillerson also
declined to say whether Mr. Trump, during his meeting with the Russian
president, accepted Mr. Putin's denials that Russia was involved in efforts to
influence the 2016 election.

Mr. Tillerson was the only other senior American official in the room during the
presidents' meeting. His Russian counterpart, Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian
foreign minister, told reporters after the meeting in Hamburg that Mr. Trump had
been persuaded by Mr. Putin's arguments.

When pressed on the question, Mr. Tillerson used language he had used Friday
night, calling the election hacks the "first topic for discussion."

"In all candidness, we did not expect an answer other than the one we received,"
he said Sunday. "And so I think that was about the way we expected the
conversation to go."

Mr. Trump has frequently expressed doubts about Russia's involvement in hacking
the servers of the Democratic National Committee and compromising the email
accounts of prominent Democratic operatives, dismissing the conclusions of
American intelligence agencies as politicized in the Obama era.

Mr. Tillerson suggested that the two leaders would never reach a common
understanding of what happened last year. "I don't know if we will ever come to
an agreement, obviously with our Russian counterparts on that. I think the
important thing is how do we assure that this doesn't happen again."

The two sides announced a new effort last week in Hamburg, focused on avoiding
interference in elections and curbing cybersabotage.

By Mr. Tillerson's telling, that effort will start modestly, with discussions
about " a framework under which we might begin to have agreement on how to deal
with these very complex issues of cyberthreats, cybersecurity, cyberintrusions."

Mr. Trump's tweet seemed to indicate the cooperation would go beyond merely
discussions.

To many at the National Security Agency and United States Cybercommand, a "Cyber
Security unit" between Russia and the United States as described by Mr. Trump
would be akin to creating a joint missile-defense unit with the North Koreans.
The United States is deeply inside Russian computer networks -- for
surveillance, and if need be to conduct offensive action -- and the same is true
about Russian penetration of American networks. It is hard to imagine
intelligence services on either side giving that up.

PHOTO: Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, left, speaking with President Petro
O. Poroshenko of Ukraine on Sunday in Kiev. (POOL PHOTO BY MYKHAYLO LAZARENKO)

Related Articles


     ·    'Time to Move Forward' on Russia, Trump Says, as Criticism Intensifies
     ·    Trump Questions Putin on Election Meddling at Eagerly Awaited
          Encounter
     ·    Russia Crows Over Putin's Meeting With Trump
     ·    Hackers Are Targeting Nuclear Facilities, Homeland Security Dept. and
          F.B.I. Say


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 9, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dishonor Killings

BYLINE: By MARILYN STASIO.

Marilyn Stasio has covered crime fiction for the Book Review since 1988. Her
column appears twice a month.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CRIME; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 860 words


Honor-based violence -- which covers everything from beatings and kidnapping to
mutilation and murder -- is a scourge in Britain, where the Crown Prosecution
Service estimates that the 12 or so honor killings reported each year are only a
fraction of the true number committed in Muslim, Sikh and Hindu communities. In
LOVE LIKE BLOOD (Atlantic Monthly, $26), Mark Billingham puts human faces on one
such case, telling the story of Amaya and Kamal, two Bangladeshi teenagers who
run away together to avoid arranged marriages. They make it as far as the London
Underground, and the rest is pure savagery.

''There isn't an ounce of anything like nobility in what these people do,''
Detective Inspector Nicola Tanner hotly informs her colleague Tom Thorne. ''It's
murder, pure and simple, pretending to be something else.'' Although
''dishonored'' male relatives are prime suspects in most cases of punitive
violence, squeamish families often prefer to shop the job to a middleman with
access to professional hit men -- thugs like Muldoon and Riaz, who collaborate
efficiently but whose cultural clashes can be morbidly funny. (Riaz enjoys
Bollywood movies, while Muldoon is amused by these musical fantasies about
forlorn lovers. ''In a film or whatever, you get to sing about it,'' he
observes, ''but in real life you get the likes of us turning up.'')

Billingham allows his plot to wander down some pretty dark alleys. A friend of
Amaya's is gang-raped, considered appropriate retribution for talking to the
police. And it's disconcerting to learn that in Pakistan some honor killings can
be forgiven by the victim's family, with no punishment for the murderers. But
Billingham saves his real animus for the Metropolitan Police's Honor Crimes
Unit, which receives 3,000 incident reports a year but doesn't have a website --
or even a sign on the door. ''There's a Royal Protection Unit and a Marine Unit
and a big, hairy Dog Support Unit,'' Thorne notes, but nothing about an Honor
Crimes Unit. ''It's as if it doesn't officially exist.'' Which is what the
victims assumed all along.

â[TM]¦

Detective Manon Bradshaw was endearingly klutzy in last year's ''Missing,
Presumed,'' by Susie Steiner. Since she's five months pregnant in PERSONS
UNKNOWN (Random House, $27), she's even more ungainly, but still endearing, in a
novel that's nominally a mystery but is actually a smart and funny rumination on
motherhood. Manon has returned to Cambridgeshire with her adopted 12-year-old
son, Fly, to protect him from the indignities of growing up black in London. The
irony is that the boy becomes a major suspect in the murder of a London banker
who turns out to be the ex-husband of Manon's sister, Ellie, and the father of
her 3-year-old son.

Although the plot -- involving the sleaze merchants of an international
prostitution ring -- is a mess, the racial theme cuts deep enough to hurt, and
the characters are distinctive. Secondary players like Detective Sergeant Davy
Walker, who lives to help others, and Birdie Fielding, a prize specimen of the
Beatles' lonely people, are sweethearts. But since Steiner seems to judge all
her characters on the strength of their mothering instincts, the Latvian
gangsters don't get any love.

Margaret Maron is one of those authors whose devoted fans would follow them
anywhere. Now that she has retired her wonderful Deborah Knott series set in
North Carolina, readers must head for New York City, the setting of TAKE OUT
(Grand Central, $27), the final mystery in another series, which features Sigrid
Harald. Lieutenant Harald's policing may seem old-fashioned, but that's because
the novel's action takes place in the 1990s. When two homeless men are found
dead on a bench, the detective learns they were poisoned by some takeout food.
But this part of Greenwich Village is very neighborly and the locals, who
include the widow of a mafia don and a former opera star, were always bringing
them home-cooked meals. Which one was meant to die? And who delivered the lethal
lasagna? Sigrid has a coolly analytic mind; it's sad to think we're watching her
puzzle out her last case.

â[TM]¦

Aside from mounting surveillance with a nanny cam, will having an 8-month-old
bÃ©bÃ© cramp AimÃ©e Leduc's ineffable style? The modish heroine of MURDER IN
SAINT-GERMAIN (Soho Crime, $27.95) and other delicious Parisian mysteries by
Cara Black must juggle motherhood with finding a nasty blackmailer, overseeing
computer security at the Ã[0/00]cole des Beaux-Arts and hunting down a Serbian
warlord. This is Black's 17th Leduc novel, each set in a different neighborhood,
and the formula still charms.

Although the business of the warlord is a lot more interesting than AimÃ©e's
bread-and-butter cyber security jobs, finding a babysitter in July and August,
when ''toute Paris had disappeared,'' is even more challenging. The criminal
elements of the story aren't taxing, but the abiding pleasure of this series is
the chance to ride with a cabdriver who wants to discuss Sartre or just tearing
around Paris on AimÃ©e's pink Vespa, making stops at the Jardin du Luxembourg
and the Ã[#x17d]le Saint-Louis, where AimÃ©e has an apartment. Lucky girl.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/07/books/review/in-the-best-new-crime-love-like-
blood-mark-billingham.html

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         July 10, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

Putin Meets His Progeny;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: CHARLES M. BLOW

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 899 words



HIGHLIGHT: Trump is full of lies and Putin is full of tricks. Who to believe?


Team Trump wants us all to get over this annoying Russia thing and just move on.
Sorry sir, not going to happen.

At the G-20 meeting in Hamburg, Germany, Donald Trump met with Russian President
Vladimir Putin, the man whose thumb was all over the scale that delivered
Trump's victory. It was like a father meeting his offspring. But was it their
first meeting? Maybe, maybe not.

For years Trump claimed not only that he had met Putin, but also that the two
men had a great relationship.

Then in July 2016 came the about-face. At a news conference, Trump said, "I
never met Putin," and "I don't know who Putin is." This, coincidentally, was the
same news conference at which he encouraged Russia's cyberattack of Hillary
Clinton's campaign to "find the 30,000 emails that are missing."

Thereafter, Trump would repeatedly deny meeting Putin or knowing him.

Clearly, Trump having a great relationship with Putin, and Trump not knowing
Putin at all, cannot both be true.

I say this to remind you of something that you can never allow to become normal
and never allow to become acceptable: Our "president" is a pathological liar. He
lies about everything, all the time. Lying is his resting condition.

Therefore, absolutely nothing he or his team says is to be believed, ever.

With that in mind, we are told by Rex Tillerson, our secretary of state and the
man upon whom Putin bestowed Russia's Order of Friendship, that Trump "opened
his meeting with President Putin by raising the concerns of the American people
regarding Russian interference in the 2016 election," and that Trump repeatedly
"pressed" Putin on the issue, and of course Putin denied, again, Russian
involvement.

The Russians say Trump accepted Putin's denial, although the White House denied
that account. Trump is full of lies and Putin is full of tricks. Who to believe?

Tillerson's telling gives pause.

When asked if Trump spelled out consequences Russia would face for their attack
on our election, Tillerson said Trump and Putin focused on "how do we move
forward" because "it's not clear to me that we will ever come to some
agreed-upon resolution of that question between the two nations." At another
point, Tillerson said Trump and Putin agreed to establish a working-level group
"around the cyber issue and this issue of non-interference."

This is also outrageous. I didn't get the sense that Trump strongly asserted as
fact that Russia attacked our elections or that Trump would seek to punish
Russia. The readout tells the opposite story, one of Russia being let off the
hook. And this whole business of setting up a cybersecurity working group with
the Russians is like inviting the burglar to help you design your alarm system.

In a Twitter tirade Sunday morning, Trump wrote: "I strongly pressed President
Putin twice about Russian meddling in our election. He vehemently denied it.
I've already given my opinion. ..."

But Trump's opinion, as expressed the day before his meeting with Putin, was
that the source of the attack was something of an open question. At a news
conference in Warsaw, Poland, Trump said: "I think it could very well have been
Russia, but I think it could well have been other countries."

This is a slap in the face to our intelligence community that has unanimously
rendered their verdict: It was Russia!

Trump continued on Twitter: "...We negotiated a ceasefire in parts of Syria
which will save lives. Now it is time to move forward in working constructively
with Russia!"

No, sir, this is not the time to "move forward" with Russia, but rather time to
"move forward" against it.

Last week, CNN reported that "Russian spies are ramping up their
intelligence-gathering efforts in the U.S., according to current and former U.S.
intelligence officials who say they have noticed an increase since the
election."

CNN continued: "The officials say they believe one of the biggest U.S.
adversaries feels emboldened by the lack of a significant retaliatory response
from both the Trump and Obama administrations."

And on Saturday, The New York Times reported on another undisclosed meeting
between members of Trump's campaign and people connected to the Kremlin,
writing:

"Two weeks after Donald J. Trump clinched the Republican presidential nomination
last year, his eldest son arranged a meeting at Trump Tower in Manhattan with a
Russian lawyer who has connections to the Kremlin, according to confidential
government records described to The New York Times."

The Times continued: "The previously unreported meeting was also attended by Mr.
Trump's campaign chairman at the time, Paul J. Manafort, as well as the
president's son-in-law, Jared Kushner." The Times pointed out that the meeting
"is the first confirmed private meeting between a Russian national and members
of Mr. Trump's inner circle during the campaign."

America is under sustained, possibly even accelerated, attack by a foreign
power, the same one that attacked our election, and Trump not only wavers on the
source of the attack, but also refuses to condemn the culprit and in fact has a
penchant for praising him. This whole thing stinks to high heaven, and we must
press on until we uncover the source of the rot.

I invite you to join me on Facebook and follow me on Twitter (@CharlesMBlow), or
email me at chblow@nytimes.com.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         July 10, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

How to Make the Most of Amazon's Prime Day

BYLINE: JOSHUA ROSENBLAT

SECTION: SMARTER-LIVING

LENGTH: 340 words



HIGHLIGHT: Amazon's annual deals blowout, Prime Day, is back again -- but not
all the deals are worthwhile. Luckily, we can help.


Amazon's Prime Day -- the annual, summer version of an all-Amazon Cyber Monday
-- starts today. As with the last few years, most deals aren't worth it, but
there are a few gems sprinkled throughout. Subscribers to Amazon's Prime service
(which gets you two-day shipping on items and other perks for $99 yearly) have
access to thousands of items on sale.

Even though only a small percentage of those deals are truly worth it, and few
of them are available unless you're an Amazon Prime subscriber, you can make the
most of Prime Day with careful planning. For example, Lightning Deals, sales
that last for a just a short period of time or last only until stock runs out,
can offer steeper discounts than the daylong deals.

Similarly, if you're not an Amazon subscriber, consider signing up for the free
trial to take advantage of the day's discounts -- in case you see something you
like. (Just make sure to cancel before you're automatically billed once the
trial is over.) Amazon's competitors, like Walmart and Best Buy, might also
offer discounts on select products as a counter to Prime Day, too.

Check out The Wirecutter (which is owned by The New York Times) to help you map
out a Prime Day strategy, which will update throughout Prime Day to feature the
best discounts on things you may actually want to buy.

We've also highlighted a few of our favorites so far:

Expect steep discounts on the Amazon Echo, a voice-controlled smart home speaker
that can answer questions and play music to control all of your
internet-connected devices. If you pick one up, The Wirecutter has a great
rundown of all the things you can do with it.

Look for a deal on Tile's Slim Tiles, which, once stuck to the back of your
phone, use Bluetooth to track your phone's location and alert you when it's
getting too far from you.

The August Smart Lock, a keyless door lock for your home that uses your
smartphone as the key, should also be available for much cheaper than the
regular price.

You can find complete and updating coverage of Prime Day on The Wirecutter.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 10, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Putin Meets His Progeny

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 914 words


Team Trump wants us all to get over this annoying Russia thing and just move on.
Sorry sir, not going to happen.

At the G-20 meeting in Hamburg, Germany, Donald Trump met with Russian President
Vladimir Putin, the man whose thumb was all over the scale that delivered
Trump's victory. It was like a father meeting his offspring. But was it their
first meeting? Maybe, maybe not.

For years Trump claimed not only that he had met Putin, but also that the two
men had a great relationship.

Then in July 2016 came the about-face. At a news conference, Trump said, ''I
never met Putin,'' and ''I don't know who Putin is.'' This, coincidentally, was
the same news conference at which he encouraged Russia's cyberattack of Hillary
Clinton's campaign to ''find the 30,000 emails that are missing.''

Thereafter, Trump would repeatedly deny meeting Putin or knowing him.

Clearly, Trump having a great relationship with Putin, and Trump not knowing
Putin at all, cannot both be true.

I say this to remind you of something that you can never allow to become normal
and never allow to become acceptable: Our ''president'' is a pathological liar.
He lies about everything, all the time. Lying is his resting condition.

Therefore, absolutely nothing he or his team says is to be believed, ever.

With that in mind, we are told by Rex Tillerson, our secretary of state and the
man upon whom Putin bestowed Russia's Order of Friendship, that Trump ''opened
his meeting with President Putin by raising the concerns of the American people
regarding Russian interference in the 2016 election,'' and that Trump repeatedly
''pressed'' Putin on the issue, and of course Putin denied, again, Russian
involvement.

The Russians say Trump accepted Putin's denial, although the White House denied
that account. Trump is full of lies and Putin is full of tricks. Who to believe?

Tillerson's telling gives pause.

When asked if Trump spelled out consequences Russia would face for their attack
on our election, Tillerson said Trump and Putin focused on ''how do we move
forward'' because ''it's not clear to me that we will ever come to some
agreed-upon resolution of that question between the two nations.'' At another
point, Tillerson said Trump and Putin agreed to establish a working-level group
''around the cyber issue and this issue of non-interference.''

This is also outrageous. I didn't get the sense that Trump strongly asserted as
fact that Russia attacked our elections or that Trump would seek to punish
Russia. The readout tells the opposite story, one of Russia being let off the
hook. And this whole business of setting up a cybersecurity working group with
the Russians is like inviting the burglar to help you design your alarm system.

In a Twitter tirade Sunday morning, Trump wrote: ''I strongly pressed President
Putin twice about Russian meddling in our election. He vehemently denied it.
I've already given my opinion. ...''

But Trump's opinion, as expressed the day before his meeting with Putin, was
that the source of the attack was something of an open question. At a news
conference in Warsaw, Poland, Trump said: ''I think it could very well have been
Russia, but I think it could well have been other countries.''

This is a slap in the face to our intelligence community that has unanimously
rendered their verdict: It was Russia!

Trump continued on Twitter: ''...We negotiated a ceasefire in parts of Syria
which will save lives. Now it is time to move forward in working constructively
with Russia!''

No, sir, this is not the time to ''move forward'' with Russia, but rather time
to ''move forward'' against it.

Last week, CNN reported that ''Russian spies are ramping up their
intelligence-gathering efforts in the U.S., according to current and former U.S.
intelligence officials who say they have noticed an increase since the
election.''

CNN continued: ''The officials say they believe one of the biggest U.S.
adversaries feels emboldened by the lack of a significant retaliatory response
from both the Trump and Obama administrations.''

And on Saturday, The New York Times reported on another undisclosed meeting
between members of Trump's campaign and people connected to the Kremlin,
writing:

''Two weeks after Donald J. Trump clinched the Republican presidential
nomination last year, his eldest son arranged a meeting at Trump Tower in
Manhattan with a Russian lawyer who has connections to the Kremlin, according to
confidential government records described to The New York Times.''

The Times continued: ''The previously unreported meeting was also attended by
Mr. Trump's campaign chairman at the time, Paul J. Manafort, as well as the
president's son-in-law, Jared Kushner.'' The Times pointed out that the meeting
''is the first confirmed private meeting between a Russian national and members
of Mr. Trump's inner circle during the campaign.''

America is under sustained, possibly even accelerated, attack by a foreign
power, the same one that attacked our election, and Trump not only wavers on the
source of the attack, but also refuses to condemn the culprit and in fact has a
penchant for praising him. This whole thing stinks to high heaven, and we must
press on until we uncover the source of the rot.

I invite you to join me on Facebook and follow me on Twitter (@CharlesMBlow), or
email me at chblow@nytimes.com

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/10/opinion/trump-vladimir-putin-security-meeting
.html

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 10, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump Faces a Storm of Bipartisan Criticism Over a Meeting With Putin

BYLINE: By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS; Noah Weiland contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1440 words


WASHINGTON -- President Trump tried without success on Sunday to put the matter
of Russia's election meddling behind him, insisting that he had ''strongly
pressed'' President Vladimir V. Putin on the matter twice in a private meeting
last week and declaring that it was ''time to move forward.''

But if Mr. Trump believed his willingness to raise the election interference
directly with Mr. Putin would quiet questions about whether he could be trusted
to stand up to Moscow -- an issue that has shadowed his presidency -- he
grappled instead on Sunday with the reality that the meeting might have raised
more suspicions than it quelled.

Lawmakers in both parties said Mr. Trump had appeased the Russian president by
failing to insist that he was responsible for the breach or threaten any
consequences, and empowered him by appearing willing to partner on a
cybersecurity effort to prevent future incursions.

''You are hurting your ability to govern this nation by forgiving and forgetting
and empowering,'' Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said of
Mr. Trump, calling his meeting with Mr. Putin ''disastrous.''

''The more he talks about this in terms of not being sure, the more he throws
our intelligence communities under the bus, the more he's willing to forgive and
forget Putin, the more suspicion,'' Mr. Graham added in an interview on NBC's
''Meet the Press.'' ''And I think it's going to dog his presidency until he
breaks this cycle.''

As if to underscore the point, the White House confronted reports later Sunday
that Donald Trump Jr., Mr. Trump's eldest son, was promised damaging information
about Hillary Clinton before agreeing to meet with a Kremlin-connected Russian
lawyer at Trump Tower during the campaign last year. The accounts of the
meeting, by three White House advisers briefed on it and two others with
knowledge of it, represent the first public indication that at least some people
in Mr. Trump's campaign were willing to accept Russian help.

Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, had played down that meeting
during an appearance on ''Fox News Sunday,'' calling it a ''nothing meeting,''
and a ''big nothing burger.''

President Trump's account of his lengthy and closely scrutinized closed-door
meeting with Mr. Putin on the sidelines of the Group of 20 summit meeting came
in a series of Twitter posts the morning after he had returned from the
gathering in Hamburg, Germany. They appeared to be an attempt to move beyond the
controversy after Moscow characterized the election discussion as a meeting of
minds rather than a showdown between the American president and his Russian
counterpart.

Administration officials knew that Mr. Trump's much-anticipated meeting with Mr.
Putin was risky and in some ways a no-win situation. The tangle of
investigations into his campaign's possible dealings with Russia raised the
stakes and created a damaging backdrop for Mr. Trump, while Mr. Putin's
well-earned reputation for outfoxing and manipulating adversaries suggested that
he would stage manage the meeting for maximum advantage, making himself appear
to have the upper hand.

On Sunday, it appeared that Mr. Putin had to some degree succeeded in doing just
that, after Mr. Trump's refusal to answer questions about the encounter
essentially ceded the narrative to Mr. Putin.

Mr. Trump broke with tradition and declined to hold a news conference at the end
of the G-20 summit meeting, instead sending three top officials to brief a small
group of reporters on Air Force One as he was returning on Saturday to
Washington. None of them would address the claims of Mr. Putin and Sergey V.
Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, that Mr. Trump had seemed satisfied with
Mr. Putin's denial of involvement in the hacking.

Mr. Trump's tweets on Sunday did little to dispel the notion that he had backed
down on the election meddling issue. He characterized his position as an
''opinion'' and asserted that he was prepared to team with Moscow -- which
United States intelligence agencies say carried out a large-scale effort to
interfere with American democracy last year, and will try to again -- on forming
an ''impenetrable Cyber Security unit'' to thwart future breaches.

''I strongly pressed President Putin twice about Russian meddling in our
election,'' Mr. Trump said in one post. ''He vehemently denied it. I've already
given my opinion.''

''We negotiated a ceasefire in parts of Syria which will save lives,'' Mr. Trump
continued in another message. ''Now it is time to move forward in working
constructively with Russia!''

Mr. Trump's highlighting of the potential cybersecurity initiative with Moscow
-- which he backed away from hours later in a tweet that said it would never
happen -- prompted derision from Republicans and Democrats who said Russia was
the last country the United States should trust on such matters.

''I am sure that Vladimir Putin could be of enormous assistance in that effort,
since he's doing the hacking,'' Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and
the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said on CBS's ''Face the Nation.''

Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California and the ranking member of
the House Intelligence Committee, called the idea ''dangerously naïve.''

''I don't think we can expect the Russians to be any kind of a credible partner
in some cybersecurity unit,'' he said on CNN's ''State of the Union.'' ''If
that's our best election defense, we might as well just mail our ballot boxes to
Moscow.''

Mr. Trump appeared to abandon the idea on Sunday night, saying on Twitter that
while he had discussed a cybersecurity unit with Mr. Putin, it ''doesn't mean I
think it can happen. It can't.'' He noted again that a cease-fire in a part of
southwestern Syria that was discussed at the meeting had gone into effect on
Sunday, an apparent effort to show concrete results from the discussion.

Mr. Trump has dispatched administration officials to defend his performance at
the meeting. On Sunday, Mr. Priebus flatly said Mr. Lavrov's version was ''not
true,'' and described a confrontational meeting between the two presidents,
saying that Mr. Trump ''absolutely did not believe the denial of President
Putin.''

''This was an extensive portion of the meeting,'' Mr. Priebus said of the
election interference discussion.

Senior administration officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity because
they did not have authorization to talk about the private meeting, have said the
discussion of the election interference occupied about 40 minutes of the
135-minute discussion.

In separate interviews that aired over the weekend, Nikki R. Haley, the United
Nations ambassador, said Mr. Putin's description of the meeting was an attempt
to obfuscate.

''This is Russia trying to save face, and they can't,'' she said on CNN's
''State of the Union.'' ''Everybody knows that Russia meddled in our
elections.''

In a brief question-and-answer session aboard Air Force One as Mr. Trump
returned from the summit meeting on Saturday, senior officials did not address
or dispute the Russian version of events. But Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury
secretary, said three times that Mr. Trump had handled the meeting
''brilliantly'' and had ''made his position felt.''

''After a very substantive discussion on this, they reached an agreement that
they would start a cyberunit to make sure that there was absolutely no
interference whatsoever, that they would work on cybersecurity together,'' Mr.
Mnuchin said. ''And President Trump focused the conversation on Syria and the
Ukraine and North Korea.''

But Mr. Putin, a former K.G.B. agent and a martial arts master, showed none of
Mr. Trump's reluctance to answer questions about the meeting. At his news
conference on Saturday, he told reporters that Mr. Trump had asked about
election interference repeatedly and ''agreed'' with his statements about it.

''When possible, I answered his questions in detail,'' Mr. Putin said. ''I got
the impression that my answers satisfied him.''

Given Mr. Trump's past questioning of the extent of Russia's role -- including
in Warsaw the day before his meeting with Mr. Putin -- that impression is likely
to persist.

''He's worse off now, not better,'' said Michael A. McFaul, a former United
States ambassador to Russia who served under President Barack Obama. ''I don't
think this meeting in any way advanced American national interests or took the
air out of people's suspicions about Trump's relationship with Russia.''

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/09/us/politics/time-to-move-forward-trump-says-a
fter-putin-denies-election-hacking.html

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Trump returned to the White House on Saturday after
the G-20 summit meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL DRAGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 10, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Russia Must Restore Ukraine Territory, Tillerson Says

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1067 words


KIEV, Ukraine -- Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson assured Ukraine's leader on
Sunday that the United States would not lift economic sanctions against Russia
until it ''reverses the actions'' that prompted them and restores the country's
''territorial integrity,'' appearing to set the same high bar for sanctions
relief that the Obama administration did.

Mr. Tillerson's strongly worded statement, issued at a news conference in Kiev
alongside President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine, seemed to insist that Moscow
withdraw Russian troops and heavy weapons from eastern Ukraine and return
Crimea, the Black Sea territory that Russia annexed in 2014 -- though Mr.
Tillerson never specifically mentioned that disputed peninsula by name.

His comments came on the same day that President Trump said sanctions were not
discussed at his meeting on Friday with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.
And Mr. Trump walked into a new controversy with his declaration on Twitter that
he and Mr. Putin had agreed to create ''an impenetrable Cyber Security unit,''
suggesting for the first time that the two biggest adversaries in cyberspace
would somehow police it together.

Putin & I discussed forming an impenetrable Cyber Security unit so that election
hacking, & many other negative things, will be guarded.. -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) July 9, 2017

Mr. Trump's tweet came as intelligence officials appeared increasingly convinced
that Russian cyberactivity continued well after the election, and that the
Russian government was likely behind recent intrusions into business systems at
American nuclear power plants.

Mr. Trump said Sunday he had ''strongly pressed'' Mr. Putin twice during their
meeting last week on the sidelines of the Group of 20 summit meeting in Hamburg,
Germany, over interference in the election. Mr. Putin's primary diplomatic
objective during their meeting was thought to be the lifting of Western
sanctions. Mr. Trump had questioned the value of those sanctions during his 2016
campaign for president, and Mr. Putin may have seen his best opportunity to
achieve that goal.

But in a statement posted on Twitter minutes after Mr. Tillerson finished
speaking, Mr. Trump wrote that ''sanctions were not discussed in my meeting with
President Putin,'' and added, ''Nothing will be done until the Ukrainian &
Syrian problems are solved!''

Sanctions were not discussed at my meeting with President Putin. Nothing will be
done until the Ukrainian & Syrian problems are solved! -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) July 9, 2017

Mr. Tillerson's statement Sunday in Kiev was more definitive on the issue of
sanctions than his boss's tweet, perhaps a reflection of the political reality
in Washington, where the Senate voted, 97 to 2, last month to toughen sanctions
because of Russia's continued intervention in eastern Ukraine, Moscow's attempts
to intimidate former Soviet states and the conclusion of American intelligence
agencies that Russia had interfered in the 2016 election.

The administration has sought to water down the sanctions bill to give itself
more leeway in dealing with Russia, an effort that was viewed by many
Republicans and Democrats as a way to relax sanctions without congressional
approval.

It was unclear how the Russians might react to Mr. Tillerson's comments
insisting that Moscow restore Ukraine's territorial integrity. A few days ago,
Mr. Tillerson announced he was appointing a new special envoy, Kurt Volker, to
help settle the dispute in Ukraine in part at the request of Mr. Putin. And
Russian officials believed they had made progress in Mr. Putin's meeting with
Mr. Trump.

As Mr. Tillerson spoke Sunday, Mr. Volker sat in the front row, and he was to
remain in Kiev after Mr. Tillerson departed to discuss how to enforce the
largely ignored Minsk accord agreed in 2015 that envisioned a way out of the
Ukraine impasse.

During his short news conference in Kiev with Mr. Poroshenko, who took office
after one of Mr. Putin's acolytes was pushed from power, Mr. Tillerson also
declined to say whether Mr. Trump, during his meeting with the Russian
president, accepted Mr. Putin's denials that Russia was involved in efforts to
influence the 2016 election.

Mr. Tillerson was the only other senior American official in the room during the
presidents' meeting. His Russian counterpart, Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian
foreign minister, told reporters after the meeting in Hamburg that Mr. Trump had
been persuaded by Mr. Putin's arguments.

When pressed on the question, Mr. Tillerson used language he had used Friday
night, calling the election hacks the ''first topic for discussion.''

''In all candidness, we did not expect an answer other than the one we
received,'' he said Sunday. ''And so I think that was about the way we expected
the conversation to go.''

Mr. Trump has frequently expressed doubts about Russia's involvement in hacking
the servers of the Democratic National Committee and compromising the email
accounts of prominent Democratic operatives, dismissing the conclusions of
American intelligence agencies as politicized in the Obama era.

Mr. Tillerson suggested that the two leaders would never reach a common
understanding of what happened last year. ''I don't know if we will ever come to
an agreement, obviously with our Russian counterparts on that. I think the
important thing is how do we assure that this doesn't happen again.''

The two sides announced a new effort last week in Hamburg, focused on avoiding
interference in elections and curbing cybersabotage.

By Mr. Tillerson's telling, that effort will start modestly, with discussions
about '' a framework under which we might begin to have agreement on how to deal
with these very complex issues of cyberthreats, cybersecurity,
cyberintrusions.''

Mr. Trump's tweet seemed to indicate the cooperation would go beyond merely
discussions.

To many at the National Security Agency and United States Cybercommand, a ''
Cyber Security unit'' between Russia and the United States as described by Mr.
Trump would be akin to creating a joint missile-defense unit with the North
Koreans. The United States is deeply inside Russian computer networks -- for
surveillance, and if need be to conduct offensive action -- and the same is true
about Russian penetration of American networks. It is hard to imagine
intelligence services on either side giving that up.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/09/world/europe/tillerson-russia-sanctions-ukrai
ne.html

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, left, speaking with
President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine on Sunday in Kiev. (POOL PHOTO BY
MYKHAYLO LAZARENKO)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        July 13, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Job One at Homeland Security Under Trump: Immigration

BYLINE: RON NIXON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1189 words



HIGHLIGHT: The president, critics say, has pushed a single-minded focus on a
sprawling department whose duties include airline safety, disaster response and
protecting infrastructure.


WASHINGTON -- When President Trump addressed employees of the Department of
Homeland Security, just five days after being sworn in, he essentially had one
issue on his mind: cracking down on illegal immigration.

Absent from the speech was any mention of the department's other
responsibilities, like protecting the nation's critical infrastructure,
including computer systems, ensuring airline passenger safety or even protecting
the president himself.

The address in January, critics said, reflected the president's nearly
single-minded priority for the Department of Homeland Security, which employs
nearly 250,000 people in seven agencies.

"It's all immigration, it's the wall and it's enforcement," said Juliette
Kayyem, a Homeland Security official in the Obama administration. "Nothing about
FEMA or cyber or counterintelligence," she added, referring to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. "Just immigration all the time."

Homeland Security officials reject the idea that the agency is too focused on
immigration. Officials noted that Mr. Trump signed an executive order on
cybersecurity and has proposed adding money and staff to the agency's
cybersecurity efforts.

The officials add that the president appointed Brock Long, an experienced
emergency management official, to head FEMA. Mr. Long was confirmed, 95 to 4, by
the Senate.

They also point out that John F. Kelly, the Homeland Security secretary, has
taken a number of steps to protect air travel, including a temporary ban on
portable electronics from some countries and implementing new screening measures
to thwart attacks.

"No one is going to tell you that immigration and border security aren't
priorities; they are the priorities that the president ran on," said Jonathan
Hoffman, assistant secretary for public affairs at the department. "But the
focus on these issues isn't so much that we have neglected any part of the
Department of Homeland Security."

But so far the Trump administration has focused on illegal immigration: building
a wall along the border with Mexico, hiring thousands of new Border Patrol and
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents and deporting tens of thousands of
people in the country illegally.

Illegal immigration was the centerpiece of Mr. Trump's presidential campaign,
drawing large crowds as he promised to build a border wall and deport millions
in the country illegally. But security experts said the country faces a number
of continuing threats ranging from domestic terrorists to attacks from political
extremists and cyberattacks against the nation's election systems that demand
the full attention of the Department of Homeland Security.

"John Kelly and his staff have a wide portfolio," said Tom Ridge, who served as
the first Homeland Security secretary, under President George W. Bush. "I hope
the White House realizes that they have an enormous job in protecting the border
and the nation's infrastructure from cyberattacks. They can't be used just to
keep campaign promises."

The budget proposal Mr. Trump submitted to Congress prioritizes agencies and
programs that target illegal immigration.

Under the plan, funding would increase just over 21 percent for Customs and
Border Protection, the parent agency of the Border Patrol. Much of the increase
would be used to build a border wall. But the agency would also be charged with
hiring 5,000 new Border Patrol agents, even as the number of people crossing the
border illegally has declined. Last month, 21,659 border crossers were caught,
compared with 45,722 in June 2016, a 53 percent decrease.

Immigrations and Customs Enforcement's budget would increase even more, nearly
30 percent. The new funding would pay for more deportation officers, detention
centers and money to fly or bus unauthorized immigrants back to their home
countries.

But other services and programs within Homeland Security would have their
funding cut. The proposed budget includes cuts to the Coast Guard, elimination
of the Transportation Security Administration's teams of uniformed armed
officers that sweep public facilities and shutdowns of several of the
department's national labs, including one in New York City that helps detect
nuclear radiation. Several grant programs that pay for local police officers in
airports or those that fight extremism would be cut or reprogrammed.

For example, Life After Hate, a group that works to deradicalize neo-Nazis and
members of white supremacist groups, was slated to get $400,000 in the final
days of the Obama administration. But Homeland Security canceled funding to the
group in favor of groups and law enforcement agencies that target Muslim
extremists.

Cutting grant programs that combat domestic extremism is a mistake when attacks
by white supremacist and other hate groups are on the rise, said Erroll
Southers, a former F.B.I. agent who is the director of a program at the
University of Southern California that studies homegrown extremism.

"You can't just focus on threats by ISIS or other groups, although it's
important," he said, referring to the Islamic State. "But there are real threats
here at home that have to be addressed."

Mr. Hoffman, the Homeland Security spokesman, said that the agency's critics
were misguided and that their criticism did not reflect the day-to-day operation
of the department.

"We're not out there talking about cybersecurity, T.S.A., FEMA and other issues
every day, but the focus is on it every day," he said. "All the components and
agencies are sufficiently funded to do their jobs."

Senator Kamala Harris, Democrat of California, a frequent critic of the
department, said the White House bore a large share of the blame for what she
considered the agency's overemphasis on targeting immigrants who were in the
country illegally but posed little threat.

But she said Mr. Kelly should also be held accountable for the agency's
immigration priorities. Ms. Harris was one of nearly a dozen Democratic senators
who did not vote to confirm him.

"During his confirmation hearing, Mr. Kelly came across as this person who would
be a moderating voice in the Trump administration, someone who would speak truth
to power," said Ms. Harris, a member of the Homeland Security Committee. "But
that's not what we're seeing from him as secretary of Homeland Security. Under
him, this agency has seemed eager to carry out the destructive immigration
policies of this administration."

Leon E. Panetta, a former director of the C.I.A. and secretary of defense, said
Mr. Kelly was simply following orders.

"John Kelly is being a good Marine," Mr. Panetta said. "He was loyal to me, and
he's loyal to his commander in chief. I don't think some of the things the
department is doing reflect the views of John Kelly."

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

PHOTO: President Trump at the Department of Homeland Security. He has made
cracking down on illegal immigration a priority. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    People From 7 Travel-Ban Nations Pose No Increased Terror Risk, Report
          Says
     ·    New Trump Deportation Rules Allow Far More Expulsions


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         July 14, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Israel's Secret Arab Allies;
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: NERI ZILBER

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1055 words



HIGHLIGHT: Behind the scenes and away from the headlines, the Israeli government
is finding partners across the Middle East. But will it lead to peace?


TEL AVIV -- United States and Israeli officials seem convinced that a regional
peace agreement between Israel and the Arab world may be in the offing. On his
recent trip to the Middle East, President Trump said that a "new level of
partnership is possible and will happen -- one that will bring greater safety to
this region, greater security to the United States and greater prosperity to the
world." The main stumbling block remains the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, an
emotive issue that still carries strategic weight in Arab capitals. Yet the
president isn't completely wrong. Across the Middle East these days, often away
from the headlines, Israel finds itself deeply involved in Arab wars.

The clearest manifestation of what is frequently called "the new Middle East"
can be found in Syria. Mr. Trump himself infamously alluded to Israel's
strategic reach when he told visiting Russian diplomats about information
obtained by covert Israeli intelligence operations against the Islamic State.
According to subsequent reports, Israeli military intelligence had hacked into
the computer networks of Islamic State bomb makers in Syria. A few weeks later,
the Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported that Israel was intensifying its security
and intelligence cooperation with Jordan in southern Syria to stave off Iranian
gains in the area.

Israeli-Jordanian cooperation was not, in itself, news. Israel shipped Cobra
attack helicopters to Jordan in 2015. And the Israeli government has had a
policy, dating back to 1970, of buttressing Jordan's stability. Yet there is a
major United States-led coalition operation being run out of Jordan to support
the various Syrian rebels groups. An open question is whether, or more likely
how, Israel is now involved.

What's no longer at question is the role Israel plays in its own border region
with Syria. As recent reports have made clear, Israel has been working since at
least last year to create a friendly "buffer zone" on the other side of the
Golan Heights. A dedicated Israeli military unit acts as a liaison for civilian
aid and basic foodstuffs going in, and wounded Syrians -- including rebel
fighters -- coming out to Israeli hospitals. The Wall Street Journal reported in
June that rebel commanders even claim they receive cash from Israel, which is
used to pay salaries and purchase arms and ammunition. This "Good Neighborhood"
policy, as it's known in Israel, is aimed at persuading the local Syrian
population to reject Iranian and Hezbollah entreaties.

From its southern border, Israel has assisted Egypt in its protracted
counterinsurgency campaign against Sinai Province, the Islamic State's local
affiliate. Here, too, Israeli officials are circumspect about speaking openly on
cooperation -- and local media are, as in similar cases, often censored from
reporting what they already know. High-level military coordination and
intelligence sharing are givens. Yet according to a former senior Israeli
official quoted by Bloomberg News, Israeli drones have over the past several
years directly attacked militants in the Sinai Peninsula -- with Egypt's
consent.

Closer to home, there are intimate security ties between Israel and the
Palestinian Authority. With the United States' support, this coordination has
evolved into a pillar of the Israeli-Palestinian relationship and perhaps the
most successful facet of the entire peace process. On a daily basis, Israeli and
Palestinian officers discuss shared threats "to the stable security situation on
both sides," as a Palestinian security official once told me. At the top of the
list is the militant Hamas -- a clear terrorist threat for Israel, but also a
major internal threat to the Palestinian Authority. Indeed, Israeli intelligence
thwarted a Hamas assassination plot in 2014 against President Mahmoud Abbas.

Israel has peace and diplomatic agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the
Palestinian Authority, so military ties with them may not come as a complete
surprise. Less well known, however, is the increasingly close relationship with
the Arab Gulf states, like Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Such ties
are often referenced only obliquely by Israeli government ministers as "shared
interests" in the security and intelligence realms against the common Iranian
threat. Yet in recent years, reports have surfaced about clandestine meetings
between Israeli intelligence chiefs and their Gulf counterparts. Meir Dagan, the
former Mossad chief, allegedly traveled to Saudi Arabia in 2010 for secret talks
about Iran's nuclear program. Public encounters with retired Saudi Arabian
officials are now commonplace, whether in Washington, Munich or even Jerusalem.
Business ties are growing, too, including the sale of Israeli agriculture but
also cyber, intelligence and homeland security technology to the Gulf (usually
through third parties).

Taken as a whole, Israeli activities in Syria, Jordan, the West Bank, Egypt and
the Gulf can no longer be viewed in isolation from one another. Rather, Israel
is now involved in the Arab world's military campaigns -- against both Iran and
its proxies, as well as against the Islamic State. It remains to be seen whether
this is merely a temporary marriage of convenience against common foes or the
start of an enduring strategic realignment.

Regardless, it is likely to last for some time. The region's wars show no sign
of abating in the near future. At the very least, Israel is no longer viewed as
the central problem plaguing the Middle East. For this reason, Mr. Trump urged
the Arab states to "recognize the vital role of the state of Israel" in the
region's affairs. Absent significant movement on the Palestinian front, this new
Israeli role isn't likely to bring a full and public normalization of relations
or an end to the region's conflict. But it may help win the current wars, and
with it, a semblance of Middle East peace.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Neri Zilber (@NeriZilber) is a journalist based in Tel Aviv and an adjunct
fellow of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.

An Israeli soldier observes smoke rising from a Syrian village as a result of
fighting near the city of Quneitra, in the Golan Heights, last month. ATEF
SAFADI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 14, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Single-Minded at Homeland Security

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1150 words


WASHINGTON -- When President Trump addressed employees of the Department of
Homeland Security, just five days after being sworn in, he essentially had one
issue on his mind: cracking down on illegal immigration.

Absent from the speech was any mention of the department's other
responsibilities, like protecting the nation's critical infrastructure,
including computer systems, ensuring airline passenger safety or even protecting
the president himself.

The address in January, critics said, reflected the president's nearly
single-minded priority for the Department of Homeland Security, which employs
nearly 250,000 people in seven agencies.

''It's all immigration, it's the wall and it's enforcement,'' said Juliette
Kayyem, a Homeland Security official in the Obama administration. ''Nothing
about FEMA or cyber or counterintelligence,'' she added, referring to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. ''Just immigration all the time.''

Homeland Security officials reject the idea that the agency is too focused on
immigration. Officials noted that Mr. Trump signed an executive order on
cybersecurity and has proposed adding money and staff to the agency's
cybersecurity efforts.

The officials add that the president appointed Brock Long, an experienced
emergency management official, to head FEMA. Mr. Long was confirmed, 95 to 4, by
the Senate.

They also point out that John F. Kelly, the Homeland Security secretary, has
taken a number of steps to protect air travel, including a temporary ban on
portable electronics from some countries and implementing new screening measures
to thwart attacks.

''No one is going to tell you that immigration and border security aren't
priorities; they are the priorities that the president ran on,'' said Jonathan
Hoffman, assistant secretary for public affairs at the department. ''But the
focus on these issues isn't so much that we have neglected any part of the
Department of Homeland Security.''

But so far the Trump administration has focused on illegal immigration: building
a wall along the border with Mexico, hiring thousands of new Border Patrol and
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents and deporting tens of thousands of
people in the country illegally.

Illegal immigration was the centerpiece of Mr. Trump's presidential campaign,
drawing large crowds as he promised to build a border wall and deport millions
in the country illegally. But security experts said the country faces a number
of continuing threats ranging from domestic terrorists to attacks from political
extremists and cyberattacks against the nation's election systems that demand
the full attention of the Department of Homeland Security.

''John Kelly and his staff have a wide portfolio,'' said Tom Ridge, who served
as the first Homeland Security secretary, under President George W. Bush. ''I
hope the White House realizes that they have an enormous job in protecting the
border and the nation's infrastructure from cyberattacks. They can't be used
just to keep campaign promises.''

The budget proposal Mr. Trump submitted to Congress prioritizes agencies and
programs that target illegal immigration.

Under the plan, funding would increase just over 21 percent for Customs and
Border Protection, the parent agency of the Border Patrol. Much of the increase
would be used to build a border wall. But the agency would also be charged with
hiring 5,000 new Border Patrol agents, even as the number of people crossing the
border illegally has declined. Last month, 21,659 border crossers were caught,
compared with 45,722 in June 2016, a 53 percent decrease.

Immigrations and Customs Enforcement's budget would increase even more, nearly
30 percent. The new funding would pay for more deportation officers, detention
centers and money to fly or bus unauthorized immigrants back to their home
countries.

But other services and programs within Homeland Security would have their
funding cut. The proposed budget includes cuts to the Coast Guard, elimination
of the Transportation Security Administration's teams of uniformed armed
officers that sweep public facilities and shutdowns of several of the
department's national labs, including one in New York City that helps detect
nuclear radiation. Several grant programs that pay for local police officers in
airports or those that fight extremism would be cut or reprogrammed.

For example, Life After Hate, a group that works to deradicalize neo-Nazis and
members of white supremacist groups, was slated to get $400,000 in the final
days of the Obama administration. But Homeland Security canceled funding to the
group in favor of groups and law enforcement agencies that target Muslim
extremists.

Cutting grant programs that combat domestic extremism is a mistake when attacks
by white supremacist and other hate groups are on the rise, said Erroll
Southers, a former F.B.I. agent who is the director of a program at the
University of Southern California that studies homegrown extremism.

''You can't just focus on threats by ISIS or other groups, although it's
important,'' he said, referring to the Islamic State. ''But there are real
threats here at home that have to be addressed.''

Mr. Hoffman, the Homeland Security spokesman, said that the agency's critics
were misguided and that their criticism did not reflect the day-to-day operation
of the department.

''We're not out there talking about cybersecurity, T.S.A., FEMA and other issues
every day, but the focus is on it every day,'' he said. ''All the components and
agencies are sufficiently funded to do their jobs.''

Senator Kamala Harris, Democrat of California, a frequent critic of the
department, said the White House bore a large share of the blame for what she
considered the agency's overemphasis on targeting immigrants who were in the
country illegally but posed little threat.

But she said Mr. Kelly should also be held accountable for the agency's
immigration priorities. Ms. Harris was one of nearly a dozen Democratic senators
who did not vote to confirm him.

''During his confirmation hearing, Mr. Kelly came across as this person who
would be a moderating voice in the Trump administration, someone who would speak
truth to power,'' said Ms. Harris, a member of the Homeland Security Committee.
''But that's not what we're seeing from him as secretary of Homeland Security.
Under him, this agency has seemed eager to carry out the destructive immigration
policies of this administration.''

Leon E. Panetta, a former director of the C.I.A. and secretary of defense, said
Mr. Kelly was simply following orders.

''John Kelly is being a good Marine,'' Mr. Panetta said. ''He was loyal to me,
and he's loyal to his commander in chief. I don't think some of the things the
department is doing reflect the views of John Kelly.''

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/13/us/politics/dhs-immigration-trump.html

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Trump at the Department of Homeland Security. He has
made cracking down on illegal immigration a priority. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG
MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 15, 2017 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

Israel's secret Arab allies

BYLINE: By NERI ZILBER.

Neri Zilber (@NeriZilber) is a journalist based in Tel Aviv and an adjunct
fellow of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg.

LENGTH: 1009 words


TEL AVIV -- United States and Israeli officials seem convinced that a regional
peace agreement between Israel and the Arab world may be in the offing. On his
recent trip to the Middle East, President Trump said that a ''new level of
partnership is possible and will happen -- one that will bring greater safety to
this region, greater security to the United States and greater prosperity to the
world.'' The main stumbling block remains the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, an
emotive issue that still carries strategic weight in Arab capitals. Yet the
president isn't completely wrong. Across the Middle East these days, often away
from the headlines, Israel finds itself deeply involved in Arab wars.

The clearest manifestation of what is frequently called ''the new Middle East''
can be found in Syria. Mr. Trump himself infamously alluded to Israel's
strategic reach when he told visiting Russian diplomats about information
obtained by covert Israeli intelligence operations against the Islamic State.
According to subsequent reports, Israeli military intelligence had hacked into
the computer networks of Islamic State bomb makers in Syria. A few weeks later,
the Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported that Israel was intensifying its security
and intelligence cooperation with Jordan in southern Syria to stave off Iranian
gains in the area.

Israeli-Jordanian cooperation was not, in itself, news. Israel shipped Cobra
attack helicopters to Jordan in 2015. And the Israeli government has had a
policy, dating back to 1970, of buttressing Jordan's stability. Yet there is a
major United States-led coalition operation being run out of Jordan to support
the various Syrian rebels groups. An open question is whether, or more likely
how, Israel is now involved.

What's no longer at question is the role Israel plays in its own border region
with Syria. As recent reports have made clear, Israel has been working since at
least last year to create a friendly ''buffer zone'' on the other side of the
Golan Heights. A dedicated Israeli military unit acts as a liaison for civilian
aid and basic foodstuffs going in, and wounded Syrians -- including rebel
fighters -- coming out to Israeli hospitals.  The Wall Street Journal reported
in June that rebel commanders even claim they receive cash from Israel, which is
used to pay salaries and purchase arms and ammunition. This ''Good
Neighborhood'' policy, as it's known in Israel, is aimed at persuading the local
Syrian population to reject Iranian and Hezbollah entreaties.

From its southern border, Israel has assisted Egypt in its protracted
counterinsurgency campaign against Sinai Province, the Islamic State's local
affiliate. Here, too, Israeli officials are circumspect about speaking openly on
cooperation -- and local media are, as in similar cases, often censored from
reporting what they already know. High-level military coordination and
intelligence sharing are givens. Yet according to a former senior Israeli
official quoted by Bloomberg News, Israeli drones have over the past several
years directly attacked militants in the Sinai Peninsula -- with Egypt's
consent.

Closer to home, there are intimate security ties between Israel and the
Palestinian Authority. With the United States' support, this coordination has
evolved into a pillar of the Israeli-Palestinian relationship and perhaps the
most successful facet of the entire peace process. On a daily basis, Israeli and
Palestinian officers discuss shared threats ''to the stable security situation
on both sides,'' as a Palestinian security official once told me. At the top of
the list is the militant Hamas -- a clear terrorist threat for Israel, but also
a major internal threat to the Palestinian Authority. Indeed, Israeli
intelligence thwarted a Hamas assassination plot in 2014 against President
Mahmoud Abbas.

Israel has peace and diplomatic agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the
Palestinian Authority, so military ties with them may not come as a complete
surprise. Less well known, however, is the increasingly close relationship with
the Arab Gulf states, like Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Such ties
are often referenced only obliquely by Israeli government ministers as ''shared
interests'' in the security and intelligence realms against the common Iranian
threat. Yet in recent years, reports have surfaced about clandestine meetings
between Israeli intelligence chiefs and their Gulf counterparts. Meir Dagan, the
former Mossad chief, allegedly traveled to Saudi Arabia in 2010 for secret talks
about Iran's nuclear program. Public encounters with retired Saudi Arabian
officials are now commonplace, whether in Washington, Munich or even Jerusalem.
Business ties are growing, too, including the sale of Israeli agriculture but
also cyber, intelligence and homeland security technology to the Gulf (usually
through third parties).

Taken as a whole, Israeli activities in Syria, Jordan, the West Bank, Egypt and
the Gulf can no longer be viewed in isolation from one another. Rather, Israel
is now involved in the Arab world's military campaigns -- against both Iran and
its proxies, as well as against the Islamic State. It remains to be seen whether
this is merely a temporary marriage of convenience against common foes or the
start of an enduring strategic realignment.

Regardless, it is likely to last for some time. The region's wars show no sign
of abating in the near future. At the very least, Israel is no longer viewed as
the central problem plaguing the Middle East. For this reason, Mr. Trump urged
the Arab states to ''recognize the vital role of the state of Israel'' in the
region's affairs. Absent significant movement on the Palestinian front, this new
Israeli role isn't likely to bring a full and public normalization of relations
or an end to the region's conflict. But it may help win the current wars, and
with it, a semblance of Middle East peace.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/14/opinion/israels-secret-arab-allies.html

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: An Israeli soldier observes smoke rising from a Syrian village as a
result of fighting near the city of Quneitra, in the Golan Heights, last month.
ATEF SAFADI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        July 20, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

The Secret Service Calls for Backup on Its Other Job

BYLINE: NICHOLAS FANDOS

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1337 words



HIGHLIGHT: Though the Secret Service is known for keeping government executives
safe, it has a mandate to fight financial and cyber crimes. It could use help.


HOOVER, Ala. -- The classrooms, tucked above a municipal court here in the
Birmingham suburbs, are a long way from the White House. But walk through a set
of secured doors and into the futuristic-looking work space, and you will find
an important wager by the agency best known for protecting presidents, the
Secret Service.

Only it has almost nothing to do with earpiece-wearing agents or armored cars.

Though the Secret Service may be better known for keeping government executives
safe, it also has a mandate to investigate and fight financial and other
cybercrimes. And in an era of overworked protection details and nonstop
cybercrime, it could use some help.

So here at the National Computer Forensics Institute, the pupils are hardened
police officers, prosecutors and, occasionally, a judge. Instruction mimics what
the agency teaches its own special agents. And tuition is not only free, but the
Secret Service throws in travel, room, board and, for police officers, tens of
thousands of dollars of technology to set up their own forensics labs back home.

In exchange, the Secret Service has quietly empowered a network of thousands of
law enforcement officers across the country capable of processing digital
evidence and indebted to the agency that taught them.

"The threat nature has increased in the world, and the threats are all more and
more integrated with the digital world," said Ben Bass, the special agent in
charge of the institute. "So assimilating that into what we do is really
important."

The institute opened in 2008 as a partnership between the Secret Service and the
state of Alabama, which contributed space and money for its construction. At the
time, few state and local law enforcement agencies had the capability to process
digital evidence found on computers and cellphones, even as it was exploding in
volume and importance. That left agencies heavily reliant on the Secret Service
and the F.B.I. for processing and created a yearslong backlog in many cases.

The Secret Service reasoned that it would be critical to the future of its
mission -- not to mention the effectiveness of local and state law enforcement
-- to try to change that. The program remains the only one of its kind and scale
in the country.

Though its protective mission occupies the public's attention, the Secret
Service has been investigating crimes since 1865, when President Lincoln saw the
need to create a small force of investigators within the Treasury Department to
combat counterfeit currency that was undermining American markets. That mandate
has changed and widened in the decades since, along with threats to the
country's financial systems, and the agency now investigates bank fraud, credit
card fraud, identity theft, child exploitation as well as counterfeiting.

It does so with a reasonably small force. The majority of the Secret Service's
3,300 agents work out of field offices. The F.B.I., by comparison, has more than
13,000. To amplify its effect, the agency relies on dozens of electronic and
financial crimes task forces across the country, where local and state law
officers and people in academia and businesses work alongside its own agents.

The help has arrived at the right time for the agency, where in recent years low
morale, high attrition and more people to protect in more places have conspired
to pinch resources. Because protection is a nonnegotiable task, investigations
often take the hit.

The effect can be significant. In the 2016 fiscal year, the agency spent 65
percent of its time on protection and 35 percent on investigative work,
according to calculations it shared with members of the House Oversight
Committee. That was an election year, when protection demands are highest. But
it appears the ratio for this fiscal year -- which only included the last month
or so of the campaign -- has not changed much, with 60 percent of time going to
protection through the end of May. Typically it would be about 40 percent for a
post-campaign fiscal year.

Robert Novy, the deputy assistant director for investigations, said the task
forces help ensure that cases continue to move forward regardless of protection
demands. He also said that they have begun to free the Secret Service's own
staff to focus on larger-scale cyberthreats and high-dollar financial crimes.

"By elevating their capacities and capabilities, it allows us to focus on
finding ways to counter more significant financial threats," Mr. Novy said.

Still, building the program has proved challenging. A decade after it first
opened its doors, the institute trains about 1,100 people a year. But it is
running at between 30 percent and 40 percent of capacity because of a shortage
of federal funds. For some programs, would-be enrollees can wait as long as
three years.

Its financial outlook remains uncertain. President Trump's 2018 budget proposal
zeroed out the program, though Randolph D. Alles, the agency's new director,
told lawmakers last month that he considered it "critical" to the agency and
would move money from elsewhere in his budget to pay for it if need be. At the
same time, lawmakers in the House and Senate have introduced legislation that
could stabilize its funding.

The institute's finances appeared to be on few minds on a recent early summer
day in Hoover, where a class of two dozen prosecutors sat in neat classroom
rows, computers humming beside their feet, as data from the cellphone of a
fictitious drug smuggler flashed onto their computer screens. The evidence was
all there in ordered folders: call logs, texts, even compromising photographs of
a would-be drug dealer, made visible by powerful software and a few patient
instructors.

One room away and a few hours later, two dozen police officers packed into a
wood-trimmed mock courtroom listened to another instructor hold forth from the
witness stand on the ins and outs of being a good forensics witness. The key, he
said, is balancing the use of technical details like "master boot records" and
"disk partitions" with the bigger picture a less tech-savvy jury can more easily
grasp.

"I need to be able to understand it so I can translate it when I go before a
panel of 12 people," said Jennifer Eugene, a prosecutor from New Jersey,
describing her experience in front of a jury. "The law has not caught up with
where the technology is."

A five-week course for police on the basics of computer evidence recovery is the
most popular, and graduates of the course leave here with $28,000 worth of
technology and the ability to search seized computers for evidence of a crime. A
similar course on mobile devices is growing in popularity. And more advanced
courses cover network intrusion.

Prosecutors and judges can take shorter courses meant to familiarize them with
digital evidence, which is still relatively new to many courtrooms.

But the mutual benefits of the program were on display, too. Frank Garibay, a
detective with the San Antonio Police Department who had returned to the
institute as a proctor after taking coursework himself, said his training here
had transformed what his department could do.

It had also meant that when officials from the Texas Rangers and Homeland
Security Investigations zeroed in on an illegal gambling ring in Texas, they
could turn to the Secret Service's San Antonio-based electronic crimes task
force, including Mr. Garibay, for help.

The Secret Service paid for members of its task force to travel to the small
South Texas town of Falfurrias for a weekend to set up a war room to process
digital evidence.

The operation ended up taking downabout a dozen illegal casinos, recovered
almost $6 million, exposed drug and human trafficing rings, and ultimately
public corruption.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

PHOTOS: Terrance Maguire, above, a contract instructor at the National Computer
Forensics Institute in Hoover, Ala. At left, data is extracted from mobile
phones for use in a class. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN D. LILES FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         July 21, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

U.S. to Bar Americans From Traveling to North Korea

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 793 words



HIGHLIGHT: The announcement came only hours after Mike Pompeo, the C.I.A.
director, hinted that the United States was considering seeking a regime change
in North Korea.


ASPEN, Colo. -- The Trump administration said on Friday that it would bar
Americans from traveling to North Korea, a month after the death of Otto F.
Warmbier, a 22-year-old college student from Ohio who was arrested while trying
to leave the country and returned to his parents, more than a year later, in a
coma.

The announcement came only hours after Mike Pompeo, the director of the C.I.A.,
strongly hinted that the United States was considering seeking a regime change
in North Korea. Mr. Pompeo told an audience at the Aspen Security Forum on
Thursday night that President Trump had ordered him to come up with options that
would "separate the capacity" to build and deliver nuclear weapons from "someone
who might well have intent," a clear reference to Kim Jong-un, the country's
leader.

Mr. Pompeo was pressed several times in an interview here on Thursday evening
conducted by Bret Stephens, a New York Times columnist, about what he meant by
that phrase, and whether it was code for regime change. Mr. Pompeo would not
utter that phrase, saying instead, "As for the regime, I am hopeful we will find
a way to separate that regime from these" missiles and nuclear weapons.

C.I.A. officials noted that Mr. Pompeo's language was deliberately ambiguous,
and that there were ways to "separate" Mr. Kim from his arsenal without
overthrowing the government. Mr. Pompeo, when pressed on the point, noted that
there were risks if Mr. Kim left office, because it was unclear who might
succeed him.

But his statement did not exactly echo how Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson
has talked about the administration's approach to North Korea. In April, Mr.
Tillerson said: "Our goal is not regime change. Nor do we desire to threaten the
North Korean people or destabilize the Asia Pacific region."

While the State Department has long warned Americans about the risks of
detention in the North -- leading to high-drama cases in which the United States
has sent former presidents, intelligence chiefs and special envoys to win the
release of detainees -- it has not previously banned all travel. The new rules
will allow for a special certification, granted at the State Department's
discretion, for Americans seeking to enter the country on aid missions or in
other special circumstances.

The ban was expected to be announced formally next Thursday, a major holiday in
North Korea, and go into effect 30 days later, to allow any Americans in the
country to leave. Heather Nauert, a State Department spokeswoman, said in a
statement that once the ban is in effect, "U.S. passports will be invalid for
travel to, through and in North Korea, and individuals will be required to
obtain a passport with a special validation in order to travel to or within
North Korea."

How much a travel ban will hurt the North is unclear, since not many Americans
travel there. But some North Korea experts have been urging the ban for some
time, as a way both to squeeze the government and to prevent other Americans
from being taken prisoner.

"It's important to stop the flow of cash and prospective hostages into North
Korea, especially after the recent death of Otto Warmbier," said Evans J.R.
Revere, a former State Department official who specializes in North Korea.

None of the three Americans who are known to remain in prison in North Korea
were tourists. All three are Korean-Americans, and two of them worked at
Pyongyang University of Science and Technology, teaching the children of the
country's elite.

Mr. Pompeo's discussion of how the president had given him and the Defense
Department the task of coming up with ways to undermine the missile program
omitted any discussion of opening negotiations with the North, as South Korea,
China and Russia have urged. During the Obama administration, the C.I.A. and the
Pentagon were deeply involved in a sabotage program to use cyber- and
electronic-warfare techniques to destroy the North's missiles just before, or in
the early moments of, tests.

But after a long string of failures, the North has been more successful in the
last eight months or so, using missiles that employ different fuels and other
technologies.

Follow David E. Sanger on Twitter @SangerNYT. Jane Perlez contributed reporting
from Beijing.

PHOTO: Pyongyang International Airport in North Korea. A ban on Americans'
travel to North Korea is to be announced next week and take effect 30 days
later, to allow any visitors already there to leave. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED
JONES/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

Related Articles


     ·    North Korea Tour Options Dwindle for Americans. But Not by Much.
     ·    Dangerous Exploits: Otto Warmbier and the Risks of Travel to North
          Korea
     ·    Otto Warmbier, American Student Released From North Korea, Dies
     ·    North Korean Cruise Seeks Tourists, 8 to a Room


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 22, 2017 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Bar Americans From North Korea Travel

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Jane Perlez contributed reporting from Beijing..

Follow David E. Sanger on Twitter @SangerNYT .

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 696 words


ASPEN, Colo. -- The Trump administration said on Friday that it would bar
Americans from traveling to North Korea, a month after the death of Otto F.
Warmbier, a 22-year-old college student from Ohio who was arrested while trying
to leave the country and returned to his parents, more than a year later, in a
coma.

The announcement came only hours after Mike Pompeo, the director of the C.I.A.,
strongly hinted that the United States was considering seeking a regime change
in North Korea. Mr. Pompeo told an audience at the Aspen Security Forum on
Thursday night that President Trump had ordered him to come up with options that
would ''separate the capacity'' to build and deliver nuclear weapons from
''someone who might well have intent,'' a clear reference to Kim Jong-un, the
country's leader.

Mr. Pompeo was pressed several times in an interview here on Thursday evening
conducted by Bret Stephens, a New York Times columnist, about what he meant by
that phrase, and whether it was code for regime change. Mr. Pompeo would not
utter that phrase, saying instead, ''As for the regime, I am hopeful we will
find a way to separate that regime from these'' missiles and nuclear weapons.

C.I.A. officials noted that Mr. Pompeo's language was deliberately ambiguous,
and that there were ways to ''separate'' Mr. Kim from his arsenal without
overthrowing the government. Mr. Pompeo, when pressed on the point, noted that
there were risks if Mr. Kim left office, because it was unclear who might
succeed him.

But his statement did not exactly echo how Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson
has talked about the administration's approach to North Korea. In April, Mr.
Tillerson said: ''Our goal is not regime change. Nor do we desire to threaten
the North Korean people or destabilize the Asia Pacific region.''

While the State Department has long warned Americans about the risks of
detention in the North -- leading to high-drama cases in which the United States
has sent former presidents, intelligence chiefs and special envoys to win the
release of detainees -- it has not previously banned all travel. The new rules
will allow for a special certification, granted at the State Department's
discretion, for Americans seeking to enter the country on aid missions or in
other special circumstances.

The ban was expected to be announced formally next Thursday, a major holiday in
North Korea, and go into effect 30 days later, to allow any Americans in the
country to leave. Heather Nauert, a State Department spokeswoman, said in a
statement that once the ban is in effect, ''U.S. passports will be invalid for
travel to, through and in North Korea, and individuals will be required to
obtain a passport with a special validation in order to travel to or within
North Korea.''

How much a travel ban will hurt the North is unclear, since not many Americans
travel there. But some North Korea experts have been urging the ban for some
time, as a way both to squeeze the government and to prevent other Americans
from being taken prisoner.

''It's important to stop the flow of cash and prospective hostages into North
Korea, especially after the recent death of Otto Warmbier,'' said Evans J.R.
Revere, a former State Department official who specializes in North Korea.

None of the three Americans who are known to remain in prison in North Korea
were tourists. All three are Korean-Americans, and two of them worked at
Pyongyang University of Science and Technology, teaching the children of the
country's elite.

Mr. Pompeo's discussion of how the president had given him and the Defense
Department the task of coming up with ways to undermine the missile program
omitted any discussion of opening negotiations with the North, as South Korea,
China and Russia have urged. During the Obama administration, the C.I.A. and the
Pentagon were deeply involved in a sabotage program to use cyber- and
electronic-warfare techniques to destroy the North's missiles just before, or in
the early moments of, tests.

But after a long string of failures, the North has been more successful in the
last eight months or so, using missiles that employ different fuels and other
technologies.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/21/world/asia/north-korea-american-tourists.html

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pyongyang International Airport in North Korea. A ban on
Americans' travel to North Korea is to be announced next week and take effect 30
days later, to allow any visitors already there to leave. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED
JONES/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         July 24, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

Mr. Trump's Russian Base Beyond the Kremlin;
Editorial Notebook

BYLINE: FRANCIS X. CLINES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 608 words



HIGHLIGHT: Émigrés in Brighton Beach who fled the Soviet Union don't necessarily
dislike Vladimir Putin and have a fondness for his friend in the White House.


No American should have a keener sense of the dark intrigues that underpin
Kremlin politics than Mikhail Rubinsteyn, who arrived from Russia almost four
decades ago as Brighton Beach was morphing into Brooklyn's bastion for refugees
from the Moscow regime.

"Putin? Meddle in American politics?" Mr. Rubinsteyn asked in wonderment at his
popular Brighton Beach cafe. "Absolutely not. Fake news from Democrats," he
said, echoing the all-purpose dismissal crafted by his beloved President Trump,
whose émigré support remains firm in the community. Very firm, Mr. Rubinsteyn
said, despite the increasing reports of Russia cyber-scheming in America before
the election to help Mr. Trump.

"This is America," he said. "To have something believed in this country, you
have to prove it." He is a refugee from a time in Moscow when democratic rights
and impulses were furiously stifled by the Kremlin, much as they are now.

The puzzle in Brighton Beach is much the same as in other parts of the Trump
base: Why is there no great alarm from President Trump or his supporters about
the brazen Russian intrusion into American politics that has been certified by
American intelligence agencies? The question is even starker when posed to old
Soviet émigrés who should know better as they enjoy the well-stocked shops and
flowing freedom along Brighton Beach Avenue.

"Putin was in the army," said Vlad, a Russian Army veteran who finds that reason
enough to trust Russia's autocratic president. This, despite the Russian
leader's deep credentials with the K.G.B. and the suspicious deaths of
politicians and journalists who dared to challenge his regime. "He's controlled
the situation in Russia," said Vlad, declining to give his last name. "Putin and
Trump -- these guys make decisions," he added admiringly.

This "strong man" endorsement can be heard repeatedly in the community, but
there is much more complexity to Brighton Beach these days, according to Sam
Kliger, a sociologist who is director of Russian Jewish community affairs for
the American Jewish Committee. A refusenik who managed to flee the Soviet Union
27 years ago, Mr. Kliger notes that the community has traditionally been
pro-Republican at the presidential level, so the Trump victory was expected even
as it fell a bit short of Mitt Romney's 2012 vote.

"Anything that remotely smells of Communism they hate," Mr. Kliger said, noting
how even the focus on government service proposals by Democrats can be
mistrusted. Thus, partisan zealots labeled Hillary Clinton not just the familiar
Trumpian "crook," but a "socialist" as well -- the hated S-word in Brighton
Beach.

"A Byzantine Empire," Mr. Kliger politely summarized, emphasizing how much
Brighton Beach shifted in recent years with younger émigrés from far more
regions of the former Soviet Union who arrived more freely and for many
different reasons. He said many feel that contemporary Russia, whatever it has
become, is not the old Soviet Union. "Some are very much afraid of Russia, while
others think it should be engaged," he said, just as there are sharp differences
about how far to trust Mr. Putin.

The signs of change are clear along the boardwalk, where some early refugees, so
pioneering in the Gorbachev era, now sit and stare at the ocean from perches in
the Garden of Joy Adult Day Care Center.

"Listen," Mr. Rubinsteyn said amid the buzz in his cafe. "People I know a long
time from Russia, they don't care what's going on in Russia," he said of
forgiving and forgetting the old world. "I wish Russia the best."

PHOTO: Mikhail Rubinsteyn in his cafe in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY VICTOR J. BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 24, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mr. Trump's Russian Base Beyond the Kremlin

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 597 words


No American should have a keener sense of the dark intrigues that underpin
Kremlin politics than Mikhail Rubinsteyn, who arrived from Russia almost four
decades ago as Brighton Beach was morphing into Brooklyn's bastion for refugees
from the Moscow regime.

''Putin? Meddle in American politics?'' Mr. Rubinsteyn asked in wonderment at
his popular Brighton Beach cafe. ''Absolutely not. Fake news from Democrats,''
he said, echoing the all-purpose dismissal crafted by his beloved President
Trump, whose émigré support remains firm in the community. Very firm, Mr.
Rubinsteyn said, despite the increasing reports of Russia cyber-scheming in
America before the election to help Mr. Trump.

''This is America,'' he said. ''To have something believed in this country, you
have to prove it.'' He is a refugee from a time in Moscow when democratic rights
and impulses were furiously stifled by the Kremlin, much as they are now.

The puzzle in Brighton Beach is much the same as in other parts of the Trump
base: Why is there no great alarm from President Trump or his supporters about
the brazen Russian intrusion into American politics that has been certified by
American intelligence agencies? The question is even starker when posed to old
Soviet émigrés who should know better as they enjoy the well-stocked shops and
flowing freedom along Brighton Beach Avenue.

''Putin was in the army,'' said Vlad, a Russian Army veteran who finds that
reason enough to trust Russia's autocratic president. This, despite the Russian
leader's deep credentials with the K.G.B. and the suspicious deaths of
politicians and journalists who dared to challenge his regime. ''He's controlled
the situation in Russia,'' said Vlad, declining to give his last name. ''Putin
and Trump -- these guys make decisions,'' he added admiringly.

This ''strong man'' endorsement can be heard repeatedly in the community, but
there is much more complexity to Brighton Beach these days, according to Sam
Kliger, a sociologist who is director of Russian Jewish community affairs for
the American Jewish Committee. A refusenik who managed to flee the Soviet Union
27 years ago, Mr. Kliger notes that the community has traditionally been
pro-Republican at the presidential level, so the Trump victory was expected even
as it fell a bit short of Mitt Romney's 2012 vote.

''Anything that remotely smells of Communism they hate,'' Mr. Kliger said,
noting how even the focus on government service proposals by Democrats can be
mistrusted. Thus, partisan zealots labeled Hillary Clinton not just the familiar
Trumpian ''crook,'' but a ''socialist'' as well -- the hated S-word in Brighton
Beach.

''A Byzantine Empire,'' Mr. Kliger politely summarized, emphasizing how much
Brighton Beach shifted in recent years with younger émigrés from far more
regions of the former Soviet Union who arrived more freely and for many
different reasons. He said many feel that contemporary Russia, whatever it has
become, is not the old Soviet Union. ''Some are very much afraid of Russia,
while others think it should be engaged,'' he said, just as there are sharp
differences about how far to trust Mr. Putin.

The signs of change are clear along the boardwalk, where some early refugees, so
pioneering in the Gorbachev era, now sit and stare at the ocean from perches in
the Garden of Joy Adult Day Care Center.

''Listen,'' Mr. Rubinsteyn said amid the buzz in his cafe. ''People I know a
long time from Russia, they don't care what's going on in Russia,'' he said of
forgiving and forgetting the old world. ''I wish Russia the best.''




URL:

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mikhail Rubinsteyn in his cafe in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR J. BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        July 25, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Intelligence Agencies Say North Korean Missile Could Reach U.S. in a Year

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 919 words



HIGHLIGHT: The estimate significantly shortens the time that analysts believed
it would take the regime to develop a weapon capable of reaching the continental
United States.


WASHINGTON -- American intelligence agencies have shortened their estimate -- to
one year -- of how long it is likely to take North Korea to put the finishing
touches on a missile that can reach the continental United States, according to
several administration officials briefed on the new assessment.

Until a few weeks ago, the official estimate was that it would take roughly four
years, give or take 12 months, for North Korea to develop a missile that could
carry a nuclear weapon small enough to fit into the missile's warhead and
capable of surviving the stresses of re-entry and deliver it to the United
States.

But the realities of the past few months, especially a July 4 test that crossed
a major threshold -- if just barely -- has forced intelligence experts to
conclude that their estimates have been too conservative. In the test this
month, a missile carried a warhead 1,700 miles into space, and returned it at
high speed in a sharp parabola.

If the trajectory was flattened out, the missile could strike Alaska. That
forced government experts, reflexively cautious after overestimating Iraq's
weapons of mass destruction 14 years ago, back to the drawing board.

Behind the new assessment, officials said, was a growing recognition that they
underestimated the determination of Kim Jung-un, North Korea's leader, to race
ahead with a weapon that could reach American soil, even if it is crudely
engineered and inaccurate.

General Paul Selva, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, put the best
case forward last week when testifying before the Senate Armed Services
Committee. The most recent test, he said, stopped short of demonstrating that
North Korea possesses "the capacity to strike the United States with any degree
of accuracy or reasonable confidence of success."

But that statement went far beyond what most Pentagon officials had been allowed
to say in public before the most recent test. And it reflects a growing view,
from the Defense Intelligence Agency to the C.I.A., that at this point Mr. Kim's
missile engineers, while still refining the technology, have cleared most of the
major hurdles.

It is unclear how, if at all, that will change the calculus for President Trump.
He has vowed to dispense with the Obama-era strategy of "strategic patience"
toward North Korea. American military officials have been asked to come up with
new potential strategies, from stepped-up economic pressure to increased cyber
attacks on the missile testing regimes. But there is a lurking sense, one senior
intelligence official said last week at the Aspen Security Forum, that at this
point the best the United States can do is delay the day when North Korea
demonstrates it can reach beyond Alaska and Hawaii.

"It's a big long supply chain to build this thing out," the director of the
Central Intelligence Agency, Mike Pompeo, said at the security conference, the
first public reference to a long-running covert program to undermine the parts
and technologies that flow into North Korea. "As for the regime, I am hopeful we
will find a way to separate it" from its missile and nuclear capabilities.

But the essence of the new assessment, which was first reported by the
Washington Post, is that Washington has no more time. If the 2018 estimate is
right, North Korea will have a crude capability to reach the continental United
States before the nation's missile defenses are upgraded.

Quietly, the Pentagon has been refining longstanding contingency plans, from
intercepting missile parts at sea to attempting, if Mr. Trump should decide to
do it, to destroy a missile on the launchpad, before it is tested. But it is
more likely that the United States would first try a variant of the effort
developed during the Obama administration to sabotage the launches with cyber
and electronic warfare techniques, and with a steady flow of bad parts.

A spokesperson for the Office of the Director of National Intelligence issued a
statement from Scott Bray, the national intelligence manager for East Asia, that
walked to the edge of acknowledging that judgments are shifting.

"North Korea's recent test of an intercontinental range ballistic missile --
which was not a surprise to the Intelligence Community -- is one of the
milestones that we have expected would help refine our timeline and judgments on
the threats that Kim Jong Un poses to the continental United States," Mr. Bray
wrote.

"This test, and its impact on our assessments, highlight the threat that North
Korea's nuclear and ballistic missile programs pose to the United States, to our
allies in the region, and to the whole world."

The steady frequency of the North Korean missile tests, using a new solid fuel
technology, came as a surprise to many intelligence experts, providing a
different lesson than the one that emerged from Saddam Hussein's weapons-of-mass
destruction program in Iraq.

In the Iraq case, the intelligence agencies overestimated Saddam Hussein's
ability to reconstitute what was once a healthy nuclear weapons program. In the
North Korean case, one senior intelligence official noted last week, the speed
and sophistication of the program have been consistently underestimated -- much
as it was with the Soviet Union 70 years ago, and China more than 50 years ago.

Related Articles


     ·    Hawaii Wants to Be Prepared for a Nuclear Attack by North Korea
     ·    U.S. Vows Tougher Action on North Korea After Missile Test
     ·    U.S. Confirms North Korea Fired Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
     ·    North Korean Tests Add Urgency for U.S. to Fix Defense Flaws


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 26, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Experts Say North Korea Could Have a Missile to Reach U.S. by Next Year

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 883 words


WASHINGTON -- American intelligence agencies have shortened their estimate -- to
one year -- of how long it is likely to take North Korea to put the finishing
touches on a missile that can reach the continental United States, according to
several administration officials briefed on the new assessment.

Until a few weeks ago, the official estimate was that it would take roughly four
years, give or take 12 months, for North Korea to develop a missile that could
carry a nuclear weapon small enough to fit into the missile's warhead and
capable of surviving the stresses of re-entry and deliver it to the United
States.

But the realities of the past few months, especially a July 4 test that crossed
a major threshold -- if just barely -- has forced intelligence experts to
conclude that their estimates have been too conservative. In the test this
month, a missile carried a warhead 1,700 miles into space, and returned it at
high speed in a sharp parabola.

If the trajectory was flattened out, the missile could strike Alaska. That
forced government experts, reflexively cautious after overestimating Iraq's
weapons of mass destruction 14 years ago, back to the drawing board.

Behind the new assessment, officials said, was a growing recognition that they
underestimated the determination of Kim Jung-un, North Korea's leader, to race
ahead with a weapon that could reach American soil, even if it is crudely
engineered and inaccurate.

General Paul Selva, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, put the best
case forward last week when testifying before the Senate Armed Services
Committee. The most recent test, he said, stopped short of demonstrating that
North Korea possesses ''the capacity to strike the United States with any degree
of accuracy or reasonable confidence of success.''

But that statement went far beyond what most Pentagon officials had been allowed
to say in public before the most recent test. And it reflects a growing view,
from the Defense Intelligence Agency to the C.I.A., that at this point Mr. Kim's
missile engineers, while still refining the technology, have cleared most of the
major hurdles.

It is unclear how, if at all, that will change the calculus for President Trump.
He has vowed to dispense with the Obama-era strategy of ''strategic patience''
toward North Korea. American military officials have been asked to come up with
new potential strategies, from stepped-up economic pressure to increased cyber
attacks on the missile testing regimes. But there is a lurking sense, one senior
intelligence official said last week at the Aspen Security Forum, that at this
point the best the United States can do is delay the day when North Korea
demonstrates it can reach beyond Alaska and Hawaii.

''It's a big long supply chain to build this thing out,'' the director of the
Central Intelligence Agency, Mike Pompeo, said at the security conference, the
first public reference to a long-running covert program to undermine the parts
and technologies that flow into North Korea. ''As for the regime, I am hopeful
we will find a way to separate it'' from its missile and nuclear capabilities.

But the essence of the new assessment, which was first reported by the
Washington Post, is that Washington has no more time. If the 2018 estimate is
right, North Korea will have a crude capability to reach the continental United
States before the nation's missile defenses are upgraded.

Quietly, the Pentagon has been refining longstanding contingency plans, from
intercepting missile parts at sea to attempting, if Mr. Trump should decide to
do it, to destroy a missile on the launchpad, before it is tested. But it is
more likely that the United States would first try a variant of the effort
developed during the Obama administration to sabotage the launches with cyber
and electronic warfare techniques, and with a steady flow of bad parts.

A spokesperson for the Office of the Director of National Intelligence issued a
statement from Scott Bray, the national intelligence manager for East Asia, that
walked to the edge of acknowledging that judgments are shifting.

''North Korea's recent test of an intercontinental range ballistic missile --
which was not a surprise to the Intelligence Community -- is one of the
milestones that we have expected would help refine our timeline and judgments on
the threats that Kim Jong Un poses to the continental United States,'' Mr. Bray
wrote.

''This test, and its impact on our assessments, highlight the threat that North
Korea's nuclear and ballistic missile programs pose to the United States, to our
allies in the region, and to the whole world.''

The steady frequency of the North Korean missile tests, using a new solid fuel
technology, came as a surprise to many intelligence experts, providing a
different lesson than the one that emerged from Saddam Hussein's weapons-of-mass
destruction program in Iraq.

In the Iraq case, the intelligence agencies overestimated Saddam Hussein's
ability to reconstitute what was once a healthy nuclear weapons program. In the
North Korean case, one senior intelligence official noted last week, the speed
and sophistication of the program have been consistently underestimated -- much
as it was with the Soviet Union 70 years ago, and China more than 50 years ago.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/25/us/politics/north-korea-missiles.html

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         July 28, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

The Russians Were Involved. But It Wasn't About Collusion.;
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: DANIEL HOFFMAN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1030 words



HIGHLIGHT: Russian intelligence was probably behind Donald Trump Jr.'s meeting
with Kremlin-linked people last year, and they meant for it to be discovered.


Russians are fond of a proverb, "besplatniy sir biyvaet tol'ko v mishelovke":
"Free cheese can be found only in a mousetrap."

Having long considered the United States its main enemy, the Kremlin deploys a
full quiver of intelligence weapons against America and its national security
agencies, political parties and defense contractors. Its intelligence services,
though best known for clandestine operations to recruit spies, also run covert
"influence operations" that often use disinformation to try to affect decisions
or events in rival countries. A central tool of those operations is "kompromat,"
"compromising material": things of seemingly great value that are dangled, at
what appears to be no cost, before unwitting targets. This is the "free cheese"
that ensnares victims in a trap.

I know all this from having spent much of my 30-year government career,
including with the C.I.A., observing Soviet, and then Russian, intelligence
operations. I came to realize that President Vladimir Putin, who spent his
formative years in the K.G.B., the Soviet Union's main intelligence agency, and
served as director of its successor agency, the F.S.B., wants, as much as
anything, to destabilize the American political process. For all his talk of
desiring friendly relations, Mr. Putin favors a state of animosity between our
two nations. By characterizing the United States and NATO as Russia's enemies,
he can attack within his own borders what threatens him the most -- the ideals
of liberty, freedom and democracy, of which the United States has been a
defender.

This background is necessary for understanding the real meaning of the June 2016
meeting in Trump Tower between Kremlin-connected Russians and three
representatives of Donald Trump's campaign: his son, Donald Trump Jr., his
son-in-law, Jared Kushner, and Paul Manafort, then the campaign manager. The
evidence that has emerged from this meeting strongly suggests that this was not
an effort to establish a secure back channel for collusion between Moscow and
the Trump campaign but an influence operation with one simple objective: to
undermine the presidential election.

No conclusive proof has yet emerged that the Kremlin arranged this meeting, and
the Russians involved have asserted they were not working for the Putin
government. Mr. Kushner himself told Senate investigators that there was no
collusion between the Trump campaign and Moscow. But to me, the clearest
evidence that this was a Russian influence operation is the trail of bread
crumbs the Kremlin seemed to have deliberately left leading from Trump Tower to
the Kremlin. This operation was meant to be discovered.

The meeting was arranged by a British publicist named Rob Goldstone, who told
Donald Trump Jr. via email that his client, the Russian pop star Emin Agalarov,
wanted to share incriminating evidence on the Clinton campaign that had been
obtained from the Russian government. Sophisticated Russian intelligence
tradecraft that was meant to be kept secret would not have permitted such an
insecure opening gambit for establishing continuing communication with the Trump
campaign. They would not have used something as insecure as email, or relied on
liaison cutouts who could so easily be traced to the Kremlin. Instead, the
Russians who attended the meeting had obvious Kremlin ties, including Natalia
Veselnitskaya, a Moscow lawyer who has done work on behalf of the F.S.B.; Rinat
Akhmetshin, a Russian-American lobbyist who served in the Soviet military; and
Mr. Agalarov, whose father is a real estate titan close to Mr. Putin.

I can't say how news of the meeting broke, but once it did, Mr. Putin achieved
one of his goals: throwing the American government into greater turmoil amid the
frenzied media coverage, escalating F.B.I. and congressional investigations and
intensified political conflict. And with the revelation that Russia was behind
the meddling, Mr. Putin achieved another objective: to allow Russia, despite its
economic and military inferiority, to claim that it could rival the United
States on the global playing field. He could do all this while denying, with a
wink and a nod, any involvement.

If this all sounds far-fetched, consider that the Russians have a long history
of these kinds of operations, including in the United States. In the 1968
presidential campaign, Soviet Ambassador Anatoly Dobrynin unsuccessfully offered
financial assistance to the Democratic candidate, Hubert Humphrey, according to
a K.G.B. archivist, Vasili Mitrokhin. Mr. Mitrokhin also uncovered a Soviet
intelligence campaign to spread vicious attacks in 1976 against Senator Henry
Jackson, a Democratic presidential candidate known for his anti-Soviet views.
Russia's active-measures operations slowed during the 1990s under President
Boris Yeltsin, but Mr. Putin has resurrected the art of covert influence often
in conjunction with cyberwarfare, particularly against Georgia, Ukraine and the
United States.

The most effective method to combat Russia's intrusions into our political
process is to be clear, transparent and honest with ourselves about how the
Kremlin operates and what it hopes to achieve. The Trump campaign did not need
to collude with the Kremlin for Russia's cyber and covert influence campaign to
be considered a serious breach of our electoral process, and hence our national
security. The Trump administration and both parties in Congress need to speak
with one voice against Russia's attack on our democratic institutions. If they
do not, Mr. Putin will have won.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Daniel Hoffman, a former chief of station for the C.I.A., worked for over 30
years for the United States government in Russia, Europe, the Middle East and
South Asia.

Related Articles


     ·    Oh, Wait. Maybe It Was Collusion.
     ·    Russian Lawyer Who Met Donald Trump Jr. Once Represented Spy Agency
     ·    Britain's Gift to America: The New Sleazocracy
     ·    Donald Trump Jr. Makes the Russian Connection
     ·    Russian Dirt on Clinton? 'I Love It,' Donald Trump Jr. Said
     ·    Trump's Son Met With Russian Lawyer After Being Promised Damaging
          Information on Clinton


LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         July 28, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Live Event: Discussing Data Protection at a New York Times 'CryptoParty';
New York, August 9

BYLINE: INSIDER STAFF

SECTION: INSIDER; events

LENGTH: 296 words



HIGHLIGHT: Join us on August 9 for an event on digital security, and learn the
basics of protecting your data against online threats.


Welcome to Times Insider Events -- live programming for Times Insiders and their
guests. Times Insider offers behind-the-scenes insights into news, features and
opinion at The New York Times.

Raise a drink to locked-down data at our first-ever "CryptoParty," where you'll
learn the basics of cybersecurity and how to protect your data against online
vulnerability in the age of WikiLeaks.

The event is curated by Runa Sandvik, The Times's director of information
security -- a hacker turned security expert whose former associates include a
pre-exiled Edward Snowden. The evening will feature the reporters Ellen Gabler
and Richard Harris, who'll discuss The Times's anonymous tip line, which led to
their recent story about opioids on Reddit. Bill McKinley, The New York Times's
executive director of information security, will also lend his expertise to the
evening's programming, as will Matt Mitchell -- hacker, security researcher, a
former developer at The Times, founder and leader of CryptoParty Harlem, and
independent trainer for Global Journalism Security.

How do journalists navigate the murky legality of leaks and questionable leads?
What's the deal with two-factor authentication? How strong is the strongest
password? And how safe are our digital secrets in the face of the new cyber
sophistication? Learn from the experts while mingling with code jockeys and
fellow Times readers alike at this special Times Insider event.

When: Wednesday, August 9, 6:30 to 9 p.m. (Drinks at 6:30, the program starts at
7 p.m.)

Where: NeueHouse Madison Square, 110 East 25th Street, New York, New York 10010

Tickets for Times Insiders are $15; you may purchase them here.

If you are not a Times Insider but would like to receive invitations to Times
Insider Events, you can subscribe here.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 29, 2017 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

It Wasn't About Collusion

BYLINE: By DANIEL HOFFMAN.

Daniel Hoffman, a former chief of station for the C.I.A., worked for over 30
years for the United States government in Russia, Europe, the Middle East and
South Asia.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 948 words


Russians are fond of a proverb, ''besplatniy sir biyvaet tol'ko v mishelovke'':
''Free cheese can be found only in a mousetrap.''

Having long considered the United States its main enemy, the Kremlin deploys a
full quiver of intelligence weapons against America and its national security
agencies, political parties and defense contractors. Its intelligence services,
though best known for clandestine operations to recruit spies, also run covert
''influence operations'' that often use disinformation to try to affect
decisions or events in rival countries. A central tool of those operations is
''kompromat,'' ''compromising material'': things of seemingly great value that
are dangled, at what appears to be no cost, before unwitting targets. This is
the ''free cheese'' that ensnares victims in a trap.

I know all this from having spent much of my 30-year government career,
including with the C.I.A., observing Soviet, and then Russian, intelligence
operations. I came to realize that President Vladimir Putin, who spent his
formative years in the K.G.B., the Soviet Union's main intelligence agency, and
served as director of its successor agency, the F.S.B., wants, as much as
anything, to destabilize the American political process. For all his talk of
desiring friendly relations, Mr. Putin favors a state of animosity between our
two nations. By characterizing the United States and NATO as Russia's enemies,
he can attack within his own borders what threatens him the most -- the ideals
of liberty, freedom and democracy, of which the United States has been a
defender.

This background is necessary for understanding the real meaning of the June 2016
meeting in Trump Tower between Kremlin-connected Russians and three
representatives of Donald Trump's campaign: his son, Donald Trump Jr., his
son-in-law, Jared Kushner, and Paul Manafort, then the campaign manager. The
evidence that has emerged from this meeting strongly suggests that this was not
an effort to establish a secure back channel for collusion between Moscow and
the Trump campaign but an influence operation with one simple objective: to
undermine the presidential election.

No conclusive proof has yet emerged that the Kremlin arranged this meeting, and
the Russians involved have asserted they were not working for the Putin
government. Mr. Kushner himself told Senate investigators that there was no
collusion between the Trump campaign and Moscow. But to me, the clearest
evidence that this was a Russian influence operation is the trail of bread
crumbs the Kremlin seemed to have deliberately left leading from Trump Tower to
the Kremlin. This operation was meant to be discovered.

The meeting was arranged by a British publicist named Rob Goldstone, who told
Donald Trump Jr. via email that his client, the Russian pop star Emin Agalarov,
wanted to share incriminating evidence on the Clinton campaign that had been
obtained from the Russian government. Sophisticated Russian intelligence
tradecraft that was meant to be kept secret would not have permitted such an
insecure opening gambit for establishing continuing communication with the Trump
campaign. They would not have used something as insecure as email, or relied on
liaison cutouts who could so easily be traced to the Kremlin. Instead, the
Russians who attended the meeting had obvious Kremlin ties, including Natalia
Veselnitskaya, a Moscow lawyer who has done work on behalf of the F.S.B.; Rinat
Akhmetshin, a Russian-American lobbyist who served in the Soviet military; and
Mr. Agalarov, whose father is a real estate titan close to Mr. Putin.

I can't say how news of the meeting broke, but once it did, Mr. Putin achieved
one of his goals: throwing the American government into greater turmoil amid the
frenzied media coverage, escalating F.B.I. and congressional investigations and
intensified political conflict. And with the revelation that Russia was behind
the meddling, Mr. Putin achieved another objective: to allow Russia, despite its
economic and military inferiority, to claim that it could rival the United
States on the global playing field. He could do all this while denying, with a
wink and a nod, any involvement.

If this all sounds far-fetched, consider that the Russians have a long history
of these kinds of operations, including in the United States. In the 1968
presidential campaign, Soviet Ambassador Anatoly Dobrynin unsuccessfully offered
financial assistance to the Democratic candidate, Hubert Humphrey, according to
a K.G.B. archivist, Vasili Mitrokhin. Mr. Mitrokhin also uncovered a Soviet
intelligence campaign to spread vicious attacks in 1976 against Senator Henry
Jackson, a Democratic presidential candidate known for his anti-Soviet views.
Russia's active-measures operations slowed during the 1990s under President
Boris Yeltsin, but Mr. Putin has resurrected the art of covert influence often
in conjunction with cyberwarfare, particularly against Georgia, Ukraine and the
United States.

The most effective method to combat Russia's intrusions into our political
process is to be clear, transparent and honest with ourselves about how the
Kremlin operates and what it hopes to achieve. The Trump campaign did not need
to collude with the Kremlin for Russia's cyber and covert influence campaign to
be considered a serious breach of our electoral process, and hence our national
security. The Trump administration and both parties in Congress need to speak
with one voice against Russia's attack on our democratic institutions. If they
do not, Mr. Putin will have won.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/28/opinion/the-russians-were-involved-but-it-was
nt-about-collusion.html

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         July 31, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

Q. and A.: The Cryptic Humanity of Melisandre on 'Game of Thrones';
Game of Thrones

BYLINE: JENNIFER VINEYARD

SECTION: ARTS; television

LENGTH: 755 words



HIGHLIGHT: The actress Carice van Houten spoke about her role as the red
priestess, whose latest prophecy hints at the character's deepening sense of
vulnerability.


The last time she was on Dragonstone, the red priestess Melisandre was on a
mission to convert and support Stannis in his bid for the Iron Throne. It didn't
turn out well, for him or his family. So she moved on to Plan B (or C): to bring
ice and fire together, to make sure Jon Snow and Daenerys Targaryen joined
forces. After glimpsing Jon's arrival from afar, she shared a few cryptic words
with Varys, a fellow foreign-slave-turned-royal-councilor: "I have to die in
this strange country, just like you."

Will this be the last we see of Melisandre? It wouldn't be the first time her
predictions missed the mark. But something in the fire tells us she has more of
a role to play. Carice van Houten, who plays Melisandre, spoke in a recent
telephone interview about that role, offering insight into Melisandre's more
human side and her thoughts on how she'd like to see her character exit.
Following are edited excerpts from that conversation.

I'm don't know if you've seen the news, but HBO was just hit by a cyber attack,
and among the material stolen was a script for the next episode.

You're kidding me. Really? Man. This world. It's not so bad for us -- we know
more than anyone what's in that episode -- but for the viewers? They're spoiling
all the fun for them. I mean, get a life. People were looking forward to seeing
this, and it's giving them pleasure. Just wait a week.

From what I understand, you shot Episodes 2 and 3 just six weeks after you gave
birth?

Both scenes. It seems like yesterday, yeah.

What was it like playing Melisandre in that postpartum hormonal state?

It was sort of surreal because I just came from a really beautiful, intense,
crazy bubble, and to move back to Westeros and talk about 'winter is coming'?
And I was so extremely tired. [The cast and crew] were very nice accommodating
me, but when I had to go away to express milk, I did feel responsible, like I
better not take too long because it's a tight schedule, and we all need to go
home at a certain time. So I felt the pressure, desperately looking at my baby's
pictures to get the milk to come, and then running back to the set. Nobody was
pushing me, but I did feel rushed.

At least Melisandre's robe would make it easier to do that between takes --
unlike, say, Brienne of Tarth's armor.

[Laughs] That's true. I could just open my robe. I was in a very good situation,
in that sense.

How would you say it affected your acting?

The fact that Melisandre is turning more human, more vulnerable and more
transparent, I want to say -- that went nicely with my own experience. The
beauty of the show is that no character is black or white, or pure evil. They're
complex, real characters, and I was hoping that Melisandre would develop in a
different direction. And it finally happened, so I'm really glad about that.
It's just nice as an actor to use your own neurosis, and for a long time, I
couldn't use any of it. Melisandre was always very confident, very secure, very
determined, very spiritual, and those things are not at the top of my palette,
to be honest, which is why she was a great challenge for me -- to not play a
character who was very much in doubt, or insecure, or neurotic.

Melisandre's dialogue in Episode 3 raises a few questions. Do you think
Melisandre knows how she will die? Does she know how Varys will die?

That's a good question. This is just speculating, because no one ever tells me
anything, but I have a feeling she might have seen something. But it could be
like when psychics say they can see the future but they cannot see themselves.

It reminds me of the moment when she encountered Arya and said they would meet
again.

I know, I agree. The writers are pretty clever, so I have a feeling we will meet
again. I would be surprised if we don't.

It's interesting that both of them are able to masquerade as others. Arya can
wear other people's faces, and Melisandre, as we now know, wears a magical
necklace to appear younger. Mel could stay in Westeros without Jon or Davos
knowing it's her.

Yes! Good point. [Laughs] But she's also aware of the danger she's in if she
sticks around. Wherever she goes, I'm interested in knowing more about her. I'd
like to see a little more about her life, her personal life, even more emotional
stuff. There's so much more mystery to unravel. There's so much more story that
we could tell. And she should get a nice dying monologue -- 65 minutes long!
With flashbacks and everything!

Related Articles


     ·    Introducing Watching, a New TV and Film Website
     ·    'Game of Thrones' Episode 3 Recap: The Mad Queen


LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         July 31, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

Hackers Threaten 'Game of Thrones,' as HBO Confirms Cyberattack

BYLINE: DANIEL VICTOR

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 354 words



HIGHLIGHT: "Any intrusion of this nature is obviously disruptive, unsettling and
disturbing," the network's chief executive told employees.


HBO confirmed on Monday that the network had been the target of a cyberattack,
as an anonymous hacker boasted about leaking full episodes of upcoming shows
along with written material from next week's episode of "Game of Thrones."

In an email to journalists, the hacker or hackers claimed to have obtained 1.5
terabytes of data from HBO, according to Entertainment Weekly, which broke the
news. Unaired episodes of "Ballers" and "Room 104" may have been published
online, and the hacker vowed more would be "coming soon," the magazine reported.

HBO did not reveal what data had been stolen or posted online, and there was no
immediate indication of whether the breach included customer data or personal
information about employees.

In a statement, the network said: "HBO recently experienced a cyber incident,
which resulted in the compromise of proprietary information. We immediately
began investigating the incident and are working with law enforcement and
outside cybersecurity firms."

In an email to employees, Richard Plepler, HBO's chief executive, said the
stolen information included "some of our programming."

"Any intrusion of this nature is obviously disruptive, unsettling and disturbing
for all of us," he wrote in the email.

He added: "The problem before us is unfortunately all too familiar in the world
we now find ourselves a part of."

It was not immediately clear what information the hackers had about "Game of
Thrones," the HBO megahit that has closely guarded its secrets. Now in its
seventh season, the show aired its third of seven episodes on Sunday.

If hackers succeed in spoiling plot details, it would not be the first time for
"Game of Thrones." In 2015, the first four episodes of the fifth season were
leaked online before they aired.

In April, a hacker leaked the upcoming season of "Orange is the New Black" more
than a month before it was scheduled to be released, after Netflix refused
ransom requests.

Related Articles


     ·    'Game of Thrones' Episode 3 Recap: The Mad Queen
     ·    Sony Cyberattack, First a Nuisance, Swiftly Grew Into a Firestorm
     ·    Hacker Leaks Episodes From Netflix Show and Threatens Other Networks


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         July 31, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

Success of North Korean Missile Test Is Thrown Into Question

BYLINE: WILLIAM J. BROAD and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 824 words



HIGHLIGHT: The test Friday suggested that Pyongyang may now have the ability to
strike the continental U.S. But video analysis shows the mock warhead shattering
on re-entry.


Analysts examining video of North Korea's launch on Friday of an
intercontinental ballistic missile that appeared capable of reaching the West
Coast of the United States say they saw evidence of a setback the North never
mentioned: The mock warhead on the missile shattered into pieces during its
fiery re-entry to earth.

If the analysis is correct, it would mean that North Korea suffered a
significant, but not decisive, setback. It suggests that the country, for all
its success as it works toward its goal of putting American cities under threat,
has not yet mastered the difficult aerodynamics of designing a warhead that can
survive re-entry.

News of the video analysis came as President Trump, asked about the launch for
the first time, offered vague assurances that he was on top of the problem.
"We'll handle North Korea," he said, heading into a cabinet meeting. "We're
going to be able to handle them. It will be handled. We handle everything."

Mr. Trump's statements fell well short of describing a strategy, and his aides
were working to develop an approach that goes beyond the largely symbolic flight
of B-1B bombers over the Korean Peninsula last weekend in response to the test.
The bombers accompanied South Korean and Japanese fighters, in a sign of
solidarity.

The United States has also agreed to negotiate with South Korea over permitting
it to develop longer-range missiles, which could strike all parts of North
Korea. But that would do little to address the problem of the North's apparent
new ability to reach the continental United States.

The findings about the North's difficulties with a re-entry vehicle came from
Michael Elleman, a missile expert at the International Institute for Strategic
Studies in London. He said the malfunction of the warhead as it re-entered the
earth's atmosphere "casts doubt" on the North's ability to shield a nuclear
warhead from the blistering heat and vibrations as it heads to its target at the
high speeds that intercontinental ballistic missiles typically achieve.

In a news conference on Monday, Mr. Elleman said North Korea would have to
conduct a minimum of two or three more ICBM test flights to make sure its rocket
designers have fixed the warhead problem. Still, he said, the nation will
probably be able to develop a workable missile with a reliable warhead by early
next year. That would put the country within the rough time period described in
recent American intelligence analyses, which predicted that sometime in 2018 all
the technologies needed by the North were likely to come together in a single
weapon.

Fixing the design flaw "might take them another six months," Mr. Elleman told
reporters on a conference call organized by 38 North, a research institute at
the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies. "But the
key is that they'll have to do additional flight tests."

The need for more tests creates an opening for the Trump administration.

Under President Barack Obama, North Korean missile tests were regularly subject
to cyber and electronic attacks. Among its military options, the Trump
administration could accelerate those attacks, but they appeared less effective
over the past six months.

The United States could also position more naval craft in international waters
off the North Korean coast. That would give it the option of conducting
pre-emptive attacks on missiles on their launchpads -- a risky approach because
it could incite a war -- or trying to shoot down test missiles as they are
rising through the atmosphere.

The videotape of the warhead's breakup came from the Japanese television station
NHK. An affiliate in Muroran City, a port in Hokkaido, Japan's northernmost
large island, keeps a weather camera mounted on a roof. On Friday, in a stroke
of luck, the camera was trained on the area of the sky where the mock warhead
appeared to plunge back to earth, about 125 miles from the Japanese coast.

The incoming mock warhead, Mr. Elleman said, should have shone brightly and
continuously as it fell -- like a shooting star streaking to Earth. But in this
case, he said, the video shows the bright incoming projectile starting to shed
into small radiant objects. Then, quite suddenly, it dims and disappears
altogether.

It should have continued to glow until it hit the ocean, he told reporters.
"Most likely it broke up," he said.

How long it will take the North to fix the design, Mr. Elleman said, depends
largely on "how much they learn from this particular test." His six-month
estimate, he said, assumes that the North's engineers have the ability to
correctly diagnose the technical problem and fix it.

"It could be done in three months," he said. "It may take six months. If they
continue to fail, however, it could take a longer period of time. We just don't
know."

Related Articles


     ·    North Korea Tests a Ballistic Missile That Experts Say Could Hit
          California
     ·    North Korea's Nuclear Arms Sustain Drive for 'Final Victory'


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        August 1, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

China's State Media Slams Trump's 'Emotional Venting' on Twitter

BYLINE: CHRIS BUCKLEY and AUSTIN RAMZY

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1143 words



HIGHLIGHT: Beijing says it's up to the United States and North Korea -- not
China -- to find a solution to tensions over Pyongyang's missile and nuclear
program.


BEIJING -- After President Trump pilloried China in 48 tweeted words over the
weekend, accusing it of failing to tame its neighbor and longtime ally North
Korea, Beijing issued its own rebuke to Mr. Trump -- in a cutting editorial of
1,000 Chinese characters from Xinhua, the official news agency.

"Trump is quite a personality, and he likes to tweet," said the Xinhua response
issued late Monday and widely displayed on Chinese news websites. "But emotional
venting cannot become a guiding policy for solving the nuclear issue on the
peninsula," it said, referring to the divided Korean Peninsula.

The United States, it said, "must not continue spurning responsibility" for the
volatile standoff with North Korea, "and even less should it stab China in the
back."

The unusually personal nature of the editorial, together with comments delivered
earlier that day by China's ambassador to the United Nations in New York, shows
that North Korea is becoming the main dispute threatening to tear at Mr. Trump's
initially friendly relationship with his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping.

"I am very disappointed in China," Mr. Trump declared on Twitter on Sunday,
after North Korea tested an intercontinental ballistic missile in defiance of
United Nations sanctions.

I am very disappointed in China. Our foolish past leaders have allowed them to
make hundreds of billions of dollars a year in trade, yet... -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) July 29, 2017

Despite China's big trade surplus with the United States, he continued in a
second tweet, "they do NOTHING for us with North Korea, just talk."

...they do NOTHING for us with North Korea, just talk. We will no longer allow
this to continue. China could easily solve this problem! -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) July 29, 2017

China's rebuke to Mr. Trump did not use exclamation marks. But the Xinhua
editorial broke with Beijing's usual public reticence when Mr. Trump has taken
China to task over trade imbalances, territorial disputes in the South China
Sea, Taiwan and other sources of tension.

"Taking out this outrage on China is clearly finding the wrong target," it said,
warning that such broadsides could be dangerous.

"What the peninsula needs is immediately stamping out the fire, not adding
kindling or, even worse, pouring oil on the flames," Xinhua said. The tensions
could, it said, "evolve into a localized conflict, or even the outbreak of war,
with unthinkable repercussions."

Chinese diplomats and the state news media have consistently argued that
Washington and its allies should not rely so much on China to defuse tensions
created by North Korea's growing nuclear weapons and missile capabilities. On
Friday, North Korea tested a ballistic missile that experts have said could have
the range to hit California.

Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson has turned up pressure on China to help
isolate and cajole North Korea. "China and Russia bear unique and special
responsibility for this growing threat to regional and global stability," he
said in a statement after the launch.

In addition, the Pentagon will conduct a test of its intercontinental ballistic
missile system on Wednesday, defense officials said, a move that is bound to
raise questions about the Trump administration's intentions.

Defense officials had scheduled the missile tests months ago, but the timing of
the test is nonetheless expected to be noted in Pyongyang and Beijing. It is
planned a day after Mr. Tillerson said the United States was not seeking regime
change in North Korea and would be willing to talk to Pyongyang.

"We do not seek a collapse of the regime, we do not seek an accelerated
reunification of the peninsula, we do not seek an excuse to send our military
north of the 38th Parallel," Mr. Tillerson told reporters at the State
Department.

But, he added, "you are presenting an unacceptable threat to us, and we have to
respond. And we hope that at some point they will begin to understand that and
we would like to sit and have a dialogue with them."

The Chinese government argues, however, that North Korea will not return to
negotiations over its weapons programs unless the United States and its
northeast Asian allies, South Korea and Japan, take conciliatory steps. In
particular, China has proposed that North Korea freeze its nuclear and missile
programs in exchange for a halt to major military exercises by American and
South Korean forces on the Korean Peninsula and off its coast.

As the tensions with North Korea have escalated, Mr. Trump has often treated Mr.
Xi in public as a friend who was valiantly, though unsuccessfully, trying to
bring North Korea around. "At least I know China tried!" Mr. Trump said on
Twitter in June.

While I greatly appreciate the efforts of President Xi & China to help with
North Korea, it has not worked out. At least I know China tried! -- Donald J.
Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 20, 2017

Now that friendly facade appears to be cracking. But Mr. Trump also has a long
record of harsh criticisms of China, stretching back to his election campaign
and much earlier. "China controls North Korea," he said in 2013. "They are using
the Norks to taunt us," he said, using slang for North Koreans.

China controls North Korea. So now besides cyber hacking us all day, they are
using the Norks to taunt us. China is a major threat. -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) April 12, 2013

The Chinese ambassador to the United Nations, Liu Jieyi, said on Monday that it
was up to the United States and North Korea to find a solution to the current
standoff, not China.

"People talk about China a lot," he said at a news conference to mark the end of
China's July term in the rotating presidency of the United Nations Security
Council. "If the two principal parties refuse to move toward what is required by
the Security Council resolutions -- de-escalation of tension, negotiations to
achieve denuclearization and peace and stability and also resume dialogue --
then no matter how capable China is, China's efforts will not yield practical
results because it depends on the two principal parties."

He said that China had upheld United Nations sanctions against North Korea,
while Pyongyang and Washington were heightening tensions by carrying out missile
tests and the American side was raising the prospect of new, unilateral
sanctions and even the potential for military strikes.

Chris Buckley reported from Beijing, and Austin Ramzy from Hong Kong. Helene
Cooper contributed reporting from Washington.

PHOTO: A museum last month in North Korea, whose dispute with the United States
is straining America's relationship with China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED JONES/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

Related Articles


     ·    Success of North Korean Missile Test Is Thrown Into Question
     ·    China's Trump Honeymoon: Unexpected, and at Risk of Ending
     ·    Trump Warns China He Is Willing to Pressure North Korea on His Own


LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        August 1, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Border Agents Test Facial Scans to Track Those Overstaying Visas

BYLINE: RON NIXON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1342 words



HIGHLIGHT: Federal border agents are testing a biometric scanning system to
better track undocumented immigrants, focusing on those who have overstayed
visas.


WASHINGTON -- On a recent morning, passengers boarding Emirates flight 232 from
Washington Dulles airport to Dubai confronted an unfamiliar sight: a uniformed
Customs and Border Protection officer at the gate.

Before passengers approached the airline gate agent, the customs officer, Sung
Hyun Ha, scanned their travel documents at a kiosk, which was also equipped with
a camera. The photograph taken was matched against a facial scan that foreign
visitors submitted to Customs and Border Protection when they entered the
country or from their visa application, while the passenger's identification
also was checked against law enforcement and intelligence databases.

The pilot effort is part of a decades-long push to more accurately identify
people who overstay their visas and remain in the United States, a group that
represents the largest number of people in the United States illegally.

The department believes that if officials can better track who has left the
country, they will be able to better assess who has stayed here beyond the legal
limit of their visa.

According to the Department of Homeland Security, last year an estimated 629,000
visitors to the United States -- just over 1 percent of all travelers --
remained in the country after overstaying their visas as students, workers or
tourists, and they represent a growing share of the nation's unauthorized
immigrant population.

John Roth, the inspector general at the Department of Homeland Security, said
the number of overstays posed a greater security risk than might be apparent
from the relatively small numbers, noting that two of the Sept. 11 hijackers had
overstayed their visas.

An executive order signed in January by President Trump would require all
travelers to the United States to provide biometric data on entry and exit from
the country. Currently, visitors provide biometric data only when they enter the
country.

Both Democratic and Republican administrations have long viewed a biometric exit
system as preferable to paper documents to ensure border security, but for years
the technology to collect that information was slow to take hold. Now devices
that gather biometric information, from smartphones to security systems, are in
widespread use.

"The technology has finally caught up to the legislative intent," said Christian
J. Beckner, a former staff member on the Homeland Security Committee who is now
deputy director of the Center for Cyber and Homeland Security at George
Washington University.

But the biometric exit system has come under criticism from privacy rights
groups, who say the facial recognition scans, while ostensibly set up to make
sure foreign visitors leave the country, are an invasive form of surveillance of
American citizens. Harrison Rudolph, a fellow at the Center on Privacy &
Technology at Georgetown University Law School, raised issues about the accuracy
of facial recognition scans and said the agency had not laid out clear
guidelines on how the system was to be used.

"Their own data show about 4 percent of people are rejected in facial
recognition," he said. "And what happens if you are rejected? Are you selected
for some type of further screening? Customs and Border Protection is subjecting
U.S. citizens who want to fly abroad to unreasonable searches."

Kim Mills, director of the Entry-Exit Transformation Office at Customs and
Border Protection, said that while the system did take facial scans of American
citizens, the information was used in a very limited way.

"For American citizens, the photo scan is only used to confirm that they are
indeed citizens," she said. "We're not collecting any new information."

Nearly 20 years ago, Congress passed a law requiring the federal government to
develop a system to track people who overstayed their visas. After the Sept. 11
attacks, an entry- and exit-tracking system was seen as a vital national
security and counterterrorism tool, and the 9/11 Commission recommended that the
Department of Homeland Security complete a system "as soon as possible."

Nearly three dozen countries, including many in Europe, Asia, and Africa,
collect biometric information -- fingerprints, iris scans and photographs that
can be used for facial recognition -- of people leaving their countries. But the
United States has trailed other nations in adopting the technology, despite the
congressional mandate.

One reason has been the design of airports in the United States. In most
countries, international passengers depart from a separate terminal where
customs officials collect biometric information of those exiting the country.
But in the United States, passengers for domestic and international flights are
often in the same terminals, making it difficult for officials to collect
information on people who leave the country -- a flight to Jackson, Miss., can
be located next to one going to Japan.

Customs and Border Protection has been testing a number of biometric programs in
partnership with several airlines in Atlanta, Boston, New York and Washington,
funded by up to $1 billion collected from certain visa fee surcharges over the
next 10 years.

John Wagner, deputy executive assistant commissioner at the Customs and Border
Protection's Office of Field Operations, said the program would look different
at different airports. In some cases the airlines themselves would run the
program, incorporating the biometric system into their boarding process. At some
airports, Mr. Wagner said, the exit system would be staffed by Customs and
Border Protection officers, similar to the situation passengers faced at the
Emirates airline boarding gate at Dulles airport.

"We're trying to figure out the most effective way to do biometric exit," he
said.

For example, in New York and Atlanta, the agency has partnered with Delta Air
Lines to test a facial recognition system at the boarding gate for international
flights.

The Delta system checks whether a passenger is supposed to be on the plane by
comparing the individual's face with a gallery of photos that the airline has of
people on its travel manifest. It also checks the passengers' citizenship or
immigration status against various Homeland Security and intelligence databases.
For American citizens, the facial scans are checked against photos from State
Department databases.

In Boston, Customs and Border Protection, in cooperation with JetBlue airlines,
is testing a facial recognition system for travelers flying to Aruba.

Mr. Wagner said the agency hoped to begin using the biometric exit system at all
airports with international flights in 2018.

Homeland Security officials say they believe the entry and exit biometric system
can also be used to crack down on illegal immigration.

A report by the Department of Homeland Security inspector general's office found
that Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency responsible for
investigating in-country visa overstays, had to piece together information from
dozens of systems and databases, some of which were not integrated and did not
electronically share information.

In the absence of a biometric entry and exit system, the agency depends on
incomplete data from airline passenger manifests to track people who leave the
country.

ICE agents and officers are currently unable to say how often targets of
investigations are incorrectly recorded as having left the country, the
department's Office of Inspector General said.

The inspector general said there was a backlog of 1.2 million visa overstay
cases, and ICE has arrested under 1 percent of the individuals who potentially
overstayed their visas.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning
Briefing newsletter.

PHOTO: A traveler uses a kiosk in San Diego in 2015. Currently, visitors provide
biometric data only when they enter the country. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS
POROY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

Related Articles


     ·    Job One at Homeland Security Under Trump: Immigration
     ·    Trump Refugee Restrictions Allowed for Now; Ban on Grandparents Is
          Rejected
     ·    By Land, Sea or Catapult: How Smugglers Get Drugs Across the Border


LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2017 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Video Analysis Creates Doubts About the Success of North Korea's Missile Test

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 807 words


Analysts examining video of North Korea's launch on Friday of an
intercontinental ballistic missile that appeared capable of reaching the West
Coast of the United States say they saw evidence of a setback the North never
mentioned: The mock warhead on the missile shattered into pieces during its
fiery re-entry to earth.

If the analysis is correct, it would mean that North Korea suffered a
significant, but not decisive, setback. It suggests that the country, for all
its success as it works toward its goal of putting American cities under threat,
has not yet mastered the difficult aerodynamics of designing a warhead that can
survive re-entry.

News of the video analysis came as President Trump, asked about the launch for
the first time, offered vague assurances that he was on top of the problem.
''We'll handle North Korea,'' he said, heading into a cabinet meeting. ''We're
going to be able to handle them. It will be handled. We handle everything.''

Mr. Trump's statements fell well short of describing a strategy, and his aides
were working to develop an approach that goes beyond the largely symbolic flight
of B-1B bombers over the Korean Peninsula last weekend in response to the test.
The bombers accompanied South Korean and Japanese fighters, in a sign of
solidarity.

The United States has also agreed to negotiate with South Korea over permitting
it to develop longer-range missiles, which could strike all parts of North
Korea. But that would do little to address the problem of the North's apparent
new ability to reach the continental United States.

The findings about the North's difficulties with a re-entry vehicle came from
Michael Elleman, a missile expert at the International Institute for Strategic
Studies in London. He said the malfunction of the warhead as it re-entered the
earth's atmosphere ''casts doubt'' on the North's ability to shield a nuclear
warhead from the blistering heat and vibrations as it heads to its target at the
high speeds that intercontinental ballistic missiles typically achieve.

In a news conference on Monday, Mr. Elleman said North Korea would have to
conduct a minimum of two or three more ICBM test flights to make sure its rocket
designers have fixed the warhead problem. Still, he said, the nation will
probably be able to develop a workable missile with a reliable warhead by early
next year. That would put the country within the rough time period described in
recent American intelligence analyses, which predicted that sometime in 2018 all
the technologies needed by the North were likely to come together in a single
weapon.

Fixing the design flaw ''might take them another six months,'' Mr. Elleman told
reporters on a conference call organized by 38 North, a research institute at
the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies. ''But the
key is that they'll have to do additional flight tests.''

The need for more tests creates an opening for the Trump administration.

Under President Barack Obama, North Korean missile tests were regularly subject
to cyber and electronic attacks. Among its military options, the Trump
administration could accelerate those attacks, but they appeared less effective
over the past six months.

The United States could also position more naval craft in international waters
off the North Korean coast. That would give it the option of conducting
pre-emptive attacks on missiles on their launchpads -- a risky approach because
it could incite a war -- or trying to shoot down test missiles as they are
rising through the atmosphere.

The videotape of the warhead's breakup came from the Japanese television station
NHK. An affiliate in Muroran City, a port in Hokkaido, Japan's northernmost
large island, keeps a weather camera mounted on a roof. On Friday, in a stroke
of luck, the camera was trained on the area of the sky where the mock warhead
appeared to plunge back to earth, about 125 miles from the Japanese coast.

The incoming mock warhead, Mr. Elleman said, should have shone brightly and
continuously as it fell -- like a shooting star streaking to Earth. But in this
case, he said, the video shows the bright incoming projectile starting to shed
into small radiant objects. Then, quite suddenly, it dims and disappears
altogether.

It should have continued to glow until it hit the ocean, he told reporters.
''Most likely it broke up,'' he said.

How long it will take the North to fix the design, Mr. Elleman said, depends
largely on ''how much they learn from this particular test.'' His six-month
estimate, he said, assumes that the North's engineers have the ability to
correctly diagnose the technical problem and fix it.

''It could be done in three months,'' he said. ''It may take six months. If they
continue to fail, however, it could take a longer period of time. We just don't
know.''




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/31/world/asia/north-korea-missile-test-video.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2017 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

HBO Is Hacked; Intruder Claims To Have Details From Top Series

BYLINE: By DANIEL VICTOR

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 327 words


HBO confirmed on Monday that the network had been the target of a cyberattack,
as an anonymous hacker boasted about leaking full episodes of upcoming shows
along with written material from next week's episode of ''Game of Thrones.''

In an email to journalists, the hacker or hackers claimed to have obtained 1.5
terabytes of data from HBO, according to Entertainment Weekly, which broke the
news. Unaired episodes of ''Ballers'' and ''Room 104'' may have been published
online, and the hacker vowed more would be ''coming soon,'' the magazine
reported.

HBO did not reveal what data had been stolen or posted online, and there was no
immediate indication of whether the breach included customer data or personal
information about employees.

In a statement, the network said: ''HBO recently experienced a cyber incident,
which resulted in the compromise of proprietary information. We immediately
began investigating the incident and are working with law enforcement and
outside cybersecurity firms.''

In an email to employees, Richard Plepler, HBO's chief executive, said the
stolen information included ''some of our programming.''

''Any intrusion of this nature is obviously disruptive, unsettling and
disturbing for all of us,'' he wrote in the email.

He added: ''The problem before us is unfortunately all too familiar in the world
we now find ourselves a part of.''

It was not immediately clear what information the hackers had about ''Game of
Thrones,'' the HBO megahit that has closely guarded its secrets. Now in its
seventh season, the show aired its third of seven episodes on Sunday.

If hackers succeed in spoiling plot details, it would not be the first time for
''Game of Thrones.'' In 2015, the first four episodes of the fifth season were
leaked online before they aired.

In April, a hacker leaked the upcoming season of ''Orange is the New Black''
more than a month before it was scheduled to be released, after Netflix refused
ransom requests.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/31/business/media/hbo-hack-game-of-thrones.html

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 2, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Agents Test Facial Scans to Screen at Border

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1290 words


WASHINGTON -- On a recent morning, passengers boarding Emirates flight 232 from
Washington Dulles airport to Dubai confronted an unfamiliar sight: a uniformed
Customs and Border Protection officer at the gate.

Before passengers approached the airline gate agent, the customs officer, Sung
Hyun Ha, scanned their travel documents at a kiosk, which was also equipped with
a camera. The photograph taken was matched against a facial scan that foreign
visitors submitted to Customs and Border Protection when they entered the
country or from their visa application, while the passenger's identification
also was checked against law enforcement and intelligence databases.

The pilot effort is part of a decades-long push to more accurately identify
people who overstay their visas and remain in the United States, a group that
represents the largest number of people in the United States illegally.

The department believes that if officials can better track who has left the
country, they will be able to better assess who has stayed here beyond the legal
limit of their visa.

According to the Department of Homeland Security, last year an estimated 629,000
visitors to the United States -- just over 1 percent of all travelers --
remained in the country after overstaying their visas as students, workers or
tourists, and they represent a growing share of the nation's unauthorized
immigrant population.

John Roth, the inspector general at the Department of Homeland Security, said
the number of overstays posed a greater security risk than might be apparent
from the relatively small numbers, noting that two of the Sept. 11 hijackers had
overstayed their visas.

An executive order signed in January by President Trump would require all
travelers to the United States to provide biometric data on entry and exit from
the country. Currently, visitors provide biometric data only when they enter the
country.

Both Democratic and Republican administrations have long viewed a biometric exit
system as preferable to paper documents to ensure border security, but for years
the technology to collect that information was slow to take hold. Now devices
that gather biometric information, from smartphones to security systems, are in
widespread use.

''The technology has finally caught up to the legislative intent,'' said
Christian J. Beckner, a former staff member on the Homeland Security Committee
who is now deputy director of the Center for Cyber and Homeland Security at
George Washington University.

But the biometric exit system has come under criticism from privacy rights
groups, who say the facial recognition scans, while ostensibly set up to make
sure foreign visitors leave the country, are an invasive form of surveillance of
American citizens. Harrison Rudolph, a fellow at the Center on Privacy &
Technology at Georgetown University Law School, raised issues about the accuracy
of facial recognition scans and said the agency had not laid out clear
guidelines on how the system was to be used.

''Their own data show about 4 percent of people are rejected in facial
recognition,'' he said. ''And what happens if you are rejected? Are you selected
for some type of further screening? Customs and Border Protection is subjecting
U.S. citizens who want to fly abroad to unreasonable searches.''

Kim Mills, director of the Entry-Exit Transformation Office at Customs and
Border Protection, said that while the system did take facial scans of American
citizens, the information was used in a very limited way.

''For American citizens, the photo scan is only used to confirm that they are
indeed citizens,'' she said. ''We're not collecting any new information.''

Nearly 20 years ago, Congress passed a law requiring the federal government to
develop a system to track people who overstayed their visas. After the Sept. 11
attacks, an entry- and exit-tracking system was seen as a vital national
security and counterterrorism tool, and the 9/11 Commission recommended that the
Department of Homeland Security complete a system ''as soon as possible.''

Nearly three dozen countries, including many in Europe, Asia, and Africa,
collect biometric information -- fingerprints, iris scans and photographs that
can be used for facial recognition -- of people leaving their countries. But the
United States has trailed other nations in adopting the technology, despite the
congressional mandate.

One reason has been the design of airports in the United States. In most
countries, international passengers depart from a separate terminal where
customs officials collect biometric information of those exiting the country.
But in the United States, passengers for domestic and international flights are
often in the same terminals, making it difficult for officials to collect
information on people who leave the country -- a flight to Jackson, Miss., can
be located next to one going to Japan.

Customs and Border Protection has been testing a number of biometric programs in
partnership with several airlines in Atlanta, Boston, New York and Washington,
funded by up to $1 billion collected from certain visa fee surcharges over the
next 10 years.

John Wagner, deputy executive assistant commissioner at the Customs and Border
Protection's Office of Field Operations, said the program would look different
at different airports. In some cases the airlines themselves would run the
program, incorporating the biometric system into their boarding process. At some
airports, Mr. Wagner said, the exit system would be staffed by Customs and
Border Protection officers, similar to the situation passengers faced at the
Emirates airline boarding gate at Dulles airport.

''We're trying to figure out the most effective way to do biometric exit,'' he
said.

For example, in New York and Atlanta, the agency has partnered with Delta Air
Lines to test a facial recognition system at the boarding gate for international
flights.

The Delta system checks whether a passenger is supposed to be on the plane by
comparing the individual's face with a gallery of photos that the airline has of
people on its travel manifest. It also checks the passengers' citizenship or
immigration status against various Homeland Security and intelligence databases.
For American citizens, the facial scans are checked against photos from State
Department databases.

In Boston, Customs and Border Protection, in cooperation with JetBlue airlines,
is testing a facial recognition system for travelers flying to Aruba.

Mr. Wagner said the agency hoped to begin using the biometric exit system at all
airports with international flights in 2018.

Homeland Security officials say they believe the entry and exit biometric system
can also be used to crack down on illegal immigration.

A report by the Department of Homeland Security inspector general's office found
that Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency responsible for
investigating in-country visa overstays, had to piece together information from
dozens of systems and databases, some of which were not integrated and did not
electronically share information.

In the absence of a biometric entry and exit system, the agency depends on
incomplete data from airline passenger manifests to track people who leave the
country.

ICE agents and officers are currently unable to say how often targets of
investigations are incorrectly recorded as having left the country, the
department's Office of Inspector General said.

The inspector general said there was a backlog of 1.2 million visa overstay
cases, and ICE has arrested under 1 percent of the individuals who potentially
overstayed their visas.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning
Briefing newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/01/us/politics/federal-border-agents-biometric-s
canning-system-undocumented-immigrants.html

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A traveler uses a kiosk in San Diego in 2015. Currently,
visitors provide biometric data only when they enter the country. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DENIS POROY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 2, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

State Media in China Assails Trump's 'Venting'

BYLINE: By CHRIS BUCKLEY and AUSTIN RAMZY; Chris Buckley reported from Beijing,
and Austin Ramzy from Hong Kong. Helene Cooper contributed reporting from
Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1073 words


BEIJING -- After President Trump pilloried China in 48 tweeted words over the
weekend, accusing it of failing to tame its neighbor and longtime ally North
Korea, Beijing issued its own rebuke to Mr. Trump -- in a cutting editorial of
1,000 Chinese characters from Xinhua, the official news agency.

''Trump is quite a personality, and he likes to tweet,'' said the Xinhua
response issued late Monday and widely displayed on Chinese news websites. ''But
emotional venting cannot become a guiding policy for solving the nuclear issue
on the peninsula,'' it said, referring to the divided Korean Peninsula.

The United States, it said, ''must not continue spurning responsibility'' for
the volatile standoff with North Korea, ''and even less should it stab China in
the back.''

The unusually personal nature of the editorial, together with comments delivered
earlier that day by China's ambassador to the United Nations in New York, shows
that North Korea is becoming the main dispute threatening to tear at Mr. Trump's
initially friendly relationship with his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping.

''I am very disappointed in China,'' Mr. Trump declared on Twitter on Sunday,
after North Korea tested an intercontinental ballistic missile in defiance of
United Nations sanctions.

I am very disappointed in China. Our foolish past leaders have allowed them to
make hundreds of billions of dollars a year in trade, yet... -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) July 29, 2017

Despite China's big trade surplus with the United States, he continued in a
second tweet, ''they do NOTHING for us with North Korea, just talk.''

...they do NOTHING for us with North Korea, just talk. We will no longer allow
this to continue. China could easily solve this problem! -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) July 29, 2017

China's rebuke to Mr. Trump did not use exclamation marks. But the Xinhua
editorial broke with Beijing's usual public reticence when Mr. Trump has taken
China to task over trade imbalances, territorial disputes in the South China
Sea, Taiwan and other sources of tension.

''Taking out this outrage on China is clearly finding the wrong target,'' it
said, warning that such broadsides could be dangerous.

''What the peninsula needs is immediately stamping out the fire, not adding
kindling or, even worse, pouring oil on the flames,'' Xinhua said. The tensions
could, it said, ''evolve into a localized conflict, or even the outbreak of war,
with unthinkable repercussions.''

Chinese diplomats and the state news media have consistently argued that
Washington and its allies should not rely so much on China to defuse tensions
created by North Korea's growing nuclear weapons and missile capabilities. On
Friday, North Korea tested a ballistic missile that experts have said could have
the range to hit California.

Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson has turned up pressure on China to help
isolate and cajole North Korea. ''China and Russia bear unique and special
responsibility for this growing threat to regional and global stability,'' he
said in a statement after the launch.

In addition, the Pentagon will conduct a test of its intercontinental ballistic
missile system on Wednesday, defense officials said, a move that is bound to
raise questions about the Trump administration's intentions.

Defense officials had scheduled the missile tests months ago, but the timing of
the test is nonetheless expected to be noted in Pyongyang and Beijing. It is
planned a day after Mr. Tillerson said the United States was not seeking regime
change in North Korea and would be willing to talk to Pyongyang.

''We do not seek a collapse of the regime, we do not seek an accelerated
reunification of the peninsula, we do not seek an excuse to send our military
north of the 38th Parallel,'' Mr. Tillerson told reporters at the State
Department.

But, he added, ''you are presenting an unacceptable threat to us, and we have to
respond. And we hope that at some point they will begin to understand that and
we would like to sit and have a dialogue with them.''

The Chinese government argues, however, that North Korea will not return to
negotiations over its weapons programs unless the United States and its
northeast Asian allies, South Korea and Japan, take conciliatory steps. In
particular, China has proposed that North Korea freeze its nuclear and missile
programs in exchange for a halt to major military exercises by American and
South Korean forces on the Korean Peninsula and off its coast.

As the tensions with North Korea have escalated, Mr. Trump has often treated Mr.
Xi in public as a friend who was valiantly, though unsuccessfully, trying to
bring North Korea around. ''At least I know China tried!'' Mr. Trump said on
Twitter in June.

While I greatly appreciate the efforts of President Xi & China to help with
North Korea, it has not worked out. At least I know China tried! -- Donald J.
Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 20, 2017

Now that friendly facade appears to be cracking. But Mr. Trump also has a long
record of harsh criticisms of China, stretching back to his election campaign
and much earlier. ''China controls North Korea,'' he said in 2013. ''They are
using the Norks to taunt us,'' he said, using slang for North Koreans.

China controls North Korea. So now besides cyber hacking us all day, they are
using the Norks to taunt us. China is a major threat. -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) April 12, 2013

The Chinese ambassador to the United Nations, Liu Jieyi, said on Monday that it
was up to the United States and North Korea to find a solution to the current
standoff, not China.

''People talk about China a lot,'' he said at a news conference to mark the end
of China's July term in the rotating presidency of the United Nations Security
Council. ''If the two principal parties refuse to move toward what is required
by the Security Council resolutions -- de-escalation of tension, negotiations to
achieve denuclearization and peace and stability and also resume dialogue --
then no matter how capable China is, China's efforts will not yield practical
results because it depends on the two principal parties.''

He said that China had upheld United Nations sanctions against North Korea,
while Pyongyang and Washington were heightening tensions by carrying out missile
tests and the American side was raising the prospect of new, unilateral
sanctions and even the potential for military strikes.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/01/world/asia/china-trump-north-korea.html

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A museum last month in North Korea, whose dispute with the
United States is straining America's relationship with China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED
JONES/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       August 5, 2017 Saturday 00:00 EST

Female Lawmaker in Pakistan Accuses Imran Khan of 'Inappropriate' Texts. Abuse
Follows.

BYLINE: MEHREEN ZAHRA-MALIK

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1092 words



HIGHLIGHT: The accusations against Mr. Khan by the female lawmaker have led to
social media attacks on her, illustrating the rise of such vitriol in a nation
considered highly dangerous for women.


ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- When a Pakistani lawmaker said this past week that she
had received "inappropriate text messages" from a male colleague, she was met
with a wave of vitriol on social media.

The episode has attracted widespread attention, as the man she accused is Imran
Khan, the former cricket star who is now one of Pakistan's leading politicians,
with a large social media following. The case also illustrates the rise of
online abuse against women in a country considered one of the most dangerous in
the world for them.

On Tuesday, the lawmaker, Ayesha Gulalai Wazir, from Pakistan's tribal South
Waziristan region, accused Mr. Khan of sending her "objectionable" text
messages, and said women were not respected in his political party, Pakistan
Tehreek-e-Insaf. The party denied that Mr. Khan had sent any such text messages
to Ms. Wazir.

Social media users unleashed profanity-filled tirades against Ms. Wazir, calling
her a liar and an opportunist. Many tried to shame her because her sister, Maria
Toorpakai Wazir, a top squash player, has competed in international tournaments
in shorts, the kind of attire considered immodest in Muslim-majority Pakistan.

Some messages were more frightening. "Ayesha Gulalai KILL YOURSELF," one Twitter
user wrote. Another Twitter user threatened to kill her. Others proposed
throwing acid in her face.

Women around the world face online abuse, but in Pakistan, with its entrenched
culture of discrimination and violence against women, the threats are not idle.
According to the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan, about 500 Pakistani women
are killed each year by family members who believe their honor has been damaged
if a female relative refuses an arranged marriage, socializes with men or even
claps and sings at a wedding.

In a country where 33 million people use Facebook and at least five million are
on Twitter, social media has become a frequent platform for obscene and virulent
outbursts. In some cases, online abuse has incited physical violence.

"Instead of responding to my accusations or proving that I am wrong, people are
saying throw acid on me?" Ms. Wazir said in a telephone interview. "I can't
believe they have fallen to this level, but it is just part of a larger culture
encouraged by the society and political parties here."

Ms. Wazir said she was afraid to publicly share the objectionable text messages
out of fear of further antagonizing Mr. Khan's followers. But she said she was
prepared to present the messages to a judge or an investigating authority on the
condition that they remain confidential.

Maria Waqar, an Indiana University graduate student who has interviewed dozens
of female lawmakers in Pakistan for her research on the legislature, said the
abuse directed at Ms. Wazir was not surprising. She said that "the web is
littered with websites, videos and message boards dedicated to objectifying and
degrading women parliamentarians in particular and women in general."

In a survey of women in 17 Pakistani universities, published by the Digital
Rights Foundation in May, 34 percent said they had experienced online harassment
and abuse. The actions included cyberstalking, bullying, and the leaking and
manipulation of personal information and pictures.

Many women reported threats of physical violence and vandalism, blackmail,
sexual remarks and false accusations meant to humiliate, threaten or discredit
them. Seventy percent of the women surveyed said they were afraid to post their
pictures on social media websites.

The country is taking some steps to address the problem. Last year, Parliament
passed the Prevention of Electronic Crimes Act, which was widely promoted as a
tool to curb online sexual harassment. Pakistan's first cyber harassment help
line, also set up last year, received 763 complaints in the form of calls,
emails and Facebook messages from Dec. 1 to May 31.

In July, a man was sentenced to 12 years in jail for blackmailing a woman in the
northern city of Peshawar. And in two cases still to be decided, a university
professor in the port city of Karachi was arrested on charges of setting up fake
Facebook pages and publishing doctored pictures of a female colleague, and two
boys were arrested in 2015 on charges of using a fake Facebook profile to harass
and blackmail up to 50 girls in Peshawar.

Yet online activity has still led to real-life violence, including in July of
last year, when Qandeel Baloch, a social media sensation, was strangled in what
is known as an honor killing. When Ms. Baloch's brother was arrested in
connection with her death, he said at a news conference that he had killed her
because he was incensed over her risqué Facebook posts.

Nighat Dad, the executive director of the Digital Rights Foundation, a Pakistani
internet advocacy group, said, "There is a culture of violence against women
that already exists in the home, the workplace, in public places, and now it is
increasingly manifesting itself in online spaces as well."

In another case, Saman, a 19-year-old university student from Lahore who asked
to be identified by only her first name to protect her safety, said her sister's
husband had propositioned her for years before spraying her with acid,
disfiguring her, in January 2016.

When she filed a case against her attacker, he threatened to post what she says
are doctored nude pictures of her online. Last month, he was sentenced to 28
years in prison, but Saman said the harassment persisted.

"Even from behind bars, the threats continue," Saman, who has seen the photos,
said in a telephone interview. She said she had told the authorities about the
images, "but they say they can't do anything until the pictures are actually
published."

Marvi Sirmed, a Pakistani journalist, said people on social media had called for
her to be publicly raped and killed over her views on the rights of women and
minorities.

"Women who are opinionated, who are professionals doing jobs traditionally done
by men, who are entering politics and media, of course they are going to be in
the line of fire on the internet," Ms. Sirmed said. "And when they fight back,
the abuse just gets worse."

PHOTO: Qandeel Baloch, a Pakistani social media star, was strangled last year by
her brother, who said he was angered over her risqué Facebook posts. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY M JAMEEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

Related Articles


     ·    Qandeel Baloch, Pakistani Social Media Celebrity, Dead in Apparent
          Honor Killing
     ·    Imran Khan, Strongest Contender to Lead Pakistan, Is No Shoo-In
     ·    Pakistan City's Affluent Women Bring Islam Into Their Lives and
          Lifestyles


LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 6, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Abuse Follows Pakistan's Women

BYLINE: By MEHREEN ZAHRA-MALIK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1031 words


ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- When a Pakistani lawmaker said this past week that she
had received ''inappropriate text messages'' from a male colleague, she was met
with a wave of vitriol on social media.

The episode has attracted widespread attention, as the man she accused is Imran
Khan, the former cricket star who is now one of Pakistan's leading politicians,
with a large social media following. The case also illustrates the rise of
online abuse against women in a country considered one of the most dangerous in
the world for them.

On Tuesday, the lawmaker, Ayesha Gulalai Wazir, from Pakistan's tribal South
Waziristan region, accused Mr. Khan of sending her ''objectionable'' text
messages, and said women were not respected in his political party, Pakistan
Tehreek-e-Insaf. The party denied that Mr. Khan had sent any such text messages
to Ms. Wazir.

Social media users unleashed profanity-filled tirades against Ms. Wazir, calling
her a liar and an opportunist. Many tried to shame her because her sister, Maria
Toorpakai Wazir, a top squash player, has competed in international tournaments
in shorts, the kind of attire considered immodest in Muslim-majority Pakistan.

Some messages were more frightening. ''Ayesha Gulalai KILL YOURSELF,'' one
Twitter user wrote. Another Twitter user threatened to kill her. Others proposed
throwing acid in her face.

Women around the world face online abuse, but in Pakistan, with its entrenched
culture of discrimination and violence against women, the threats are not idle.
According to the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan, about 500 Pakistani women
are killed each year by family members who believe their honor has been damaged
if a female relative refuses an arranged marriage, socializes with men or even
claps and sings at a wedding.

In a country where 33 million people use Facebook and at least five million are
on Twitter, social media has become a frequent platform for obscene and virulent
outbursts. In some cases, online abuse has incited physical violence.

''Instead of responding to my accusations or proving that I am wrong, people are
saying throw acid on me?'' Ms. Wazir said in a telephone interview. ''I can't
believe they have fallen to this level, but it is just part of a larger culture
encouraged by the society and political parties here.''

Ms. Wazir said she was afraid to publicly share the objectionable text messages
out of fear of further antagonizing Mr. Khan's followers. But she said she was
prepared to present the messages to a judge or an investigating authority on the
condition that they remain confidential.

Maria Waqar, an Indiana University graduate student who has interviewed dozens
of female lawmakers in Pakistan for her research on the legislature, said the
abuse directed at Ms. Wazir was not surprising. She said that ''the web is
littered with websites, videos and message boards dedicated to objectifying and
degrading women parliamentarians in particular and women in general.''

In a survey of women in 17 Pakistani universities, published by the Digital
Rights Foundation in May, 34 percent said they had experienced online harassment
and abuse. The actions included cyberstalking, bullying, and the leaking and
manipulation of personal information and pictures.

Many women reported threats of physical violence and vandalism, blackmail,
sexual remarks and false accusations meant to humiliate, threaten or discredit
them. Seventy percent of the women surveyed said they were afraid to post their
pictures on social media websites.

The country is taking some steps to address the problem. Last year, Parliament
passed the Prevention of Electronic Crimes Act, which was widely promoted as a
tool to curb online sexual harassment. Pakistan's first cyber harassment help
line, also set up last year, received 763 complaints in the form of calls,
emails and Facebook messages from Dec. 1 to May 31.

In July, a man was sentenced to 12 years in jail for blackmailing a woman in the
northern city of Peshawar. And in two cases still to be decided, a university
professor in the port city of Karachi was arrested on charges of setting up fake
Facebook pages and publishing doctored pictures of a female colleague, and two
boys were arrested in 2015 on charges of using a fake Facebook profile to harass
and blackmail up to 50 girls in Peshawar.

Yet online activity has still led to real-life violence, including in July of
last year, when Qandeel Baloch, a social media sensation, was strangled in what
is known as an honor killing. When Ms. Baloch's brother was arrested in
connection with her death, he said at a news conference that he had killed her
because he was incensed over her risqué Facebook posts.

Nighat Dad, the executive director of the Digital Rights Foundation, a Pakistani
internet advocacy group, said, ''There is a culture of violence against women
that already exists in the home, the workplace, in public places, and now it is
increasingly manifesting itself in online spaces as well.''

In another case, Saman, a 19-year-old university student from Lahore who asked
to be identified by only her first name to protect her safety, said her sister's
husband had propositioned her for years before spraying her with acid,
disfiguring her, in January 2016.

When she filed a case against her attacker, he threatened to post what she says
are doctored nude pictures of her online. Last month, he was sentenced to 28
years in prison, but Saman said the harassment persisted.

''Even from behind bars, the threats continue,'' Saman, who has seen the photos,
said in a telephone interview. She said she had told the authorities about the
images, ''but they say they can't do anything until the pictures are actually
published.''

Marvi Sirmed, a Pakistani journalist, said people on social media had called for
her to be publicly raped and killed over her views on the rights of women and
minorities.

''Women who are opinionated, who are professionals doing jobs traditionally done
by men, who are entering politics and media, of course they are going to be in
the line of fire on the internet,'' Ms. Sirmed said. ''And when they fight back,
the abuse just gets worse.''




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/05/world/asia/pakistan-women-social-media.html

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Qandeel Baloch, a Pakistani social media star, was strangled
last year by her brother, who said he was angered over her risqué Facebook
posts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY M JAMEEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        August 7, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

Most Mothers Feel Judged, With Families Often the Worst Critics;
The Checkup

BYLINE: PERRI KLASS, M.D.

SECTION: WELL; family

LENGTH: 1062 words



HIGHLIGHT: In a national poll, mothers felt three times as likely to be
criticized within their families as by outsiders.


Nearly two-thirds of mothers said they felt they had been criticized for their
parenting decisions, according to a national poll released in June from the C.S.
Mott Children's Hospital in Michigan.

Researchers asked 475 mothers of children up to the age of 5 across the United
States about feeling judged for their parenting skills. Sixty one percent felt
that they had been judged, with most of the criticism coming from close to home,
said Sarah Clark of the Child Health Evaluation and Research Center at the
University of Michigan, the co-director of the poll.

"What stood out was the perception among so many more mothers that criticism is
coming from folks within their own family," she said. "It was almost equal parts
their spouse or partner, their own parents, and their in-laws. The stereotype
would be the in-law would lead the parade on that, but it didn't turn out that
way."

The researchers wondered whether mothers would report more criticism coming from
acquaintances and strangers, or people online. But only 7 percent of the
mothers, who were surveyed in January, reported cyber-judging via social media.

Mothers were three times as likely to report being criticized within the family
as from the outside, Ms. Clark said. "I wonder if when a comment comes from
someone so close, the comment feels different," she said.

"Mothers start getting input about their parenting when they're pregnant, people
pat their abdomen, people say, you should be getting off your feet," said Dr.
Barbara Howard, an assistant professor of pediatrics at Johns Hopkins School of
Medicine. "There are a thousand things people feel they have permission to say
about their parenting."

Dr. Howard is a developmental behavioral pediatrician, and the children referred
to her are, by definition, children with behavioral issues. And often, she says,
family members have strong opinions about how those behaviors should be managed.

"I talk about it all the time, I say, who else has an opinion about how to
handle this," Dr. Howard said. When there are differences of opinion between
spouses about how to handle an issue, she said, they need to negotiate their
parenting style -- but not by criticizing and undermining one another in front
of the child.

She was not at all surprised by the topics around which mothers in the poll
reported criticism. They are the same topics she hears about in the office, she
said: "It's discipline, sleep and diet, that's always it."

Among the mothers surveyed who reported being criticized, 7 out of 10 had been
taken to task over issues of discipline. "More often what we see are different
interpretations of what this kid is doing right now in terms of behavior and
what's reasonable to expect," Ms. Clark said.

Grandparents who live at a distance may see a child only on special occasions,
when the routine is disrupted and the child is perhaps unusually excited. If the
grandparents offer criticism, or at least what the mother hears as criticism, it
can further divide families who are already geographically separated.

"About half of the moms said they avoid certain people who give too much
criticism," Ms. Clark said. And while that may be fine if the critic is a nosy
neighbor down the block, "if it becomes a reason to limit that kid's time with
grandma, I think we lose things that way."

For parents who are upset by the criticism, Dr. Howard said, it's important to
remember that a grandparent, especially a grandparent at a distance, may be
trying, however awkwardly, to be involved in a child's life. "People may go out
of their way to avoid relatives they find are too critical," she said. She
suggested being more direct and saying, "I'm not going to come over here anymore
if you keep putting me down." And then say, "I really want you to be part of my
children's lives."

What mothers hear as criticism, especially from their own parents, may also
reflect concern for the mother's well-being; the grandparents may look at the
child's sleep problem and see an exhausted mother.

"They're often in pain for the parent when the parent is struggling with a
behavior," Dr. Howard said.

Mothers who were surveyed reported very low numbers for criticism coming from
the child's health care provider (8 percent) and the child's day care provider
(6 percent). Ms. Clark suggested that this was because mothers expected advice
and guidance from these quarters, and therefore didn't hear the suggestions as
criticism.

"How does mom translate the statement?" she asked. "From the doctor, we're just
trying to keep this kid healthy, from the day care provider, we're trying to
help this kid have a happy day." It goes to show, she said, that the criticism
is partly what the sender says, and partly what the receiver hears. "It's
received as coming from someone who's trying to help my kid be well and succeed
in life, as opposed to comments from the family where we don't always perceive
that intention."

But it's also possible that pediatricians are seen as uncritical because they
don't raise some of these fraught topics, like discipline and parenting. "I'm
guessing that pediatricians aren't giving enough advice, they may not be seen as
critical because they aren't saying enough about it," Dr. Howard said.

What is the impact of the criticism? Sometimes mothers do need to find out if
they're doing something wrong. "We were happy to see that a sizable chunk of
folks said that in response to something they perceived as criticism, they went
out and sought more information," Ms. Clark said. "They either asked the child's
doctor or went and looked online."

But 40 percent of the mothers in the survey said the criticism made them feel
unsure of themselves as mothers. "If you get to the point where the voices of
criticism potentially raise that level of anxiety, that's where we worry," Ms.
Clark said.

"No one ever says anything good to parents, like 'Oh, I think you handled that
tantrum beautifully,'" Dr. Howard said. Unless perhaps you are the Duchess of
Cambridge, whose efficient handling of her 2-year-old daughter's brief tantrum
last month made news headlines around the world.

"How often does anybody ever say to you, 'You did a magnificent job of managing
that,'" Dr. Howard said. "We all know positive feedback is much better than
negative feedback."

Related Articles


     ·    The Birth of a Mother
     ·    What Knitting Can Teach Us About Parenting
     ·    Our 'Mommy' Problem


LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       August 9, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

North Korea's Potential Targets: Guam, South Korea and Japan

BYLINE: CHOE SANG-HUN

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1350 words



HIGHLIGHT: Pyongyang has the capability to launch a devastating military attack
on Seoul, and its leader has missiles could hit Tokyo and perhaps Guam.


SEOUL, South Korea -- Until recently, the world considered North Korea largely a
menace on the Korean Peninsula, its military most threatening to the 25 million
people of Seoul and the sprawling area around the South Korean capital.

But with President Trump warning of unleashing "fire and fury" against North
Korea and the North demonstrating its missiles can fly far beyond the peninsula,
people across Asia are reconsidering. Increasingly, countries in the region,
especially those hosting American military bases, are asking: Are they potential
targets of North Korean retaliation?

On Wednesday, North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un, singled out the American
territory of Guam as a potential target. North Korean missiles have also
recently landed not far from the coast of Japan, a crucial United States
military ally. South Korea remains the most likely target of any North Korean
counterattack should the United States take military action to try to stop the
North's nuclear and missile programs.

[Video: Eddie Baza Calvo, the governor of Guam, a United States territory,
released this video on Wednesday. Watch on YouTube.]

Guam, a Key American Outpost

North Korea warned on Wednesday that it was considering a strike that would
create "an enveloping fire" around Guam, a United States territory that is home
to vital American military operations. Guam's governor, Eddie Baza Calvo, played
the down threat of a North Korean attack in a video address on Wednesday.

"I want to reassure the people of Guam that currently there is no threat to our
island or the Marianas," he said, referring to the nearby Northern Mariana
Islands chain, a United States commonwealth. Mr. Calvo said officials and
military commanders were "prepared for any eventuality."

Guam is a potential target because it is a strategic American military outpost
and home to nuclear-equipped bombers that can strike North Korea. Just this week
two United States B-1 bombers flew from Guam over the Korean Peninsula. And
North Korean missile tests suggest it is within range of the country's arsenal.

While Guam is used to threats from North Korea, several residents said the
current situation felt more dangerous -- partly because of recent advances in
the North's weapons program, but also because of Mr. Trump's rhetoric.

An American Army sergeant, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he
was not supposed to make political statements in public, complained that Mr.
Trump had needlessly elevated the risk of a military confrontation with North
Korea with his remarks.

Some residents of Guam chafed at the news media's coverage of the North's
threat, which they said focused on the fate of service personnel stationed in
Guam rather than on the roughly 160,000 civilians living in the American
territory.

"We are Americans, we serve in the U.S. military at a higher rate than any
state, but all anyone is talking about is how a strike would impact military
personnel and their families," said Leslie Travis, a 37-year-old attorney.

"The rest of us are proverbially out of sight and out of mind. If someone
threatened a strike on California, the national concern wouldn't be limited to
service people at Travis Air Force Base."

A Potential Attack on South Korea

The conventional wisdom holds that any North Korean retaliation would target
American Air Force and military bases in South Korean towns like Kunsan and
Osan, as well as major ports in the South to hamper and delay the arrival of
American military reinforcements. Seoul itself lies within range of North Korean
artillery and rockets that are deployed in large numbers along the border.

The North Korean military warned on Wednesday that it would "burn up all the
objects" in border regions of the South, including Seoul, "the moment the U.S.
reckless attempt at pre-emptive attack is spotted" and that "the whole of the
southern half" of Korea would be its target.

But North Korea has a multitude of options, especially ones in which its enemies
would not quickly be able to trace the origin, like cyber attacks, analysts
said.

It could also, for example, seize Japanese, South Korean and American citizens
and hold them hostage, using them as a leverage to drive a wedge between
Washington and its allies, especially should Mr. Trump launch a military attack
without consulting American allies, they said.

North Korea could mobilize its sleeper spies in the South or use drones to
attempt terrorist attacks, possibly involving chemical and biological agents,
analysts said. In recent months, South Korea has found several North Korean
drones flying into its airspace.

North Korea proved it had no qualms about using chemical weapons when its agents
hired two female assassins tokillKim Jong-nam, Mr. Kim's estranged half brother,
with the chemical agent VX in the Kuala Lumpur international airport in
February.

"If a bunch of people start getting sick, how do you know for sure?" said Scott
W. Harold, an associate director of the RAND Center for Asia Pacific Policy.
"It's all nightmare scenarios we talk about."

Although South Korean news media gave prominent coverage of the latest
escalation between North Korea and the United States, South Korea in general
seemed little disturbed by either Mr. Trump's "fire and fury" comment or the
North's threat to attack Guam. Most South Koreans appeared to consider the
tit-for-tat just another episode in the decades-old ebb and flow of tensions and
jitters they have grown used to.

No hoarding or other signs of panic were reported in South Korea on Wednesday.
In contrast, back in 1994, when rumors spread that the United States was
evacuating its non-combatant citizens from the South, many South Koreans
panicked, stocking up on food in the event of war.

The Threat to Japan

In Japan, specialists said that the most likely targets for any North Korean
attack would be Tokyo, the political and commercial capital with some 35 million
residents in its greater metropolitan area, and American military bases
scattered around the country.

The United States has close to 50,000 military personnel in Japan under the
countries' decades-old alliance. About half are on the small southern island of
Okinawa, while the rest are spread over dozens of bases located on Japan's
larger main islands.

Municipalities around Japan, including some close to American bases, have
conducted evacuation drills in recent months as concern has grown over the
North's missile program. The government has aired public service announcements
on television explaining how to take cover from an incoming missile, prompting
some critics to accuse it of alarmism.

In the last year, North Korea has tested a series of missiles, like the Scud-ER,
Rodong and Hwasong-12, which it said would be used to hit American military
bases in Japan and Guam, as well as American aircraft carriers approaching the
Korean Peninsula.

When Mr. Kim inspected some of those missile tests, the North Korean news media
deliberately showed maps indicating that these missiles would target American
bases in Japan, as well as major air and seaports in South Korea, said Kim
Dong-yub, a defense analyst at the Institute for Far Eastern Studies at Kyungnam
University in Seoul.

Despite the threat to Japan, the country's leadership has aligned itself
publicly with Mr. Trump's efforts to confront the North over its weapons
programs.

Japan's chief cabinet secretary, Yoshihide Suga, sought to frame Mr. Trump's
"fire and fury" comment as part of a broader strategy to confront North Korea.

"He's saying that the United States is putting all options on the table," he
said. "It's extremely important that the Japan-U.S. alliance further strengthens
its ability to deter and respond."

Jonathan Soble contributed reporting from Tokyo, and Josie Moyer contributed
from Guam.

Related Articles


     ·    Trump's 'Fire and Fury' Threat Raises Alarm in Asia
     ·    Trump Threatens 'Fire and Fury' Against North Korea if It Endangers
          U.S.
     ·    Answers to 4 Crucial Questions About North Korea
     ·    North Korea's Alarmed Neighbors Consider Deploying Deadlier Weapons
     ·    Trump's Harsh Language on North Korea Has Little Precedent, Experts
          Say


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 10, 2017 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

North Korea's Potential Targets: Guam, South Korea and Japan

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN; Jonathan Soble contributed reporting from Tokyo, and
Josie Moyer contributed from Guam.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1297 words


SEOUL, South Korea -- Until recently, the world considered North Korea largely a
menace on the Korean Peninsula, its military most threatening to the 25 million
people of Seoul and the sprawling area around the South Korean capital.

But with President Trump warning of unleashing ''fire and fury'' against North
Korea and the North demonstrating its missiles can fly far beyond the peninsula,
people across Asia are reconsidering. Increasingly, countries in the region,
especially those hosting American military bases, are asking: Are they potential
targets of North Korean retaliation?

On Wednesday, North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un, singled out the American
territory of Guam as a potential target. North Korean missiles have also
recently landed not far from the coast of Japan, a crucial United States
military ally. South Korea remains the most likely target of any North Korean
counterattack should the United States take military action to try to stop the
North's nuclear and missile programs.

[Video: Eddie Baza Calvo, the governor of Guam, a United States territory,
released this video on Wednesday. Watch on YouTube.]

Guam, a Key American Outpost

North Korea warned on Wednesday that it was considering a strike that would
create ''an enveloping fire'' around Guam, a United States territory that is
home to vital American military operations. Guam's governor, Eddie Baza Calvo,
played the down threat of a North Korean attack in a video address on Wednesday.

''I want to reassure the people of Guam that currently there is no threat to our
island or the Marianas,'' he said, referring to the nearby Northern Mariana
Islands chain, a United States commonwealth. Mr. Calvo said officials and
military commanders were ''prepared for any eventuality.''

Guam is a potential target because it is a strategic American military outpost
and home to nuclear-equipped bombers that can strike North Korea. Just this week
two United States B-1 bombers flew from Guam over the Korean Peninsula. And
North Korean missile tests suggest it is within range of the country's arsenal.

While Guam is used to threats from North Korea, several residents said the
current situation felt more dangerous -- partly because of recent advances in
the North's weapons program, but also because of Mr. Trump's rhetoric.

An American Army sergeant, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he
was not supposed to make political statements in public, complained that Mr.
Trump had needlessly elevated the risk of a military confrontation with North
Korea with his remarks.

Some residents of Guam chafed at the news media's coverage of the North's
threat, which they said focused on the fate of service personnel stationed in
Guam rather than on the roughly 160,000 civilians living in the American
territory.

''We are Americans, we serve in the U.S. military at a higher rate than any
state, but all anyone is talking about is how a strike would impact military
personnel and their families,'' said Leslie Travis, a 37-year-old attorney.

''The rest of us are proverbially out of sight and out of mind. If someone
threatened a strike on California, the national concern wouldn't be limited to
service people at Travis Air Force Base.''

A Potential Attack on South Korea

The conventional wisdom holds that any North Korean retaliation would target
American Air Force and military bases in South Korean towns like Kunsan and
Osan, as well as major ports in the South to hamper and delay the arrival of
American military reinforcements. Seoul itself lies within range of North Korean
artillery and rockets that are deployed in large numbers along the border.

The North Korean military warned on Wednesday that it would ''burn up all the
objects'' in border regions of the South, including Seoul, ''the moment the U.S.
reckless attempt at pre-emptive attack is spotted'' and that ''the whole of the
southern half'' of Korea would be its target.

But North Korea has a multitude of options, especially ones in which its enemies
would not quickly be able to trace the origin, like cyber attacks, analysts
said.

It could also, for example, seize Japanese, South Korean and American citizens
and hold them hostage, using them as a leverage to drive a wedge between
Washington and its allies, especially should Mr. Trump launch a military attack
without consulting American allies, they said.

North Korea could mobilize its sleeper spies in the South or use drones to
attempt terrorist attacks, possibly involving chemical and biological agents,
analysts said. In recent months, South Korea has found several North Korean
drones flying into its airspace.

North Korea proved it had no qualms about using chemical weapons when its agents
hired two female assassins to kill Kim Jong-nam, Mr. Kim's estranged half
brother, with the chemical agent VX in the Kuala Lumpur international airport in
February.

''If a bunch of people start getting sick, how do you know for sure?'' said
Scott W. Harold, an associate director of the RAND Center for Asia Pacific
Policy. ''It's all nightmare scenarios we talk about.''

Although South Korean news media gave prominent coverage of the latest
escalation between North Korea and the United States, South Korea in general
seemed little disturbed by either Mr. Trump's ''fire and fury'' comment or the
North's threat to attack Guam. Most South Koreans appeared to consider the
tit-for-tat just another episode in the decades-old ebb and flow of tensions and
jitters they have grown used to.

No hoarding or other signs of panic were reported in South Korea on Wednesday.
In contrast, back in 1994, when rumors spread that the United States was
evacuating its non-combatant citizens from the South, many South Koreans
panicked, stocking up on food in the event of war.

The Threat to Japan

In Japan, specialists said that the most likely targets for any North Korean
attack would be Tokyo, the political and commercial capital with some 35 million
residents in its greater metropolitan area, and American military bases
scattered around the country.

The United States has close to 50,000 military personnel in Japan under the
countries' decades-old alliance. About half are on the small southern island of
Okinawa, while the rest are spread over dozens of bases located on Japan's
larger main islands.

Municipalities around Japan, including some close to American bases, have
conducted evacuation drills in recent months as concern has grown over the
North's missile program. The government has aired public service announcements
on television explaining how to take cover from an incoming missile, prompting
some critics to accuse it of alarmism.

In the last year, North Korea has tested a series of missiles, like the Scud-ER,
Rodong and Hwasong-12, which it said would be used to hit American military
bases in Japan and Guam, as well as American aircraft carriers approaching the
Korean Peninsula.

When Mr. Kim inspected some of those missile tests, the North Korean news media
deliberately showed maps indicating that these missiles would target American
bases in Japan, as well as major air and seaports in South Korea, said Kim
Dong-yub, a defense analyst at the Institute for Far Eastern Studies at Kyungnam
University in Seoul.

Despite the threat to Japan, the country's leadership has aligned itself
publicly with Mr. Trump's efforts to confront the North over its weapons
programs.

Japan's chief cabinet secretary, Yoshihide Suga, sought to frame Mr. Trump's
''fire and fury'' comment as part of a broader strategy to confront North Korea.

''He's saying that the United States is putting all options on the table,'' he
said. ''It's extremely important that the Japan-U.S. alliance further
strengthens its ability to deter and respond.''




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/09/world/asia/north-korea-guam-japan-targets.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        August 11, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

How U.S. Military Actions Could Play Out in North Korea

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR and MICHAEL R. GORDON

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1606 words



HIGHLIGHT: Military officials insist no action is imminent. But both pre-emptive
and defensive options are available, should President Trump choose them. Here's
a breakdown.


WASHINGTON -- The intelligence could come to President Trump secretly and
urgently: The North Koreans have placed another intercontinental missile on its
launching pad. In less than two hours, it could be fueled and ready for launch
on a test flight into the Pacific Ocean or perhaps on a mission to strike
American territory.

In that scenario, the American president could quickly set in motion a move long
debated but never taken -- a preventive military action inside North Korea aimed
at disabling an imminent missile launch and sending an unmistakable "cease and
desist" message to Kim Jong-un, the country's volatile leader.

In a series of verbal warnings over the past several days, Mr. Trump has
repeatedly raised the specter of military action toward North Korea. On Friday,
he said on Twitter that "military solutions" were "locked and loaded," retweeted
a picture of a B-1 bomber based in Guam, and warned Mr. Kim.

"If he utters one threat, in the form of an overt threat, which by the way he
has been uttering for years, and his family has been uttering for years, or if
he does anything with respect to Guam, or any place else that's an American
territory or an American ally, he will truly regret it and he will regret it
fast," Mr. Trump told reporters.

But at the same time, American war planners and diplomatic officials insist that
no military action is imminent. Warships are not steaming toward North Korea.
The secretary of state stopped in Hawaii to play golf on his way home from a
trip abroad before meeting with Mr. Trump on Friday. None of the 200,000 or so
Americans or thousands of allied citizens living in South Korea are being
evacuated.

Aside from the president's rhetoric, little suggests that war on the Korean
Peninsula is at hand.

The warnings from Mr. Trump -- and equally bellicose responses from Mr. Kim --
have increased tensions. But left unclear are the circumstances under which the
United States might be willing to use military force. Would it shoot down a
North Korean missile that was being tested near Guam? Would it launch an attack
to try to destroy the North's program to develop intercontinental missiles and
the nuclear warheads they would carry? Would it act pre-emptively or reserve the
use of force to deter an attack on American territory or on the United States'
allies?

Here are some of the possible military scenarios, and the consequences that
military and diplomatic officials say they might spawn.

Taking Out a Single Missile

A preventive strike on one of Mr. Kim's missiles is just one of several
scenarios that military experts say could play out during an escalating conflict
between North Korea and the United States in the coming weeks or months.

With Mr. Trump's order given, American aircraft would take to the skies or
perhaps Tomahawk cruise missiles would be launched from the decks of a destroyer
near the Korean Peninsula, streaking through the sky at speeds of up to 550
miles per hour toward the Korean missile's garrison.

What happens next is at the heart of the unease inside America's military
command, where the use of force against North Korea has long been seen as a
last-ditch option, to be used only if diplomatic efforts fail.

If he gives the go-ahead, Mr. Trump would be betting that a single strike would
force Mr. Kim to accept that his arsenal had been diminished while withdrawing
from the brink of a confrontation with his Asian neighbors and the United
States.

But military officials fear that Mr. Kim might misinterpret such a strike,
seeing it not as a single event but as the first wave of a broader assault on
his government, and lash out with a barrage of artillery and conventional
missiles streaming toward Seoul or Tokyo. Or Mr. Kim could order his military to
march across the demilitarized zone separating the two Koreas.

In a less risky variant of this option, the United States could use the Terminal
High Altitude Area Defense, or Thaad, antimissile battery in Guam to shoot down
any North Korean missile tested near that territory. That action could be
presented as purely defensive, but the credibility of the Thaad system would be
undermined if it missed.

Striking Nuclear Missiles

If Mr. Kim attacks first, perhaps by firing several missiles at the American
military base on Guam, Mr. Trump would have to decide how to respond. Inside the
high-security Situation Room at the White House, the president could order a
surprise, all-out assault on North Korea's missile fleet and its nuclear weapons
arsenal.

The sudden attack scenario could begin like the single strike, but much larger.
Tomahawks could launch from dozens of destroyers positioned on both sides of the
peninsula, blasting multiple sites across the North Korean countryside.

At the same time, strike aircraft based at the Guam air base, in Japan, and on
aircraft carriers in the region could take off, risking the threat of attack
from North Korea's ground-to-air defenses as they seek out the country's
armaments, some of which are believed to be hidden in well-fortified underground
bunkers. Stealth bombers, which would be refueled in flight, could also take off
from the United States.

William Perry, who served as secretary of defense in 1994 when President Bill
Clinton considered a plan to destroy a North Korean nuclear reactor, said the
government's weapons are even more deeply protected now.

"We had to assume that North Korea would make a strike on South Korea in some
way, and if they were to use their artillery to attack Seoul, they could kill
tens of thousands before we could stop them," Mr. Perry said. "The price was
very high then, but the price today would be very much higher."

American military officials are deeply concerned that they would not be able to
"find, fix and finish" the North's entire arsenal of long-range missiles and
nuclear weapons, leaving a significant risk of a "leaker" or a "bleeder" -- one
or more missiles with warheads that may or may not be able to carry out a
nuclear strike against the United States or its allies.

It would be up to the United States missile defenses to knock out leakers. The
Thaad battery, which is stationed in South Korea, could be used to defend South
Korea.

Missiles headed for the American mainland might be intercepted by the
Ground-Based Midcourse Defense based in Alaska and California, which has a
spotty record, although its most recent test, in May, was a success.

Preparing for All-Out War

Chief among the concerns of military experts about the first two scenarios is
the possibility of sparking all-out war on the Korean Peninsula.

That could lead Mr. Trump to embrace a different military scenario -- the
slow-paced buildup to an all-out ground invasion of North Korea.

It would begin with evacuations of Americans and allies in South Korea. Moving
them out of harm's way would be an enormous logistical operation, perhaps
leaving time to see whether economic sanctions had any impact on the North's
behavior and for diplomacy to work.

During the same period, ships would begin steaming to the Korean Peninsula from
Hawaii and elsewhere as the military pre-positioned additional artillery,
counter-battery radar and other assets. The American troop presence could
ratchet up to levels not seen in a foreign country since President George Bush
sent more than a half-million troops to the Middle East in 1990.

The buildup would abandon any element of surprise, but it would be a message of
deterrence for Mr. Kim against a first strike. It would also give the American
president the option of taking limited action while trying to discourage North
Korea from raising the stakes and tilting the battlefield to the United States'
advantage if he did.

Military officials worry, however, that Mr. Kim could use the time to move his
long-range mobile missiles around to make them harder to strike. And he could
interpret the United States buildup as the beginning of a campaign to take down
his government -- raising the prospect that he would strike first, either with
conventional or nuclear forces.

And if all-out war on the peninsula ensues, military officials say the result
would be devastating, potentially leading to the deaths of hundreds of thousands
of people even if nuclear weapons are not used, something that they say is
hardly assured.

Other Possibilities

American military officials are nearly unanimous in their belief that the
military options are complicated, difficult and dangerous. Mr. Trump has other
tools at his disposal to confront North Korea.

In 2014, President Barack Obama ordered cyber- and electronic-warfare attacks on
the North's missile program. For nearly three years, the failure rate of the
North's missile launches soared, though it is not clear how many of those
failures can be attributed to the American effort, and their success has
increased recently. At any rate, the cyberattacks have not slowed the North
Korean program sufficiently enough to avert the current crisis.

The United States government could also turn to other covert means to change the
North Korean government. In July, Mike Pompeo, the C.I.A. director, said: "As
for the regime, I am hopeful we will find a way to separate that regime from
this system." He added quickly that he was not advocating "to make happen
tomorrow."

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning
Briefing newsletter.

Julie Hirschfeld Davis, Eric Schmitt and David E. Sanger contributed reporting.

Related Articles


     ·    Combative Trump Pulls His Punches for One Man: Putin
     ·    Trump Says Military Is 'Locked and Loaded' and North Korea Will
          'Regret' Threats
     ·    Even the Most Precise Strike on North Korea Could Prompt Retaliation


LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 12, 2017 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

With Tensions Rising, How U.S. Military Actions Could Play Out in North Korea

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and MICHAEL R. GORDON; Julie Hirschfeld Davis, Eric
Schmitt and David E. Sanger contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1574 words


WASHINGTON -- The intelligence could come to President Trump secretly and
urgently: The North Koreans have placed another intercontinental missile on its
launching pad. In less than two hours, it could be fueled and ready for launch
on a test flight into the Pacific Ocean or perhaps on a mission to strike
American territory.

In that scenario, the American president could quickly set in motion a move long
debated but never taken -- a preventive military action inside North Korea aimed
at disabling an imminent missile launch and sending an unmistakable ''cease and
desist'' message to Kim Jong-un, the country's volatile leader.

In a series of verbal warnings over the past several days, Mr. Trump has
repeatedly raised the specter of military action toward North Korea. On Friday,
he said on Twitter that ''military solutions'' were ''locked and loaded,''
retweeted a picture of a B-1 bomber based in Guam, and warned Mr. Kim.

''If he utters one threat, in the form of an overt threat, which by the way he
has been uttering for years, and his family has been uttering for years, or if
he does anything with respect to Guam, or any place else that's an American
territory or an American ally, he will truly regret it and he will regret it
fast,'' Mr. Trump told reporters.

But at the same time, American war planners and diplomatic officials insist that
no military action is imminent. Warships are not steaming toward North Korea.
The secretary of state stopped in Hawaii to play golf on his way home from a
trip abroad before meeting with Mr. Trump on Friday. None of the 200,000 or so
Americans or thousands of allied citizens living in South Korea are being
evacuated.

Aside from the president's rhetoric, little suggests that war on the Korean
Peninsula is at hand.

The warnings from Mr. Trump -- and equally bellicose responses from Mr. Kim --
have increased tensions. But left unclear are the circumstances under which the
United States might be willing to use military force. Would it shoot down a
North Korean missile that was being tested near Guam? Would it launch an attack
to try to destroy the North's program to develop intercontinental missiles and
the nuclear warheads they would carry? Would it act pre-emptively or reserve the
use of force to deter an attack on American territory or on the United States'
allies?

Here are some of the possible military scenarios, and the consequences that
military and diplomatic officials say they might spawn.

Taking Out a Single Missile

A preventive strike on one of Mr. Kim's missiles is just one of several
scenarios that military experts say could play out during an escalating conflict
between North Korea and the United States in the coming weeks or months.

With Mr. Trump's order given, American aircraft would take to the skies or
perhaps Tomahawk cruise missiles would be launched from the decks of a destroyer
near the Korean Peninsula, streaking through the sky at speeds of up to 550
miles per hour toward the Korean missile's garrison.

What happens next is at the heart of the unease inside America's military
command, where the use of force against North Korea has long been seen as a
last-ditch option, to be used only if diplomatic efforts fail.

If he gives the go-ahead, Mr. Trump would be betting that a single strike would
force Mr. Kim to accept that his arsenal had been diminished while withdrawing
from the brink of a confrontation with his Asian neighbors and the United
States.

But military officials fear that Mr. Kim might misinterpret such a strike,
seeing it not as a single event but as the first wave of a broader assault on
his government, and lash out with a barrage of artillery and conventional
missiles streaming toward Seoul or Tokyo. Or Mr. Kim could order his military to
march across the demilitarized zone separating the two Koreas.

In a less risky variant of this option, the United States could use the Terminal
High Altitude Area Defense, or Thaad, antimissile battery in Guam to shoot down
any North Korean missile tested near that territory. That action could be
presented as purely defensive, but the credibility of the Thaad system would be
undermined if it missed.

Striking Nuclear Missiles

If Mr. Kim attacks first, perhaps by firing several missiles at the American
military base on Guam, Mr. Trump would have to decide how to respond. Inside the
high-security Situation Room at the White House, the president could order a
surprise, all-out assault on North Korea's missile fleet and its nuclear weapons
arsenal.

The sudden attack scenario could begin like the single strike, but much larger.
Tomahawks could launch from dozens of destroyers positioned on both sides of the
peninsula, blasting multiple sites across the North Korean countryside.

At the same time, strike aircraft based at the Guam air base, in Japan, and on
aircraft carriers in the region could take off, risking the threat of attack
from North Korea's ground-to-air defenses as they seek out the country's
armaments, some of which are believed to be hidden in well-fortified underground
bunkers. Stealth bombers, which would be refueled in flight, could also take off
from the United States.

William Perry, who served as secretary of defense in 1994 when President Bill
Clinton considered a plan to destroy a North Korean nuclear reactor, said the
government's weapons are even more deeply protected now.

''We had to assume that North Korea would make a strike on South Korea in some
way, and if they were to use their artillery to attack Seoul, they could kill
tens of thousands before we could stop them,'' Mr. Perry said. ''The price was
very high then, but the price today would be very much higher.''

American military officials are deeply concerned that they would not be able to
''find, fix and finish'' the North's entire arsenal of long-range missiles and
nuclear weapons, leaving a significant risk of a ''leaker'' or a ''bleeder'' --
one or more missiles with warheads that may or may not be able to carry out a
nuclear strike against the United States or its allies.

It would be up to the United States missile defenses to knock out leakers. The
Thaad battery, which is stationed in South Korea, could be used to defend South
Korea.

Missiles headed for the American mainland might be intercepted by the
Ground-Based Midcourse Defense based in Alaska and California, which has a
spotty record, although its most recent test, in May, was a success.

Preparing for All-Out War

Chief among the concerns of military experts about the first two scenarios is
the possibility of sparking all-out war on the Korean Peninsula.

That could lead Mr. Trump to embrace a different military scenario -- the
slow-paced buildup to an all-out ground invasion of North Korea.

It would begin with evacuations of Americans and allies in South Korea. Moving
them out of harm's way would be an enormous logistical operation, perhaps
leaving time to see whether economic sanctions had any impact on the North's
behavior and for diplomacy to work.

During the same period, ships would begin steaming to the Korean Peninsula from
Hawaii and elsewhere as the military pre-positioned additional artillery,
counter-battery radar and other assets. The American troop presence could
ratchet up to levels not seen in a foreign country since President George Bush
sent more than a half-million troops to the Middle East in 1990.

The buildup would abandon any element of surprise, but it would be a message of
deterrence for Mr. Kim against a first strike. It would also give the American
president the option of taking limited action while trying to discourage North
Korea from raising the stakes and tilting the battlefield to the United States'
advantage if he did.

Military officials worry, however, that Mr. Kim could use the time to move his
long-range mobile missiles around to make them harder to strike. And he could
interpret the United States buildup as the beginning of a campaign to take down
his government -- raising the prospect that he would strike first, either with
conventional or nuclear forces.

And if all-out war on the peninsula ensues, military officials say the result
would be devastating, potentially leading to the deaths of hundreds of thousands
of people even if nuclear weapons are not used, something that they say is
hardly assured.

Other Possibilities

American military officials are nearly unanimous in their belief that the
military options are complicated, difficult and dangerous. Mr. Trump has other
tools at his disposal to confront North Korea.

In 2014, President Barack Obama ordered cyber- and electronic-warfare attacks on
the North's missile program. For nearly three years, the failure rate of the
North's missile launches soared, though it is not clear how many of those
failures can be attributed to the American effort, and their success has
increased recently. At any rate, the cyberattacks have not slowed the North
Korean program sufficiently enough to avert the current crisis.

The United States government could also turn to other covert means to change the
North Korean government. In July, Mike Pompeo, the C.I.A. director, said: ''As
for the regime, I am hopeful we will find a way to separate that regime from
this system.'' He added quickly that he was not advocating ''to make happen
tomorrow.''

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning
Briefing newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/11/world/asia/north-korea-trump-military.html

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       August 15, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

China's Intellectual Property Theft Must Stop;
Op-Ed Contributors

BYLINE: DENNIS C. BLAIR and KEITH ALEXANDER

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 876 words



HIGHLIGHT: Trump is right to crack down on a $600 billion drain on the American
economy.


President Trump on Monday instructed the office of the United States Trade
Representative to consider an investigation into China's sustained and
widespread attacks on America's intellectual property. This investigation will
provide the evidence for holding China accountable for a decades-long assault on
the intellectual property of the United States and its allies.

For too long, the United States has treated China as a developing nation to be
coaxed and lectured, while tolerating its bad behavior as merely growing pains.
There has been an expectation that as China's economy matures, it will of its
own accord adopt international standards in commerce, including protection for
intellectual property. There has also been a tendency to excuse mercantilist
behavior, including industrial espionage, as a passing phase, and to justify
inaction as necessary to secure Chinese cooperation on other, supposedly more
important, issues.

Chinese companies, with the encouragement of official Chinese policy and often
the active participation of government personnel, have been pillaging the
intellectual property of American companies. All together, intellectual-property
theft costs America up to $600 billion a year, the greatest transfer of wealth
in history. China accounts for most of that loss.

Intellectual-property theft covers a wide spectrum: counterfeiting American
fashion designs, pirating movies and video games, patent infringement and
stealing proprietary technology and software. This assault saps economic growth,
costs Americans jobs, weakens our military capability and undercuts a key
American competitive advantage -- innovation.

Chinese companies have stolen trade secrets from virtually every sector of the
American economy: automobiles, auto tires, aviation, chemicals, consumer
electronics, electronic trading, industrial software, biotech and
pharmaceuticals. Last year U.S. Steel accused Chinese hackers of stealing trade
secrets related to the production of lightweight steel, then turning them over
to Chinese steel makers.

Perhaps most concerning, China has targeted the American defense industrial
base. Chinese spies have gone after private defense contractors and
subcontractors, national laboratories, public research universities, think tanks
and the American government itself. Chinese agents have gone after the United
States' most significant weapons, such as the F-35 Lightning, the Aegis Combat
System and the Patriot missile system; illegally exported unmanned underwater
vehicles and thermal-imaging cameras; and stolen documents related to the B-52
bomber, the Delta IV rocket, the F-15 fighter and even the Space Shuttle.

President Trump's action on Monday acknowledges the broad scope of the
challenge. Central to Chinese cybersecurity law is the "secure and controllable"
standard, which, in the name of protecting software and data, forces companies
operating in China to disclose critical intellectual property to the government
and requires that they store data locally. Even before this Chinese legislation,
some three-quarters of Chinese imported software was pirated. Now, despite the
law, American companies may be even more vulnerable.

For decades, successive American administrations have concluded that some level
of exposure to China's depredations against our intellectual property is simply
the cost of doing business with the world's now second-largest economy. This is
not acceptable. Although China is an important trading partner with the United
States, it is imperative to establish a fair and level trading environment.

Driving down intellectual-property theft by China and other countries is vital
for America's economic well-being and national security. We urge American
companies, as well as our allies abroad, who share these interests, to work with
the administration through this process.

There is intellectual-property protection on the books in China, and some
American companies have been successful bringing cases in Chinese courts. The
time may come when China applies the same efforts to protecting intellectual
property that it now does to stealing it. However, for now, the United States
and other developed countries must look to their own laws and actions to protect
their companies from loss and ruin.

President Trump's action on Monday is a major step in the right direction. If
the investigation proves extensive Chinese government support for
intellectual-property theft, it could trigger retaliatory action by the American
government, based on the Economic Espionage Act, Section 5 of the Federal Trade
Commission Act and the National Defense Authorization Act.

The government should lead in this effort, but it can't go it alone. A broad,
sustained campaign bringing together the government, the private sector and our
allies is the only way to halt this hemorrhaging of America's economic life
blood.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Dennis C. Blair is a former director of national intelligence and a former
commander in chief of the United States Pacific Command. Keith Alexander is a
former commander of the United States Cyber Command and a former director of the
National Security Agency.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 15, 2017 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cracking Down on I.P. Theft

BYLINE: By DENNIS C. BLAIR and KEITH ALEXANDER.

Dennis C. Blair is a former director of national intelligence and a former
commander in chief of the United States Pacific Command. Keith Alexander is a
former commander of the United States Cyber Command and a former director of the
National Security Agency.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 837 words


President Trump on Monday instructed the office of the United States Trade
Representative to consider an investigation into China's sustained and
widespread attacks on America's intellectual property. This investigation will
provide the evidence for holding China accountable for a decades-long assault on
the intellectual property of the United States and its allies.

For too long, the United States has treated China as a developing nation to be
coaxed and lectured, while tolerating its bad behavior as merely growing pains.
There has been an expectation that as China's economy matures, it will of its
own accord adopt international standards in commerce, including protection for
intellectual property. There has also been a tendency to excuse mercantilist
behavior, including industrial espionage, as a passing phase, and to justify
inaction as necessary to secure Chinese cooperation on other, supposedly more
important, issues.

Chinese companies, with the encouragement of official Chinese policy and often
the active participation of government personnel, have been pillaging the
intellectual property of American companies. All together, intellectual-property
theft costs America up to $600 billion a year, the greatest transfer of wealth
in history. China accounts for most of that loss.

Intellectual-property theft covers a wide spectrum: counterfeiting American
fashion designs, pirating movies and video games, patent infringement and
stealing proprietary technology and software. This assault saps economic growth,
costs Americans jobs, weakens our military capability and undercuts a key
American competitive advantage -- innovation.

Chinese companies have stolen trade secrets from virtually every sector of the
American economy: automobiles, auto tires, aviation, chemicals, consumer
electronics, electronic trading, industrial software, biotech and
pharmaceuticals. Last year U.S. Steel accused Chinese hackers of stealing trade
secrets related to the production of lightweight steel, then turning them over
to Chinese steel makers.

Perhaps most concerning, China has targeted the American defense industrial
base. Chinese spies have gone after private defense contractors and
subcontractors, national laboratories, public research universities, think tanks
and the American government itself. Chinese agents have gone after the United
States' most significant weapons, such as the F-35 Lightning, the Aegis Combat
System and the Patriot missile system; illegally exported unmanned underwater
vehicles and thermal-imaging cameras; and stolen documents related to the B-52
bomber, the Delta IV rocket, the F-15 fighter and even the Space Shuttle.

President Trump's action on Monday acknowledges the broad scope of the
challenge. Central to Chinese cybersecurity law is the ''secure and
controllable'' standard, which, in the name of protecting software and data,
forces companies operating in China to disclose critical intellectual property
to the government and requires that they store data locally. Even before this
Chinese legislation, some three-quarters of Chinese imported software was
pirated. Now, despite the law, American companies may be even more vulnerable.

For decades, successive American administrations have concluded that some level
of exposure to China's depredations against our intellectual property is simply
the cost of doing business with the world's now second-largest economy. This is
not acceptable. Although China is an important trading partner with the United
States, it is imperative to establish a fair and level trading environment.

Driving down intellectual-property theft by China and other countries is vital
for America's economic well-being and national security. We urge American
companies, as well as our allies abroad, who share these interests, to work with
the administration through this process.

There is intellectual-property protection on the books in China, and some
American companies have been successful bringing cases in Chinese courts. The
time may come when China applies the same efforts to protecting intellectual
property that it now does to stealing it. However, for now, the United States
and other developed countries must look to their own laws and actions to protect
their companies from loss and ruin.

President Trump's action on Monday is a major step in the right direction. If
the investigation proves extensive Chinese government support for
intellectual-property theft, it could trigger retaliatory action by the American
government, based on the Economic Espionage Act, Section 5 of the Federal Trade
Commission Act and the National Defense Authorization Act.

The government should lead in this effort, but it can't go it alone. A broad,
sustained campaign bringing together the government, the private sector and our
allies is the only way to halt this hemorrhaging of America's economic life
blood.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/15/opinion/china-us-intellectual-property-trump.
html

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      August 16, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Charlottesville, ISIS and Us;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1119 words



HIGHLIGHT: Pluralism is America's strength, both at home and abroad.


AL UDEID, Qatar -- I've been on the road since the Charlottesville killing. I am
traveling around the Arab world and Afghanistan with the chief of the U.S. Air
Force, Gen. David Goldfein; his civilian boss, the Air Force secretary, Heather
Wilson; and their aides. We're currently at the giant Al Udeid Air Base, from
which America's entire ISIS-Syria-Iraq-Afghanistan air war is run.

With all the news from Charlottesville, I was feeling in the wrong place at the
wrong time. And then I looked around me here, and the connection with
Charlottesville became obvious. Just one glance at our traveling party and the
crews at this base and you realize immediately why we are the most powerful
country in the world.

It's not because we own F-22s. And it surely isn't that we embrace white
supremacy. It's because we embrace pluralism. It's because we can still make out
of many, one.

I am a pluralism supremacist.

How could I not be? I look around me and see our Air Force chief, who is of
Eastern European Jewish descent, reporting to a woman Air Force secretary, who
was among the early women graduates of the Air Force Academy and whose senior
aide is an African-American woman lieutenant colonel. The base commander here in
Qatar, overseeing the whole air war, is of Armenian descent, and his top deputy
is of Lebanese descent.

In the control center I'm introduced to the two Russian-speaking U.S. servicemen
who 10 to 12 times a day get on the local "hotline" with the Russian command
post in Syria to make sure Russian planes don't collide with ours. One of the
servicemen was born in Russia and the other left Kiev, Ukraine, just five years
ago, in part, he told me, because he dreamed of joining the U.S. Air Force:
"This is the country of opportunity."

Then we get a briefing from the combat innovation team, which is designing a new
algorithm for dynamic targeting with colleagues in Silicon Valley. I ask their
commander about his last name -- Ito -- and he explains, "My dad is from Cuba
and my mother is from Mexico." The intelligence briefing was delivered by
"Captain Yang."

The very reason America is the supreme power in this region is that the U.S.
military can take all of those different people and make them into a fist. And
the very reason we are stuck in this region and can't get out is that so many of
the nation-states and people here are fighting only for their exclusivist dreams
of supremacy -- Shiite supremacy, Sunni supremacy, Alawite supremacy, Taliban
supremacy, Turkish supremacy and Persian supremacy.

With a few exceptions, they can't generate self-sustaining power-sharing. Which
is why we keep defeating the worst of them and they keep losing the peace,
because the best of them can never share power long enough and deep enough to
build lasting stability.

None of the U.S. military people here talk U.S. politics. But I do. As a
citizen, I say they deserve a commander in chief who does not need three tries
to grudgingly denounce violent white supremacists. Pluralism is our true source
of strength at home and abroad. It has to be nurtured, celebrated and protected
from its enemies everywhere and always.

Now that I got that off my chest, let's talk strategy. We toured the command
center here with its wall-size screens that take the data from satellites,
drones, manned aircraft, cyber, sensors, human intelligence and aerial refueling
tankers and meld them into a series of strategic targeting decisions. Watching
the choreography of all this is both chilling and mesmerizing.

We are moving "from wars of attrition to wars of cognition," explained General
Goldfein. These new integrated systems are simultaneously "state of the art,
unparalleled -- and too slow for the future."

On one recent day you could look up at those screens and find a Syrian fighter
jet preparing to drop bombs near U.S. special forces in Syria. The Syrian jet is
about to be blown out of the sky by a U.S. fighter jet, while two Russian
fighters watch from a higher altitude and a stealth U.S. F-22 watches the
Russians watching the U.S. plane watching the Syrian.

While that is all happening, the coastal Syrian surface-to-air system lights up
as Turkish, Jordanian and Israeli jets buzz in and out of theater. And almost
daily an Iranian-made drone being directed from the back of an R.V. by Iranian
Revolutionary Guards members in the desert of eastern Syria is hunting for U.S.
special forces. We've shot down a couple of those, too.

If you tried to sell this very real drama to a video game company, it would be
rejected as unrealistic.

Just one U.S. fighter jet over Syria -- and we have them in the air now 24/7 --
has to be aerially refueled eight or nine times during its eight-hour mission.
Add in Iraq and Afghanistan, and on any given day the Air Force is coordinating
as many as 60 KC-135 tankers (aerial gas stations) operating over these three
countries.

Meanwhile, ISIS is buying drones from online shopping sites, jury-rigging them
with GoPro cameras and grenades and dropping them on U.S. and Iraqi troops, or
it's armor-plating S.U.V.s, loading them with explosives and a suicide bomber
and turning them into Mad Max vehicles driven right into our troops or our
allies.

The good news? ISIS, having been largely defeated in Iraq, will most likely be
defeated in Syria, too, by Americans, Kurds, Russians, Syrians, Iranians and
pro-Iranian militias. The bad news? There is a good chance that ISIS' territory
will ultimately fall under Iran's sway.

Preventing that would require the Arab-Sunni Muslim world to get its act
together, but it is as weak and divided as ever. That's why Iran now indirectly
controls four Arab capitals: Beirut, Baghdad, Sana and Damascus. And what is
really scary is that it controls them at a pretty cheap price through proxies.
We can defeat ISIS extremism, with our pluralistic fighting machine, but the one
thing we can't do is create Sunni-Shiite pluralism and power-sharing to replace
it. Which is why we keep getting dragged back -- not to make things better but,
as always, to prevent the bad from becoming the awful.

I wanted it to be otherwise, but it's not. We tried. So, do we just keep trying?
You can't visit one of these huge U.S. bases built since 9/11, see the
dedication of the young men and women, and the sophistication of the systems
they have built, and not wonder: What if all of this talent and energy and
idealism and pluralism were applied not to propping up a decrepit Arab state
system against Iran, but instead fixing the worst neighborhoods of Baltimore,
Chicago and Detroit?

We need to have a national discussion about this.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      August 16, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

In Ukraine, a Malware Expert Who Could Blow the Whistle on Russian Hacking

BYLINE: ANDREW E. KRAMER and ANDREW HIGGINS

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 2394 words



HIGHLIGHT: For the first time, an actual witness has emerged in the election
hacking, and he has been interviewed by the F.B.I.


Correction Appended

KIEV, Ukraine -- The hacker, known only by his online alias "Profexer," kept a
low profile. He wrote computer code alone in an apartment and quietly sold his
handiwork on the anonymous portion of the internet known as the dark web. Last
winter, he suddenly went dark entirely.

Profexer's posts, already accessible only to a small band of fellow hackers and
cybercriminals looking for software tips, blinked out in January -- just days
after American intelligence agencies publicly identified a program he had
written as one tool used in Russian hacking in the United States. American
intelligence agencies have determined Russian hackers were behind the electronic
break-in of the Democratic National Committee.

But while Profexer's online persona vanished, a flesh-and-blood person has
emerged: a fearful man who the Ukrainian police said turned himself in early
this year, and has now become a witness for the F.B.I.

"I don't know what will happen," he wrote in one of his last messages posted on
a restricted-access website before going to the police. "It won't be pleasant.
But I'm still alive."

It is the first known instance of a living witness emerging from the arid mass
of technical detail that has so far shaped the investigation into the election
hacking and the heated debate it has stirred. The Ukrainian police declined to
divulge the man's name or other details, other than that he is living in Ukraine
and has not been arrested.

There is no evidence that Profexer worked, at least knowingly, for Russia's
intelligence services, but his malware apparently did.

That a hacking operation that Washington is convinced was orchestrated by Moscow
would obtain malware from a source in Ukraine -- perhaps the Kremlin's most
bitter enemy -- sheds considerable light on the Russian security services' modus
operandi in what Western intelligence agencies say is their clandestine cyberwar
against the United States and Europe.

It does not suggest a compact team of government employees who write all their
own code and carry out attacks during office hours in Moscow or St. Petersburg,
but rather a far looser enterprise that draws on talent and hacking tools
wherever they can be found.

Also emerging from Ukraine is a sharper picture of what the United States
believes is a Russian government hacking group known as Advanced Persistent
Threat 28 or Fancy Bear. It is this group, which American intelligence agencies
believe is operated by Russian military intelligence, that has been blamed,
along with a second Russian outfit known as Cozy Bear, for the D.N.C. intrusion.

Rather than training, arming and deploying hackers to carry out a specific
mission like just another military unit, Fancy Bear and its twin Cozy Bear have
operated more as centers for organization and financing; much of the hard work
like coding is outsourced to private and often crime-tainted vendors.

Russia's Testing Ground

In more than a decade of tracking suspected Russian-directed cyberattacks
against a host of targets in the West and in former Soviet territories -- NATO,
electrical grids, research groups, journalists critical of Russia and political
parties, to name a few -- security services around the world have identified
only a handful of people who are directly involved in either carrying out such
attacks or providing the cyberweapons that were used.

This absence of reliable witnesses has left ample room for President Trump and
others to raise doubts about whether Russia really was involved in the D.N.C.
hack.

"There is not now and never has been a single piece of technical evidence
produced that connects the malware used in the D.N.C. attack to the G.R.U.,
F.S.B. or any agency of the Russian government," said Jeffrey Carr, the author
of a book on cyberwarfare. The G.R.U. is Russia's military intelligence agency,
and the F.S.B. its federal security service.

United States intelligence agencies, however, have been unequivocal in pointing
a finger at Russia.

Seeking a path out of this fog, cybersecurity researchers and Western law
enforcement officers have turned to Ukraine, a country that Russia has used for
years as a laboratory for a range of politicized operations that later cropped
up elsewhere, including electoral hacking in the United States.

In several instances, certain types of computer intrusions, like the use of
malware to knock out crucial infrastructure or to pilfer email messages later
released to tilt public opinion, occurred in Ukraine first. Only later were the
same techniques used in Western Europe and the United States.

So, not surprisingly, those studying cyberwar in Ukraine are now turning up
clues in the investigation of the D.N.C. break-in and related hacking, including
the discovery of a rare witness.

Security experts were initially left scratching their heads when the Department
of Homeland Security on Dec. 29 released technical evidence of Russian hacking
that seemed to point not to Russia, but rather to Ukraine.

In this initial report, the department released only one sample of malware said
to be an indicator of Russian state-sponsored hacking, though outside experts
said a variety of malicious programs were used in Russian electoral hacking.

The sample pointed to a malware program, called the P.A.S. web shell, a hacking
tool advertised on Russian-language dark web forums and used by cybercriminals
throughout the former Soviet Union. The author, Profexer, is a well-regarded
technical expert among hackers, spoken about with awe and respect in Kiev.

He had made it available to download, free, from a website that asked only for
donations, ranging from $3 to $250. The real money was made by selling
customized versions and by guiding his hacker clients in its effective use. It
remains unclear how extensively he interacted with the Russian hacking team.

After the Department of Homeland Security identified his creation, he quickly
shut down his website and posted on a closed forum for hackers, called Exploit,
that "I'm not interested in excessive attention to me personally."

Soon, a hint of panic appeared, and he posted a note saying that, six days on,
he was still alive.

Another hacker, with the nickname Zloi Santa, or Bad Santa, suggested the
Americans would certainly find him, and place him under arrest, perhaps during a
layover at an airport.

"It could be, or it could not be, it depends only on politics," Profexer
responded. "If U.S. law enforcement wants to take me down, they will not wait
for me in some country's airport. Relations between our countries are so tight I
would be arrested in my kitchen, at the first request."

In fact, Serhiy Demediuk, chief of the Ukrainian Cyber Police, said in an
interview that Profexer went to the authorities himself. As the cooperation
began, Profexer went dark on hacker forums. He last posted online on Jan. 9. Mr.
Demediuk said he had made the witness available to the F.B.I., which has posted
a full-time cybersecurity expert in Kiev as one of four bureau agents stationed
at the United States Embassy there. The F.B.I. declined to comment.

Profexer was not arrested because his activities fell in a legal gray zone, as
an author but not a user of malware, the Ukrainian police say. But he did know
the users, at least by their online handles. "He told us he didn't create it to
be used in the way it was," Mr. Demediuk said.

A member of Ukraine's Parliament with close ties to the security services, Anton
Gerashchenko, said that the interaction was online or by phone and that the
Ukrainian programmer had been paid to write customized malware without knowing
its purpose, only later learning it was used in Russian hacking.

Mr. Gerashchenko described the author only in broad strokes, to protect his
safety, as a young man from a provincial Ukrainian city. He confirmed that the
author turned himself in to the police and was cooperating as a witness in the
D.N.C. investigation. "He was a freelancer and now he is a valuable witness,"
Mr. Gerashchenko said.

It is not clear whether the specific malware the programmer created was used to
hack the D.N.C. servers, but it was identified in other Russian hacking efforts
in the United States.

A Bear's Lair

While it is not known what Profexer has told Ukrainian investigators and the
F.B.I. about Russia's hacking efforts, evidence emanating from Ukraine has again
provided some of the clearest pictures yet about Fancy Bear, or Advanced
Persistent Threat 28, which is run by the G.R.U.

Fancy Bear has been identified mostly by what it does, not by who does it. One
of its recurring features has been the theft of emails and its close
collaboration with the Russian state news media.

Tracking the bear to its lair, however, has so far proved impossible, not least
because many experts believe that no such single place exists.

Even for a sophisticated tech company like Microsoft, singling out individuals
in the digital miasma has proved just about impossible. To curtail the damage to
clients' operating systems, the company filed a complaint against Fancy Bear
last year with the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Virginia but found itself boxing with shadows.

As Microsoft lawyers reported to the court, "because defendants used fake
contact information, anonymous Bitcoin and prepaid credit cards and false
identities, and sophisticated technical means to conceal their identities, when
setting up and using the relevant internet domains, defendants' true identities
remain unknown."

Nevertheless, Ukrainian officials, though wary of upsetting the Trump
administration, have been quietly cooperating with American investigators to try
to figure out who stands behind all the disguises.

Included in this sharing of information were copies of the server hard drives of
Ukraine's Central Election Commission, which were targeted during a presidential
election in May 2014. That the F.B.I. had obtained evidence of this earlier,
Russian-linked electoral hack has not been previously reported.

Traces of the same malicious code, this time a program called Sofacy, were seen
in the 2014 attack in Ukraine and later in the D.N.C. intrusion in the United
States.

Intriguingly, in the cyberattack during the Ukrainian election, what appears to
have been a bungle by Channel 1, a Russian state television station,
inadvertently implicated the government authorities in Moscow.

Hackers had loaded onto a Ukrainian election commission server a graphic
mimicking the page for displaying results. This phony page showed a shocker of
an outcome: an election win for a fiercely anti-Russian, ultraright candidate,
Dmytro Yarosh. Mr. Yarosh in reality received less than 1 percent of the vote.

The false result would have played into a Russian propaganda narrative that
Ukraine today is ruled by hard-right, even fascist, figures.

The fake image was programmed to display when polls closed, at 8 p.m., but a
Ukrainian cybersecurity company, InfoSafe, discovered it just minutes earlier
and unplugged the server.

State television in Russia nevertheless reported that Mr. Yarosh had won and
broadcast the fake graphic, citing the election commission's website, even
though the image had never appeared there. The hacker had clearly provided
Channel 1 with the same image in advance, but the reporters had failed to check
that the hack actually worked.

"For me, this is an obvious link between the hackers and Russian officials,"
said Victor Zhora, director of InfoSafe, the cybersecurity company that first
found the fake graphic.

A Ukrainian government researcher who studied the hack, Nikolai Koval, published
his findings in a 2015 book, "Cyberwar in Perspective," and identified the
Sofacy malware on the server.

The mirror of the hard drive went to the F.B.I., which had this forensic sample
when the cybersecurity company CrowdStrike identified the same malware two years
later, on the D.N.C. servers.

"It was the first strike," Mr. Zhora said of the earlier hack of Ukraine's
electoral computers. Ukraine's Cyber Police have also provided the F.B.I. with
copies of server hard drives showing the possible origins of some phishing
emails targeting the Democratic Party during the election.

In 2016, two years after the election hack in Ukraine, hackers using some of the
same techniques plundered the email system of the World Anti-Doping Agency, or
WADA, which had accused Russian athletes of systematic drug use.

That raid, too, seems to have been closely coordinated with Russian state
television, which began airing well-prepared reports about WADA's hacked emails
just minutes after they were made public. The emails appeared on a website that
announced that WADA had been hacked by a group calling itself the "Fancy Bears'
Hack Team."

It was the first time Fancy Bear had broken cover.

Fancy Bear remains extraordinarily elusive, however. To throw investigators off
its scent, the group has undergone various makeovers, restocking its arsenal of
malware and sometimes hiding under different guises. One of its alter egos,
cyberexperts believe, is Cyber Berkut, an outfit supposedly set up in Ukraine by
supporters of the country's pro-Russian president, Viktor F. Yanukovych, who was
ousted in 2014.

After lying dormant for many months, Cyber Berkut jumped back into action this
summer just as multiple investigations in Washington into whether the Trump
campaign colluded with Moscow shifted into high gear. Cyber Berkut released
stolen emails that it and Russian state news media said had exposed the real
story: Hillary Clinton had colluded with Ukraine.


Correction: August 16, 2017, Wednesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article misstated how a type of malware known as P.A.S. was used
in Russian hacking efforts in the United States that included the electronic
break-in at the Democratic National Committee. The agencies identified the
malware as a tool used in Russian hacking, but they did not specify in which
attacks it was used.

PHOTOS: The main thoroughfare in Kiev, the capital of Ukraine, which Russia has
used for years as a testing ground for politicized cyberoperations that later
cropped up in other countries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES); The headquarters in Moscow of the F.S.B., Russia's federal security
service, a successor to the K.G.B. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAVEL GOLOVKIN/ASSOCIATED
PRESS) (A8)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 16, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Charlottesville, ISIS and Us

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1129 words


AL UDEID, Qatar -- I've been on the road since the Charlottesville killing. I am
traveling around the Arab world and Afghanistan with the chief of the U.S. Air
Force, Gen. David Goldfein; his civilian boss, the Air Force secretary, Heather
Wilson; and their aides. We're currently at the giant Al Udeid Air Base, from
which America's entire ISIS-Syria-Iraq-Afghanistan air war is run.

With all the news from Charlottesville, I was feeling in the wrong place at the
wrong time. And then I looked around me here, and the connection with
Charlottesville became obvious. Just one glance at our traveling party and the
crews at this base and you realize immediately why we are the most powerful
country in the world.

It's not because we own F-22s. And it surely isn't that we embrace white
supremacy. It's because we embrace pluralism. It's because we can still make out
of many, one.

I am a pluralism supremacist.

How could I not be? I look around me and see our Air Force chief, who is of
Eastern European Jewish descent, reporting to a woman Air Force secretary, who
was among the early women graduates of the Air Force Academy and whose senior
aide is an African-American woman lieutenant colonel. The base commander here in
Qatar, overseeing the whole air war, is of Armenian descent, and his top deputy
is of Lebanese descent.

In the control center I'm introduced to the two Russian-speaking U.S. servicemen
who 10 to 12 times a day get on the local ''hotline'' with the Russian command
post in Syria to make sure Russian planes don't collide with ours. One of the
servicemen was born in Russia and the other left Kiev, Ukraine, just five years
ago, in part, he told me, because he dreamed of joining the U.S. Air Force:
''This is the country of opportunity.''

Then we get a briefing from the combat innovation team, which is designing a new
algorithm for dynamic targeting with colleagues in Silicon Valley. I ask their
commander about his last name -- Ito -- and he explains, ''My dad is from Cuba
and my mother is from Mexico.'' The intelligence briefing was delivered by
''Captain Yang.''

The very reason America is the supreme power in this region is that the U.S.
military can take all of those different people and make them into a fist. And
the very reason we are stuck in this region and can't get out is that so many of
the nation-states and people here are fighting only for their exclusivist dreams
of supremacy -- Shiite supremacy, Sunni supremacy, Alawite supremacy, Taliban
supremacy, Turkish supremacy and Persian supremacy.

With a few exceptions, they can't generate self-sustaining power-sharing. Which
is why we keep defeating the worst of them and they keep losing the peace,
because the best of them can never share power long enough and deep enough to
build lasting stability.

None of the U.S. military people here talk U.S. politics. But I do. As a
citizen, I say they deserve a commander in chief who does not need three tries
to grudgingly denounce violent white supremacists. Pluralism is our true source
of strength at home and abroad. It has to be nurtured, celebrated and protected
from its enemies everywhere and always.

Now that I got that off my chest, let's talk strategy. We toured the command
center here with its wall-size screens that take the data from satellites,
drones, manned aircraft, cyber, sensors, human intelligence and aerial refueling
tankers and meld them into a series of strategic targeting decisions. Watching
the choreography of all this is both chilling and mesmerizing.

We are moving ''from wars of attrition to wars of cognition,'' explained General
Goldfein. These new integrated systems are simultaneously ''state of the art,
unparalleled -- and too slow for the future.''

On one recent day you could look up at those screens and find a Syrian fighter
jet preparing to drop bombs near U.S. special forces in Syria. The Syrian jet is
about to be blown out of the sky by a U.S. fighter jet, while two Russian
fighters watch from a higher altitude and a stealth U.S. F-22 watches the
Russians watching the U.S. plane watching the Syrian.

While that is all happening, the coastal Syrian surface-to-air system lights up
as Turkish, Jordanian and Israeli jets buzz in and out of theater. And almost
daily an Iranian-made drone being directed from the back of an R.V. by Iranian
Revolutionary Guards members in the desert of eastern Syria is hunting for U.S.
special forces. We've shot down a couple of those, too.

If you tried to sell this very real drama to a video game company, it would be
rejected as unrealistic.

Just one U.S. fighter jet over Syria -- and we have them in the air now 24/7 --
has to be aerially refueled eight or nine times during its eight-hour mission.
Add in Iraq and Afghanistan, and on any given day the Air Force is coordinating
as many as 60 KC-135 tankers (aerial gas stations) operating over these three
countries.

Meanwhile, ISIS is buying drones from online shopping sites, jury-rigging them
with GoPro cameras and grenades and dropping them on U.S. and Iraqi troops, or
it's armor-plating S.U.V.s, loading them with explosives and a suicide bomber
and turning them into Mad Max vehicles driven right into our troops or our
allies.

The good news? ISIS, having been largely defeated in Iraq, will most likely be
defeated in Syria, too, by Americans, Kurds, Russians, Syrians, Iranians and
pro-Iranian militias. The bad news? There is a good chance that ISIS' territory
will ultimately fall under Iran's sway.

Preventing that would require the Arab-Sunni Muslim world to get its act
together, but it is as weak and divided as ever. That's why Iran now indirectly
controls four Arab capitals: Beirut, Baghdad, Sana and Damascus. And what is
really scary is that it controls them at a pretty cheap price through proxies.
We can defeat ISIS extremism, with our pluralistic fighting machine, but the one
thing we can't do is create Sunni-Shiite pluralism and power-sharing to replace
it. Which is why we keep getting dragged back -- not to make things better but,
as always, to prevent the bad from becoming the awful.

I wanted it to be otherwise, but it's not. We tried. So, do we just keep trying?
You can't visit one of these huge U.S. bases built since 9/11, see the
dedication of the young men and women, and the sophistication of the systems
they have built, and not wonder: What if all of this talent and energy and
idealism and pluralism were applied not to propping up a decrepit Arab state
system against Iran, but instead fixing the worst neighborhoods of Baltimore,
Chicago and Detroit?

We need to have a national discussion about this.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/16/opinion/charlottesville-isis-us-syria.html

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 17, 2017 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Code Writer in Ukraine Could Blow Whistle on Russian Hacking

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER and ANDREW HIGGINS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2273 words


KIEV, Ukraine -- The hacker, known only by his online alias ''Profexer,'' kept a
low profile. He wrote computer code alone in an apartment and quietly sold his
handiwork on the anonymous portion of the internet known as the dark web. Last
winter, he suddenly went dark entirely.

Profexer's posts, already accessible only to a small band of fellow hackers and
cybercriminals looking for software tips, blinked out in January -- just days
after American intelligence agencies publicly identified a program he had
written as one tool used in Russian hacking in the United States. American
intelligence agencies have determined Russian hackers were behind the electronic
break-in of the Democratic National Committee.

But while Profexer's online persona vanished, a flesh-and-blood person has
emerged: a fearful man who the Ukrainian police said turned himself in early
this year, and has now become a witness for the F.B.I.

''I don't know what will happen,'' he wrote in one of his last messages posted
on a restricted-access website before going to the police. ''It won't be
pleasant. But I'm still alive.''

It is the first known instance of a living witness emerging from the arid mass
of technical detail that has so far shaped the investigation into the election
hacking and the heated debate it has stirred. The Ukrainian police declined to
divulge the man's name or other details, other than that he is living in Ukraine
and has not been arrested.

There is no evidence that Profexer worked, at least knowingly, for Russia's
intelligence services, but his malware apparently did.

That a hacking operation that Washington is convinced was orchestrated by Moscow
would obtain malware from a source in Ukraine -- perhaps the Kremlin's most
bitter enemy -- sheds considerable light on the Russian security services' modus
operandi in what Western intelligence agencies say is their clandestine cyberwar
against the United States and Europe.

It does not suggest a compact team of government employees who write all their
own code and carry out attacks during office hours in Moscow or St. Petersburg,
but rather a far looser enterprise that draws on talent and hacking tools
wherever they can be found.

Also emerging from Ukraine is a sharper picture of what the United States
believes is a Russian government hacking group known as Advanced Persistent
Threat 28 or Fancy Bear. It is this group, which American intelligence agencies
believe is operated by Russian military intelligence, that has been blamed,
along with a second Russian outfit known as Cozy Bear, for the D.N.C. intrusion.

Rather than training, arming and deploying hackers to carry out a specific
mission like just another military unit, Fancy Bear and its twin Cozy Bear have
operated more as centers for organization and financing; much of the hard work
like coding is outsourced to private and often crime-tainted vendors.

Russia's Testing Ground

In more than a decade of tracking suspected Russian-directed cyberattacks
against a host of targets in the West and in former Soviet territories -- NATO,
electrical grids, research groups, journalists critical of Russia and political
parties, to name a few -- security services around the world have identified
only a handful of people who are directly involved in either carrying out such
attacks or providing the cyberweapons that were used.

This absence of reliable witnesses has left ample room for President Trump and
others to raise doubts about whether Russia really was involved in the D.N.C.
hack.

''There is not now and never has been a single piece of technical evidence
produced that connects the malware used in the D.N.C. attack to the G.R.U.,
F.S.B. or any agency of the Russian government,'' said Jeffrey Carr, the author
of a book on cyberwarfare. The G.R.U. is Russia's military intelligence agency,
and the F.S.B. its federal security service.

United States intelligence agencies, however, have been unequivocal in pointing
a finger at Russia.

Seeking a path out of this fog, cybersecurity researchers and Western law
enforcement officers have turned to Ukraine, a country that Russia has used for
years as a laboratory for a range of politicized operations that later cropped
up elsewhere, including electoral hacking in the United States.

In several instances, certain types of computer intrusions, like the use of
malware to knock out crucial infrastructure or to pilfer email messages later
released to tilt public opinion, occurred in Ukraine first. Only later were the
same techniques used in Western Europe and the United States.

So, not surprisingly, those studying cyberwar in Ukraine are now turning up
clues in the investigation of the D.N.C. break-in and related hacking, including
the discovery of a rare witness.

Security experts were initially left scratching their heads when the Department
of Homeland Security on Dec. 29 released technical evidence of Russian hacking
that seemed to point not to Russia, but rather to Ukraine.

In this initial report, the department released only one sample of malware said
to be an indicator of Russian state-sponsored hacking, though outside experts
said a variety of malicious programs were used in Russian electoral hacking.

The sample pointed to a malware program, called the P.A.S. web shell, a hacking
tool advertised on Russian-language dark web forums and used by cybercriminals
throughout the former Soviet Union. The author, Profexer, is a well-regarded
technical expert among hackers, spoken about with awe and respect in Kiev.

He had made it available to download, free, from a website that asked only for
donations, ranging from $3 to $250. The real money was made by selling
customized versions and by guiding his hacker clients in its effective use. It
remains unclear how extensively he interacted with the Russian hacking team.

After the Department of Homeland Security identified his creation, he quickly
shut down his website and posted on a closed forum for hackers, called Exploit,
that ''I'm not interested in excessive attention to me personally.''

Soon, a hint of panic appeared, and he posted a note saying that, six days on,
he was still alive.

Another hacker, with the nickname Zloi Santa, or Bad Santa, suggested the
Americans would certainly find him, and place him under arrest, perhaps during a
layover at an airport.

''It could be, or it could not be, it depends only on politics,'' Profexer
responded. ''If U.S. law enforcement wants to take me down, they will not wait
for me in some country's airport. Relations between our countries are so tight I
would be arrested in my kitchen, at the first request.''

In fact, Serhiy Demediuk, chief of the Ukrainian Cyber Police, said in an
interview that Profexer went to the authorities himself. As the cooperation
began, Profexer went dark on hacker forums. He last posted online on Jan. 9. Mr.
Demediuk said he had made the witness available to the F.B.I., which has posted
a full-time cybersecurity expert in Kiev as one of four bureau agents stationed
at the United States Embassy there. The F.B.I. declined to comment.

Profexer was not arrested because his activities fell in a legal gray zone, as
an author but not a user of malware, the Ukrainian police say. But he did know
the users, at least by their online handles. ''He told us he didn't create it to
be used in the way it was,'' Mr. Demediuk said.

A member of Ukraine's Parliament with close ties to the security services, Anton
Gerashchenko, said that the interaction was online or by phone and that the
Ukrainian programmer had been paid to write customized malware without knowing
its purpose, only later learning it was used in Russian hacking.

Mr. Gerashchenko described the author only in broad strokes, to protect his
safety, as a young man from a provincial Ukrainian city. He confirmed that the
author turned himself in to the police and was cooperating as a witness in the
D.N.C. investigation. ''He was a freelancer and now he is a valuable witness,''
Mr. Gerashchenko said.

It is not clear whether the specific malware the programmer created was used to
hack the D.N.C. servers, but it was identified in other Russian hacking efforts
in the United States.

A Bear's Lair

While it is not known what Profexer has told Ukrainian investigators and the
F.B.I. about Russia's hacking efforts, evidence emanating from Ukraine has again
provided some of the clearest pictures yet about Fancy Bear, or Advanced
Persistent Threat 28, which is run by the G.R.U.

Fancy Bear has been identified mostly by what it does, not by who does it. One
of its recurring features has been the theft of emails and its close
collaboration with the Russian state news media.

Tracking the bear to its lair, however, has so far proved impossible, not least
because many experts believe that no such single place exists.

Even for a sophisticated tech company like Microsoft, singling out individuals
in the digital miasma has proved just about impossible. To curtail the damage to
clients' operating systems, the company filed a complaint against Fancy Bear
last year with the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Virginia but found itself boxing with shadows.

As Microsoft lawyers reported to the court, ''because defendants used fake
contact information, anonymous Bitcoin and prepaid credit cards and false
identities, and sophisticated technical means to conceal their identities, when
setting up and using the relevant internet domains, defendants' true identities
remain unknown.''

Nevertheless, Ukrainian officials, though wary of upsetting the Trump
administration, have been quietly cooperating with American investigators to try
to figure out who stands behind all the disguises.

Included in this sharing of information were copies of the server hard drives of
Ukraine's Central Election Commission, which were targeted during a presidential
election in May 2014. That the F.B.I. had obtained evidence of this earlier,
Russian-linked electoral hack has not been previously reported.

Traces of the same malicious code, this time a program called Sofacy, were seen
in the 2014 attack in Ukraine and later in the D.N.C. intrusion in the United
States.

Intriguingly, in the cyberattack during the Ukrainian election, what appears to
have been a bungle by Channel 1, a Russian state television station,
inadvertently implicated the government authorities in Moscow.

Hackers had loaded onto a Ukrainian election commission server a graphic
mimicking the page for displaying results. This phony page showed a shocker of
an outcome: an election win for a fiercely anti-Russian, ultraright candidate,
Dmytro Yarosh. Mr. Yarosh in reality received less than 1 percent of the vote.

The false result would have played into a Russian propaganda narrative that
Ukraine today is ruled by hard-right, even fascist, figures.

The fake image was programmed to display when polls closed, at 8 p.m., but a
Ukrainian cybersecurity company, InfoSafe, discovered it just minutes earlier
and unplugged the server.

State television in Russia nevertheless reported that Mr. Yarosh had won and
broadcast the fake graphic, citing the election commission's website, even
though the image had never appeared there. The hacker had clearly provided
Channel 1 with the same image in advance, but the reporters had failed to check
that the hack actually worked.

''For me, this is an obvious link between the hackers and Russian officials,''
said Victor Zhora, director of InfoSafe, the cybersecurity company that first
found the fake graphic.

A Ukrainian government researcher who studied the hack, Nikolai Koval, published
his findings in a 2015 book, ''Cyberwar in Perspective,'' and identified the
Sofacy malware on the server.

The mirror of the hard drive went to the F.B.I., which had this forensic sample
when the cybersecurity company CrowdStrike identified the same malware two years
later, on the D.N.C. servers.

''It was the first strike,'' Mr. Zhora said of the earlier hack of Ukraine's
electoral computers. Ukraine's Cyber Police have also provided the F.B.I. with
copies of server hard drives showing the possible origins of some phishing
emails targeting the Democratic Party during the election.

In 2016, two years after the election hack in Ukraine, hackers using some of the
same techniques plundered the email system of the World Anti-Doping Agency, or
WADA, which had accused Russian athletes of systematic drug use.

That raid, too, seems to have been closely coordinated with Russian state
television, which began airing well-prepared reports about WADA's hacked emails
just minutes after they were made public. The emails appeared on a website that
announced that WADA had been hacked by a group calling itself the ''Fancy Bears'
Hack Team.''

It was the first time Fancy Bear had broken cover.

Fancy Bear remains extraordinarily elusive, however. To throw investigators off
its scent, the group has undergone various makeovers, restocking its arsenal of
malware and sometimes hiding under different guises. One of its alter egos,
cyberexperts believe, is Cyber Berkut, an outfit supposedly set up in Ukraine by
supporters of the country's pro-Russian president, Viktor F. Yanukovych, who was
ousted in 2014.

After lying dormant for many months, Cyber Berkut jumped back into action this
summer just as multiple investigations in Washington into whether the Trump
campaign colluded with Moscow shifted into high gear. Cyber Berkut released
stolen emails that it and Russian state news media said had exposed the real
story: Hillary Clinton had colluded with Ukraine.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/16/world/europe/russia-ukraine-malware-hacking-w
itness.html

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The main thoroughfare in Kiev, the capital of Ukraine, which
Russia has used for years as a testing ground for politicized cyberoperations
that later cropped up in other countries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)
 The headquarters in Moscow of the F.S.B., Russia's federal security service, a
successor to the K.G.B. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAVEL GOLOVKIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        August 20, 2017 Sunday 00:00 EST

Talk of 'Preventive War' Rises in White House Over North Korea;
News Analysis

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1617 words



HIGHLIGHT: In a departure from their predecessors, some in the Trump
administration have surmised that Cold War-style containment will not work and
that a military option is available.


Not since 2002, as the United States built a case for war in Iraq, has there
been so much debate inside the White House about the merits -- and the enormous
risks -- of pre-emptive military action against an adversary nation.

Like its predecessors, the Trump administration is trying to pressure North
Korea through sanctions to dismantle its nuclear program. But both President
Trump and his national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, have talked
openly about a last-resort option if diplomacy fails and the nuclear threat
mounts: what General McMaster describes as "preventive war."

Though the Pentagon has prepared options to pre-emptively strike North Korea's
nuclear and missile sites for more than a decade and the past four presidents
declared that "all options are on the table," the rote phrase barely seemed
credible, given the potential for a North Korean counterstrike against Seoul,
South Korea, that could result in tremendous casualties in a metropolitan area
of 25 million people.

But as the Trump administration moves ahead on Monday with a new round of
long-planned military exercises that involve tens of thousands of American and
South Korean troops, computer simulations of escalating conflict and perhaps
overflights of nuclear-capable aircraft, the White House is determined to leave
the impression the military option is real.

"Are we preparing plans for a preventive war?" General McMaster asked recently
in a television interview, defining the term as "a war that would prevent North
Korea from threatening the United States with a nuclear weapon."

He answered his own question: "The president's been very clear about it. He said
he's not going to tolerate North Korea being able to threaten the United
States."

Much of this could be posturing, designed to convince the North's unpredictable
dictator, Kim Jong-un, and Chinese leaders who are eager to preserve the status
quo, that they are dealing with a different American president who is determined
to "solve" the North Korean problem, as Mr. Trump puts it, rather than hope that
sanctions will eventually take their toll.

But even if Mr. Trump has no real intention of using military force, convincing
adversaries and allies that he is willing to make a move that Bill Clinton,
George W. Bush and Barack Obama all considered too dangerous has significant
value.

Whether Mr. Trump is truly prepared or bluffing, presidential advisers, military
officials and experts whom the White House has consulted leave little doubt in
conversations that the Trump administration is confronting North Korea's nuclear
program with a different set of assumptions than its three immediate
predecessors.

There are two notable departures from past assumptions.

General McMaster, a military historian, insists that the United States cannot
count on containing or deterring North Korea the way it deterred the Soviet
Union and China during the Cold War. That runs contrary to the conclusion of
past senior policy makers that what worked against large nuclear powers will
suffice against an economically broken nation with a modest arsenal.

And General McMaster and other administration officials have challenged the
long-held view that there is no real military solution to the North Korea
problem -- though they are quick to acknowledge that it would be "horrible," as
Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis put it.

Already those two new assumptions have prompted a sharp reaction. President Moon
Jae-in of South Korea, in an effort to calm his own public, insisted at a news
conference last week that he holds a veto to any military action.

"No matter what options the United States and President Trump want to use, they
have promised to have full consultation with South Korea and get our consent in
advance," he said. "The people can be assured that there will be no war."

The North has also seized upon General McMaster's line and declared on Sunday
that as the military exercises begin, "the Korean People's Army is keeping a
high alert" and "will take resolute steps the moment even a slight sign of the
preventive war is spotted."

Mr. Trump's top national security officials seem to be trying to walk a fine
line, stopping short of the kind of bald threats that the president has issued
in tweets but making clear he is ready to wield a big stick.

"Knowing that North Korea sits with a significant capability already within
their grasp, I think it is only prudent that they fully understand the
consequences should they make a bad choice for themselves," Secretary of State
Rex W. Tillerson told reporters on Thursday after meeting with the Japanese
foreign and defense ministers in Washington.

He never specified the "bad choice." But as George F. Kennan, the diplomat and
the author of the theories for containing the Soviet Union, told students at the
National War College in 1946, "You have no idea how much it contributes to the
general politeness and pleasantness of diplomacy when you have a little quiet
armed force in the background." Mr. Tillerson seems to be adhering to that
advice.

At the same news conference, Mr. Mattis described a situation in which the
United States would act without seeking agreement from the South. If American
forces in the Pacific detected a missile launch by North Korea toward American
or allied soil, "we would take immediate, specific actions to take it down," he
said.

Mr. Mattis's assertion left open the question of whether the United States
would, through direct attack or cybersabotage, try to destroy North
Korea'smissiles before they left the launchpad. That, in turn, could trigger a
bigger operation -- a plan called Kill-Chain that wasnamed in a recent joint
statement from the United States and South Korea -- to systematically wipe out
North Korea's launch sites, nuclear facilities and command and control centers.

Its own authors have doubts about whether Kill-Chain could be executed swiftly
enough to work, but the decision to publicly refer to it was deliberate, senior
officials say. While the plan itself is classified, its goal is a systematic
elimination of the North's ability to threaten South Korea, Japan and the United
States.

Among the skeptics of a pre-emptive strike was Stephen K. Bannon, Mr. Trump's
chief strategist, who was fired on Friday. Just days before, he had declared in
an interview with The American Prospect, a liberal magazine, that "there is no
military solution here, they got us."

That is the conventional view. But General McMaster took issue with his
predecessor in the Obama administration, Susan E. Rice, who argued in a recent
Op-Ed in The New York Times that preventive war would be "lunacy." (Preventive
war describes a conflict that a stronger power starts to defeat a weaker rival
and is widely considered illegal under international legal conventions. A
pre-emptive strike involves attacking first when an imminent attack is detected.
In American history, the debate over the two goes back 180 years, to an 1837
dust-up with Canada.)

"History shows that we can, if we must, tolerate nuclear weapons in North Korea
-- the same way we tolerated the far greater threat of thousands of Soviet
nuclear weapons during the Cold War," she wrote.

General McMaster, appearing on ABC's "This Week" a few days later, shot back,
"How does that apply to a regime like the regime in North Korea?"

Mr. Kim is more unpredictable than the Soviet Union was, aides to Mr. Trump have
argued. And they have raised the possibility that Mr. Kim's real motive is
blackmail, according to officials familiar with Situation Room discussions about
the North. By threatening Los Angeles or Chicago, they argued, he may be hoping
to intimidate the United States into providing aid, or cast doubt in South Korea
and Japan that the United States would come to their aid if a regional war broke
out.

White House and Pentagon strategists have internally talked about another
scenario, in which an uprising in North Korea leads American, South Korean and
Chinese forces into a scramble to find the weapons, or tempts a rogue North
Korean military officer to let loose a single nuclear device to take out
Americans or their allies in one last blast of retribution.

All these factors, American officials insist, lie behind the public talk about
taking military action. And they expect diplomacy to fail, they say, doubting
that Mr. Kim would ever give up the nuclear deterrent that he views as his only
insurance policy. Pyongyang's official newspaper declared anew on Friday that
the country "will never put the nuclear deterrent for self-defense on the
negotiating table and flinch even an inch from the road of bolstering up the
state nuclear force."

That leaves Mr. Trump facing the potential consequence of his own threats. If he
lets Mr. Tillerson try to negotiate a freeze of nuclear and missile tests in
North Korea, as many experts argue he should, he will have delayed the crisis,
but not resolved it. If he orders more cyber and electronic attacks, he may
delay progress on weapons, but little else. And yet the military options he has
so openly threatened may prove hollow.

"There is no such thing as a surgical strike against North Korea," Bruce
Bennett, a North Korea expert at the RAND Corporation, said in one of its recent
publications. "We don't really know for sure where all their weapons are.''

PHOTO: Andersen Air Force Base in Guam. North Korea has threatened to conduct a
missile strike against the American territory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN
SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)

Related Articles


     ·    North Korea's Missile Success Is Linked to Ukrainian Plant,
          Investigators Say
     ·    Trump Threats Are Wild Card in Showdown With North Korea
     ·    Intelligence Agencies Say North Korean Missile Could Reach U.S. in a
          Year


LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        August 21, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

Ohio Judge Returns Fire After He Is Ambushed on Way to Court

BYLINE: CHRISTINE HAUSER and CHRISTINA CARON

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 679 words



HIGHLIGHT: The judge was injured and airlifted to a Pittsburgh hospital where he
had surgery and was expected to survive.


A judge in Ohio who was shot and injured in an ambush-style attack outside a
courthouse early on Monday managed to return fire with his own handgun before
the suspect was shot dead by a probation officer nearby, officials said.

"This was ambush or attempted murder on our judge," Sheriff Fred J. Abdalla said
in an emotional interview with reporters that was broadcast on television.

The shooting took place just after 8 a.m. at the Jefferson County Courthouse in
Steubenville when Judge Joseph J. Bruzzese Jr. was walking toward the building,
the city manager, James Mavromatis, told a news conference.

Two suspects were waiting for the judge in a car at a bank parking lot, he said.
One of the men got out the car and opened fire, hitting the judge, Mr.
Mavromatis said in the news conference, which was broadcast live on WTOV.

The judge returned fire, and a probation officer nearby also opened fire at the
attacker, killing him, Mr. Mavromatis said. The probation officer "probably
saved the judge's life," a prosecutor, Jane Hanlin, said at a news conference on
Monday afternoon.

The authorities identified the attacker as Nathaniel Richmond. The other
suspect, who has not been identified, was taken into custody.

According to court records, Mr. Richmond was a plaintiff in a wrongful-death
lawsuit that Judge Bruzzese was overseeing. The lawsuit, filed in April,
involved the death of Mr. Richmond's mother in a house fire in Steubenville in
2015.

He was also the father of a former high school football player, Ma'lik Richmond,
who was convicted of rape in a high-profile trial in 2013. But Ms. Hanlin told
reporters that the shooting was not connected to that case.

"It just hurts," Sheriff Abdalla said. "First thing on a Monday morning -- you
have a judge shot in front of his courthouse. And that affected me."

The judge was airlifted to a hospital in Pittsburgh in stable condition. He
underwent surgery and was expected to survive.

"Apparently it was a basic ambush on our judge," Mr. Mavromatis said. "The judge
does return fire," he said. "We have three weapons that may have been involved
here."

He added that the motive was not immediately clear, but that officials believed
the judge to be the intended target. Mr. Mavromatis said that security camera
footage extracted from courthouse cameras shows the gunman directly approaching
the judge.

Both suspects have criminal records with prison time, but Mr. Mavromatis did not
immediately have details about those records.

Representative Bill Johnson, a Republican representing Ohio's Sixth District,
said in a statement that he was "very saddened" to hear about the shooting, and
that he had worked with Judge Bruzzese on housing issues. "I know he is
committed to the people he serves," he said.

"Public service shouldn't be a dangerous occupation, but it all too often is,"
he added.

The Steubenville Police Department requested an inquiry by the Ohio Bureau of
Criminal Investigation, with its special investigations, crime scene and cyber
units.

Judge Bruzzese, 65, was a county court judge from 1980 to 1996, when he was
elected as a judge to the Court of Common Pleas, according to the Jefferson
County Board of Elections. He has been re-elected every six years since then,
the board of elections said.

The Court of Common Pleas hears more serious cases than municipal courts,
including the bulk of felony and major civil litigation in the county.

It was not immediately clear if the shooting was directly related to any of the
cases he has heard.

Steubenville, a city of more than 18,000 people, is about 40 miles west of
Pittsburgh, across the Ohio River.

The city was thrown into the spotlight during the trial in 2013, when two high
school football stars, including Ma'lik Richmond, were found guilty of raping a
16-year-old girl. The case drew national attention for the way social media
spurred the initial prosecution and later helped galvanize national outrage.

Maggie Astor contributed reporting, and Doris Burke contributed research.

Related Articles


     ·    Ohio Teenagers Guilty in Rape That Social Media Brought to Light


LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 21, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

To 'Solve' North Korea Issue, White House Mulls Military Option

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1512 words


Not since 2002, as the United States built a case for war in Iraq, has there
been so much debate inside the White House about the merits -- and the enormous
risks -- of pre-emptive military action against an adversary nation.

Like its predecessors, the Trump administration is trying to pressure North
Korea through sanctions to dismantle its nuclear program. But both President
Trump and his national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, have talked
openly about a last-resort option if diplomacy fails and the nuclear threat
mounts: what General McMaster describes as ''preventive war.''

Though the Pentagon has prepared options to pre-emptively strike North Korea's
nuclear and missile sites for more than a decade and the past four presidents
declared that ''all options are on the table,'' the rote phrase barely seemed
credible, given the potential for a North Korean counterstrike against Seoul,
South Korea, that could result in tremendous casualties in a metropolitan area
of 25 million people.

But as the Trump administration moves ahead on Monday with a new round of
long-planned military exercises that involve tens of thousands of American and
South Korean troops, computer simulations of escalating conflict and perhaps
overflights of nuclear-capable aircraft, the White House is determined to leave
the impression the military option is real.

''Are we preparing plans for a preventive war?'' General McMaster asked recently
in a television interview, defining the term as ''a war that would prevent North
Korea from threatening the United States with a nuclear weapon.''

He answered his own question: ''The president's been very clear about it. He
said he's not going to tolerate North Korea being able to threaten the United
States.''

Much of this could be posturing, designed to convince the North's unpredictable
dictator, Kim Jong-un, and Chinese leaders who are eager to preserve the status
quo, that they are dealing with a different American president who is determined
to ''solve'' the North Korean problem, as Mr. Trump puts it, rather than hope
that sanctions will eventually take their toll.

But even if Mr. Trump has no real intention of using military force, convincing
adversaries and allies that he is willing to make a move that Bill Clinton,
George W. Bush and Barack Obama all considered too dangerous has significant
value.

Whether Mr. Trump is truly prepared or bluffing, presidential advisers, military
officials and experts whom the White House has consulted leave little doubt in
conversations that the Trump administration is confronting North Korea's nuclear
program with a different set of assumptions than its three immediate
predecessors.

There are two notable departures from past assumptions.

General McMaster, a military historian, insists that the United States cannot
count on containing or deterring North Korea the way it deterred the Soviet
Union and China during the Cold War. That runs contrary to the conclusion of
past senior policy makers that what worked against large nuclear powers will
suffice against an economically broken nation with a modest arsenal.

And General McMaster and other administration officials have challenged the
long-held view that there is no real military solution to the North Korea
problem -- though they are quick to acknowledge that it would be ''horrible,''
as Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis put it.

Already those two new assumptions have prompted a sharp reaction. President Moon
Jae-in of South Korea, in an effort to calm his own public, insisted at a news
conference last week that he holds a veto to any military action.

''No matter what options the United States and President Trump want to use, they
have promised to have full consultation with South Korea and get our consent in
advance,'' he said. ''The people can be assured that there will be no war.''

The North has also seized upon General McMaster's line and declared on Sunday
that as the military exercises begin, ''the Korean People's Army is keeping a
high alert'' and ''will take resolute steps the moment even a slight sign of the
preventive war is spotted.''

Mr. Trump's top national security officials seem to be trying to walk a fine
line, stopping short of the kind of bald threats that the president has issued
in tweets but making clear he is ready to wield a big stick.

''Knowing that North Korea sits with a significant capability already within
their grasp, I think it is only prudent that they fully understand the
consequences should they make a bad choice for themselves,'' Secretary of State
Rex W. Tillerson told reporters on Thursday after meeting with the Japanese
foreign and defense ministers in Washington.

He never specified the ''bad choice.'' But as George F. Kennan, the diplomat and
the author of the theories for containing the Soviet Union, told students at the
National War College in 1946, ''You have no idea how much it contributes to the
general politeness and pleasantness of diplomacy when you have a little quiet
armed force in the background.'' Mr. Tillerson seems to be adhering to that
advice.

At the same news conference, Mr. Mattis described a situation in which the
United States would act without seeking agreement from the South. If American
forces in the Pacific detected a missile launch by North Korea toward American
or allied soil, ''we would take immediate, specific actions to take it down,''
he said.

Mr. Mattis's assertion left open the question of whether the United States
would, through direct attack or cybersabotage, try to destroy North Korea's
missiles before they left the launchpad. That, in turn, could trigger a bigger
operation -- a plan called Kill-Chain that was named in a recent joint statement
from the United States and South Korea -- to systematically wipe out North
Korea's launch sites, nuclear facilities and command and control centers.

Its own authors have doubts about whether Kill-Chain could be executed swiftly
enough to work, but the decision to publicly refer to it was deliberate, senior
officials say. While the plan itself is classified, its goal is a systematic
elimination of the North's ability to threaten South Korea, Japan and the United
States.

Among the skeptics of a pre-emptive strike was Stephen K. Bannon, Mr. Trump's
chief strategist, who was fired on Friday. Just days before, he had declared in
an interview with The American Prospect, a liberal magazine, that ''there is no
military solution here, they got us.''

That is the conventional view. But General McMaster took issue with his
predecessor in the Obama administration, Susan E. Rice, who argued in a recent
Op-Ed in The New York Times that preventive war would be ''lunacy.''

''History shows that we can, if we must, tolerate nuclear weapons in North Korea
-- the same way we tolerated the far greater threat of thousands of Soviet
nuclear weapons during the Cold War,'' she wrote.

General McMaster, appearing on ABC's ''This Week'' a few days later, shot back,
''How does that apply to a regime like the regime in North Korea?''

Mr. Kim is more unpredictable than the Soviet Union was, aides to Mr. Trump have
argued. And they have raised the possibility that Mr. Kim's real motive is
blackmail, according to officials familiar with Situation Room discussions about
the North. By threatening Los Angeles or Chicago, they argued, he may be hoping
to intimidate the United States into providing aid, or cast doubt in South Korea
and Japan that the United States would come to their aid if a regional war broke
out.

White House and Pentagon strategists have internally talked about another
scenario, in which an uprising in North Korea leads American, South Korean and
Chinese forces into a scramble to find the weapons, or tempts a rogue North
Korean military officer to let loose a single nuclear device to take out
Americans or their allies in one last blast of retribution.

All these factors, American officials insist, lie behind the public talk about
taking military action. And they expect diplomacy to fail, they say, doubting
that Mr. Kim would ever give up the nuclear deterrent that he views as his only
insurance policy. Pyongyang's official newspaper declared anew on Friday that
the country ''will never put the nuclear deterrent for self-defense on the
negotiating table and flinch even an inch from the road of bolstering up the
state nuclear force.''

That leaves Mr. Trump facing the potential consequence of his own threats. If he
lets Mr. Tillerson try to negotiate a freeze of nuclear and missile tests in
North Korea, as many experts argue he should, he will have delayed the crisis,
but not resolved it. If he orders more cyber and electronic attacks, he may
delay progress on weapons, but little else. And yet the military options he has
so openly threatened may prove hollow.

''There is no such thing as a surgical strike against North Korea,'' Bruce
Bennett, a North Korea expert at the RAND Corporation, said in one of its recent
publications. ''We don't really know for sure where all their weapons are.''




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/20/world/asia/north-korea-war-trump.html

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andersen Air Force Base in Guam. North Korea has threatened to
conduct a missile strike against the American territory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN
SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 22, 2017 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Ohio Judge Returns Fire After He Is Ambushed on Way to Court

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER and CHRISTINA CARON; Maggie Astor contributed
reporting, and Doris Burke contributed research.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Express; Pg.

LENGTH: 663 words


A judge in Ohio who was shot and injured in an ambush-style attack outside a
courthouse early on Monday managed to return fire with his own handgun before
the suspect was shot dead by a probation officer nearby, officials said.

''This was ambush or attempted murder on our judge,'' Sheriff Fred J. Abdalla
said in an emotional interview with reporters that was broadcast on television.

The shooting took place just after 8 a.m. at the Jefferson County Courthouse in
Steubenville when Judge Joseph J. Bruzzese Jr. was walking toward the building,
the city manager, James Mavromatis, told a news conference.

Two suspects were waiting for the judge in a car at a bank parking lot, he said.
One of the men got out the car and opened fire, hitting the judge, Mr.
Mavromatis said in the news conference, which was broadcast live on WTOV.

The judge returned fire, and a probation officer nearby also opened fire at the
attacker, killing him, Mr. Mavromatis said. The probation officer ''probably
saved the judge's life,'' a prosecutor, Jane Hanlin, said at a news conference
on Monday afternoon.

The authorities identified the attacker as Nathaniel Richmond. The other
suspect, who has not been identified, was taken into custody.

According to court records, Mr. Richmond was a plaintiff in a wrongful-death
lawsuit that Judge Bruzzese was overseeing. The lawsuit, filed in April,
involved the death of Mr. Richmond's mother in a house fire in Steubenville in
2015.

He was also the father of a former high school football player, Ma'lik Richmond,
who was convicted of rape in a high-profile trial in 2013. But Ms. Hanlin told
reporters that the shooting was not connected to that case.

''It just hurts,'' Sheriff Abdalla said. ''First thing on a Monday morning --
you have a judge shot in front of his courthouse. And that affected me.''

The judge was airlifted to a hospital in Pittsburgh in stable condition. He
underwent surgery and was expected to survive.

''Apparently it was a basic ambush on our judge,'' Mr. Mavromatis said. ''The
judge does return fire,'' he said. ''We have three weapons that may have been
involved here.''

He added that the motive was not immediately clear, but that officials believed
the judge to be the intended target. Mr. Mavromatis said that security camera
footage extracted from courthouse cameras shows the gunman directly approaching
the judge.

Both suspects have criminal records with prison time, but Mr. Mavromatis did not
immediately have details about those records.

Representative Bill Johnson, a Republican representing Ohio's Sixth District,
said in a statement that he was ''very saddened'' to hear about the shooting,
and that he had worked with Judge Bruzzese on housing issues. ''I know he is
committed to the people he serves,'' he said.

''Public service shouldn't be a dangerous occupation, but it all too often is,''
he added.

The Steubenville Police Department requested an inquiry by the Ohio Bureau of
Criminal Investigation, with its special investigations, crime scene and cyber
units.

Judge Bruzzese, 65, was a county court judge from 1980 to 1996, when he was
elected as a judge to the Court of Common Pleas, according to the Jefferson
County Board of Elections. He has been re-elected every six years since then,
the board of elections said.

The Court of Common Pleas hears more serious cases than municipal courts,
including the bulk of felony and major civil litigation in the county.

It was not immediately clear if the shooting was directly related to any of the
cases he has heard.

Steubenville, a city of more than 18,000 people, is about 40 miles west of
Pittsburgh, across the Ohio River.

The city was thrown into the spotlight during the trial in 2013, when two high
school football stars, including Ma'lik Richmond, were found guilty of raping a
16-year-old girl. The case drew national attention for the way social media
spurred the initial prosecution and later helped galvanize national outrage.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/21/us/ohio-judge-gun-ambush.html

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      August 23, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

A Star-Spangled Revue Kicks Up Its Heels in the Badlands

BYLINE: LAURA COLLINS-HUGHES

SECTION: THEATER

LENGTH: 2009 words



HIGHLIGHT: Medora, N.D., population 132 -- except in summer when 100,000
tourists pour into town to see a musical celebration of Old West values.


MEDORA, N.D. -- For hundreds of miles out past Fargo, heading west on Interstate
94 through North Dakota, the terrain is gently sloping prairie. The sky is
enormous, with nothing to obstruct the view, so if a storm is coming there's
drama in the clouds bearing down. Sunflower fields pop up, vast and
Technicolor-yellow like an alternate vision of Oz, and every so often there's a
pump jack, bobbing for oil. But most of the scenery has a lulling sameness.

"Barely even a tree," said Roger Rettig, a British musician who has spent 13
summers in Medora, a tiny outpost near the Montana line. "Then suddenly in the
last -- what is it, 10 miles before you get to Medora? Suddenly you gasp. The
landscape totally changes, and you've got all that erosion and the buttes and
canyons. It's like you've jumped a thousand miles in a few yards and gone
somewhere entirely different."

It's a leap into the American West: the part of the country that feels like a
cowboy movie, a place of bison and wild horses, where you may actually see
antelope play. These are the Badlands, whose remote and moody geography seems a
spectacularly unlikely setting for a long-running stage show, let alone one that
attracts an average of nearly 1,200 people each night.

But such is the curious phenomenon of the Medora Musical, a spangled summertime
revue performed in an amphitheater carved into the side of a butte, with the
Badlands as its backdrop. Part country music jamboree, part variety show, it's a
wholesome cousin to the loosely scripted entertainment you find at theme parks,
a respite from the long lines to get on the thrill rides.

The musical is also a homage -- to the nature-loving 26th president, Theodore
Roosevelt, who ranched for a while nearby, and, obscurely, to the North Dakota
businessman who introduced Mr. Bubble, the bath soap, to the world.

In Medora, estimated population 132, the closest thing to a traffic jam is the
post-show line of cars that snake down the hillside from the parking lot, red
taillights aglow. The crowds have been coming since 1965, and when this season
wraps up on Sept. 9, the producers expect attendance for 2017 to have passed
116,000.

"I've probably played to a million and a half people up there," Mr. Rettig, the
pedal steel guitarist in the onstage band, said one recent morning. And yes, he
knows that's a crazy number for such an isolated place.

Off the Exit, Into the Past

It's the Interstate that makes it possible. There are a lot of bus tours, for
one thing. But many of the people who stop in Medora, an oasis nestled against
the rugged southern edge of Theodore Roosevelt National Park, are road-tripping
to or from other national parks farther west: Glacier or Yellowstone.

Off the freeway, down the winding road into town, there's some Old West history
waiting to be absorbed, and not only at the North Dakota Cowboy Hall of Fame.
Outside the Billings County Courthouse Museum, a photo from 1895 shows Medora's
"Hanging Tree" with multiple bodies dangling from its branches. It's a chilling
image even after you learn, from the accompanying text, that these are effigies
of jurors whose not-guilty verdict in a murder trial didn't go over well with
the locals.

The Medora Musical, predictably, presents a cheerier version of the past, though
it's maybe not the past that you'd expect. As a town, Medora is selling
immersion in a West that is part old-time fantasy (like the stagecoach rides you
can take near the Little Missouri River), part awe-inspiring natural
environment, part kitsch.

Kristi Reinke, 38, a middle school geography teacher from Minot, N.D., has
traveled more than three hours to Medora every summer of her life except the one
year she lived on the East Coast. Her parents honeymooned in Medora, and when
their family visits now it's a four-generation affair, always including the
musical.

Full-price admission to the show starts at about $16 for children, and adult
premium seats top out at $49.95, but Ms. Reinke snaps up discounted tickets in
the post-Thanksgiving Cyber Monday sale. Then she has all winter to look forward
to using them.

"For us it's just tradition," she said. "When I sit down there, I think of my
parents sitting there 47 years ago." And it is touching to her that her own
three children have come to love the same unpretentious getaway that she enjoyed
growing up. "They don't say, 'Let's go to Hawaii.' They say, 'When are we going
to Medora?'"

Spectacle, With Horses

When you glide down the set of outdoor escalators into the 2,850-seat Burning
Hills Amphitheater, where the set is a fresh-scrubbed mini Medora streetscape,
the first thing that's striking is the view. Beyond the stage, in the near
distance, is a bluff doing an excellent impression of a scaled-down Hollywood
hill. Here, though, the sign on it in big white letters spells MEDORA.

With fireworks and a six horses at the ready, the production itself is more
spectacle than theater -- though the dry summer and consequent burn ban have
meant fewer pyrotechnics than usual. Backed up by the dozen-strong Burning Hills
Singers, the crooning host is a 32-year-old from suburban Minneapolis named Chet
Wollan, who goes by Cowboy Chet in the show.

His co-host is Bill Sorensen, a former mayor of Bismarck who specializes in
genially hokey humor, the kind designed to make the children in the audience
laugh, too. The production's theme this year is heroes, who are mentioned early
and often; Cowboy Chet's first song is "My Heroes Have Always Been Cowboys."

What's startling about the revue is how uncannily it feels like 1970s broadcast
television, the sort of variety show where you might see the Osmonds or Bob Hope
-- only here you're side by side with families snuggled under blankets against
the chill, some with tubs of popcorn in their laps.

"It goes along the old 'Hee Haw' T.V. show principle," said Mr. Rettig, who at
74 is making this his last summer in Medora, where the insidious dust from the
hills seeps so deep into his guitar that at season's end, on his way home to
Florida, he takes it to Nashville for cleaning. "When I saw a clip of 'Hee Haw'
back in England, I thought, I can't believe they watch this stuff. I mean, it's
so corny it's just beyond corny. But, you know, it tickles something, and the
thing ran and ran. And so does the Medora Musical."

The national anthem is part of the revue's first half, with the audience
standing to face a flag. The surprise, when I looked around, was how few people
were joining in the song. Most of what we heard was the cast, their voices as
heavily miked as they are in the rest of the show: a necessity given the wind,
which makes sound a different challenge every night.

The horses in the Medora Musical make their appearance early on, in a vignette
depicting Roosevelt's charge at the Battle of San Juan Hill. But the
production's one truly jaw-dropping moment comes later when a horse and rider
climb the bluff beyond the stage in the dusk and are lit atop it against an
evening sky. It's an extraordinarily dramatic use of landscape -- and the kind
of visual that makes you wonder what potential the show could have if seriously
deep-pocketed producers ever took the reins. But then it might not be the Medora
Musical anymore.

Staying the Same, Differently

In the welcome center off the parking lot, alongside the souvenirs (the most
adorable, hands down, being the Official Badlands Teddy Bear, with fringed
jacket and pince-nez), is an endearingly homely model of the amphitheater the
way it used to be, before reconstruction in the early 1990s. "It was dirt paths
with benches that were not level," recalled Mr. Wollan, who grew up going to
Medora in the summertime.

Begun by Harold Schafer, the founder of the Gold Seal Company (thus the Mr.
Bubble connection), the Medora Musical was always intended to attract tourists.
But Curt Wollan, Chet Wollan's father and the musical's longtime director and
executive producer, said that 60 percent of the audience comes from the region:
North Dakota, eastern Montana, northern South Dakota, southern Canada. Or as he
put it from Minnesota, where he lives: "Cowboy country."

Many spectators come year after year, so the show is different each summer: new
songs, new routines. As of last year, there is also one night off a month for
the performers -- a big increase from zero. And this year they are living not in
an old motel 15 miles away, as they did for decades, but in a little cabin
compound in the campground below the theater.

Yet the musical doesn't dare change too much. In keeping with the wishes of
Schafer, who died in 2001, there is always a patriotic section, always some
gospel music, always a part where the children in the crowd clamber up onstage.
A guest act (on the night I was there, a team of acrobats) is an integral part
of the mix. There is always the charge at San Juan Hill.

Mr. Rettig, a liberal who chooses his words carefully in conservative North
Dakota, believes that escapism is essential to the show's appeal. "I don't
necessarily disapprove of that: the fact that people want to see something that
could be a time capsule from 30 years ago," he said. "Because they liked their
life a little better then."

Still, he said, there was the summer that his friend Mr. Sorensen did a magic
trick -- "something that looked a bit Harry Potter-like" -- and an audience
member complained on religious grounds. "They took it out of the show in the
end."

Other touchy elements remain. Spectators have sometimes objected to the
gospel-music segment because other religions are not represented, Curt Wollan
said, while the patriotic bits are sensitive in a way they didn't used to be. He
means them simply to celebrate the nation.

"I think the left is as patriotic as the right," he said. "So I try to stay
apolitical; I don't want to get involved in that out there."

Reverence for God, country and family is solidly built into the production,
though, and that is apparently how the fans want it.

"They like what they like about this show," said the younger Mr. Wollan, who met
his wife -- Candice Lively Wollan, a Tennessee native and the Medora Musical's
female lead -- at Dollywood, Dolly Parton's theme park in Pigeon Forge, Tenn.,
in a production his father was directing.

Like "Phantom of the Opera," the Medora Musical has its die-hards, who come over
and over each season and bring cookies for the cast. Chet Wollan in particular
is instantly recognizable to fans, even on shopping trips to Dickinson, a city
of 23,000 about a half-hour away. "He said he got hugged three times at Walmart
the other day," Ms. Wollan said, and laughed. "We're almost famous to them,
which is so bizarre, because we're not anybody."

For Medora, though, the revue is hugely important -- and the Theodore Roosevelt
Medora Foundation, which presents it, is trying to build on its success by
bringing in more live performance: a solo show by a little-known Broadway
veteran, Jared Mason; a Roosevelt bio-play; a gospel brunch featuring singers
from the musical.

As Labor Day nears, audiences at the amphitheater grow, and Medora bustles. But
as soon as the musical closes, Ms. Wollan said, the place goes quiet.

"It's a weird, weird vibe the next day," she said. "Turns into a ghost town for
sure."

PHOTOS: Top, the Medora Musical, a summer show staged in an amphitheater set
against the backdrop of the North Dakota Badlands. Above, a scene from the show.
Above right, Candice Lively Wollan, one of the Burning Hills Singers. Right, Ken
Quiricone as Teddy Roosevelt. (AR6-AR7); Top, Roger Rettig, who has performed in
the show for 13 summers. Above, the cast during a performance. Far left,
audience members visit with the cast following the show. Left, Chet Wollan,
known as Cowboy Chet, tunes his guitar backstage. Below, the audience; some
1,200 people attend every night. Bottom, as the show ends, a rider on a horse
climbs to the top of the bluff behind the stage. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KRISTINA BARKER
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR7)

Related Articles


     ·    When Dinosaurs Roamed North Dakota
     ·    Dollywood: A Little Bit Country, a Little Bit Gay


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        August 25, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Making Kim Jong-un Sweat;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: ROGER COHEN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 905 words



HIGHLIGHT: It's time for some strategic impatience with North Korea, so long as
"strategic" means something.


In assessing the North Korean nuclear threat, it's worth pausing to consider
just how foolish the Trump administration's response to the Iranian nuclear deal
has been. Here's a country, Iran, that's been stopped in its tracks on the path
to a nuke, forced to dispose of all its highly enriched uranium, made to slash
its low-enriched uranium stockpile, persuaded to shut down most of its
centrifuges, and obliged to accept regular international supervision and
monitoring of its nuclear facilities.

Yet President Trump, who campaigned on the Iran accord being "the dumbest deal"
in history, continues to look for ways to undermine or rescind it, while his
secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, has called the agreement a "failed approach"
of the kind that produced the "current imminent threat that we face from North
Korea."

This is gibberish. Such utterances, combined with Trump's "locked and loaded"
Armageddon outbursts this summer directed at Kim Jong-un, the North Korean
leader, suggest the Trump administration is fundamentally unserious. No great
news there, of course; and more recent statements like Tillerson's plaintive
praise this week of North Korean "restraint" (before Kim's appearance on state
media visiting a missile-development factory and before North Korea fired
short-range missiles from its east coast on Friday) suggest a J.V. team up
against the ruthless Kim dynasty.

A freelancing president who's never read a dossier and a weak secretary of state
do not coherent policy make. No wonder Kim keeps cackling.

North Korea is the least funny threat faced by the United States. It committed
in 2005 "to abandoning all nuclear weapons and existing nuclear programs and
returning, at an early date, to the Treaty on the Nonproliferation of Nuclear
Weapons." That was a year before it detonated its first nuke. Four more
detonations followed during the Obama Administration, to be met with "strategic
patience," a.k.a. weakness disguised as strategy.

Kim's totalitarian regime is working furiously on the miniaturization and other
technological advances that would enable it to fire a nuclear-tipped
intercontinental ballistic missile at Los Angeles. To put that in perspective, a
33-year-old tyrant who specializes in macabre family executions would hold a gun
to America's head. Santa Monica would never feel quite the same.

Such an outcome is unacceptable. This must be the ground zero of American
policy, its red line. As Christopher Hill, a former ambassador to South Korea
and the dean of the Josef Korbel School of International Studies at the
University of Denver, put it to me: "We can't live with that country pointing
nukes at us."

The way to stop it is not to go all wobbly-kneed a la Tillerson this week. Nor
is it to brandish wild military threats a la Trump that could leave the millions
of South Koreans within North Korean artillery range seriously dead. It is to be
tough and coherent with all the elements of American power: military,
diplomatic, economic and covert.

Deploy more anti-ballistic missiles in South Korea, just as the Soviet decision
to deploy SS-20 missiles aimed at Western Europe in the late 1970's was met by
NATO's decision to deploy American Pershing II missiles. Step up joint military
exercises with South Korea (and do not offer to freeze them in exchange for
North Korea freezing tests).

Maintain the economic pressure increased this month through a unanimous United
Nations Security Council resolution that imposed sanctions on North Korea.

Enter deep-dive diplomacy with China to explore what political arrangements on
the Korean peninsula could work for Washington and Beijing: an all-smiles dinner
at Mar-a-Lago with President Xi Jinping followed by tweeted presidential jibes
at Beijing for not delivering on Pyongyang does not cut it. The United States
cannot accept Kim pointing a nuclear missile at California; China fears a united
Korea that would place American forces on its border. America detests Kim; China
dislikes him but sees his uses. So where in the real world is the middle ground?

The answer does not lie in Trump's art-of-the-deal games. It lies in diplomatic
seriousness.

The covert element -- cyber attacks, sabotage -- is the most delicate. It must
be calibrated to unsettle Kim but not push him into attacking South Korea (for
example), an outcome he fears because its end result would be the collapse of
his regime. The United States has leverage, but not when its policy is all over
the place. Kim's ultimate goal is his dynasty's survival. His calculus has to
involve the certain knowledge that there's a limit to what America will
tolerate.

On North Korea, it's time for some strategic impatience in Washington, so long
as "strategic" means something. Complete denuclearization is not going to happen
at this point. It's too late. But curtailment of Kim -- freezing or reversing
his nuclear program now before it becomes an intolerable threat -- is achievable
through the tough, stubborn diplomacy that stopped Iran short of a bomb. As
Jessica Mathews, a distinguished fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace, observed recently of the Iran deal in The New York Review
of Books: "'Failure' like this would be an unimaginable success in North Korea."

You can follow me on Twitter (@NYTimesCohen) or join me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 26, 2017 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Drawing the Line With Kim Jong-un

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 914 words


In assessing the North Korean nuclear threat, it's worth pausing to consider
just how foolish the Trump administration's response to the Iranian nuclear deal
has been. Here's a country, Iran, that's been stopped in its tracks on the path
to a nuke, forced to dispose of all its highly enriched uranium, made to slash
its low-enriched uranium stockpile, persuaded to shut down most of its
centrifuges, and obliged to accept regular international supervision and
monitoring of its nuclear facilities.

Yet President Trump, who campaigned on the Iran accord being ''the dumbest
deal'' in history, continues to look for ways to undermine or rescind it, while
his secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, has called the agreement a ''failed
approach'' of the kind that produced the ''current imminent threat that we face
from North Korea.''

This is gibberish. Such utterances, combined with Trump's ''locked and loaded''
Armageddon outbursts this summer directed at Kim Jong-un, the North Korean
leader, suggest the Trump administration is fundamentally unserious. No great
news there, of course; and more recent statements like Tillerson's plaintive
praise this week of North Korean ''restraint'' (before Kim's appearance on state
media visiting a missile-development factory and before North Korea fired
short-range missiles from its east coast on Friday) suggest a J.V. team up
against the ruthless Kim dynasty.

A freelancing president who's never read a dossier and a weak secretary of state
do not coherent policy make. No wonder Kim keeps cackling.

North Korea is the least funny threat faced by the United States. It committed
in 2005 ''to abandoning all nuclear weapons and existing nuclear programs and
returning, at an early date, to the Treaty on the Nonproliferation of Nuclear
Weapons.'' That was a year before it detonated its first nuke. Four more
detonations followed during the Obama Administration, to be met with ''strategic
patience,'' a.k.a. weakness disguised as strategy.

Kim's totalitarian regime is working furiously on the miniaturization and other
technological advances that would enable it to fire a nuclear-tipped
intercontinental ballistic missile at Los Angeles. To put that in perspective, a
33-year-old tyrant who specializes in macabre family executions would hold a gun
to America's head. Santa Monica would never feel quite the same.

Such an outcome is unacceptable. This must be the ground zero of American
policy, its red line. As Christopher Hill, a former ambassador to South Korea
and the dean of the Josef Korbel School of International Studies at the
University of Denver, put it to me: ''We can't live with that country pointing
nukes at us.''

The way to stop it is not to go all wobbly-kneed a la Tillerson this week. Nor
is it to brandish wild military threats a la Trump that could leave the millions
of South Koreans within North Korean artillery range seriously dead. It is to be
tough and coherent with all the elements of American power: military,
diplomatic, economic and covert.

Deploy more anti-ballistic missiles in South Korea, just as the Soviet decision
to deploy SS-20 missiles aimed at Western Europe in the late 1970's was met by
NATO's decision to deploy American Pershing II missiles. Step up joint military
exercises with South Korea (and do not offer to freeze them in exchange for
North Korea freezing tests).

Maintain the economic pressure increased this month through a unanimous United
Nations Security Council resolution that imposed sanctions on North Korea.

Enter deep-dive diplomacy with China to explore what political arrangements on
the Korean peninsula could work for Washington and Beijing: an all-smiles dinner
at Mar-a-Lago with President Xi Jinping followed by tweeted presidential jibes
at Beijing for not delivering on Pyongyang does not cut it. The United States
cannot accept Kim pointing a nuclear missile at California; China fears a united
Korea that would place American forces on its border. America detests Kim; China
dislikes him but sees his uses. So where in the real world is the middle ground?

The answer does not lie in Trump's art-of-the-deal games. It lies in diplomatic
seriousness.

The covert element -- cyber attacks, sabotage -- is the most delicate. It must
be calibrated to unsettle Kim but not push him into attacking South Korea (for
example), an outcome he fears because its end result would be the collapse of
his regime. The United States has leverage, but not when its policy is all over
the place. Kim's ultimate goal is his dynasty's survival. His calculus has to
involve the certain knowledge that there's a limit to what America will
tolerate.

On North Korea, it's time for some strategic impatience in Washington, so long
as ''strategic'' means something. Complete denuclearization is not going to
happen at this point. It's too late. But curtailment of Kim -- freezing or
reversing his nuclear program now before it becomes an intolerable threat -- is
achievable through the tough, stubborn diplomacy that stopped Iran short of a
bomb. As Jessica Mathews, a distinguished fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace, observed recently of the Iran deal in The New York Review
of Books: '''Failure' like this would be an unimaginable success in North
Korea.''

You can follow me on Twitter (@NYTimesCohen) or join me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/25/opinion/trump-kim-jong-un-north-korea.html

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 27, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

How a Ghost Town Comes Alive

BYLINE: By LAURA COLLINS-HUGHES

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1892 words


MEDORA, N.D. -- For hundreds of miles out past Fargo, heading west on Interstate
94 through North Dakota, the terrain is gently sloping prairie. The sky is
enormous, with nothing to obstruct the view, so if a storm is coming there's
drama in the clouds bearing down. Sunflower fields pop up, vast and
Technicolor-yellow like an alternate vision of Oz, and every so often there's a
pump jack, bobbing for oil. But most of the scenery has a lulling sameness.

''Barely even a tree,'' said Roger Rettig, a British musician who has spent 13
summers in Medora, a tiny outpost near the Montana line. ''Then suddenly in the
last -- what is it, 10 miles before you get to Medora? Suddenly you gasp. The
landscape totally changes, and you've got all that erosion and the buttes and
canyons. It's like you've jumped a thousand miles in a few yards and gone
somewhere entirely different.''

It's a leap into the American West: the part of the country that feels like a
cowboy movie, a place of bison and wild horses, where you may actually see
antelope play. These are the Badlands, whose remote and moody geography seems a
spectacularly unlikely setting for a long-running stage show, let alone one that
attracts an average of nearly 1,200 people each night.

But such is the curious phenomenon of the Medora Musical, a spangled summertime
revue performed in an amphitheater carved into the side of a butte, with the
Badlands as its backdrop. Part country music jamboree, part variety show, it's a
wholesome cousin to the loosely scripted entertainment you find at theme parks,
a respite from the long lines to get on the thrill rides.

The musical is also a homage -- to the nature-loving 26th president, Theodore
Roosevelt, who ranched for a while nearby, and, obscurely, to the North Dakota
businessman who introduced Mr. Bubble, the bath soap, to the world.

In Medora, estimated population 132, the closest thing to a traffic jam is the
post-show line of cars that snake down the hillside from the parking lot, red
taillights aglow. The crowds have been coming since 1965, and when this season
wraps up on Sept. 9, the producers expect attendance for 2017 to have passed
116,000.

''I've probably played to a million and a half people up there,'' Mr. Rettig,
the pedal steel guitarist in the onstage band, said one recent morning. And yes,
he knows that's a crazy number for such an isolated place.

Off the Exit, Into the Past

It's the Interstate that makes it possible. There are a lot of bus tours, for
one thing. But many of the people who stop in Medora, an oasis nestled against
the rugged southern edge of Theodore Roosevelt National Park, are road-tripping
to or from other national parks farther west: Glacier or Yellowstone.

Off the freeway, down the winding road into town, there's some Old West history
waiting to be absorbed, and not only at the North Dakota Cowboy Hall of Fame.
Outside the Billings County Courthouse Museum, a photo from 1895 shows Medora's
''Hanging Tree'' with multiple bodies dangling from its branches. It's a
chilling image even after you learn, from the accompanying text, that these are
effigies of jurors whose not-guilty verdict in a murder trial didn't go over
well with the locals.

The Medora Musical, predictably, presents a cheerier version of the past, though
it's maybe not the past that you'd expect. As a town, Medora is selling
immersion in a West that is part old-time fantasy (like the stagecoach rides you
can take near the Little Missouri River), part awe-inspiring natural
environment, part kitsch.

Kristi Reinke, 38, a middle school geography teacher from Minot, N.D., has
traveled more than three hours to Medora every summer of her life except the one
year she lived on the East Coast. Her parents honeymooned in Medora, and when
their family visits now it's a four-generation affair, always including the
musical.

Full-price admission to the show starts at about $16 for children, and adult
premium seats top out at $49.95, but Ms. Reinke snaps up discounted tickets in
the post-Thanksgiving Cyber Monday sale. Then she has all winter to look forward
to using them.

''For us it's just tradition,'' she said. ''When I sit down there, I think of my
parents sitting there 47 years ago.'' And it is touching to her that her own
three children have come to love the same unpretentious getaway that she enjoyed
growing up. ''They don't say, 'Let's go to Hawaii.' They say, 'When are we going
to Medora?'''

Spectacle, With Horses

When you glide down the set of outdoor escalators into the 2,850-seat Burning
Hills Amphitheater, where the set is a fresh-scrubbed mini Medora streetscape,
the first thing that's striking is the view. Beyond the stage, in the near
distance, is a bluff doing an excellent impression of a scaled-down Hollywood
hill. Here, though, the sign on it in big white letters spells MEDORA.

With fireworks and a six horses at the ready, the production itself is more
spectacle than theater -- though the dry summer and consequent burn ban have
meant fewer pyrotechnics than usual. Backed up by the dozen-strong Burning Hills
Singers, the crooning host is a 32-year-old from suburban Minneapolis named Chet
Wollan, who goes by Cowboy Chet in the show.

His co-host is Bill Sorensen, a former mayor of Bismarck who specializes in
genially hokey humor, the kind designed to make the children in the audience
laugh, too. The production's theme this year is heroes, who are mentioned early
and often; Cowboy Chet's first song is ''My Heroes Have Always Been Cowboys.''

What's startling about the revue is how uncannily it feels like 1970s broadcast
television, the sort of variety show where you might see the Osmonds or Bob Hope
-- only here you're side by side with families snuggled under blankets against
the chill, some with tubs of popcorn in their laps.

''It goes along the old 'Hee Haw' T.V. show principle,'' said Mr. Rettig, who at
74 is making this his last summer in Medora, where the insidious dust from the
hills seeps so deep into his guitar that at season's end, on his way home to
Florida, he takes it to Nashville for cleaning. ''When I saw a clip of 'Hee Haw'
back in England, I thought, I can't believe they watch this stuff. I mean, it's
so corny it's just beyond corny. But, you know, it tickles something, and the
thing ran and ran. And so does the Medora Musical.''

The national anthem is part of the revue's first half, with the audience
standing to face a flag. The surprise, when I looked around, was how few people
were joining in the song. Most of what we heard was the cast, their voices as
heavily miked as they are in the rest of the show: a necessity given the wind,
which makes sound a different challenge every night.

The horses in the Medora Musical make their appearance early on, in a vignette
depicting Roosevelt's charge at the Battle of San Juan Hill. But the
production's one truly jaw-dropping moment comes later when a horse and rider
climb the bluff beyond the stage in the dusk and are lit atop it against an
evening sky. It's an extraordinarily dramatic use of landscape -- and the kind
of visual that makes you wonder what potential the show could have if seriously
deep-pocketed producers ever took the reins. But then it might not be the Medora
Musical anymore.

Staying the Same, Differently

In the welcome center off the parking lot, alongside the souvenirs (the most
adorable, hands down, being the Official Badlands Teddy Bear, with fringed
jacket and pince-nez), is an endearingly homely model of the amphitheater the
way it used to be, before reconstruction in the early 1990s. ''It was dirt paths
with benches that were not level,'' recalled Mr. Wollan, who grew up going to
Medora in the summertime.

Begun by Harold Schafer, the founder of the Gold Seal Company (thus the Mr.
Bubble connection), the Medora Musical was always intended to attract tourists.
But Curt Wollan, Chet Wollan's father and the musical's longtime director and
executive producer, said that 60 percent of the audience comes from the region:
North Dakota, eastern Montana, northern South Dakota, southern Canada. Or as he
put it from Minnesota, where he lives: ''Cowboy country.''

Many spectators come year after year, so the show is different each summer: new
songs, new routines. As of last year, there is also one night off a month for
the performers -- a big increase from zero. And this year they are living not in
an old motel 15 miles away, as they did for decades, but in a little cabin
compound in the campground below the theater.

Yet the musical doesn't dare change too much. In keeping with the wishes of
Schafer, who died in 2001, there is always a patriotic section, always some
gospel music, always a part where the children in the crowd clamber up onstage.
A guest act (on the night I was there, a team of acrobats) is an integral part
of the mix. There is always the charge at San Juan Hill.

Mr. Rettig, a liberal who chooses his words carefully in conservative North
Dakota, believes that escapism is essential to the show's appeal. ''I don't
necessarily disapprove of that: the fact that people want to see something that
could be a time capsule from 30 years ago,'' he said. ''Because they liked their
life a little better then.''

Still, he said, there was the summer that his friend Mr. Sorensen did a magic
trick -- ''something that looked a bit Harry Potter-like'' -- and an audience
member complained on religious grounds. ''They took it out of the show in the
end.''

Other touchy elements remain. Spectators have sometimes objected to the
gospel-music segment because other religions are not represented, Curt Wollan
said, while the patriotic bits are sensitive in a way they didn't used to be. He
means them simply to celebrate the nation.

''I think the left is as patriotic as the right,'' he said. ''So I try to stay
apolitical; I don't want to get involved in that out there.''

Reverence for God, country and family is solidly built into the production,
though, and that is apparently how the fans want it.

''They like what they like about this show,'' said the younger Mr. Wollan, who
met his wife -- Candice Lively Wollan, a Tennessee native and the Medora
Musical's female lead -- at Dollywood, Dolly Parton's theme park in Pigeon
Forge, Tenn., in a production his father was directing.

Like ''Phantom of the Opera,'' the Medora Musical has its die-hards, who come
over and over each season and bring cookies for the cast. Chet Wollan in
particular is instantly recognizable to fans, even on shopping trips to
Dickinson, a city of 23,000 about a half-hour away. ''He said he got hugged
three times at Walmart the other day,'' Ms. Wollan said, and laughed. ''We're
almost famous to them, which is so bizarre, because we're not anybody.''

For Medora, though, the revue is hugely important -- and the Theodore Roosevelt
Medora Foundation, which presents it, is trying to build on its success by
bringing in more live performance: a solo show by a little-known Broadway
veteran, Jared Mason; a Roosevelt bio-play; a gospel brunch featuring singers
from the musical.

As Labor Day nears, audiences at the amphitheater grow, and Medora bustles. But
as soon as the musical closes, Ms. Wollan said, the place goes quiet.

''It's a weird, weird vibe the next day,'' she said. ''Turns into a ghost town
for sure.''




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/23/theater/a-star-spangled-revue-kicks-up-its-he
els-in-the-badlands.html

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, the Medora Musical, a summer show staged in an
amphitheater set against the backdrop of the North Dakota Badlands. Above, a
scene from the show. Above right, Candice Lively Wollan, one of the Burning
Hills Singers. Right, Ken Quiricone as Teddy Roosevelt. (AR6-AR7)
Top, Roger Rettig, who has performed in the show for 13 summers. Above, the cast
during a performance. Far left, audience members visit with the cast following
the show. Left, Chet Wollan, known as Cowboy Chet, tunes his guitar backstage.
Below, the audience
 some 1,200 people attend every night. Bottom, as the show ends, a rider on a
horse climbs to the top of the bluff behind the stage. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KRISTINA
BARKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       August 29, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Art for a Post-Surveillance Age

BYLINE: MEGAN O'GRADY

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; art

LENGTH: 2547 words



HIGHLIGHT: Trevor Paglen's work reaches new heights -- literally. This spring,
he hopes to launch the world's first space sculpture.


''Are we being watched?'' I ask Trevor Paglen at his central Berlin studio. The
prewar apartment was once surely the most surveilled place in the city, having
formerly belonged to his friend Laura Poitras, the director who helped Edward
Snowden go public. ''We're always being watched,'' he replies. The space is
filled with computers: Against one wall, an assistant writes code while another
researches data used to train artificial intelligence. Opposite is a long
credenza filled with art monographs and topped by a slightly sinister collection
of objets: a Dungeons & Dragons-style dragon trophy with a shield and saber; a
toy model of the stealth submarine U.S.S. Jimmy Carter; and ''Black Ops''
military patches, including some Paglen made himself. In one of them, dinosaurs
of the future look up in wonder at the derelict satellites left behind by
extinct humans.

There's a certain irony in the artist and author being based in the former
G.D.R., where citizens were once pressured into spying on one another for the
Stasi, which left behind miles of documents when the wall fell in 1989. Fifteen
years later, Paglen, who already had an M.F.A. from the School of the Art
Institute of Chicago, was working on his doctorate in geography at the
University of California, Berkeley, when he saw redacted portions of a map of
the Mojave Desert and began photographing classified military installations,
outfitting cameras with special lenses used in astrophotography. Ever since,
he's been documenting the ways in which humans have transformed the surface of
the Earth, and how we, in turn, have been transformed by those changes. (A
survey of his career will go on view at the Smithsonian next summer.) The
resulting photographs are vertiginous and strange, illuminating the increasingly
uneasy space between ourselves and our perceived world: a tiny,
is-it-a-seagull-no-it's-a-drone set against a Technicolor sunset; the dystopian
white radomes of a surveillance station tucked into an English pastoral; a
placid seascape, beneath which lies a key communications choke point. ''People
like to say that my work is about making the invisible visible, but that's a
misunderstanding,'' Paglen says. ''It's about showing what invisibility looks
like.''

Paglen was already well known for his surveillance pieces when Snowden leaked a
trove of NSA documents in 2013, but even he was stunned by the revelations --
both their magnitude and their specificity. ''I just sat, jaw dropped, for 14
hours straight, reading,'' says the 42-year-old, who is both affable and
ultra-intense, with blue eyes, close-shorn blond hair, motorcycle boots and a
kind of native restlessness. His footage of NSA bases was included in
''Citizenfour,'' Poitras's Academy Award-winning documentary about Snowden.

Paglen, who has lived in Berlin since 2015, travels frequently to give talks
about the many ways in which secrecy ''nourishes the worst excesses of power,''
as he wrote in one of his six books. He is one of art's more unusual figures, a
kind of adventurer-philosopher whose work is often conceptual and highly
technical, but can also be delightfully gonzo: He learned to scuba dive in order
to photograph fiber-optic internet cables snaking across the ocean floor. After
being questioned in Germany for shooting classified sites, he held a contest for
the best photos of ''landscapes of surveillance'' in that country. He made a
cube-shaped sculpture from irradiated glass sourced from Fukushima. He sent a
time capsule into deep space of images etched on a silicon disc chronicling
human history -- from the Lascaux cave paintings to political protests. For a
series he's including in his show opening this month at Metro Pictures gallery
in New York, Paglen is examining the automation of vision itself, and the way in
which the kinds of technologies used in facial recognition software,
self-driving cars and social media are creating an entirely new landscape of
pictures we never see, whose judgments we can't challenge. ''I don't have
fantasy projects,'' he tells me, ''because I'm stupid enough to think that you
can actually do this stuff.''

Paglen is currently at work on his most radical project yet. This spring, he
plans to send a satellite -- a reflective, faceted Mylar inflatable -- into low
orbit, where it will be visible at night from Earth for eight weeks or so,
literally twinkling like a diamond in the sky before it disintegrates in the
atmosphere. If all goes according to plan, it will be the world's first space
sculpture, unprecedented in contemporary art.

The Orbital Reflector, as Paglen calls it, seems at first glance almost
romantic, even deliberately naïve. It has no scientific purpose; it doesn't even
carry a camera. But under closer scrutiny, it can be seen as an elaboration of
the artist's ongoing thesis about art, technology and the impossibility of
separating either from a specific moment in time. ''It began as a thought
experiment in which we imagined that spaceflight was the opposite of what it
actually is,'' he explains over lunch at Soho House, at a table overlooking the
Berlin TV tower, with its iconic dome evoking Sputnik, Earth's first satellite.
In the American mind, space is a frontier: ''We imagine going to the moon and
planting a flag, going to an asteroid and mining, going to Mars and setting up a
colony,'' he says. ''And I think that expansionist mentality is very
self-destructive, especially given the kind of precarious relationship we now
have to the ecosystem here on Earth, because it allows us to imagine that Earth
is disposable.'' Billionaire entrepreneurs may dream of colonizing Mars, but in
fact, space is not going to save us. Aliens are not going to grant us
absolution. ''People expect this kind of profound cosmic altruism, which is very
religious in a way. Space is completely wrapped up with this kind of stuff,
which is what makes it interesting.''

The Orbital Reflector draws a clear parallel between contemporary art and space
exploration: the ideal of a purely visionary gesture, and the less starry
reality. While the satellite -- a small, five-kilogram box called a CubeSat,
from which a 100-foot-long inflatable structure will deploy -- has no commercial
or military purpose, its success depends on the very systems of power Paglen has
spent more than a decade critiquing. Built by an aerospace contractor called
Global Western, it, likely along with a governmental reconnaissance satellite,
will launch from California's Vandenberg Air Force Base on a Space X rocket into
low orbit. The project illustrates how unfeasible it would be to execute any
other way: For all the talk of civilian spaceflight, it remains a thoroughly
militarized domain.

Managing the project is Zia Oboodiyat, a retired engineer who ran large
communications satellite programs for the San Francisco-based Space
Systems/Loral. He first met Paglen in 2011 while the artist was working on the
time capsule; Oboodiyat oversaw the construction of the satellite the disc was
attached to and advocated for the project. When Paglen approached him about the
Orbital Reflector, Oboodiyat immediately recognized its potential lyricism.
''You don't have to be rich to see it; you don't have to be tall to see it,'' he
says. ''You don't have to be American. Anybody anywhere on Earth has equal
opportunity to see something that gives humanity hope.''

Paglen's partner in the project, the Reno-based Center for Art + Environment at
the Nevada Museum of Art, is fund-raising to cover the $1.3 million cost. The
center's collection includes extensive material from the giants of land art,
including Walter de Maria and Michael Heizer. The Orbital Reflector places
Paglen (for the moment, anyway) in this tradition -- an artist defying the laws
of nature and practicality in order to create a work larger than himself. ''It
is a high-risk proposition -- rockets do explode; CubeSats sometimes fail to
open,'' says David Walker, the museum's executive director. ''But it's exciting,
too, because we see outer space as the ultimate mirror for human aspiration.''
The Orbital Reflector is like the inevitable conclusion to the land art
movement; Paglen's work, like Heizer's, may start in the desert, but will
eventually leave the Earth entirely.

Paglen moved to Berlin partly for financial reasons -- ''I wanted to hire
people, not spend $10,000 a month on a studio in Sunset Park'' -- but seems to
have found a home amid the city's young expat artists and WikiLeaks types. At a
Vietnamese restaurant, he bumps into a hacktivist friend who looks all of 17.
''These guys have guts,'' Paglen notes, after saying hello. ''He was way up the
butthole of the F.B.I. I probably shouldn't talk about it.''

Paglen doesn't describe himself as a dissident -- ''I'm as American as it gets,
a product of these contradictions'' -- but it's impossible not to connect the
themes in his work to a childhood spent on military bases. His father was an Air
Force ophthalmologist; his mother, one of the first female Episcopalian priests.
In third grade, in the San Francisco Bay Area, Paglen got in trouble for
skipping school to sneak into lectures on dinosaurs at Berkeley -- the same
lecture halls in which he'd later be working toward his doctorate. The family
moved to Wiesbaden, Germany, when he was 12, and he spent two years in a German
school in a nearby village, where, as a foreign student, he was ostracized.
''When you're not the beneficiary of privilege, suddenly you see it for what it
is,'' he says.

An ongoing theme in Paglen's more satirical work is the puerile machismo of
military culture's symbology and nomenclature, ''the collective unconscious of
this world of secrecy and violence,'' as he puts it. One afternoon, Hanna
Mattes, who oversees Paglen's studio and helps manage its external production,
is consulting with the artist on one of the sculptures he's making for the fall
show: an enormous dragon inspired by the small trophy in his studio. The trophy,
Paglen explains, is presented to members of the 315th Network Warfare Squadron
upon retirement. Paglen's version will be a 12-foot sculpture inscribed in
fetishistic detail, like medieval armor for the cyber age. The best way to
preserve the details, they conclude, will be to 3D-print the mold in four
sections, lightly polishing them to remove any marks. Another concern is the
weight: The finished dragon, cast in bronze, will weigh two tons. Paglen
mentions a crane. Mattes looks at him. ''Maybe we should just paint the form for
the exhibition.''

The dragon will be included in the 2018 Smithsonian exhibit. This year's Metro
Pictures exhibit will showcase Paglen's ongoing work with different kinds of
artificial intelligence technologies, taking viewers down a rabbit hole of
imagery, from the now quaint-seeming pictures first made by humans in the early
1990s to train military facial recognition software, to the kind of ''invisible
images'' computers hallucinate for themselves -- say, when we post an image on
Facebook -- in order to make sense of the external world. ''This is how an A.I.
brain sees a shark,'' Paglen says back in his studio, looking at a weirdly
beautiful Abstract Expressionist-like swath of blues and grays that results from
a computer creating a visual amalgam of thousands of images of the animal in
water. The exhibit invites critical questions about the extent to which
artificial intelligence algorithms, with their potential for programmed-in bias,
are governing our reality. It's also aesthetically provocative: ''Man,'' a
distillation of figurative imagery, vaguely recalls a Francis Bacon portrait;
''Rainbow'' -- a blend of cosmic-like rainbows -- a Dali-esque dreamscape.
''It's like I'm relearning art history,'' Paglen says.

So how does an artist who has devoted his career to empirical scrutiny of those
things that will shape our future, from artificial intelligence to the
annexation of space, respond rationally to a time in which reason itself -- when
it comes to political discourse, at least -- seems to be increasingly
endangered? ''Those are foundational questions for me,'' Paglen says. ''Nothing
that you make in the world exists in isolation from the social and political and
ecological dimensions of it.'' He hasn't given up on art's ability to spark the
imagination -- and to make us see the things we might prefer not to. The Orbital
Reflector presented an opportunity to ''get messy . . . to make something that's
beautiful, but also self-contradictory, and tries to challenge common sense.''
It's Carl Sagan meets Dada for a new millennium's inhumanity.

As we talk, the sky darkens in Berlin, and the first blinking glimmerings
appear. ''For me, there's something very romantic about going and looking at the
stars and trying to photograph spy satellites,'' Paglen says. ''Ultimately, what
it comes down to is looking at the sky and trying to understand something about
one's place in history. People have been doing this for tens of thousands of
years. This is kind of a variation on that. What if we could imagine a sky that
wasn't out to get us, you know?''

PHOTOS: Paglen, photographed in Berlin with a 3D model of his Orbital Reflector
satellite.; a selection of Paglen's works. The artist uses various techniques to
capture the surveillance state, including long-range astronomical photography to
look at objects in the earth's orbit such as drones and spacecrafts. He employs
so-called limit-telephotography to capture classified military bases from great
distances and has learned to scuba dive to photograph internet cables on the
ocean floor (bottom row, far left).; An image of a Soyuz rocket launch in
Kazakhstan, which Paglen sent into space on a communications satellite in 2012
as part of his series ''The Last Pictures.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANINA WICK; TREVOR
PAGLEN, ''UNTITLED (REAPER DRONE),'' 2010, C-PRINT, COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND
METRO PICTURES, NEW YORK; TREVOR PAGLEN, ''DEAD MILITARY NAVIGATION SATELLITE
(COSMOS 985) NEAR THE DISK OF THE MOON,'' 2012, C-PRINT, COURTESY OF THE ARTIST
AND METRO PICTURES, NEW YORK; TREVOR PAGLEN, ''SINGLETON/SBW ASS-R1 AND THREE
UNIDENTIFIED SPACECRAFT (SPACE BASED WIDE AREA SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM; USA 32),''
2012, C-PRINT, COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND METRO PICTURES, NEW YORK; TREVOR
PAGLEN, ''BAHAMAS INTERNET CABLE SYSTEM (BICS-1), NSA/GCHQ-TAPPED UNDERSEA
CABLE, ATLANTIC OCEAN,'' 2015, C-PRINT, COURTESY THE ARTIST AND METRO PICTURES,
NEW YORK; TREVOR PAGLEN, ''LACROSSE/ONYX II PASSING THROUGH DRACO (RADAR IMAGING
RECONNAISSANCE SATELLITE; USA 69),'' 2007, C-PRINT, COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND
METRO PICTURES, NEW YORK; TREVOR PAGLEN, ''NSA/GCHQ SURVEILLANCE BASE, BUDE,
CORNWALL, UK,'' 2014, PIGMENT PRINT, COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND METRO PICTURES,
NEW YORK); An image of a Soyuz rocket launch in Kazakhstan, which Paglen sent
into space on a communications satellite in 2012 as part of his series "The Last
Pictures." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TREVOR PAGLEN; ''THE LAST PICTURES,'' 2012, SOYUZ FG
ROCKET LAUNCH, BAIKONUR COSMODROME, KAZAKHSTAN.; COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND
METRO PICTURES, NEW YORK)

Related Slideshows


     ·    Trevor Paglen's Art


'People like to say that my work is about making the invisible visible, but
that's a misunderstanding,' Paglen says. 'It's about showing what invisibility
looks like.'

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       August 31, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Mexico's President Denies He Tried to Quiet a Prominent Critic

BYLINE: KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 673 words



HIGHLIGHT: Enrique Peña Nieto says he did not try to pressure one of the
country's top business executives to get his son to halt criticism of the
government.


MEXICO CITY -- Mexico's president, Enrique Peña Nieto, on Thursday denied
accusations that he had personally tried to pressure a top business ally to
quell criticism of his administration and its failure to curb corruption.

The episode, reported in The New York Times on Wednesday, occurred at a private
meeting Mr. Peña Nieto called in May with dozens of Mexico's top business
leaders, including Claudio X. González Laporte, the chairman of Kimberly-Clark
de Mexico for decades.

According to five people who recounted the gathering, the president singled out
Mr. González and told him that his son, a prominent anti-corruption crusader,
should halt his criticism of the government.

In an interview scheduled for broadcast on Thursday night, Mr. Peña Nieto said
he did not have a clear recollection of the details of the meeting, but he
recalled that the subject of corruption was discussed. He said he had urged the
attendees to talk about the positive achievements of the administration.

"I said to them, 'Don't be shy in defending the good things we have
accomplished," he recalled. "Let's speak more of the good and work on where we
are lacking. One of those things is the issue of corruption."

Pressed by the interviewer whether he had singled out any attendees in
particular, he said no, according to an excerpt of the interview posted on
Twitter early Thursday by the news division of the broadcaster, Televisa.

"No one in particular," he replied. "No complaints or denunciations or lamenting
or anything. We were discussing these issues in an open dialogue, very casual
from what I remember and, well, there will be many witnesses to this meeting."

The administration has come under intense pressure to explain a spying scandal
that has alarmed the country. Some of Mexico's most prominent human rights
lawyers, journalists and anti-corruption activists, as well as international
officials investigating crime in the country, have been targeted with
sophisticatedcyber technology purchased by the government on the condition that
it be used only against criminals and terrorists.

The government has denied any involvement in the spying and has launched an
investigation to determine who was responsible for the campaign.

One of the targets of the espionage was Mr. González's son, Claudio González
Jr., who currently runs an investigative news group that, among other work, has
exposed contract rigging by Mr. Peña Nieto's allies.

The spying against the younger Mr. González coincided with several instances of
government aggression, including nine separate government audits of
organizations that Mr. González Jr. has been involved with. The audits were
launched on a single day. In a statement to The Times, Mr. González Jr.
described the government's treatment as a "siege."

In the face of the president's denials, Carlos Loret de Mola, one of Mexico's
best-known journalists, published a column on Thursday in which he said his own
sources had reaffirmed the account in The Times.

Mr. Loret de Mola, who is known for his deep sourcing in the government,
reported that the president had singled out Mr. González Sr. during the private
meeting with business leaders in May.

Mr. Loret de Mola added that the president also criticized another leading
anti-corruption activist who has received financial support from one of the
other attendees.

According to Mr. Loret de Mola's account, the attendees were asked to surrender
their cellphones before entering the meeting room. The president then warned the
business leaders that by financing the anti-corruption drive, they would be
helping Andrés Manuel López Obrador, a former mayor of Mexico City and a leading
opposition candidate in next year's presidential election.

Mr. Loret de Mola added in a Twitter post: "Why does the president @EPN say that
it did not happen when it did happen?"

Related Articles


     ·    A Scion of Mexico Fights Corruption, and Becomes a Target
     ·    Using Texts as Lures, Government Spyware Targets Mexican Journalists
          and Their Families
     ·    Mexico's Deadliest Town. Mexico's Deadliest Year.


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       September 1, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

In Election Interference, It's What Reporters Didn't Find That Matters

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: INSIDER

LENGTH: 1198 words



HIGHLIGHT: When Nicole Perlroth, Michael Wines and Matthew Rosenberg set out to
understand Russian hacking in the last election, the absence of good data was
conspicuous.


The story started, as many do, with our own confusion.

The most unusual of presidential elections -- one marred by Russian trolls, a
digital Watergate-style break-in and the winning candidate's dire warnings of a
"rigged election" -- was followed by the most unusual period of acceptance. In
the immediate aftermath of the 2016 election, government officials, the Clinton
campaign, intelligence analysts, and civic and legal groups all appeared to
calmly accept claims that votes had not been hacked.

I had been on the cyber beat for six years and had grown accustomed to deep,
often lengthy digital forensics analyses of cyberattacks against a wide range of
targets: Silicon Valley start-ups, multinational conglomerates, government
agencies and our own Times breach by Chinese government hackers. In the vast
majority of cases, it takes investigators months or years to discover that
hackers had indeed been lurking undetected on victims' machines.

Yet American intelligence officials were adamant in a report in January -- just
two months after Election Day -- that vote tallies had not been hacked. This
despite the broad consensus among United States intelligence agencies that
Russia interfered in the 2016 election through an extensive disinformation and
propaganda campaign, as well as the hacking of electoral databases and websites,
the Democratic National Committee and the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee.

My colleagues Michael Wines, Matthew Rosenberg and I set out to find out how
government officials had nixed the possibility of vote hacking so readily. It
was especially unclear to us given that officials at the Department of Homeland
Security testified last fall that Russian hackers probed election systems in 21
states, with varying degrees of success, and that months later, a National
Security Agency report found that Russian hackers had indeed successfully
infiltrated VR Systems, an election service provider in eight states, including
the battlegrounds North Carolina, Florida and Virginia.

As we dug more into our investigation, the more unresolved incidents we found.

Among other things, we learned that intelligence agencies had intentionally
worded their conclusions to specifically address "vote tallying," not the
back-end election systems -- conclusions that were not even based on any
in-depth investigation of the state election systems or the machines themselves,
but on the accounts of American spies and digital intercepts of Russian
communications, as well as on assessments by the Department of Homeland Security
-- which were largely superficial and not based on any in-depth investigation of
the state election systems or machines themselves.

In fact, we discovered that precious little research had been conducted, the
result of legal limits on the authority of intelligence agencies to address
domestic issues and states' historic reluctance to permit federal oversight of
elections.

Michael Wines, who covers election issues for the Times, said that what stood
out to him was the vulnerability of the nation's vast Rube Goldberg election
system. Elections, he explained, "are run by understaffed, underfinanced and
sometimes undertrained local officials, serviced by outside contractors who may
or may not be well vetted, conducted with equipment and software that may or may
not be secure."

And Matthew Rosenberg, who covers national security issues for the Times,
discovered that the intelligence community's conclusion -- that the Election Day
vote was not hacked -- was extremely limited in scope.

I started calling around to the election security and technology experts who had
witnessed some of the troubles that cropped up on Election Day. I found that
they, too, were still searching for answers and were befuddled by the lack of
any substantial investigation.

We zeroed in on Durham, N.C. -- a reliably blue county in a swing state that
went for Donald J. Trump -- where a breakdown in the electronic check-in
software prevented hundreds of would-be voters from casting their ballots and
hundreds more to simply give up in the face of long lines.

Officials there relied on check-in software sold by VR Systems. Nobody in Durham
-- or any other county that relied on VR Systems's electronic poll books -- was
ever informed that their equipment had been compromised by Russian hackers. And
yet Durham County officials rebuffed several offers to examine their systems at
no cost -- from the D.H.S., the F.B.I. and even Free & Fair, a group of
qualified forensics investigators, many with security clearances.

Susan Greenhalgh, one of the few election technology specialists fielding
technical complaints from North Carolina on Election Day, told me she was still
haunted by what happened in November, and even more so by the lack of any
follow-up investigation. "If you were looking to influence an election, one
thing you could do is keep people from voting in a targeted county by monkeying
with the e-pollbooks so people couldn't check in, which would lead to long lines
and chaos at the polls," she said.

"This," she told me, referring to what she witnessed in Durham on Election Day,
"is exactly what that looked like."

To this day, county, state, and federal officials have yet to investigate what
transpired in Durham in November.

Instead, Durham officials asked Protus3, a little-known Raleigh firm comprised
primarily of physical security experts and former law enforcement types with
little, if any, of the technical expertise that is typically standard for breach
investigations, to conduct an audit.

The firm's confidential report was unlike any data breach investigation I have
seen in my six years on this beat. Investigators had done none of the malware or
coding forensics necessary to understand whether hackers had sabotaged VR
Systems's software, instead basing their analysis largely on eyewitness accounts
of poll workers with limited technical understanding. When I shared the report
with some of the top digital forensics experts in the country, many had visceral
reactions: They simply could not believe that this was the definitive take on
what transpired in Durham that day.

But through the course of our reporting, Michael, Matthew and I discovered that
this was the norm.

There was a seeming lack of interest in doing much of anything about the
problems on Election Day, or even in securing future elections. "Bills to
tighten election security are languishing in congressional committees," Michael
noted. "The White House is focused on erasing fraud by individual voters, which
experts say is a miniscule problem at its worst. A vast throng of voting
machines that Congress financed after the disputed 2000 presidential election
are now outdated, and no one wants to pony up the cash to modernize them."

The more places we looked, the worse things looked. In fact, we discovered that
VR Systems was not the only back-end supplier of election services that was
hacked by Russians ahead of Election Day. Two more vendors that provide critical
election services were also hacked.

Follow Times Insider on Twitter.

PHOTO: General election voting at Public School 62 in Brooklyn in November.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       September 1, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Russian Election Hacking Efforts, Wider Than Previously Known, Draw Little
Scrutiny

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH, MICHAEL WINES and MATTHEW ROSENBERG

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2597 words



HIGHLIGHT: A Times investigation has found that infiltration efforts were
broader than previously disclosed and that state and federal agencies have
conducted few forensic inquiries.


Correction Appended

The calls started flooding in from hundreds of irate North Carolina voters just
after 7 a.m. on Election Day last November.

Dozens were told they were ineligible to vote and were turned away at the polls,
even when they displayed current registration cards. Others were sent from one
polling place to another, only to be rejected. Scores of voters were incorrectly
told they had cast ballots days earlier. In one precinct, voting halted for two
hours.

Susan Greenhalgh, a troubleshooter at a nonpartisan election monitoring group,
was alarmed. Most of the complaints came from Durham, a blue-leaning county in a
swing state. The problems involved electronic poll books -- tablets and laptops,
loaded with check-in software, that have increasingly replaced the thick binders
of paper used to verify voters' identities and registration status. She knew
that the company that provided Durham's software, VR Systems, had been
penetrated by Russian hackers months before.

"It felt like tampering, or some kind of cyberattack," Ms. Greenhalgh said about
the voting troubles in Durham.

There are plenty of other reasons for such breakdowns -- local officials blamed
human error and software malfunctions -- and no clear-cut evidence of digital
sabotage has emerged, much less a Russian role in it. Despite the disruptions, a
record number of votes were cast in Durham, following a pattern there of
overwhelming support for Democratic presidential candidates, this time Hillary
Clinton.

But months later, for Ms. Greenhalgh, other election security experts and some
state officials, questions still linger about what happened that day in Durham
as well as other counties in North Carolina, Virginia, Georgia and Arizona.

After a presidential campaign scarred by Russian meddling, local, state and
federal agencies have conducted little of the type of digital forensic
investigation required to assess the impact, if any, on voting in at least 21
states whose election systems were targeted by Russian hackers, according to
interviews with nearly two dozen national security and state officials and
election technology specialists.

The assaults on the vast back-end election apparatus -- voter-registration
operations, state and local election databases, e-poll books and other equipment
-- have received far less attention than other aspects of the Russian
interference, such as the hacking of Democratic emails and spreading of false or
damaging information about Mrs. Clinton. Yet the hacking of electoral systems
was more extensive than previously disclosed, The New York Times found.

Beyond VR Systems, hackers breached at least two other providers of critical
election services well ahead of the 2016 voting, said current and former
intelligence officials, speaking on condition of anonymity because the
information is classified. The officials would not disclose the names of the
companies.

Intelligence officials in January reassured Americans that there was no
indication that Russian hackers had altered the vote count on Election Day, the
bottom-line outcome. But the assurances stopped there.

Government officials said that they intentionally did not address the security
of the back-end election systems, whose disruption could prevent voters from
even casting ballots.

That's partly because states control elections; they have fewer resources than
the federal government but have long been loath to allow even cursory federal
intrusions into the voting process.

That, along with legal constraints on intelligence agencies' involvement in
domestic issues, has hobbled any broad examination of Russian efforts to
compromise American election systems. Those attempts include combing through
voter databases, scanning for vulnerabilities or seeking to alter data, which
have been identified in multiple states. Current congressional inquiries and the
special counsel's Russia investigation have not focused on the matter.

"We don't know if any of the problems were an accident, or the random problems
you get with computer systems, or whether it was a local hacker, or actual
malfeasance by a sovereign nation-state," said Michael Daniel, who served as the
cybersecurity coordinator in the Obama White House. "If you really want to know
what happened, you'd have to do a lot of forensics, a lot of research and
investigation, and you may not find out even then."

In interviews, academic and private election security experts acknowledged the
challenges of such diagnostics but argued that the effort is necessary. They
warned about what could come, perhaps as soon as next year's midterm elections,
if the existing mix of outdated voting equipment, haphazard
election-verification procedures and array of outside vendors is not improved to
build an effective defense against Russian or other hackers.

In Durham, a local firm with limited digital forensics or software engineering
expertise produced a confidential report, much of it involving interviews with
poll workers, on the county's election problems. The report was obtained by The
Times, and election technology specialists who reviewed it at the Times' request
said the firm had not conducted any malware analysis or checked to see if any of
the e-poll book software was altered, adding that the report produced more
questions than answers.

Neither VR Systems -- which operates in seven states beyond North Carolina --
nor local officials were warned before Election Day that Russian hackers could
have compromised their software. After problems arose, Durham County rebuffed
help from the Department of Homeland Security and Free & Fair, a team of digital
election-forensics experts who volunteered to conduct a free autopsy. The same
was true elsewhere across the country.

"I always got stonewalled," said Joe Kiniry, the chief executive and chief
scientist at Free & Fair.

Still, some of the incidents reported in North Carolina occur in every election,
said Charles Stewart III, a political scientist at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology and an expert on election administration.

"Election officials and advocates and reporters who were watching most closely
came away saying this was an amazingly quiet election," he said, playing down
the notion of tampering. He added, though, that the problems in Durham and
elsewhere raise questions about the auditing of e-poll books and security of
small election vendors.

Ms. Greenhalgh shares those concerns. "We still don't know if Russian hackers
did this," she said about what happened in North Carolina. "But we still don't
know that they didn't."

Disorder at the Polls

North Carolina went for Donald J. Trump in a close election. But in Durham
County, Hillary Clinton won 78 percent of the 156,000 votes, winning by a larger
margin than President Barack Obama had against Mitt Romney four years earlier.

While only a fraction of voters were turned away because of the e-poll book
difficulties -- more than half of the county cast their ballots days earlier --
plenty of others were affected when the state mandated that the entire county
revert to paper rolls on Election Day. People steamed as everything slowed.
Voters gave up and left polling places in droves -- there's no way of knowing
the numbers, but they include more than a hundred North Carolina Central
University students facing four-hour delays.

At a call center operated by the monitoring group Election Protection, Ms.
Greenhalgh was fielding technical complaints from voters in Mississippi, Texas
and North Carolina. Only a handful came from the first two states.

Her account of the troubles matches complaints logged in the Election Incident
Reporting System, a tracking tool created by nonprofit groups. As the problems
mounted, The Charlotte Observer reported that Durham's e-poll book vendor was
Florida-based VR Systems, which Ms. Greenhalgh knew from a CNN report had been
hacked earlier by Russians. "Chills went through my spine," she recalled.

The vendor does not make the touch-screen equipment used to cast or tally votes
and does not manage county data. But without the information needed to verify
voters' identities and eligibility, which county officials load onto VR's poll
books, voters cannot cast ballots at all.

Details of the breach did not emerge until June, in a classified National
Security Agency report leaked to The Intercept, a national security news site.
That report found that hackers from Russia's military intelligence agency, the
G.R.U., had penetrated the company's computer systems as early as August 2016,
then sent "spear-phishing" emails from a fake VR Systems account to 122 state
and local election jurisdictions. The emails sought to trick election officials
into downloading malicious software to take over their computers.

The N.S.A. analysis did not say whether the hackers had sabotaged voter data.
"It is unknown," the agency concluded, whether Russian phishing "successfully
compromised the intended victims, and what potential data could have been
accessed."

VR Systems' chief operating officer, Ben Martin, said he did not believe Russian
hackers were successful. He acknowledged that the vendor was a "juicy target,"
given that its systems are used in battleground states including North Carolina,
Florida and Virginia. But he said that the company blocked access from its
systems to local databases, and employs security protocols to bar intruders and
digital triggers that sound alerts if its software is manipulated.

On Election Day, as the e-poll book problems continued, Ms. Greenhalgh urged an
Election Protection colleague in North Carolina to warn the state Board of
Elections of a cyberattack and suggest that it call in the F.B.I. and Department
of Homeland Security. In an email, she also warned a Homeland Security election
specialist of the problems. Later, the specialist told her Durham County had
rejected the agency's help.

When Ms. Greenhalgh, who works at Verified Voting, a nonprofit dedicated to
election integrity, followed up with the North Carolina colleague, he reported
that state officials said they would not require federal help.

"He said: 'The state does not view this as a problem. There's nothing we can do,
so we've moved on to other things,'" Ms. Greenhalgh recalled. "Meanwhile, I'm
thinking, 'What could be more important to move on to?'"

An Interference Campaign

The idea of subverting the American vote by hacking election systems is not new.
In an assessment of Russian cyberattacks released in January, intelligence
agencies said Kremlin spy services had been collecting information on election
processes, technology and equipment in the United States since early 2014.

The Russians shied away from measures that might alter the "tallying" of votes,
the report added, a conclusion drawn from American spying and intercepts of
Russian officials' communications and an analysis by the Department of Homeland
Security, according to the current and former government officials.

The most obvious way to rig an election -- controlling hundreds or thousands of
decentralized voting machines -- is also the most difficult. During a conference
of computer hackers last month in Las Vegas, participants had direct access and
quickly took over more than 30 voting machines. But remotely infiltrating
machines of different makes and models and then covertly changing the vote count
is far more challenging.

Beginning in 2015, the American officials said, Russian hackers focused instead
on other internet-accessible targets: computers at the Democratic National
Committee, state and local voter databases, election websites, e-poll book
vendors and other back-end election services.

Apart from the Russian influence campaign intended to undermine Mrs. Clinton and
other Democratic officials, the impact of the quieter Russian hacking efforts at
the state and county level has not been widely studied. Federal officials have
been so tight-lipped that not even many election officials in the 21 states the
hackers assaulted know whether their systems were compromised, in part because
they have not been granted security clearances to examine the classified
evidence.

The January intelligence assessment implied that the Russian hackers had
achieved broader access than has been assumed. Without elaborating, the report
said the Russians had "obtained and maintained access to multiple U.S. state and
local election boards."

Two previously acknowledged strikes in June 2016 hint at Russian ambitions. In
Arizona, Russian hackers successfully stole a username and password for an
election official in Gila County. And in Illinois, Russian hackers inserted a
malicious program into the Illinois State Board of Elections' database.
According to Ken Menzel, the board's general counsel, the program tried
unsuccessfully "to alter things other than voter data" -- he declined to be more
specific -- and managed to illegally download registration files for 90,000
voters before being detected.

On Election Day last year, a number of counties reported problems similar to
those in Durham. In North Carolina, paper roll incidents occurred in the
counties that are home to the state's largest cities, including Raleigh,
Winston-Salem, Fayetteville and Charlotte. Three of Virginia's most populous
counties -- Prince William, Loudoun, and Henrico -- as well as Fulton County,
Georgia, which includes Atlanta, and Maricopa County, Arizona, which includes
Phoenix, also reported difficulties. All were attributed to software glitches.

Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia and vice chairman of the Senate
intelligence committee, argued for more scrutiny of suspicious incidents. "We
must harden our cyber defenses, and thoroughly educate the American public about
the danger posed" by attacks," he said in an email. "In other words: we are not
making our elections any safer by withholding information about the scope and
scale of the threat."

In Durham County, officials have rejected any notion that an intruder sought to
alter the election outcome. "We do not believe, and evidence does not suggest,
that hacking occurred on Election Day," Derek Bowens, the election director,
said in a recent email.

But last month, after inquiries from reporters and the North Carolina State
Board of Elections and Ethics Enforcement, Durham county officials voted to turn
over laptops and other devices to the board for further analysis. It was not
clear which government agency or private forensics firm, would conduct the
investigation.

Ms. Greenhalgh will be watching closely. "What people focus on is, 'Did someone
mess with the vote totals?'" she said. "What they don't realize is that messing
with the e-poll books to keep people from voting is just as effective.'"

Follow Nicole Perlroth, Michael Wines, and Matthew Rosenberg on Twitter.


Correction: September 14, 2017, Thursday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on
Sept. 2 about investigations into election tampering in several states referred
incorrectly to problems with voter rolls in three North Carolina counties that
included the cities of Raleigh, Winston-Salem and Charlotte. The problems
involved paper rolls, not e-poll books.

PHOTOS: Voters in Durham, N.C., last November, waited for a polling place to
open, top, and filled out a ballot, above. Problems in electronic poll books
resulted in dozens in Durham County being told they were not registered to vote.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA D. DAVIS/GETTY IMAGES); Susan Greenhalgh, a troubleshooter
for a nonpartisan election monitoring group, on the problems in North Carolina
(PHOTOGRAPH BY AN RONG XU FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 1, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico President Denies Targeting Critic

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 645 words


MEXICO CITY -- Mexico's president, Enrique Peña Nieto, on Thursday denied
accusations that he had personally tried to pressure a top business ally to
quell criticism of his administration and its failure to curb corruption.

The episode, reported in The New York Times on Wednesday, occurred at a private
meeting Mr. Peña Nieto called in May with dozens of Mexico's top business
leaders, including Claudio X. González Laporte, the chairman of Kimberly-Clark
de Mexico for decades.

According to five people who recounted the gathering, the president singled out
Mr. González and told him that his son, a prominent anti-corruption crusader,
should halt his criticism of the government.

In an interview scheduled for broadcast on Thursday night, Mr. Peña Nieto said
he did not have a clear recollection of the details of the meeting, but he
recalled that the subject of corruption was discussed. He said he had urged the
attendees to talk about the positive achievements of the administration.

''I said to them, 'Don't be shy in defending the good things we have
accomplished,'' he recalled. ''Let's speak more of the good and work on where we
are lacking. One of those things is the issue of corruption.''

Pressed by the interviewer whether he had singled out any attendees in
particular, he said no, according to an excerpt of the interview posted on
Twitter early Thursday by the news division of the broadcaster, Televisa.

''No one in particular,'' he replied. ''No complaints or denunciations or
lamenting or anything. We were discussing these issues in an open dialogue, very
casual from what I remember and, well, there will be many witnesses to this
meeting.''

The administration has come under intense pressure to explain a spying scandal
that has alarmed the country. Some of Mexico's most prominent human rights
lawyers, journalists and anti-corruption activists, as well as international
officials investigating crime in the country, have been targeted with
sophisticated cyber technology purchased by the government on the condition that
it be used only against criminals and terrorists.

The government has denied any involvement in the spying and has launched an
investigation to determine who was responsible for the campaign.

One of the targets of the espionage was Mr. González's son, Claudio González
Jr., who currently runs an investigative news group that, among other work, has
exposed contract rigging by Mr. Peña Nieto's allies.

The spying against the younger Mr. González coincided with several instances of
government aggression, including nine separate government audits of
organizations that Mr. González Jr. has been involved with. The audits were
launched on a single day. In a statement to The Times, Mr. González Jr.
described the government's treatment as a ''siege.''

In the face of the president's denials, Carlos Loret de Mola, one of Mexico's
best-known journalists, published a column on Thursday in which he said his own
sources had reaffirmed the account in The Times.

Mr. Loret de Mola, who is known for his deep sourcing in the government,
reported that the president had singled out Mr. González Sr. during the private
meeting with business leaders in May.

Mr. Loret de Mola added that the president also criticized another leading
anti-corruption activist who has received financial support from one of the
other attendees.

According to Mr. Loret de Mola's account, the attendees were asked to surrender
their cellphones before entering the meeting room. The president then warned the
business leaders that by financing the anti-corruption drive, they would be
helping Andrés Manuel López Obrador, a former mayor of Mexico City and a leading
opposition candidate in next year's presidential election.

Mr. Loret de Mola added in a Twitter post: ''Why does the president @EPN say
that it did not happen when it did happen?''




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/31/world/mexico-pena-nieto-claudio-gonzalez-spyi
ng-scandal.html

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 2, 2017 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Conspicuous Absence of Data

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1205 words


The story started, as many do, with our own confusion.

The most unusual of presidential elections -- one marred by Russian trolls, a
digital Watergate-style break-in and the winning candidate's dire warnings of a
''rigged election'' -- was followed by the most unusual period of acceptance. In
the immediate aftermath of the 2016 election, government officials, the Clinton
campaign, intelligence analysts, and civic and legal groups all appeared to
calmly accept claims that votes had not been hacked.

I had been on the cyber beat for six years and had grown accustomed to deep,
often lengthy digital forensics analyses of cyberattacks against a wide range of
targets: Silicon Valley start-ups, multinational conglomerates, government
agencies and our own Times breach by Chinese government hackers. In the vast
majority of cases, it takes investigators months or years to discover that
hackers had indeed been lurking undetected on victims' machines.

Yet American intelligence officials were adamant in a report in January -- just
two months after Election Day -- that vote tallies had not been hacked. This
despite the broad consensus among United States intelligence agencies that
Russia interfered in the 2016 election through an extensive disinformation and
propaganda campaign, as well as the hacking of electoral databases and websites,
the Democratic National Committee and the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee.

My colleagues Michael Wines, Matthew Rosenberg and I set out to find out how
government officials had nixed the possibility of vote hacking so readily. It
was especially unclear to us given that officials at the Department of Homeland
Security testified last fall that Russian hackers probed election systems in 21
states, with varying degrees of success, and that months later, a National
Security Agency report found that Russian hackers had indeed successfully
infiltrated VR Systems, an election service provider in eight states, including
the battlegrounds North Carolina, Florida and Virginia.

As we dug more into our investigation, the more unresolved incidents we found.

Among other things, we learned that intelligence agencies had intentionally
worded their conclusions to specifically address ''vote tallying,'' not the
back-end election systems -- conclusions that were not even based on any
in-depth investigation of the state election systems or the machines themselves,
but on the accounts of American spies and digital intercepts of Russian
communications, as well as on assessments by the Department of Homeland Security
-- which were largely superficial and not based on any in-depth investigation of
the state election systems or machines themselves.

In fact, we discovered that precious little research had been conducted, the
result of legal limits on the authority of intelligence agencies to address
domestic issues and states' historic reluctance to permit federal oversight of
elections.

Michael Wines, who covers election issues for the Times, said that what stood
out to him was the vulnerability of the nation's vast Rube Goldberg election
system. Elections, he explained, ''are run by understaffed, underfinanced and
sometimes undertrained local officials, serviced by outside contractors who may
or may not be well vetted, conducted with equipment and software that may or may
not be secure.''

And Matthew Rosenberg, who covers national security issues for the Times,
discovered that the intelligence community's conclusion -- that the Election Day
vote was not hacked -- was extremely limited in scope.

I started calling around to the election security and technology experts who had
witnessed some of the troubles that cropped up on Election Day. I found that
they, too, were still searching for answers and were befuddled by the lack of
any substantial investigation.

We zeroed in on Durham, N.C. -- a reliably blue county in a swing state that
went for Donald J. Trump -- where a breakdown in the electronic check-in
software prevented hundreds of would-be voters from casting their ballots and
hundreds more to simply give up in the face of long lines.

Officials there relied on check-in software sold by VR Systems. Nobody in Durham
-- or any other county that relied on VR Systems's electronic poll books -- was
ever informed that their equipment had been compromised by Russian hackers. And
yet Durham County officials rebuffed several offers to examine their systems at
no cost -- from the D.H.S., the F.B.I. and even Free & Fair, a group of
qualified forensics investigators, many with security clearances.

Susan Greenhalgh, one of the few election technology specialists fielding
technical complaints from North Carolina on Election Day, told me she was still
haunted by what happened in November, and even more so by the lack of any
follow-up investigation. ''If you were looking to influence an election, one
thing you could do is keep people from voting in a targeted county by monkeying
with the e-pollbooks so people couldn't check in, which would lead to long lines
and chaos at the polls,'' she said.

''This,'' she told me, referring to what she witnessed in Durham on Election
Day, ''is exactly what that looked like.''

To this day, county, state, and federal officials have yet to investigate what
transpired in Durham in November.

Instead, Durham officials asked Protus3, a little-known Raleigh firm comprised
primarily of physical security experts and former law enforcement types with
little, if any, of the technical expertise that is typically standard for breach
investigations, to conduct an audit.

The firm's confidential report was unlike any data breach investigation I have
seen in my six years on this beat. Investigators had done none of the malware or
coding forensics necessary to understand whether hackers had sabotaged VR
Systems's software, instead basing their analysis largely on eyewitness accounts
of poll workers with limited technical understanding. When I shared the report
with some of the top digital forensics experts in the country, many had visceral
reactions: They simply could not believe that this was the definitive take on
what transpired in Durham that day.

But through the course of our reporting, Michael, Matthew and I discovered that
this was the norm.

There was a seeming lack of interest in doing much of anything about the
problems on Election Day, or even in securing future elections. ''Bills to
tighten election security are languishing in congressional committees,'' Michael
noted. ''The White House is focused on erasing fraud by individual voters, which
experts say is a miniscule problem at its worst. A vast throng of voting
machines that Congress financed after the disputed 2000 presidential election
are now outdated, and no one wants to pony up the cash to modernize them.''

The more places we looked, the worse things looked. In fact, we discovered that
VR Systems was not the only back-end supplier of election services that was
hacked by Russians ahead of Election Day. Two more vendors that provide critical
election services were also hacked.

Follow Times Insider on Twitter.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/01/insider/in-election-interference-its-what-rep
orters-didnt-find-that-matters.html

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: General election voting at Public School 62 in Brooklyn in
November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 2, 2017 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Little Effort to Investigate in States Targeted by Election Hacking

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH, MICHAEL WINES and MATTHEW ROSENBERG.

Follow Nicole Perlroth, Michael Wines, and Matthew Rosenberg on Twitter.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2467 words


The calls started flooding in from hundreds of irate North Carolina voters just
after 7 a.m. on Election Day last November.

Dozens were told they were ineligible to vote and were turned away at the polls,
even when they displayed current registration cards. Others were sent from one
polling place to another, only to be rejected. Scores of voters were incorrectly
told they had cast ballots days earlier. In one precinct, voting halted for two
hours.

Susan Greenhalgh, a troubleshooter at a nonpartisan election monitoring group,
was alarmed. Most of the complaints came from Durham, a blue-leaning county in a
swing state. The problems involved electronic poll books -- tablets and laptops,
loaded with check-in software, that have increasingly replaced the thick binders
of paper used to verify voters' identities and registration status. She knew
that the company that provided Durham's software, VR Systems, had been
penetrated by Russian hackers months before.

''It felt like tampering, or some kind of cyberattack,'' Ms. Greenhalgh said
about the voting troubles in Durham.

There are plenty of other reasons for such breakdowns -- local officials blamed
human error and software malfunctions -- and no clear-cut evidence of digital
sabotage has emerged, much less a Russian role in it. Despite the disruptions, a
record number of votes were cast in Durham, following a pattern there of
overwhelming support for Democratic presidential candidates, this time Hillary
Clinton.

But months later, for Ms. Greenhalgh, other election security experts and some
state officials, questions still linger about what happened that day in Durham
as well as other counties in North Carolina, Virginia, Georgia and Arizona.

After a presidential campaign scarred by Russian meddling, local, state and
federal agencies have conducted little of the type of digital forensic
investigation required to assess the impact, if any, on voting in at least 21
states whose election systems were targeted by Russian hackers, according to
interviews with nearly two dozen national security and state officials and
election technology specialists.

The assaults on the vast back-end election apparatus -- voter-registration
operations, state and local election databases, e-poll books and other equipment
-- have received far less attention than other aspects of the Russian
interference, such as the hacking of Democratic emails and spreading of false or
damaging information about Mrs. Clinton. Yet the hacking of electoral systems
was more extensive than previously disclosed, The New York Times found.

Beyond VR Systems, hackers breached at least two other providers of critical
election services well ahead of the 2016 voting, said current and former
intelligence officials, speaking on condition of anonymity because the
information is classified. The officials would not disclose the names of the
companies.

Intelligence officials in January reassured Americans that there was no
indication that Russian hackers had altered the vote count on Election Day, the
bottom-line outcome. But the assurances stopped there.

Government officials said that they intentionally did not address the security
of the back-end election systems, whose disruption could prevent voters from
even casting ballots.

That's partly because states control elections; they have fewer resources than
the federal government but have long been loath to allow even cursory federal
intrusions into the voting process.

That, along with legal constraints on intelligence agencies' involvement in
domestic issues, has hobbled any broad examination of Russian efforts to
compromise American election systems. Those attempts include combing through
voter databases, scanning for vulnerabilities or seeking to alter data, which
have been identified in multiple states. Current congressional inquiries and the
special counsel's Russia investigation have not focused on the matter.

''We don't know if any of the problems were an accident, or the random problems
you get with computer systems, or whether it was a local hacker, or actual
malfeasance by a sovereign nation-state,'' said Michael Daniel, who served as
the cybersecurity coordinator in the Obama White House. ''If you really want to
know what happened, you'd have to do a lot of forensics, a lot of research and
investigation, and you may not find out even then.''

In interviews, academic and private election security experts acknowledged the
challenges of such diagnostics but argued that the effort is necessary. They
warned about what could come, perhaps as soon as next year's midterm elections,
if the existing mix of outdated voting equipment, haphazard
election-verification procedures and array of outside vendors is not improved to
build an effective defense against Russian or other hackers.

In Durham, a local firm with limited digital forensics or software engineering
expertise produced a confidential report, much of it involving interviews with
poll workers, on the county's election problems. The report was obtained by The
Times, and election technology specialists who reviewed it at the Times' request
said the firm had not conducted any malware analysis or checked to see if any of
the e-poll book software was altered, adding that the report produced more
questions than answers.

Neither VR Systems -- which operates in seven states beyond North Carolina --
nor local officials were warned before Election Day that Russian hackers could
have compromised their software. After problems arose, Durham County rebuffed
help from the Department of Homeland Security and Free & Fair, a team of digital
election-forensics experts who volunteered to conduct a free autopsy. The same
was true elsewhere across the country.

''I always got stonewalled,'' said Joe Kiniry, the chief executive and chief
scientist at Free & Fair.

Still, some of the incidents reported in North Carolina occur in every election,
said Charles Stewart III, a political scientist at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology and an expert on election administration.

''Election officials and advocates and reporters who were watching most closely
came away saying this was an amazingly quiet election,'' he said, playing down
the notion of tampering. He added, though, that the problems in Durham and
elsewhere raise questions about the auditing of e-poll books and security of
small election vendors.

Ms. Greenhalgh shares those concerns. ''We still don't know if Russian hackers
did this,'' she said about what happened in North Carolina. ''But we still don't
know that they didn't.''

Disorder at the Polls

North Carolina went for Donald J. Trump in a close election. But in Durham
County, Hillary Clinton won 78 percent of the 156,000 votes, winning by a larger
margin than President Barack Obama had against Mitt Romney four years earlier.

While only a fraction of voters were turned away because of the e-poll book
difficulties -- more than half of the county cast their ballots days earlier --
plenty of others were affected when the state mandated that the entire county
revert to paper rolls on Election Day. People steamed as everything slowed.
Voters gave up and left polling places in droves -- there's no way of knowing
the numbers, but they include more than a hundred North Carolina Central
University students facing four-hour delays.

At a call center operated by the monitoring group Election Protection, Ms.
Greenhalgh was fielding technical complaints from voters in Mississippi, Texas
and North Carolina. Only a handful came from the first two states.

Her account of the troubles matches complaints logged in the Election Incident
Reporting System, a tracking tool created by nonprofit groups. As the problems
mounted, The Charlotte Observer reported that Durham's e-poll book vendor was
Florida-based VR Systems, which Ms. Greenhalgh knew from a CNN report had been
hacked earlier by Russians. ''Chills went through my spine,'' she recalled.

The vendor does not make the touch-screen equipment used to cast or tally votes
and does not manage county data. But without the information needed to verify
voters' identities and eligibility, which county officials load onto VR's poll
books, voters cannot cast ballots at all.

Details of the breach did not emerge until June, in a classified National
Security Agency report leaked to The Intercept, a national security news site.
That report found that hackers from Russia's military intelligence agency, the
G.R.U., had penetrated the company's computer systems as early as August 2016,
then sent ''spear-phishing'' emails from a fake VR Systems account to 122 state
and local election jurisdictions. The emails sought to trick election officials
into downloading malicious software to take over their computers.

The N.S.A. analysis did not say whether the hackers had sabotaged voter data.
''It is unknown,'' the agency concluded, whether Russian phishing ''successfully
compromised the intended victims, and what potential data could have been
accessed.''

VR Systems' chief operating officer, Ben Martin, said he did not believe Russian
hackers were successful. He acknowledged that the vendor was a ''juicy target,''
given that its systems are used in battleground states including North Carolina,
Florida and Virginia. But he said that the company blocked access from its
systems to local databases, and employs security protocols to bar intruders and
digital triggers that sound alerts if its software is manipulated.

On Election Day, as the e-poll book problems continued, Ms. Greenhalgh urged an
Election Protection colleague in North Carolina to warn the state Board of
Elections of a cyberattack and suggest that it call in the F.B.I. and Department
of Homeland Security. In an email, she also warned a Homeland Security election
specialist of the problems. Later, the specialist told her Durham County had
rejected the agency's help.

When Ms. Greenhalgh, who works at Verified Voting, a nonprofit dedicated to
election integrity, followed up with the North Carolina colleague, he reported
that state officials said they would not require federal help.

''He said: 'The state does not view this as a problem. There's nothing we can
do, so we've moved on to other things,''' Ms. Greenhalgh recalled. ''Meanwhile,
I'm thinking, 'What could be more important to move on to?'''

An Interference Campaign

The idea of subverting the American vote by hacking election systems is not new.
In an assessment of Russian cyberattacks released in January, intelligence
agencies said Kremlin spy services had been collecting information on election
processes, technology and equipment in the United States since early 2014.

The Russians shied away from measures that might alter the ''tallying'' of
votes, the report added, a conclusion drawn from American spying and intercepts
of Russian officials' communications and an analysis by the Department of
Homeland Security, according to the current and former government officials.

The most obvious way to rig an election -- controlling hundreds or thousands of
decentralized voting machines -- is also the most difficult. During a conference
of computer hackers last month in Las Vegas, participants had direct access and
quickly took over more than 30 voting machines. But remotely infiltrating
machines of different makes and models and then covertly changing the vote count
is far more challenging.

Beginning in 2015, the American officials said, Russian hackers focused instead
on other internet-accessible targets: computers at the Democratic National
Committee, state and local voter databases, election websites, e-poll book
vendors and other back-end election services.

Apart from the Russian influence campaign intended to undermine Mrs. Clinton and
other Democratic officials, the impact of the quieter Russian hacking efforts at
the state and county level has not been widely studied. Federal officials have
been so tight-lipped that not even many election officials in the 21 states the
hackers assaulted know whether their systems were compromised, in part because
they have not been granted security clearances to examine the classified
evidence.

The January intelligence assessment implied that the Russian hackers had
achieved broader access than has been assumed. Without elaborating, the report
said the Russians had ''obtained and maintained access to multiple U.S. state
and local election boards.''

Two previously acknowledged strikes in June 2016 hint at Russian ambitions. In
Arizona, Russian hackers successfully stole a username and password for an
election official in Gila County. And in Illinois, Russian hackers inserted a
malicious program into the Illinois State Board of Elections' database.
According to Ken Menzel, the board's general counsel, the program tried
unsuccessfully ''to alter things other than voter data'' -- he declined to be
more specific -- and managed to illegally download registration files for 90,000
voters before being detected.

On Election Day last year, a number of counties reported problems similar to
those in Durham. In North Carolina, e-poll book incidents occurred in the
counties that are home to the state's largest cities, including Raleigh,
Winston-Salem, Fayetteville and Charlotte. Three of Virginia's most populous
counties -- Prince William, Loudoun, and Henrico -- as well as Fulton County,
Georgia, which includes Atlanta, and Maricopa County, Arizona, which includes
Phoenix, also reported difficulties. All were attributed to software glitches.

Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia and vice chairman of the Senate
intelligence committee, argued for more scrutiny of suspicious incidents. ''We
must harden our cyber defenses, and thoroughly educate the American public about
the danger posed'' by attacks,'' he said in an email. ''In other words: we are
not making our elections any safer by withholding information about the scope
and scale of the threat.''

In Durham County, officials have rejected any notion that an intruder sought to
alter the election outcome. ''We do not believe, and evidence does not suggest,
that hacking occurred on Election Day,'' Derek Bowens, the election director,
said in a recent email.

But last month, after inquiries from reporters and the North Carolina State
Board of Elections and Ethics Enforcement, Durham county officials voted to turn
over laptops and other devices to the board for further analysis. It was not
clear which government agency or private forensics firm, would conduct the
investigation.

Ms. Greenhalgh will be watching closely. ''What people focus on is, 'Did someone
mess with the vote totals?''' she said. ''What they don't realize is that
messing with the e-poll books to keep people from voting is just as
effective.'''




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/01/us/politics/russia-election-hacking.html

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Voters in Durham, N.C., last November, waited for a polling
place to open, top, and filled out a ballot, above. Problems in electronic poll
books resulted in dozens in Durham County being told they were not registered to
vote. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA D. DAVIS/GETTY IMAGES)
 Susan Greenhalgh, a troubleshooter for a nonpartisan election monitoring group,
on the problems in North Carolina (PHOTOGRAPH BY AN RONG XU FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       September 3, 2017 Sunday 00:00 EST

Tired of Technology;
Letters

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 141 words



HIGHLIGHT: Readers discuss the benefits and drawbacks of ever-present
technology.


To the Editor:

In "Downgrade Your Life" (Sunday Review, Aug. 20), about reducing the intrusive
effects of technology at home, Pamela Paul includes some benign choices:
switching from an electric to a manual toothbrush, or getting DVDs by mail
instead of streaming movies.

But choosing to keep old laptops around -- to say nothing of refusing
firmware/software updates -- is not at all a benign choice. It introduces
dangerous security vulnerabilities in a world of billions of connected computers
and devices, presenting ripe targets for the spread of malware and other cyber
exploits.

MAX DECURTINS, BOSTON

The writer is an information technology professional.

To the Editor:

We live in a world of devices.
They're quickly becoming our vices.
Life feels like a fiction,
Or just an addiction,
While feeding on each daily crisis.

HAROLD KALLEMEYN, MONTREAL

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       September 4, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

The Russian Company That Is a Danger to Our Security;
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: JEANNE SHAHEEN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 978 words



HIGHLIGHT: Kaspersky Lab, the cybersecurity company, is close to Putin's
government. So why is the U.S. government using its software?


MADBURY, N.H. -- The Kremlin hacked our presidential election, is waging a
cyberwar against our NATO allies and is probing opportunities to use similar
tactics against democracies worldwide. Why then are federal agencies, local and
state governments and millions of Americans unwittingly inviting this threat
into their cyber networks and secure spaces?

That threat is posed by antivirus and security software products created by
Kaspersky Lab, a Moscow-based company with extensive ties to Russian
intelligence. To close this alarming national security vulnerability, I am
advancing bipartisan legislation to prohibit the federal government from using
Kaspersky Lab software.

Kaspersky Lab insists that it has "no inappropriate ties with any government."
The company's products, which are readily available at big-box American
retailers, have more than 400 million users around the globe. And it provides
security services to major government agencies, including the Department of
State, the National Institutes of Health and, reportedly, the Department of
Defense.

But at a public hearing of the Senate Intelligence Committee in May, six
topintelligence officials, including the heads of the F.B.I., C.I.A. and
National Security Agency, were asked if they would be comfortable with Kaspersky
Lab software on their agencies' computers. Each answered with an unequivocal no.
I cannot disclose the classified assessments that prompted the intelligence
chiefs' response. But it is unacceptable to ignore questions about Kaspersky Lab
because the answers are shielded in classified materials. Fortunately, there is
ample publicly available information to help Americans understand the reasons
Congress has serious doubts about the company.

The firm's billionaire founder, Eugene Kaspersky, graduated from the elite
cryptology institute of the K.G.B., the Soviet Union's main intelligence
service, and was a software engineer for Soviet military intelligence. He
vehemently dismisses concerns that his company assists Russia's intelligence
agencies with cyberespionage and claims that he is the target of Cold War-style
conspiracy theories. But Kaspersky Lab has committed missteps that reveal the
true nature of its work with Russia's Federal Security Service, or F.S.B., a
successor to the K.G.B.

Bloomberg recently reported on emails from October 2009 in which Mr. Kaspersky
directs his staff to work on a secret project "per a big request on the Lubyanka
side," a reference to the F.S.B.'s Moscow offices. The McClatchy news service
uncovered records of the official certification of Kaspersky Lab by Russian
military intelligence, which experts in this field call "persuasive public
evidence" of the company's links to the Russian government.

The challenge to United States national security grew last year when the company
launched a proprietary operating system designed for electrical grids,
pipelines, telecommunications networks and other critical infrastructure. The
Defense Intelligence Agency recently warned American companies that this
software could enable Russian government hackers to shut down critical systems.

Beyond the evidence of direct links between Mr. Kaspersky and the Russian
government, we cannot ignore the indirect links inherent in doing business in
the Russia of President Vladimir Putin, where oligarchs and tycoons have no
choice but to cooperate with the Kremlin. Steve Hall, former C.I.A. station
chief in Moscow, told a reporter: "These guys' families, their well-being,
everything they have is in Russia." He added that he had no doubt that Kaspersky
Lab "could be, if it's not already, under the control of Putin."

The technical attributes of antivirus software amplify the dangers from
Kaspersky Lab. Mr. Kaspersky might be correct when he says that his antivirus
software does not contain a "backdoor": code that deliberately allows access to
vulnerable information.

But a backdoor is not necessary. When a user installs Kaspersky Lab software,
the company gets an all-access pass to every corner of a user's computer
network, including all applications, files and emails. And because Kaspersky's
servers are in Russia, sensitive United States data is constantly cycled through
a hostile country. Under Russian laws and according to Kaspersky Lab's
certification by the F.S.B., the company is required to assist the spy agency in
its operations, and the F.S.B. can assign agency officers to work at the
company. Russian law requires telecommunications service providers such as
Kaspersky Lab to install communications interception equipment that allows the
F.S.B. to monitor all of a company's data transmissions.

The Senate Armed Services Committee in June adopted my measure to prohibit the
Department of Defense from using Kaspersky Lab software, to limit fallout from
what I fear is already a huge breach of national security data. When broad
defense legislation comes before the Senate in the weeks ahead, I hope to amend
it to ban Kaspersky software from all of the federal government.

Americans were outraged by Russia's interference in our presidential election,
but a wider threat is Russia's doctrine of hybrid warfare, which includes
cybersabotage of critical American infrastructure from nuclear plants to
electrical grids. Kaspersky Lab, with an active presence in millions of computer
systems in the United States, is capable of playing a powerful role in such an
assault. It's time to put a stop to this threat to our national security.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Jeanne Shaheen is a Democratic senator from New Hampshire.

Related Articles


     ·    Russian Election Hacking Efforts, Wider Than Previously Known, Draw
          Little Scrutiny
     ·    Michael Flynn Was Paid by Russian-Linked Firms, Letter Shows
     ·    Jared Kushner's Not-So-Secret Channel to Putin


LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 4, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tired of Technology

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 143 words


To the Editor:

In ''Downgrade Your Life'' (Sunday Review, Aug. 20), about reducing the
intrusive effects of technology at home, Pamela Paul includes some benign
choices: switching from an electric to a manual toothbrush, or getting DVDs by
mail instead of streaming movies.

But choosing to keep old laptops around -- to say nothing of refusing
firmware/software updates -- is not at all a benign choice. It introduces
dangerous security vulnerabilities in a world of billions of connected computers
and devices, presenting ripe targets for the spread of malware and other cyber
exploits.

MAX DECURTINS, BOSTON

The writer is an information technology professional.

To the Editor:

We live in a world of devices. They're quickly becoming our vices. Life feels
like a fiction, Or just an addiction, While feeding on each daily crisis.

HAROLD KALLEMEYN, MONTREAL




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/03/opinion/technology.html

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 5, 2017 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Cyber Insecurity Company

BYLINE: By JEANNE SHAHEEN.

Jeanne Shaheen is a Democratic senator from New Hampshire.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 940 words


MADBURY, N.H. -- The Kremlin hacked our presidential election, is waging a
cyberwar against our NATO allies and is probing opportunities to use similar
tactics against democracies worldwide. Why then are federal agencies, local and
state governments and millions of Americans unwittingly inviting this threat
into their cyber networks and secure spaces?

That threat is posed by antivirus and security software products created by
Kaspersky Lab, a Moscow-based company with extensive ties to Russian
intelligence. To close this alarming national security vulnerability, I am
advancing bipartisan legislation to prohibit the federal government from using
Kaspersky Lab software.

Kaspersky Lab insists that it has ''no inappropriate ties with any government.''
The company's products, which are readily available at big-box American
retailers, have more than 400 million users around the globe. And it provides
security services to major government agencies, including the Department of
State, the National Institutes of Health and, reportedly, the Department of
Defense.

But at a public hearing of the Senate Intelligence Committee in May, six top
intelligence officials, including the heads of the F.B.I., C.I.A. and National
Security Agency, were asked if they would be comfortable with Kaspersky Lab
software on their agencies' computers. Each answered with an unequivocal no. I
cannot disclose the classified assessments that prompted the intelligence
chiefs' response. But it is unacceptable to ignore questions about Kaspersky Lab
because the answers are shielded in classified materials. Fortunately, there is
ample publicly available information to help Americans understand the reasons
Congress has serious doubts about the company.

The firm's billionaire founder, Eugene Kaspersky, graduated from the elite
cryptology institute of the K.G.B., the Soviet Union's main intelligence
service, and was a software engineer for Soviet military intelligence. He
vehemently dismisses concerns that his company assists Russia's intelligence
agencies with cyberespionage and claims that he is the target of Cold War-style
conspiracy theories. But Kaspersky Lab has committed missteps that reveal the
true nature of its work with Russia's Federal Security Service, or F.S.B., a
successor to the K.G.B.

Bloomberg recently reported on emails from October 2009 in which Mr. Kaspersky
directs his staff to work on a secret project ''per a big request on the
Lubyanka side,'' a reference to the F.S.B.'s Moscow offices. The McClatchy news
service uncovered records of the official certification of Kaspersky Lab by
Russian military intelligence, which experts in this field call ''persuasive
public evidence'' of the company's links to the Russian government.

The challenge to United States national security grew last year when the company
launched a proprietary operating system designed for electrical grids,
pipelines, telecommunications networks and other critical infrastructure. The
Defense Intelligence Agency recently warned American companies that this
software could enable Russian government hackers to shut down critical systems.

Beyond the evidence of direct links between Mr. Kaspersky and the Russian
government, we cannot ignore the indirect links inherent in doing business in
the Russia of President Vladimir Putin, where oligarchs and tycoons have no
choice but to cooperate with the Kremlin. Steve Hall, former C.I.A. station
chief in Moscow, told a reporter: ''These guys' families, their well-being,
everything they have is in Russia.'' He added that he had no doubt that
Kaspersky Lab ''could be, if it's not already, under the control of Putin.''

The technical attributes of antivirus software amplify the dangers from
Kaspersky Lab. Mr. Kaspersky might be correct when he says that his antivirus
software does not contain a ''backdoor'': code that deliberately allows access
to vulnerable information.

But a backdoor is not necessary. When a user installs Kaspersky Lab software,
the company gets an all-access pass to every corner of a user's computer
network, including all applications, files and emails. And because Kaspersky's
servers are in Russia, sensitive United States data is constantly cycled through
a hostile country. Under Russian laws and according to Kaspersky Lab's
certification by the F.S.B., the company is required to assist the spy agency in
its operations, and the F.S.B. can assign agency officers to work at the
company. Russian law requires telecommunications service providers such as
Kaspersky Lab to install communications interception equipment that allows the
F.S.B. to monitor all of a company's data transmissions.

The Senate Armed Services Committee in June adopted my measure to prohibit the
Department of Defense from using Kaspersky Lab software, to limit fallout from
what I fear is already a huge breach of national security data. When broad
defense legislation comes before the Senate in the weeks ahead, I hope to amend
it to ban Kaspersky software from all of the federal government.

Americans were outraged by Russia's interference in our presidential election,
but a wider threat is Russia's doctrine of hybrid warfare, which includes
cybersabotage of critical American infrastructure from nuclear plants to
electrical grids. Kaspersky Lab, with an active presence in millions of computer
systems in the United States, is capable of playing a powerful role in such an
assault. It's time to put a stop to this threat to our national security.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/04/opinion/kapersky-russia-cybersecurity.html

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      September 7, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

How the U.S. Could Respond to Another North Korean Missile Test

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1160 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Trump has both military and nonmilitary options. Each has
its own downside.


South Korea's prime minister is saying publicly what American officials will
not: In the next few days, intelligence reports predict, North Korea will launch
another intercontinental ballistic missile.

"A special measure is urgently needed to stop their recklessness," the prime
minister, Lee Nak-yon, told defense ministers in Seoul on Thursday.

He may be wrong about the timing. But at the White House and the Pentagon, and
out in the Pacific, American officials are scrambling to decide how the United
States should react, particularly if the North Koreans demonstrate without doubt
that they can reach the American territory of Guam, or even a distance
equivalent to striking the West Coast of the United States.

Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis said this week that President Trump had been
presented with all military options and would meet threats with a "massive
military response" that would be "effective and overwhelming." Mr. Trump's aides
will not indicate whether fueling up another ICBM constitutes a threat, saying
they want to keep North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un, guessing.

The options for a nonmilitary response are becoming clear. On Wednesday, the
United States circulated to members of the United Nations Security Council a
draft resolution that would require all countries to cut off the North's oil and
all refined petroleum products; it would also allow the Security Council to
designate North Korean ships that could be boarded and inspected using "all
necessary measures," meaning whatever force was needed.

Ultimately, Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson has said, the idea is to force
North Korea to the negotiating table, but only after it begins to show a
willingness to stop testing and gradually disarm.

But as several of Mr. Trump's advisers have noted in recent days, United Nations
resolutions and negotiation strategies are for the medium term. How to handle
the launch is the immediate, urgent question. Here is a look at the president's
choices, and their downsides:

A Pre-emptive Strike

Mr. Trump told friends that he was proud of the moment in April when he ordered
an airstrike on an air base where the Syrian government was believed to have
launched chemical weapons attacks. The bombing unfolded during a visit to the
United States by President Xi Jinping of China, giving Mr. Trump the chance to
tell him about it during dinner and to send an unspoken message about what might
happen in North Korea if it, like Syria, crossed a "red line."

Technologically, it would not be difficult to destroy North Korea's missiles.
American warships off the Korean coast could easily hit the North Korean launch
site, which is near the Sea of Japan. They might even provide warning to the
North Koreans to evacuate the base.

But unlike the Syrians, the North Koreans know how to strike back -- on the
South Korean capital, Seoul, or American bases in Japan. Not long ago, President
Moon Jae-in of South Korea said he had a veto on American attacks on North
Korea, and promised "there will be no war" on the Korean Peninsula. (The
Americans have a different view, saying that when it comes to defending American
territory, no other country has veto rights.)

But destroying one missile would do nothing to the North's many others. And the
United States might have a difficult time proving that the missile was truly
threatening without proof of where it was aimed.

American officials could argue, though, that Mr. Kim offered an unsubtle hint
when he was photographed recently by state-run media examining maps of targets
in Guam, including an American air base that houses bombers that can reach North
Korea.

Shooting Down Over the Pacific

Never has there been a bigger moment for American missile defenses -- or greater
reluctance to use them.

In the vision the Pentagon has sold to Congress for decades, the warhead of an
adversary's missile could be tracked and destroyed in mid-flight or closer to
landing, known as the terminal phase. That's the event for which the United
States often trains, with decidedly mixed results.

If the North Korean missile's target was Guam, or the waters near it, shooting
it down would be an iffy proposition. The first shots would be taken, most
likely, by Aegis destroyers armed with what are called Standard missiles, the
most successful antimissile system in the American arsenal. But to make it work,
the destroyers would have to be in the right place, former senior officials say.
A Thaad missile defense system, like the ones the United States has placed in
South Korea, could also be employed.

If the missile were headed toward the continental United States, it could be
taken out by one of the antimissile systems in Alaska and California. In tests,
they hit the target about half the time, under perfect conditions.

"That's the approach I'd take," former Secretary of Defense William J. Perry
said during a visit to Washington a few months ago, as tensions mounted. "Ten
years ago I would advocated destroying it on the pad, but today that's too
risky. Intercepting it looks far more like a purely defensive measure."

But American officials are haunted by one question: What if they miss? It would
be obvious to all. That could leave Mr. Trump humiliated and call into question
the wisdom of antimissile defenses, which the United States has spent $300
billion to develop.

Let It Happen

This has been the approach thus far: Track the missile, determine quickly
whether it is a threat to a populated area and let it fall into the sea. That is
the most cautious response, and Mr. Trump could use it to press China and Russia
to drop their objections to more United Nations sanctions.

But it is not cost-free. In each test, the North Koreans get more information to
perfect their future launches. And after Mr. Trump warned that any threat to the
United States would be met with "fire and fury," he is acutely aware that making
no active response might make it look as if he had ignored his own red line,
exactly what he accused President Barack Obama of doing with Syria.

Other Options

In the cyber age, perhaps the most tempting solution for presidents is to reach
for America's most stealthy weapon. That is what Mr. Obama did in 2014, when he
ordered an acceleration of cyberattacks aimed at preventing launches.

But there is debate over the effectiveness of that operation and little visible
evidence that the cyberattacks, if continuing, are working now. Perhaps the
United States is waiting for the right moment, but as one former senior cyber
operator said, no target is harder than North Korea.

And the North Koreans know it.

PHOTO: North Korean soldiers gathered this week in Pyongyang for a rally to
honor nuclear scientists. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIM WON-JIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE --
GETTY IMAGES)

Related Articles


     ·    North Korean Nuclear Test Draws U.S. Warning of 'Massive Military
          Response'
     ·    North Korea's Nuclear Arsenal Threatens China's Path to Power
     ·    Trump Can't Stop Trade With North Korea. But He Does Have Options.


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 8, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Options for the U.S. If North Korea Tries Another Missile Launch

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1108 words


South Korea's prime minister is saying publicly what American officials will
not: In the next few days, intelligence reports predict, North Korea will launch
another intercontinental ballistic missile.

''A special measure is urgently needed to stop their recklessness,'' the prime
minister, Lee Nak-yon, told defense ministers in Seoul on Thursday.

He may be wrong about the timing. But at the White House and the Pentagon, and
out in the Pacific, American officials are scrambling to decide how the United
States should react, particularly if the North Koreans demonstrate without doubt
that they can reach the American territory of Guam, or even a distance
equivalent to striking the West Coast of the United States.

Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis said this week that President Trump had been
presented with all military options and would meet threats with a ''massive
military response'' that would be ''effective and overwhelming.'' Mr. Trump's
aides will not indicate whether fueling up another ICBM constitutes a threat,
saying they want to keep North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un, guessing.

The options for a nonmilitary response are becoming clear. On Wednesday, the
United States circulated to members of the United Nations Security Council a
draft resolution that would require all countries to cut off the North's oil and
all refined petroleum products; it would also allow the Security Council to
designate North Korean ships that could be boarded and inspected using ''all
necessary measures,'' meaning whatever force was needed.

Ultimately, Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson has said, the idea is to force
North Korea to the negotiating table, but only after it begins to show a
willingness to stop testing and gradually disarm.

But as several of Mr. Trump's advisers have noted in recent days, United Nations
resolutions and negotiation strategies are for the medium term. How to handle
the launch is the immediate, urgent question. Here is a look at the president's
choices, and their downsides:

A Pre-emptive Strike

Mr. Trump told friends that he was proud of the moment in April when he ordered
an airstrike on an air base where the Syrian government was believed to have
launched chemical weapons attacks. The bombing unfolded during a visit to the
United States by President Xi Jinping of China, giving Mr. Trump the chance to
tell him about it during dinner and to send an unspoken message about what might
happen in North Korea if it, like Syria, crossed a ''red line.''

Technologically, it would not be difficult to destroy North Korea's missiles.
American warships off the Korean coast could easily hit the North Korean launch
site, which is near the Sea of Japan. They might even provide warning to the
North Koreans to evacuate the base.

But unlike the Syrians, the North Koreans know how to strike back -- on the
South Korean capital, Seoul, or American bases in Japan. Not long ago, President
Moon Jae-in of South Korea said he had a veto on American attacks on North
Korea, and promised ''there will be no war'' on the Korean Peninsula. (The
Americans have a different view, saying that when it comes to defending American
territory, no other country has veto rights.)

But destroying one missile would do nothing to the North's many others. And the
United States might have a difficult time proving that the missile was truly
threatening without proof of where it was aimed.

American officials could argue, though, that Mr. Kim offered an unsubtle hint
when he was photographed recently by state-run media examining maps of targets
in Guam, including an American air base that houses bombers that can reach North
Korea.

Shooting Down Over the Pacific

Never has there been a bigger moment for American missile defenses -- or greater
reluctance to use them.

In the vision the Pentagon has sold to Congress for decades, the warhead of an
adversary's missile could be tracked and destroyed in mid-flight or closer to
landing, known as the terminal phase. That's the event for which the United
States often trains, with decidedly mixed results.

If the North Korean missile's target was Guam, or the waters near it, shooting
it down would be an iffy proposition. The first shots would be taken, most
likely, by Aegis destroyers armed with what are called Standard missiles, the
most successful antimissile system in the American arsenal. But to make it work,
the destroyers would have to be in the right place, former senior officials say.
A Thaad missile defense system, like the ones the United States has placed in
South Korea, could also be employed.

If the missile were headed toward the continental United States, it could be
taken out by one of the antimissile systems in Alaska and California. In tests,
they hit the target about half the time, under perfect conditions.

''That's the approach I'd take,'' former Secretary of Defense William J. Perry
said during a visit to Washington a few months ago, as tensions mounted. ''Ten
years ago I would advocated destroying it on the pad, but today that's too
risky. Intercepting it looks far more like a purely defensive measure.''

But American officials are haunted by one question: What if they miss? It would
be obvious to all. That could leave Mr. Trump humiliated and call into question
the wisdom of antimissile defenses, which the United States has spent $300
billion to develop.

Let It Happen

This has been the approach thus far: Track the missile, determine quickly
whether it is a threat to a populated area and let it fall into the sea. That is
the most cautious response, and Mr. Trump could use it to press China and Russia
to drop their objections to more United Nations sanctions.

But it is not cost-free. In each test, the North Koreans get more information to
perfect their future launches. And after Mr. Trump warned that any threat to the
United States would be met with ''fire and fury,'' he is acutely aware that
making no active response might make it look as if he had ignored his own red
line, exactly what he accused President Barack Obama of doing with Syria.

Other Options

In the cyber age, perhaps the most tempting solution for presidents is to reach
for America's most stealthy weapon. That is what Mr. Obama did in 2014, when he
ordered an acceleration of cyberattacks aimed at preventing launches.

But there is debate over the effectiveness of that operation and little visible
evidence that the cyberattacks, if continuing, are working now. Perhaps the
United States is waiting for the right moment, but as one former senior cyber
operator said, no target is harder than North Korea.

And the North Koreans know it.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/07/world/asia/north-korea-missile-test-us-option
s.html

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: North Korean soldiers gathered this week in Pyongyang for a
rally to honor nuclear scientists. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIM WON-JIN/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 10, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

They're Watching

BYLINE: By MEGAN O'GRADY

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Men's Fashion Magazine; Pg. 106

LENGTH: 2188 words


''Are we being watched?'' I ask Trevor Paglen at his central Berlin studio. The
prewar apartment was once surely the most surveilled place in the city, having
formerly belonged to his friend Laura Poitras, the director who helped Edward
Snowden go public. ''We're always being watched,'' he replies. The space is
filled with computers: Against one wall, an assistant writes code while another
researches data used to train artificial intelligence. Opposite is a long
credenza filled with art monographs and topped by a slightly sinister collection
of objets: a Dungeons & Dragons-style dragon trophy with a shield and saber; a
toy model of the stealth submarine U.S.S. Jimmy Carter; and ''Black Ops''
military patches, including some Paglen made himself. In one of them, dinosaurs
of the future look up in wonder at the derelict satellites left behind by
extinct humans.

There's a certain irony in the artist and author being based in the former
G.D.R., where citizens were once pressured into spying on one another for the
Stasi, which left behind miles of documents when the wall fell in 1989. Fifteen
years later, Paglen, who already had an M.F.A. from the School of the Art
Institute of Chicago, was working on his doctorate in geography at the
University of California, Berkeley, when he saw redacted portions of a map of
the Mojave Desert and began photographing classified military installations,
outfitting cameras with special lenses used in astrophotography. Ever since,
he's been documenting the ways in which humans have transformed the surface of
the Earth, and how we, in turn, have been transformed by those changes. (A
survey of his career will go on view at the Smithsonian next summer.) The
resulting photographs are vertiginous and strange, illuminating the increasingly
uneasy space between ourselves and our perceived world: a tiny,
is-it-a-seagull-no-it's-a-drone set against a Technicolor sunset; the dystopian
white radomes of a surveillance station tucked into an English pastoral; a
placid seascape, beneath which lies a key communications choke point. ''People
like to say that my work is about making the invisible visible, but that's a
misunderstanding,'' Paglen says. ''It's about showing what invisibility looks
like.''

Paglen was already well known for his surveillance pieces when Snowden leaked a
trove of NSA documents in 2013, but even he was stunned by the revelations --
both their magnitude and their specificity. ''I just sat, jaw dropped, for 14
hours straight, reading,'' says the 42-year-old, who is both affable and
ultra-intense, with blue eyes, close-shorn blond hair, motorcycle boots and a
kind of native restlessness. His footage of NSA bases was included in
''Citizenfour,'' Poitras's Academy Award-winning documentary about Snowden.

Paglen, who has lived in Berlin since 2015, travels frequently to give talks
about the many ways in which secrecy ''nourishes the worst excesses of power,''
as he wrote in one of his six books. He is one of art's more unusual figures, a
kind of adventurer-philosopher whose work is often conceptual and highly
technical, but can also be delightfully gonzo: He learned to scuba dive in order
to photograph fiber-optic internet cables snaking across the ocean floor. After
being questioned in Germany for shooting classified sites, he held a contest for
the best photos of ''landscapes of surveillance'' in that country. He made a
cube-shaped sculpture from irradiated glass sourced from Fukushima. He sent a
time capsule into deep space of images etched on a silicon disc chronicling
human history -- from the Lascaux cave paintings to political protests. For a
series he's including in his show opening this month at Metro Pictures gallery
in New York, Paglen is examining the automation of vision itself, and the way in
which the kinds of technologies used in facial recognition software,
self-driving cars and social media are creating an entirely new landscape of
pictures we never see, whose judgments we can't challenge. ''I don't have
fantasy projects,'' he tells me, ''because I'm stupid enough to think that you
can actually do this stuff.''

Paglen is currently at work on his most radical project yet. This spring, he
plans to send a satellite -- a reflective, faceted Mylar inflatable -- into low
orbit, where it will be visible at night from Earth for eight weeks or so,
literally twinkling like a diamond in the sky before it disintegrates in the
atmosphere. If all goes according to plan, it will be the world's first space
sculpture, unprecedented in contemporary art.

The Orbital Reflector, as Paglen calls it, seems at first glance almost
romantic, even deliberately naïve. It has no scientific purpose; it doesn't even
carry a camera. But under closer scrutiny, it can be seen as an elaboration of
the artist's ongoing thesis about art, technology and the impossibility of
separating either from a specific moment in time. ''It began as a thought
experiment in which we imagined that spaceflight was the opposite of what it
actually is,'' he explains over lunch at Soho House, at a table overlooking the
Berlin TV tower, with its iconic dome evoking Sputnik, Earth's first satellite.
In the American mind, space is a frontier: ''We imagine going to the moon and
planting a flag, going to an asteroid and mining, going to Mars and setting up a
colony,'' he says. ''And I think that expansionist mentality is very
self-destructive, especially given the kind of precarious relationship we now
have to the ecosystem here on Earth, because it allows us to imagine that Earth
is disposable.'' Billionaire entrepreneurs may dream of colonizing Mars, but in
fact, space is not going to save us. Aliens are not going to grant us
absolution. ''People expect this kind of profound cosmic altruism, which is very
religious in a way. Space is completely wrapped up with this kind of stuff,
which is what makes it interesting.''

The Orbital Reflector draws a clear parallel between contemporary art and space
exploration: the ideal of a purely visionary gesture, and the less starry
reality. While the satellite -- a small, five-kilogram box called a CubeSat,
from which a 100-foot-long inflatable structure will deploy -- has no commercial
or military purpose, its success depends on the very systems of power Paglen has
spent more than a decade critiquing. Built by an aerospace contractor called
Global Western, it, likely along with a governmental reconnaissance satellite,
will launch from California's Vandenberg Air Force Base on a Space X rocket into
low orbit. The project illustrates how unfeasible it would be to execute any
other way: For all the talk of civilian spaceflight, it remains a thoroughly
militarized domain.

Managing the project is Zia Oboodiyat, a retired engineer who ran large
communications satellite programs for the San Francisco-based Space
Systems/Loral. He first met Paglen in 2011 while the artist was working on the
time capsule; Oboodiyat oversaw the construction of the satellite the disc was
attached to and advocated for the project. When Paglen approached him about the
Orbital Reflector, Oboodiyat immediately recognized its potential lyricism.
''You don't have to be rich to see it; you don't have to be tall to see it,'' he
says. ''You don't have to be American. Anybody anywhere on Earth has equal
opportunity to see something that gives humanity hope.''

Paglen's partner in the project, the Reno-based Center for Art + Environment at
the Nevada Museum of Art, is fund-raising to cover the $1.3 million cost. The
center's collection includes extensive material from the giants of land art,
including Walter de Maria and Michael Heizer. The Orbital Reflector places
Paglen (for the moment, anyway) in this tradition -- an artist defying the laws
of nature and practicality in order to create a work larger than himself. ''It
is a high-risk proposition -- rockets do explode; CubeSats sometimes fail to
open,'' says David Walker, the museum's executive director. ''But it's exciting,
too, because we see outer space as the ultimate mirror for human aspiration.''
The Orbital Reflector is like the inevitable conclusion to the land art
movement; Paglen's work, like Heizer's, may start in the desert, but will
eventually leave the Earth entirely.

Paglen moved to Berlin partly for financial reasons -- ''I wanted to hire
people, not spend $10,000 a month on a studio in Sunset Park'' -- but seems to
have found a home amid the city's young expat artists and WikiLeaks types. At a
Vietnamese restaurant, he bumps into a hacktivist friend who looks all of 17.
''These guys have guts,'' Paglen notes, after saying hello. ''He was way up the
butthole of the F.B.I. I probably shouldn't talk about it.''

Paglen doesn't describe himself as a dissident -- ''I'm as American as it gets,
a product of these contradictions'' -- but it's impossible not to connect the
themes in his work to a childhood spent on military bases. His father was an Air
Force ophthalmologist; his mother, one of the first female Episcopalian priests.
In third grade, in the San Francisco Bay Area, Paglen got in trouble for
skipping school to sneak into lectures on dinosaurs at Berkeley -- the same
lecture halls in which he'd later be working toward his doctorate. The family
moved to Wiesbaden, Germany, when he was 12, and he spent two years in a German
school in a nearby village, where, as a foreign student, he was ostracized.
''When you're not the beneficiary of privilege, suddenly you see it for what it
is,'' he says.

An ongoing theme in Paglen's more satirical work is the puerile machismo of
military culture's symbology and nomenclature, ''the collective unconscious of
this world of secrecy and violence,'' as he puts it. One afternoon, Hanna
Mattes, who oversees Paglen's studio and helps manage its external production,
is consulting with the artist on one of the sculptures he's making for the fall
show: an enormous dragon inspired by the small trophy in his studio. The trophy,
Paglen explains, is presented to members of the 315th Network Warfare Squadron
upon retirement. Paglen's version will be a 12-foot sculpture inscribed in
fetishistic detail, like medieval armor for the cyber age. The best way to
preserve the details, they conclude, will be to 3D-print the mold in four
sections, lightly polishing them to remove any marks. Another concern is the
weight: The finished dragon, cast in bronze, will weigh two tons. Paglen
mentions a crane. Mattes looks at him. ''Maybe we should just paint the form for
the exhibition.''

The dragon will be included in the 2018 Smithsonian exhibit. This year's Metro
Pictures exhibit will showcase Paglen's ongoing work with different kinds of
artificial intelligence technologies, taking viewers down a rabbit hole of
imagery, from the now quaint-seeming pictures first made by humans in the early
1990s to train military facial recognition software, to the kind of ''invisible
images'' computers hallucinate for themselves -- say, when we post an image on
Facebook -- in order to make sense of the external world. ''This is how an A.I.
brain sees a shark,'' Paglen says back in his studio, looking at a weirdly
beautiful Abstract Expressionist-like swath of blues and grays that results from
a computer creating a visual amalgam of thousands of images of the animal in
water. The exhibit invites critical questions about the extent to which
artificial intelligence algorithms, with their potential for programmed-in bias,
are governing our reality. It's also aesthetically provocative: ''Man,'' a
distillation of figurative imagery, vaguely recalls a Francis Bacon portrait;
''Rainbow'' -- a blend of cosmic-like rainbows -- a Dali-esque dreamscape.
''It's like I'm relearning art history,'' Paglen says.

So how does an artist who has devoted his career to empirical scrutiny of those
things that will shape our future, from artificial intelligence to the
annexation of space, respond rationally to a time in which reason itself -- when
it comes to political discourse, at least -- seems to be increasingly
endangered? ''Those are foundational questions for me,'' Paglen says. ''Nothing
that you make in the world exists in isolation from the social and political and
ecological dimensions of it.'' He hasn't given up on art's ability to spark the
imagination -- and to make us see the things we might prefer not to. The Orbital
Reflector presented an opportunity to ''get messy . . . to make something that's
beautiful, but also self-contradictory, and tries to challenge common sense.''
It's Carl Sagan meets Dada for a new millennium's inhumanity.

As we talk, the sky darkens in Berlin, and the first blinking glimmerings
appear. ''For me, there's something very romantic about going and looking at the
stars and trying to photograph spy satellites,'' Paglen says. ''Ultimately, what
it comes down to is looking at the sky and trying to understand something about
one's place in history. People have been doing this for tens of thousands of
years. This is kind of a variation on that. What if we could imagine a sky that
wasn't out to get us, you know?''




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/29/t-magazine/art/trevor-paglen.html

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Paglen, photographed in Berlin with a 3D model of his Orbital
Reflector satellite.
a selection of Paglen's works. The artist uses various techniques to capture the
surveillance state, including long-range astronomical photography to look at
objects in the earth's orbit such as drones and spacecrafts. He employs
so-called limit-telephotography to capture classified military bases from great
distances and has learned to scuba dive to photograph internet cables on the
ocean floor (bottom row, far left).
An image of a Soyuz rocket launch in Kazakhstan, which Paglen sent into space on
a communications satellite in 2012 as part of his series ''The Last Pictures.''
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANINA WICK
TREVOR PAGLEN, ''UNTITLED (REAPER DRONE),'' 2010, C-PRINT, COURTESY OF THE
ARTIST AND METRO PICTURES, NEW YORK
TREVOR PAGLEN, ''DEAD MILITARY NAVIGATION SATELLITE (COSMOS 985) NEAR THE DISK
OF THE MOON,'' 2012, C-PRINT, COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND METRO PICTURES, NEW
YORK
TREVOR PAGLEN, ''SINGLETON/SBW ASS-R1 AND THREE UNIDENTIFIED SPACECRAFT (SPACE
BASED WIDE AREA SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM
USA 32),'' 2012, C-PRINT, COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND METRO PICTURES, NEW YORK
TREVOR PAGLEN, ''BAHAMAS INTERNET CABLE SYSTEM (BICS-1), NSA/GCHQ-TAPPED
UNDERSEA CABLE, ATLANTIC OCEAN,'' 2015, C-PRINT, COURTESY THE ARTIST AND METRO
PICTURES, NEW YORK
TREVOR PAGLEN, ''LACROSSE/ONYX II PASSING THROUGH DRACO (RADAR IMAGING
RECONNAISSANCE SATELLITE
USA 69),'' 2007, C-PRINT, COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND METRO PICTURES, NEW YORK
TREVOR PAGLEN, ''NSA/GCHQ SURVEILLANCE BASE, BUDE, CORNWALL, UK,'' 2014, PIGMENT
PRINT, COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND METRO PICTURES, NEW YORK)
An image of a Soyuz rocket launch in Kazakhstan, which Paglen sent into space on
a communications satellite in 2012 as part of his series "The Last Pictures."
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TREVOR PAGLEN
''THE LAST PICTURES,'' 2012, SOYUZ FG ROCKET LAUNCH, BAIKONUR COSMODROME,
KAZAKHSTAN.
 COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND METRO PICTURES, NEW YORK)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      September 18, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

Cuomo Proposes Stricter Regulations for Credit Reporting Agencies

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 644 words



HIGHLIGHT: The governor said the Equifax breach was a wake-up call that stronger
laws were needed to protect consumers' personal information.


Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, responding to the massive security breach at Equifax, will
propose regulations on Monday that subject credit reporting agencies to the same
rules as banks and insurances companies in order to protect consumers.

The proposal would require companies like Equifax, Experian and TransUnion to
register with the state's Department of Financial Services, whose superintendent
will have broad powers to deny or revoke their authorization to do business in
the state, or to sue, if a company fails to comply or engages in prohibited
practices deemed unfair, deceptive or predatory. Senior administration officials
said the proposed regulations would, in effect, make it illegal for unregistered
credit reporting agencies to compile reports on consumers in New York or to
collect fees from banks for their services.

The move comes after Equifax, based in Atlanta, announced last week that hackers
had gained access to sensitive personal information for 143 million consumers
and made off with over 200,000 credit card numbers. The episode highlighted gaps
in regulation that allow credit reporting agencies to warehouse consumer
information like names, addresses and Social Security numbers without rigorous
oversight for how that data is collected, protected and used.

Mr. Cuomo said in a statement that the breach was "a wake-up call," and added
that he hoped the regulations will be replicated nationwide.

"A person's credit history affects virtually every part of their lives and we
will not sit idly by while New Yorkers remain unprotected from cyber attacks due
to lax security," he said. "Oversight of credit reporting agencies will help
ensure that personal information is less vulnerable to cyberattacks and other
nefarious acts in the new frontier of a rapidly changing digital world."

Under the regulations, credit reporting agencies must register by Feb. 1 each
year, using forms that require them to list all officers who will be responsible
for compliance. The companies will also be required to comply with cybersecurity
regulations that went into effect this spring for financial services providers.

The cybersecurity regulations require financial institutions to implement a
program for protecting consumer data. The companies must also appoint or
designate a chief information security officer and report breaches, attempted or
successful, to the regulator.

Administration officials said they expected the proposal to be adopted within 60
days, after a public comment period has ended.

The information that credit reporting agencies collect hold the keys to
Americans' bank accounts and medical histories. Although the companies sit on a
wealth of information, they are not subject to the kind of constant monitoring
and auditing that the government uses to secure banks and insurance companies.

The risks were highlighted by the Equifax breach, which led two senior
executives responsible for security in information technology to retire on
Friday. The company is investigating the scope and cause of the intrusion.

The hackers, who have not been identified, exploited a known security loophole
in software that Equifax uses on its website, prompting questions about why the
company did not make a fix that could have prevented the attack.

Equifax is facing legal threats and backlash from consumers, investors and
policy makers. Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman is investigating the
breach, and at least two class-action lawsuits are pending against the company,
whose shares have tumbled 35 percent since Sept. 7.

PHOTO: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo will propose new regulations for credit reporting
agencies in the wake of the huge Equifax hack. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE ETHEREDGE
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Equifax Breach: Two Executives Step Down as Investigation Continues
     ·    Equifax Breach Prompts Scrutiny, but New Rules May Not Follow


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cuomo Offers Stricter Rules For Credit Reporting Firms

BYLINE: By ASHLEY SOUTHALL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 594 words


Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, responding to the massive security breach at Equifax, will
propose regulations on Monday that subject credit reporting agencies to the same
rules as banks and insurances companies in order to protect consumers.

The proposal would require companies like Equifax, Experian and TransUnion to
register with the state's Department of Financial Services, whose superintendent
will have broad powers to deny or revoke their authorization to do business in
the state, or to sue, if a company fails to comply or engages in prohibited
practices deemed unfair, deceptive or predatory. Senior administration officials
said the proposed regulations would, in effect, make it illegal for unregistered
credit reporting agencies to compile reports on consumers in New York or to
collect fees from banks for their services.

The move comes after Equifax, based in Atlanta, announced last week that hackers
had gained access to sensitive personal information for 143 million consumers
and made off with over 200,000 credit card numbers. The episode highlighted gaps
in regulation that allow credit reporting agencies to warehouse consumer
information like names, addresses and Social Security numbers without rigorous
oversight for how that data is collected, protected and used.

Mr. Cuomo said in a statement that the breach was ''a wake-up call,'' and added
that he hoped the regulations will be replicated nationwide.

''A person's credit history affects virtually every part of their lives and we
will not sit idly by while New Yorkers remain unprotected from cyber attacks due
to lax security,'' he said. ''Oversight of credit reporting agencies will help
ensure that personal information is less vulnerable to cyberattacks and other
nefarious acts in the new frontier of a rapidly changing digital world.''

Under the regulations, credit reporting agencies must register by Feb. 1 each
year, using forms that require them to list all officers who will be responsible
for compliance. The companies will also be required to comply with cybersecurity
regulations that went into effect this spring for financial services providers.

The cybersecurity regulations require financial institutions to implement a
program for protecting consumer data. The companies must also appoint or
designate a chief information security officer and report breaches, attempted or
successful, to the regulator.

Administration officials said they expected the proposal to be adopted within 60
days, after a public comment period has ended.

The information that credit reporting agencies collect hold the keys to
Americans' bank accounts and medical histories. Although the companies sit on a
wealth of information, they are not subject to the kind of constant monitoring
and auditing that the government uses to secure banks and insurance companies.

The risks were highlighted by the Equifax breach, which led two senior
executives responsible for security in information technology to retire on
Friday. The company is investigating the scope and cause of the intrusion.

The hackers, who have not been identified, exploited a known security loophole
in software that Equifax uses on its website, prompting questions about why the
company did not make a fix that could have prevented the attack.

Equifax is facing legal threats and backlash from consumers, investors and
policy makers. Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman is investigating the
breach, and at least two class-action lawsuits are pending against the company,
whose shares have tumbled 35 percent since Sept. 7.




URL:

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo will propose new regulations for credit
reporting agencies in the wake of the huge Equifax hack. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE
ETHEREDGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     September 20, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Expect the Inquisition;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1723 words



HIGHLIGHT: The censors and militias of the new Catholic civil war.


In the Catholic Church of Pope Francis, it is dangerous to be too conservative.
Professor Josef Seifert, a distinguished Catholic philosopher from Austria,
discovered this recently, when he was dismissed from his position at the
University of Granada in Spain by the local archbishop.

Seifert's sin was to have raised questions about "Amoris Laetitia," the
controversial papal exhortation on marriage, whose ambiguous statements on
divorce and remarriage the philosopher described as a potential "theological
atom bomb" for Catholic moral teaching. Such stark criticism of a sitting pope
"damages the communion of the church," Granada's archbishop wrote, while
retiring the professor from his academic post.

Meanwhile, in the Catholic Church of Pope Francis it is also dangerous to be too
liberal. Father James Martin, a famous American Jesuit author, discovered this
last weekend, when he was disinvited from a talk at the Theological College of
the Catholic University of America, and had another talk in London rescheduled,
after an internet campaign by traditionalist priests and laypeople.

Father Martin is the author of a new book, "Building a Bridge," urging dialogue
and reconciliation between the Catholic Church and gay people, and his critics
charge him with effectively denying church teaching on sexuality (a charge that
he denies). The institutions did not endorse the charge; they simply decided to
duck the controversy.

After the Martin cancellations, Professor Massimo Faggioli of Villanova, a
frequent commentator on Catholic matters, wrote a piece bemoaning the rise of
conservative "Catholic cyber-militias." These self-appointed inquisitors,
Faggioli lamented, are resisting Pope Francis's reforms by imposing "a new kind
of censorship," using methods that threaten to subvert all the normal lines of
authority within the church.

Professor Faggioli's sudden concern about online campaigns was interesting to
me, because it was just a short while ago that the professor was himself busy
organizing an online campaign against myself -- which urged my employer to
censor my writings on Pope Francis and Catholicism, because of my lack of
theological credentials and my putatively incorrect opinions on the doctrine of
the faith.

But of course Professor Faggioli felt justified in organizing his particular
militia, because he apparently felt that I had previously tried to get him fired
during a waspish exchange on Twitter (it's inquisitions all the way down, I'm
afraid), when I suggested that his views on the potential evolution of
Catholicism might be usefully acknowledged as a heresy.

Threatening the professor's employment was never my intention, and since his
current academic job seems impressive and my own job has been happily secure, we
both seem to have come through the auto-da-fe unscathed. And in the interest of
securing some rare common ground, I think his analysis of what is happening to
Catholic life under Francis -- the rise of informal inquisitions, the paralysis
of Catholic institutions, the failure of normal ecclesiastical structures --
contains some important truth.

Where he's wrong is in suggesting that this is just a right-wing Catholic
phenomenon, and that it's just an unfortunate, internet-abetted byproduct of
Pope Francis's attempted liberalization and decentralization.

In fact the conflicting inquisitions, liberal and conservative, are the
all-but-inevitable result of the pope's decisions to stir the church's tensions
into civil war again, and then to fight for the liberal side using ambiguous
statements and unofficial interventions rather than the explicit powers of his
office. Indeed, when Professor Faggioli complains about a "Catholic social media
that has completely bypassed" the way the "Catholic Church has worked for
centuries," he might just as easily be describing Pope Francis, whose
personalized style has made the lines of authority within the church maddeningly
unclear.

On issues large and small, Francis has decentralized authority informally while
retaining all the formal powers of his office and encouraged theological
envelope-pushing without changing the official boundaries of what counts as
Catholic teaching and what does not. This has effectively created two different
versions of that teaching -- the one on the books versus the one that the pope
offers in his winks and nods -- to which different Catholics can appeal.

In this environment, anyone who wishes to know what the pope really thinks is
better off ignoring official Vatican offices and instead listening to the
coterie of papal advisers who take to Twitter to snipe against his critics.

But even that kind of Kremlinology doesn't completely clarify the pope's
intentions, which is why Francis's liberalizing allies are frequently impatient
with him and sometimes get out ahead of his intentions and find themselves
reined in.

As a result the only Catholic certainty now is uncertainty. Under Francis the
church's teaching on communion for remarried divorcees varies from country to
country and diocese to diocese, and even papal admirers can't seem to agree on
what the official Vatican position entails. The church's teaching on suicide now
varies in different parts of Canada, and since the Vatican seems to accept that
variation a Belgian religious order has pushed things even further, insisting
that it intends to actually carry out assisted suicide at its hospitals. (This
Rome seems to regard as a bridge too far -- but the Belgians are not submitting
quietly.)

Both Professor Seifert and Father Martin are more personalized cases in point.
In one sense, by critiquing Pope Francis's tacit shift on communion for
remarried divorcees, the Austrian professor was simply defending the official
teaching of past popes and church councils -- none of which has been overturned.
So one can say (with his conservative defenders) that Seifert was effectively
dismissed from a Catholic university for too much Catholic orthodoxy.

But at the same time (as those same conservatives might have argued under
Benedict XVI and John Paul II), the pope is supposed to have the last word on
what orthodoxy entails, and directly criticizing a sitting pontiff is the sort
of thing that ought to put a high-profile Catholic post at risk. Perhaps Seifert
should have expected the inquisition.

Likewise with the popular and prolific Father Martin, whose book on
homosexuality and the church has been praised by some cardinals and critiqued by
others, in each case for understandable reasons -- since it offers an often-wise
critique of Catholic unkindness and indifference toward gay people, joined to a
certain ambiguity about the church's teaching on chastity and marriage.

Meanwhile on other questions, less hot-button but also crucial to Catholicism --
the nature of communion, the relationship between Jesus' divine and human
natures, the possibility that God might actually want a believer to commit a
serious sin if it relieves suffering -- Martin has lately asserted a number of
views that seem at odds with traditional teaching. As a result, even before the
disinvitations there were frequent guerrilla battles over Martin's work on
Twitter, in which priests from the rival Dominican order sought to correct the
Jesuit's forays.

And as with Seifert you can understand both sides. Martin's critics are correct
that he seems to be staking out positions that Rome deemed heterodox not that
long ago. At the same time Martin has a point that in a hierarchical church it
is his superiors, not online critics or other orders, who decide whether he's a
priest in good standing -- and that his ultimate superior, the pope, is
seemingly open to experiments, with the limits studiously unclear.

This is a situation calculated to make everyone feel self-righteous and
self-justified, to complain about toxic rhetoric while flinging insults
frequently themselves.

It also places Catholic institutions -- schools and parishes and universities
and diocesan shops -- in a very difficult position. The temptation, already
evident, will be to shy away from conflict, to self-segregate theologically
(liberal speakers to liberal campuses and parishes, vice versa for
conservatives) and avoid even acknowledging the conflict.

But this approach is foolish. When the Supreme Pontiff is allowing argument to
flourish and public division to increase, it does no good for institutions to
pretend that none of this is happening -- as though the average Catholic will
somehow not notice that the leaders of the church are increasingly opposed to
one another. (The poison of online debate is itself partially a reaction to this
public pretense of tranquillity.)

Instead the only serious course is to invite serious argument and encourage
respectful debate. Have the Dominicans and Jesuits bring their online debates
into university auditoriums and parish halls; let Catholic students and
laypeople understand the stakes. Invite Father Martin to speak on controversial
topics; then invite his critics to answer him. Let the bishops who clashed
behind closed doors at the synods on the family address one another in public
and in person. I myself am only a train ride away from Professor Faggioli's
Villanova and would happily allow him to educate me on my theological
deficiencies on a platform of his choosing.

It is hard to know what will come of this era's Catholic crisis. Can the church
really become Anglican, with sharply different Christian theologies coexisting
permanently under a latitudinarian umbrella? Is the period of dueling
inquisitions and digital militias a prelude to the sweeping liberal victory that
many Catholics felt that John Paul and Benedict cruelly forestalled? Will the
pendulum swing back, as Francis's nervous allies fear, leaving his legacy to be
buried by young traditionalists and a reactionary pontiff in the style of HBO's
"Young Pope"?

Faith gives some observers certain answers, but natural reason counsels doubt.
Regardless, firings and cancellations and self-protective censorship will not
make the conflict any less painful in the end. There is no way forward save
through controversy. Postpone the inquisitions; schedule arguments instead.

I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@DouthatNYT).

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     September 20, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

S.E.C. Says It Was a Victim of Computer Hacking Last Year

BYLINE: ALEXANDRA STEVENSON and CARLOS TEJADA

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 805 words



HIGHLIGHT: The commission said the attackers could have exploited private
information for trading purposes.


HONG KONG -- The top securities regulator in the United States said Wednesday
night that its computer system had been hacked last year, giving the attackers
private information that could have been exploited for trading.

The disclosure, coming on the heels of a data breach at Equifax, the major
consumer credit reporting firm, is likely to intensify concerns over potential
computer vulnerabilities lurking among pillars of the American financial system.

The Securities and Exchange Commission said in a statement that it was still
investigating the breach of its corporate filing system. The system, called
Edgar, is used by companies to make legally required filings to the agency.

The agency said it learned in August that an incident detected last year "was
exploited and resulted in access to nonpublic information." It said the security
vulnerability used in the attack had been patched shortly after it was
discovered.

The hacking, it said, "may have provided the basis for illicit gain through
trading."

In its statement, the agency did not release further details of the attack,
including whether it had resulted in disclosure of any information about
particular companies.

The Equifax breach, which focused on a database that contained the personal
information of 143 million Americans, focused attention on the vulnerabilities
of private companies that handle sensitive personal financial information. The
S.E.C. sometimes handles its own sensitive information, including disclosures
that companies are allowed to keep away from investors. Such information could
give traders an edge.

The S.E.C. may have presented a ripe target.

The Government Accountability Office in July released a 27-page report that
found deficiencies in the S.E.C.'s information systems that "limited the
effectiveness of the S.E.C's controls for protecting confidentiality, integrity
and availability." It also found that the S.E.C. did not always encrypt
information and had failed to fully implement recommendations from the G.A.O.
that would help detect intrusion.

In its response, the S.E.C. said it agreed with the recommendations of the
report but added that it had implemented a number of its suggestions.

The S.E.C.'s new director, WalterJ.Clayton, has said the agency would work to
improve its cybersecurity protections.

"Information sharing and coordination are essential for regulators to assess
potential cyberthreats and respond to a major cyberattack, should one arise," he
said in July in a speech. "We at the S.E.C. are working closely with our fellow
financial regulators to improve our ability to receive critical information and
alerts and react to cyberthreats."

[Video: Walter J. Clayton, the director of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, discussing cybersecurity issues in July in New York. Watch on
YouTube.]

If the data stolen from the S.E.C.'s Edgar system was used by hackers to trade
in stocks and reap profits, it would represent the latest in a new area of
concern for regulators in the United States -- an area in which the underbelly
of the internet is joining forces with the darker corners of Wall Street.

In 2015, the S.E.C. brought the first insider trading case of its kind against a
group of rogue stock traders who used hackers in Ukraine to get nonpublic
information about companies. Insider trading refers to buying or selling of a
stock by a trader who has inside knowledge that the investing public is not
aware of, creating an unfair advantage. Typically, insider trading cases concern
corporate insiders who leak information to friends, family or business
associates in return for a personal benefit.

In this case, the men were accused of using hackers to break into companies like
Business Wire and PR Newswire over a period of five years to steal 150,000
not-yet-public news releases of publicly traded companies. Federal prosecutors
alleged that 32 traders and hackers reaped more than $100 million in illegal
proceeds in a scheme so brazen that the traders would send shopping lists of
corporate news releases for sneak-peeking purposes to the hackers in order to
place trades.

The agency said it did not believe that the breach had involved personal
information or that it would jeopardize the agency's activities.

"Cybersecurity is critical to the operations of our markets, and the risks are
significant and, in many cases, systemic," said Mr. Clayton, the agency's
chairman, in the statement. "We must be vigilant. We also must recognize -- in
both the public and private sectors, including the S.E.C. -- that there will be
intrusions, and that a key component of cyber risk management is resilience and
recovery."

Related Articles


     ·    Why the Supreme Court May Review the S.E.C.'s In-House Judges
     ·    Despite S.E.C. Warning, Wave of Initial Coin Offerings Grows
     ·    Craig Carton, Sports Radio Host, Is Accused of Ponzi Scheme


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     September 20, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

The Contradiction Buried in Trump's Iran and North Korea Policies

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1459 words



HIGHLIGHT: The president calls the Iran nuclear deal an "embarrassment," but
ending it would destroy his credibility in any talks over North Korea's arsenal.



Correction Appended

President Trump is now fully engaged in two nuclear confrontations, one with
Iran over a nuclear accord he finds an "embarrassment" and the other with North
Korea that is forcing the Pentagon to contemplate for the first time in decades
what a resumption of the Korean War might look like.

The dynamics of those cases are entirely different, but they are also oddly
interdependent. If Mr. Trump makes good on his threat to pull out of the 2015
nuclear agreement with Iran, how will he then convince the North Korean leader,
Kim Jong-un, that America will honor the commitment to integrate North Korea
into the world community if only it disarms -- the demand Mr. Trump made from
the podium of the United Nations.

The fiercest defenders of the Iran deal argue that Mr. Trump's team has not
thought about how his threats to Tehran resonate 4,000 miles away in Pyongyang,
especially since Iran has held up its end of the agreement.

"If the president pulls back on the Iran deal, given Iranian compliance" with
its terms, said Wendy R. Sherman, the chief negotiator of the accord, "it will
make diplomacy on North Korea almost impossible because U.S. credibility will be
shot."

Presumably, the United States would have to make some concessions to North Korea
in return for limits on its nuclear program. But why negotiate with the United
States if this president or the next one can just throw out any agreement?

Mr. Trump's aides see the problem and in an entirely different way.

The lesson that the North Koreans would take away from the Iran deal, they say,
is that the United States can be rolled. The Iran deal is not a permanent
solution to the Iranian nuclear problem, they argue, but just a temporary fix.
After 15 years, many of the limits on the production of nuclear material will be
lifted, even if inspection requirements remain.

"If we're going to stick with the Iran deal there has to be changes made to it,"
Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson said on Fox News on Tuesday. "The sunset
provisions simply is not a sensible way forward," he added, arguing that they
amount to "kicking the can down the road."

Mr. Trump's argument goes further. In interviews with The New York Times last
year, he criticized the deal as failing to address Iran's missile capability,
the detention of American citizens and Tehran's support of terrorist groups
around the Middle East. He seeks something more akin to a "grand bargain" with
Iran, something the nuclear deal was never intended to be.

Mr. Tillerson will have an opportunity to make these arguments on Wednesday at a
meeting of all the signatories of the Iran deal, including his Iranian
counterpart, Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif. Mr. Zarif used to talk or
email every few days with John Kerry, the American secretary of state who
negotiated the deal.

In an interview this summer, Mr. Zarif said he and Mr. Tillerson had never
spoken, and the American-educated Iranian diplomat left little doubt on Tuesday
what he thought of Mr. Trump's address to the United Nations General Assembly,
in which the president called the Iranian leadership a "corrupt dictatorship"
that masks itself as a democracy.

"Trump's ignorant hate speech belongs in medieval times -- not the 21st Century
UN -- unworthy of a reply," Mr. Zarif tweeted. (While they will be in the same
room, it is not clear if Mr. Zarif and Mr. Tillerson will talk directly.)

In the end, this entire argument may be moot. China and Russia have said they
have no interest in renegotiating the deal. Britain and France have said they
would be willing to engage Iran in a negotiation over an addendum to the accord,
but the Iranians have rejected that out of hand. And the White House has never
said what, if anything, it was willing to give up in return for renegotiating
the terms.

What is missing from this debate is obvious: If Mr. Tillerson extracted anything
resembling the Iran agreement from North Korea, it would mark a historic
breakthrough, one any of the four previous American presidents would rightly
have celebrated.

The accord that Mr. Trump finds so lacking would prevent Iran from assembling
the makings of a bomb for a year or so, by the best estimates of American
national nuclear laboratories, which advised the negotiators. By comparison,
North Korea already has an arsenal of 20 to 60 fully formed weapons, depending
on whose intelligence estimates one believes.

In the best case scenario, some administration officials say, the Trump
administration would be lucky to win a nuclear "freeze" that keeps North Korea
from conducting more nuclear and missile tests.

But that would enshrine the North Korean nuclear arsenal at something around its
current level, an outcome Mr. Trump and his national security adviser, H.R.
McMaster, have already rejected as intolerable. And it is possible that the
North is even more capable than we know, some experts say.

Michael J. Morell, a former deputy director of the C.I.A., recently argued that
the North most likely already had everything it needed to mount an attack on the
mainland United States - and that the only solution is classic containment.

"I believe that North Korea may have the capability today to successfully
conduct a nuclear attack on the United States," he wrote recently, saying that
Washington was relying on flawed logic in its assumption that Pyongyang did not
possess the technology needed to deliver a warhead to Los Angeles or Chicago
simply because it had yet to demonstrate the mastery of those technologies.

If Mr. Morell is right -- and no one will know until the North Korean regime
collapses and inspectors can assess the extent of its technology -- Mr. Trump
faces a problem far more urgent than the one that confronted President Barack
Obama in Iran.

Over the next few months, Mr. Trump must decide whether it is truly worth the
many risks of war to force the North to disarm, as he has seemed to suggest
several times, including in his United Nations speech, or whether he can
acquiesce to Cold War-style containment.

So while Mr. Tillerson presses the Europeans to add restrictions on Iran, Mr.
Trump and the Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, will be focusing on pressuring
China to cut off Pyongyang's supplies of oil and gas.

Mr. Mnuchin says he has already drawn up a list of potential sanctions on
Chinese banks, barring those that deal with North Korea from also dealing with
the United States. (It is less likely that Mr. Trump will make good on his
tweeted threat to cut off all trade with any country that does business with
North Korea, which would exact a huge cost on the American economy.)

But few expect that pressure campaign to work, and there is already discussion
of Plan B. Most of those scenarios are in the category of what Daniel Russel,
the former assistant secretary of state for Asia, described to the news site
Axios as "a sharp, short 'warning shot'" that could change Mr. Kim's calculus
about the American willingness to use force.

It is not clear what a warning shot might look like. Inside the Pentagon,
military officials say they are looking at several options, including cyber
attacks that could turn off Pyongyang's lights and shooting down North Korean
test launches -- though Defense Secretary Jim Mattis noted on Monday that the
United States had avoided doing so as long as the missiles looked as though they
would fall harmlessly into the sea.

Mr. Mattis, who previously said a war with North Korea would be "tragic on an
unbelievable scale," now says he is confident that there are military approaches
that do not risk retaliation against Seoul. The South Korean capital is 35 miles
from of the Demilitarized Zone that separates the two countries, well within
range of thousands of pieces of North Korean artillery.

Reporters asked how that might be possible. New technology? A way of finding and
silencing North Korea's mortars?

"I won't go into detail," Mr. Mattis said.

Follow David E. Sanger on Twitter @SangerNYT.


Correction: September 20, 2017, Wednesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: In an earlier
version of this article, a picture caption referred incorrectly to the North
Korean ambassador shown during a session of the General Assembly. The
ambassador, Ja Song-nam, was pictured before -- not during -- President Trump's
speech.

PHOTO: President Trump threatened to "totally destroy" North Korea and called
Iran a "rogue nation" during his speech at the United Nations General Assembly
on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Threatens 'Fire and Fury' Against North Korea if It Endangers
          U.S.
     ·    With Combative Style and Epithets, Trump Takes America First to the
          U.N.
     ·    In North Korea, 'Surgical Strike' Could Spin Into 'Worst Kind of
          Fighting'


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     September 21, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Iran Foreign Minister: If U.S. Wants New Nuclear Concessions, We Do, Too

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER and RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: WORLD; middleeast

LENGTH: 1034 words



HIGHLIGHT: The 2015 agreement cannot be selectively "revisited" to address
American complaints, Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif told The New York
Times.


Iran's foreign minister rejected on Thursday any new negotiation with the United
States over extending the length or conditions of the 2015 nuclear accord,
saying that Iran would talk about changing the accord only if every concession
it made -- including giving up nuclear fuel -- were reconsidered.

In an interview, the foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, said that would
mean Iran would retake possession of the stockpile of nuclear fuel it shipped to
Russia when the accord took effect.

"Are you prepared to return to us 10 tons of enriched uranium?," Mr. Zarif said
of the relinquished stockpile -- one of Iran's biggest concessions -- about 98
percent of the country's nuclear fuel holdings.

Under the agreement, Iran retains an amount of enriched uranium too small to
make a single atomic weapon.

Mr. Zarif, who was educated in the United States, spoke with reporters,
columnists and editorial writers for The New York Times, a day after he
conferred privately with counterparts from the six countries that negotiated the
deal with Iran -- Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the United States
-- on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly meetings in New York.

It was the first time Mr. Zarif had met with Secretary of State Rex W.
Tillerson, who has said the United States wants to "revisit" what he described
as flaws in the accord even as he acknowledged Iran is abiding by its terms.

Mr. Zarif, who negotiated details of the Iran accord with then-Secretary of
State John Kerry, dismissed the Trump administration as "seriously ill-informed"
about the limits on Iran contained in the deal.

He described President Trump's speech to the United Nationson Tuesday, in which
Mr. Trump called the nuclear accord a one-sided embarrassment to the United
States that he may abandon, as "absurd."

What the administration really wanted, Mr. Zarif said, was to keep the Iranian
concessions while trying to extract more from Iran -- but with no new
concessions from the United States or other parties. That kind of position, he
said, contradicted the premise of any negotiated deal.

"By definition, a deal is not perfect, because in any deal you have to give and
take," he said. "Otherwise you won't have a deal."

He further dismissed the idea of an addendum to the agreement to address the
Trump administration's objections, an idea that American officials say has been
floated within the administration as a possible diplomatic way forward.

"Why should we discuss an addendum?," Mr. Zarif said. "If you want to have an
addendum, there has to be an addendum on everything."

Mr. Trump has strongly hinted he is prepared to "decertify" Iran's compliance
with the deal, even while Mr. Tillerson, speaking to reporters after his
encounter with Mr. Zarif on Wednesday evening, acknowledged that Iran is in
"technical compliance."

Under an American law, a decertification would not terminate the deal, unless
Congress voted to reimpose nuclear-related economic sanctions against Iran --
which would violate the terms of the accord.

The White House has been divided about how to proceed against Iran, with Mr.
Tillerson arguing that to tear up the Obama-era agreement would alienate allies
and empower Iran to resume production of nuclear fuel.

Nonetheless, both Mr. Trump and Mr. Tillerson contend that Iran has violated the
"spirit" of the nuclear accord by continuing to sponsor groups that the United
States regards as terrorist organizations, supporting President Bashar al-Assad
in Syria and pursuing cyber attacks against Iran's Sunni Arab neighbors and the
United States.

Mr. Zarif said those complaints were all beyond the scope of the agreement
struck in July of 2015, a position shared by other parties to the accord except
the United States.

And the Iranian minister, who was harshly criticized in Iran for surrendering
too much in the negotiation, said that if the United States walked away from the
accord, as Mr. Trump threatened, "Who would come and listen to you anymore?"

With such a threat, he said, "The United States is sending the wrong signal."

Iranian officials seem to be betting that Mr. Trump, for all his criticism of
the accord, will not blow it up. Washington has already run into resistance to
any effort to reopen the terms, and Europeans have privately told the United
States they will not reimpose nuclear sanctions on Iran even if the Americans
do, undercutting any leverage Mr. Trump might hope to achieve.

Mr. Zarif said he was heartened that during a meeting of all the participants in
the meeting on Wednesday evening at the United Nations Security Council,
"everybody, with one exception, said this is a good deal." The "one" was a clear
reference to Mr. Tillerson.

In fact, after the Wednesday night meeting, the foreign minister of Germany,
Sigmar Gabriel, speaking in German outside the Security Council, told reporters:
"To cancel this agreement would send a very negative signal. It will be much
more difficult to find a diplomatic solution to other conflicts about nuclear
proliferation, notably North Korea."

Iran analysts who have followed the course of the nuclear agreement said it is
facing the most turbulent time since its inception. Still, some saw reason to
believe the agreement could survive and outlive the Trump administration.

"Trump has an established pattern of shock and awe opening positions in
negotiations, only to later back off or end up in the middle," Cliff Kupchan,
chairman of the Eurasia Group, a political risk consultancy, said in an emailed
advisory to clients on Thursday.

"If he holds to hard-line demands, possibly including permanent restrictions on
Iran's program, the deal may well fall apart -- and blame would lie right on
Washington's front porch," Mr. Kupchan said. "That's an outcome the U.S. doesn't
want."

Somini Sengupta contributed reporting from the United Nations.

PHOTO: Mohammad Javad Zarif, foreign minister of Iran, at the United Nations on
Wednesday. In an interview, he called President Trump's criticism of the nuclear
deal "absurd." (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/GETTY IMAGES)

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Pushes to Revisit Iran Nuclear Deal, and Asks Allies to Help
     ·    Contradicting Trump, U.N. Monitor Says Iran Complies With Nuclear Deal


LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     September 21, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

German Election Mystery: Why No Russian Meddling?

BYLINE: MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 1595 words



HIGHLIGHT: After witnessing Moscow's meddling in the American and French
elections, Germany had its guard up. But the Kremlin seems to be sitting this
one out.


Correction Appended

BERLIN -- Chancellor Angela Merkel's summons to Germany's top cabinet ministers
and senior military and intelligence officials for a meeting of the Federal
Security Council signaled trouble. Such gatherings are rare, typically occurring
only when the country faces a grave threat like a terrorist attack.

There was just one item on the agenda that day last spring: how to protect
Germany's upcoming parliamentary elections from Russian cyberattacks. At the
time, it seemed almost inevitable that Germany would suffer the same fate as
France and the United States, where, officials say, the Kremlin attempted to
alter the results of presidential elections with "fake news" and spear phishing
attacks.

But on the eve of Sunday's elections, the Russians have done something few
expected: they have largely disappeared. The trolls who spread distorted and
falsified information before earlier elections have failed to make much of a
splash here. The websites of the campaigns and major news media outlets are
operating like normal.

Germans, according to Sandro Gaycken, the director of the Digital Society
Institute in Berlin, which has been monitoring for Russian meddling, are "almost
disappointed that nothing is happening."

"We don't see any verified attacks," he said. "We're not really expecting any
Russian interference."

In some respects, experts say, German elections are insulated from outside
interference in ways those in the United States are not. The country's politics
are not as polarized as they are in the United States, where partisan enmity
provided fertile ground for Russian efforts to sow confusion with distorted and
falsified information amplified by Russian-controlled Twitter bots and Facebook
accounts.

In a move that would seem unimaginable in the United States, the campaigns for
the major political parties entered into a "gentleman's agreement" this year not
to exploit any information that might be leaked as a result of a cyberattack.

Germans also still largely trust their mainstream, traditional news media
sources and, unlike Americans, tend to be wary of information disseminated on
Facebook and Twitter.

Officials warn that there is still a chance that some 16 gigabytes of sensitive
information stolen two years agoby Kremlin-backed hackers from Germany's
Parliament, the Bundestag, could surface, much like emails taken from the
campaign of Emanuel Macron were dumped days before the election in France.

In January, someone registered two websites, btleaks.info and btleaks.org, which
reminiscent of the DCLeaks website that served as a repository for documents
stolen from the Democratic National Committee last year. Staffers from Germany's
domestic intelligence agency have been assigned to check those websites hourly.

But few think the information if leaked would make much difference at this
point. The latest polls show Ms. Merkel in a comfortable lead ahead of her chief
rivals, making it likely that she will secure a fourth term as chancellor.

So why has Russia held back?

After failing to defeat Mr. Macron or so far obtain any positive dividends from
its support of the Trump campaign, it is possible, experts say, that the Kremlin
has decided to rethink its approach.

Russian influence operations, or active measures as they are known, tend to work
only if no one is expecting them. Unlike the Obama administration, which chose
to remain silent about Russia's meddling for months before the election last
November, German officials cannot seem to stop talking about the threat.

Weeks after the election of President Trump, Bruno Kahl, the head of Germany's
foreign intelligence service, the BND, warned of cyberattacks aimed at
"delegitimizing the democratic process" in Germany. Ms. Merkel herself has
issued similar warnings.

"It makes absolutely no sense to conduct cyber-ops because everyone is waiting
for it," Dr. Gaycken said. "It would almost make more sense for the C.I.A. to
leak fake news to make it seem like the Russians did it."

Ripjar, a data analytics company founded by former members of Britain's
Government Communications Headquarters, says that scores of automated bots on
Twitter and other social media sites have been pushing anti-Merkel and
anti-immigrant messaging in German. The messages appear to align with Kremlin
positions ahead of the election, but do not seem to have had much resonance.

"It is a very blunt tool that I would assess has very little impact on the
world," said David Balson, Ripjar's director of intelligence.

Perhaps Germany's greatest protection is not some 21st century innovation but
old-fashioned paper ballots, counted by hand, that are essentially hack proof.

It would be a mistake to think the aggressive Russian interference in elections
last year represented some kind of new norm, said Thomas Rid, a professor at
Johns Hopkins University who is writing a book on Russian active measures. These
types of operations, he said, are extremely difficult to pull off and, as the
world has seen, can backfire. In many ways, he said, the Russians just got
lucky.

"I think one of the risks of the 2016 operation is that we all overestimate how
much you can achieve from it and how easy it is," he said. "You just can't
replicate this in the country every time."

Nevertheless, Germans prepared well in advance for any hint of Russian
interference.

The Federal Office for Information Security ran penetration tests looking for
vulnerabilities in computer systems and software of the federal election
authority. The Bundestag and the individual campaigns consulted with experts
about strengthening their computer security. And major news media outlets
established teams of fact checkers to protect against fake news.

German officials are now looking beyond the elections at ways to bolster the
country's cyberdefenses even further.

At the Federal Security Council meeting, which was held in March, officials
hammered out what has become known as the "hack-back" strategy. The plan is to
try to turn the tables on the hackers, launching offensive cyberattacks against
them and destroying their online infrastructure before any real damage can be
done.

While the German military can now legally launch a cyber-offensive following
hacker attacks on military resources, there is no provision in German law
allowing for the country's cyber forces to respond to attacks on civilian
infrastructure like the power grid, hospitals or servers that process election
results.

"Our cyber-defenses are Swiss cheese," said Jacob Schrot, a Bundestag staffer
responsible for intelligence oversight and cybersecurity matters.

Russia is not the only threat on this front. Germans are still angry about
revelations made by Edward Snowden that the National Security Agency under
President Barack Obama had hacked into Ms. Merkel's cellphone.

Though a precise plan of action has yet to be implemented, that federal
authorities would even consider taking offensive action against an enemy is a
measure of how seriously the country has come to view the cyber threat.

Enduring trauma of the Nazi era has made Germans squeamish about flexing their
country's military muscles. But Russia's recent history of revanchism under
President Vladimir V. Putin -- not just interfering in elections but supporting
hard-right nationalist parties in Europe and dabbling in military adventures,
like the annexation of Crimea and instigation of war in eastern Ukraine -- has
forced Germans to confront a new reality.

Marian Wendt, a member of Parliament from Ms. Merkel's party, the Christian
Democratic Union, who oversees cybersecurity issues, said in an interview that
Germany would prefer cooperation with Mr. Putin and Russia. But he said Germany
also had a responsibility to protect itself.

"At some point you have to attack your attackers," he said.

The hack-back strategy has stirred controversy here, with some charging that it
comes close to violating Germany's constitutional prohibition of offensive
warfare adopted after the country's defeat in World War II. Cyber experts also
question whether Germany possesses the technical expertise to pull off such a
tactic, particularly against Russia's own highly advanced teams of cyber
warriors.

"Our main challenge right now is a shortage of skilled I.T. security workers,"
said Sven Herpig, a cybersecurity expert with a German think tank, Stiftung Neue
Verantwortung. "Why do we waste the few talents that we have on the offensive
side when we could actually use them on the defensive side."

Germany's talk of offensive cyber actions could also escalate tensions with the
Kremlin, said Mr. Rid, from Johns Hopkins University. And with Russia quiet at
the moment, many question the wisdom of provoking it.

"Loose German talk of hack-back," Mr. Rid said, "could translate into Russian as
'bring it on.'"


Correction: September 22, 2017, Friday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an
editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated when the German
elections will be held. The vote is Sunday, not Saturday.

PHOTO: Protesters rallied against Chancellor Angela Merkel and her party at a
campaign event this month in Torgau, Germany. The latest polls suggest she has a
comfortable lead in Sunday's elections. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FILIP SINGER/EUROPEAN
PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

Related Articles


     ·    Macron Campaign Says It Was Target of 'Massive' Hacking Attack
     ·    Russian Election Hacking Efforts, Wider Than Previously Known, Draw
          Little Scrutiny
     ·    Need to Catch Up on the German Election? Here's a Guide
     ·    Germany's 'Boring' Election Is a Victory for the Right


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 21, 2017 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

S.E.C. Says Its Computers Were Breached Last Year

BYLINE: By CARLOS TEJADA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 361 words


HONG KONG -- The top securities regulator in the United States said Wednesday
night that its computer system had been hacked last year, giving the attackers
private information that could have been exploited for trading.

The disclosure, coming on the heels of a data breach at Equifax, the major
consumer credit reporting firm, will likely intensify concerns over potential
computer vulnerabilities lurking among pillars of the American financial system.

The Securities and Exchange Commission said in a statement that it was still
investigating the breach of its corporate filing system. The system, called
Edgar, is used by companies to make legally required filings to the agency.

The commission said it learned in August that an incident detected last year
''was exploited and resulted in access to nonpublic information.'' It said the
security vulnerability used in the hack had been patched shortly after it was
discovered.

The hack, it said, ''may have provided the basis for illicit gain through
trading.''

The Equifax hack, which focused on a database that contained the personal
information of 143 million Americans, focused attention on the vulnerabilities
of private companies that handle sensitive personal financial information. The
S.E.C. sometimes handles its own sensitive information, including disclosures
that companies are allowed to keep away from  investors. Such information could
give traders an edge.

In its statement, the commission did not release further details of the hack,
including whether it had resulted in disclosure of any information about
particular companies.

''Cybersecurity is critical to the operations of our markets and the risks are
significant and, in many cases, systemic,'' the commission's chairman, Walter J.
Clayton, said in the statement. ''We must be vigilant. We also must recognize --
in both the public and private sectors, including the S.E.C. -- that there will
be intrusions, and that a key component of cyber risk management is resilience
and recovery.''

The commission said it did not believe that the breach had involved personal
information or that it would jeopardize the commission's activities.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/20/business/sec-hacking-attack.html

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 21, 2017 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Contradiction in Trump's Policies on Iran and North Korea

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER.

Follow David E. Sanger on Twitter @SangerNYT .

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1330 words


President Trump is now fully engaged in two nuclear confrontations, one with
Iran over a nuclear accord he finds an ''embarrassment'' and the other with
North Korea that is forcing the Pentagon to contemplate for the first time in
decades what a resumption of the Korean War might look like.

The dynamics of those cases are entirely different, but they are also oddly
interdependent. If Mr. Trump makes good on his threat to pull out of the 2015
nuclear agreement with Iran, how will he then convince the North Korean leader,
Kim Jong-un, that America will honor the commitment to integrate North Korea
into the world community if only it disarms -- the demand Mr. Trump made from
the podium of the United Nations.

The fiercest defenders of the Iran deal argue that Mr. Trump's team has not
thought about how his threats to Tehran resonate 4,000 miles away in Pyongyang,
especially since Iran has held up its end of the agreement.

''If the president pulls back on the Iran deal, given Iranian compliance'' with
its terms, said Wendy R. Sherman, the chief negotiator of the accord, ''it will
make diplomacy on North Korea almost impossible because U.S. credibility will be
shot.''

Presumably, the United States would have to make some concessions to North Korea
in return for limits on its nuclear program. But why negotiate with the United
States if this president or the next one can just throw out any agreement?

Mr. Trump's aides see the problem and in an entirely different way.

The lesson that the North Koreans would take away from the Iran deal, they say,
is that the United States can be rolled. The Iran deal is not a permanent
solution to the Iranian nuclear problem, they argue, but just a temporary fix.
After 15 years, many of the limits on the production of nuclear material will be
lifted, even if inspection requirements remain.

''If we're going to stick with the Iran deal there has to be changes made to
it,'' Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson said on Fox News on Tuesday. ''The
sunset provisions simply is not a sensible way forward,'' he added, arguing that
they amount to ''kicking the can down the road.''

Mr. Trump's argument goes further. In interviews with The New York Times last
year, he criticized the deal as failing to address Iran's missile capability,
the detention of American citizens and Tehran's support of terrorist groups
around the Middle East. He seeks something more akin to a ''grand bargain'' with
Iran, something the nuclear deal was never intended to be.

Mr. Tillerson will have an opportunity to make these arguments on Wednesday at a
meeting of all the signatories of the Iran deal, including his Iranian
counterpart, Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif. Mr. Zarif used to talk or
email every few days with John Kerry, the American secretary of state who
negotiated the deal.

In an interview this summer, Mr. Zarif said he and Mr. Tillerson had never
spoken, and the American-educated Iranian diplomat left little doubt on Tuesday
what he thought of Mr. Trump's address to the United Nations General Assembly,
in which the president called the Iranian leadership a ''corrupt dictatorship''
that masks itself as a democracy.

''Trump's ignorant hate speech belongs in medieval times -- not the 21st Century
UN -- unworthy of a reply,'' Mr. Zarif tweeted. (While they will be in the same
room, it is not clear if Mr. Zarif and Mr. Tillerson will talk directly.)

In the end, this entire argument may be moot. China and Russia have said they
have no interest in renegotiating the deal. Britain and France have said they
would be willing to engage Iran in a negotiation over an addendum to the accord,
but the Iranians have rejected that out of hand. And the White House has never
said what, if anything, it was willing to give up in return for renegotiating
the terms.

What is missing from this debate is obvious: If Mr. Tillerson extracted anything
resembling the Iran agreement from North Korea, it would mark a historic
breakthrough, one any of the four previous American presidents would rightly
have celebrated.

The accord that Mr. Trump finds so lacking would prevent Iran from assembling
the makings of a bomb for a year or so, by the best estimates of American
national nuclear laboratories, which advised the negotiators. By comparison,
North Korea already has an arsenal of 20 to 60 fully formed weapons, depending
on whose intelligence estimates one believes.

In the best case scenario, some administration officials say, the Trump
administration would be lucky to win a nuclear ''freeze'' that keeps North Korea
from conducting more nuclear and missile tests.

But that would enshrine the North Korean nuclear arsenal at something around its
current level, an outcome Mr. Trump and his national security adviser, H.R.
McMaster, have already rejected as intolerable. And it is possible that the
North is even more capable than we know, some experts say.

Michael J. Morell, a former deputy director of the C.I.A., recently argued that
the North most likely already had everything it needed to mount an attack on the
mainland United States -- and that the only solution is classic containment.

''I believe that North Korea may have the capability today to successfully
conduct a nuclear attack on the United States,'' he wrote recently, saying that
Washington was relying on flawed logic in its assumption that Pyongyang did not
possess the technology needed to deliver a warhead to Los Angeles or Chicago
simply because it had yet to demonstrate the mastery of those technologies.

If Mr. Morell is right -- and no one will know until the North Korean regime
collapses and inspectors can assess the extent of its technology -- Mr. Trump
faces a problem far more urgent than the one that confronted President Barack
Obama in Iran.

Over the next few months, Mr. Trump must decide whether it is truly worth the
many risks of war to force the North to disarm, as he has seemed to suggest
several times, including in his United Nations speech, or whether he can
acquiesce to Cold War-style containment.

So while Mr. Tillerson presses the Europeans to add restrictions on Iran, Mr.
Trump and the Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, will be focusing on pressuring
China to cut off Pyongyang's supplies of oil and gas.

Mr. Mnuchin says he has already drawn up a list of potential sanctions on
Chinese banks, barring those that deal with North Korea from also dealing with
the United States. (It is less likely that Mr. Trump will make good on his
tweeted threat to cut off all trade with any country that does business with
North Korea, which would exact a huge cost on the American economy.)

But few expect that pressure campaign to work, and there is already discussion
of Plan B. Most of those scenarios are in the category of what Daniel Russel,
the former assistant secretary of state for Asia, described to the news site
Axios as ''a sharp, short 'warning shot''' that could change Mr. Kim's calculus
about the American willingness to use force.

It is not clear what a warning shot might look like. Inside the Pentagon,
military officials say they are looking at several options, including cyber
attacks that could turn off Pyongyang's lights and shooting down North Korean
test launches -- though Defense Secretary Jim Mattis noted on Monday that the
United States had avoided doing so as long as the missiles looked as though they
would fall harmlessly into the sea.

Mr. Mattis, who previously said a war with North Korea would be ''tragic on an
unbelievable scale,'' now says he is confident that there are military
approaches that do not risk retaliation against Seoul. The South Korean capital
is 35 miles from of the Demilitarized Zone that separates the two countries,
well within range of thousands of pieces of North Korean artillery.

Reporters asked how that might be possible. New technology? A way of finding and
silencing North Korea's mortars?

''I won't go into detail,'' Mr. Mattis said.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/20/world/asia/trump-iran-north-korea-.html

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Trump threatened to ''totally destroy'' North Korea
and called Iran a ''rogue nation'' during his speech at the United Nations
General Assembly on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      September 22, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Prospect of Atmospheric Nuclear Test by North Korea Raises Specter of Danger

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1502 words



HIGHLIGHT: Stopping Kim Jong-un from conducting a nuclear test over the Pacific
may be as dangerous as letting him go ahead.


Correction Appended

WASHINGTON -- If North Korea follows through on its threat to conduct an
atmospheric nuclear test, it would be a far more dangerous step than anything
Kim Jong-un, its leader, has attempted -- and poses a host of hard decisions for
the Trump administration because attempting to stop the test could be as
dangerous as letting it go ahead.

All six of the North's nuclear tests have been underground, containing the
radioactive fallout. But an atmospheric test -- perhaps with a warhead shot over
the Pacific on a North Korean missile, or set off from a ship or barge -- would
put the populations below at the mercy of the North's accuracy and at the winds
that sweep up the radioactive cloud.

That is why the United States and the Soviet Union banned such tests in their
first nuclear test-ban treaty, more than a half-century ago.

It is exactly that fear of an environmental or humanitarian calamity that Mr.
Kim appears eager to foster as he looks for ways to strike back at the United
States, Japan and others seeking to choke off his money and trade. But experts
who have been through the uncertainties of nuclear testing say there are risks
all around, for Mr. Kim as well as his foes.

"It is not clear North Korea has that capability yet," said Siegfried S. Hecker,
the former director of Los Alamos National Laboratory and the nuclear weapons
expert the North Koreans let in to see their uranium enrichment plants years
ago, when they wanted to make clear to the Obama administration that their
atomic weapons program was moving ahead, unimpeded by sanctions.

"Besides," said Dr. Hecker, now a professor at Stanford University, "a live
missile test -- one loaded with an H-bomb -- poses enormous risk." He recalled
that when the United States performed such tests in the early days of the Cold
War, "one blew up on the launchpad and one had to be destroyed right after
launch, creating significant radioactive contamination."

The North Koreans have studied this history, too, according to current and
former American intelligence officials. But the appeal of an atmospheric test is
obvious: It would create a sense of fear that an explosion deep inside a tunnel
in North Korea does not. The underground tests are detected on a Richter scale;
an atmospheric test, like the kind the United States conducted at Bikini Atoll
starting in 1948, creates a terrifying mushroom cloud.

The largest of those, a 1954 test code-named Castle Bravo, turned out to be
roughly three times larger than American bomb designers anticipated. They had
made a mathematical miscalculation about the power of one of the nuclear fuels
contained in the weapon, and the explosion spread radioactive material across
the globe. Ultimately, Castle Bravo helped fuel the call for a ban on
atmospheric tests.

No one knows what kind of test the North Koreans have in mind; the country's
foreign minister, Ri Yong Ho, did not specify when he raised the possibility
when talking to reporters at the United Nations on Thursday. "This could
probably mean the strongest hydrogen bomb test over the Pacific Ocean," he said.
"Regarding which measures to take, I don't really know since it is what Kim
Jong-un does."

But the presumption is that if Mr. Kim decided to go ahead, the North would
attempt to conduct the test by firing it on a missile, presumably to an empty
spot in the Pacific. The goal would be to demonstrate that it had solved all the
technological issues involved in delivering a nuclear weapon to an American
city.

But that form of testing -- putting a live weapon on a missile -- is
particularly risky. Other countries have blanched at the potential for disaster,
Dr. Hecker noted, including the Chinese, who conducted one missile launch with a
live nuclear weapon in the warhead. It worked as planned, he said, but "the
Chinese considered the risks unacceptable" and never tried it again. In the
hands of the North Koreans, some say, it would be even riskier.

"This would be a regional nightmare" for East Asia, said Heather Conley, a
former senior State Department official, now at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington.

It is possible the threat will never come to fruition. Detonating a weapon
inside a missile warhead, or even from a ship or barge, would be far more
difficult for the North than setting one off inside a mountain, where engineers
have months to wire up the weapon, and no time pressure.

It would require what experts call a "weaponized device" that could survive
shocks, stresses and, if launched from a missile, the heat of re-entry into the
atmosphere, something North Korea has never demonstrated it can handle.

"The DPRK would be taking a big risk -- missile tests fail," said Philip E.
Coyle III, a nuclear scientist and former head of the Pentagon's weapons
testing. The live nuclear warhead could come down on a neighboring country, or
if the missile blew up on the launchpad -- as has been known to happen -- set
off the nuclear warhead in North Korea.

The transportation risks would be enormous, including the chance of an
accidental detonation before the nuclear device reached the target zone. And
while the world's best missiles fail roughly once in every 100 flights, the
failure rate for the North's missiles is much higher. Last year, one type of
missile failed seven out of eight times, perhaps in part becauseit had been
targeted by a series of cyber attacks ordered by President Barack Obama. Since
then, the North has ceased testing that type of missile and been more successful
with others.

And even if one of the North's missiles succeeded in lofting a nuclear weapon,
the bigger challenge would be bringing it back down during the fiery re-entry.
The heat, pressures and forces of deceleration are enormous. To date, evidence
from the North's test launches suggests it is still in the beginning stages of
learning how to build a survivable warhead.

It would be far easier for the North to entrust a nuclear weapon to a plane or a
boat. But it has few with the long-range capability for the job, and the chances
that the United States or its allies would detect it in transit are
considerable.

It would also break a taboo. It has been 37 years since any nation tested a
nuclear weapon in the planet's atmosphere. And given what is now known about the
effects that radioactive fallout from such tests has on human health and the
environment, one now would only intensify the international opprobrium Mr. Kim
already faces.

According to one estimate by a physicians group opposed to nuclear weapons, 2.4
million people could die from cancer caused by the radioactivity from the more
than 2,000 known tests that have already taken place.

The last atmospheric test took place on Oct. 16, 1980, when China fired what
experts believed to be a nuclear-tipped ballistic missiles into a desert salt
flat along what was once the Silk Road, more than 1,300 miles west of Beijing.

The United States attempted a missile-launched nuclear test only once -- on May
6, 1962 -- during a frenzy of Cold War tests. A submerged submarine, the Ethan
Allen, fired a Polaris A-2 missile in the direction of Christmas Island in the
Pacific Ocean. After traveling more than 1,200 miles, its warhead exploded at an
altitude exceeding 10,000 feet.

[Video: A video of the United States's first and only test of an operation
nuclear weapon "mated" to a ballistic missile, conducted in the Pacific Ocean on
May 6, 1962. Watch on YouTube.]

That test helped spur negotiations that ultimately led to a treaty banning tests
in the atmosphere, outer space or underwater. It was in signed in 1963 by the
United States, the Soviet Union and Britain.

In 1996, a far broader agreement to ban all nuclear testing, the Comprehensive
Test Ban Treaty, was adopted at the United Nations and has been ratified by 166
states. The United States, China and North Korea are among the holdouts, along
with Egypt, India, Israel, Iran and Pakistan.

An effort by the Clinton administration to ratify the treaty failed; Mr. Obama
promised to resubmit it for ratification but never did, fearing a second defeat.
The United States and China have adhered to its restrictions, even if neither
has ratified it.

David E. Sanger reported from Washington and William J. Broad from New York.
Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from Beijing.


Correction: September 25, 2017, Monday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article misstated the location of Christmas Island. It is in the
Pacific Ocean, not the Indian Ocean.

PHOTO: The United States had tested a weapon mated with a missile only once, in
1962. Thus far, all six of North Korea's nuclear tests have been underground,
containing the radioactive fallout. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNIVERSAL HISTORY
ARCHIVE/UIG, VIA GETTY IMAGES)

Related Articles


     ·    North Korea Hits New Level of Brinkmanship in Reacting to Trump
     ·    Kim Jong-un Called Trump a 'Dotard.' What Does That Even Mean?
     ·    Kim's Rejoinder to Trump's Rocket Man: 'Mentally Deranged U.S. Dotard'


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      September 22, 2017 Friday 06:02 EST

U.S. Tells 21 States That Hackers Targeted Their Voting Systems

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 924 words



HIGHLIGHT: About one year before, the Department of Homeland Security first said
that states had been targeted by hacking efforts possibly connected to Russia.


WASHINGTON -- The federal government on Friday told election officials in 21
states that hackers targeted their systems before last year's presidential
election.

The notification came roughly a year after officials with the United States
Department of Homeland Security first said states were targeted by hacking
efforts possibly connected to Russia. The states that told The Associated Press
they had been targeted included some key political battlegrounds, such as
Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin.

The A.P. contacted every state election office to determine which ones had been
informed that their election systems had been targeted. The others that
confirmed they were targeted were Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, California,
Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Maryland, Minnesota, North
Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Texas and Washington.

Being targeted does not mean that sensitive voter data was manipulated or that
results were changed. A hacker targeting a system without getting inside is
similar to a burglar circling a house, checking for unlocked doors and windows.

Even so, the widespread nature of the attempts and the yearlong lag time in
notification from the Department of Homeland Security raised concerns among some
election officials and lawmakers.

For many states, the calls on Friday were the first official confirmation that
they were on the list -- even though state election officials across the country
have been calling for months for the federal government to share information
about any hacks, as have members of Congress.

"It is completely unacceptable that it has taken D.H.S. over a year to inform
our office of Russian scanning of our systems, despite our repeated requests for
information," California's secretary of state, Alex Padilla, a Democrat, said in
a statement. "The practice of withholding critical information from elections
officials is a detriment to the security of our elections and our democracy."

Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on a committee that is
investigating Russian meddling in last year's election, has been pushing the
department for months to reveal the identities of the targeted states. He said
states need such information in real time so that they can strengthen their
cyber defenses.

"We have to do better in the future," he said.

The Department of Homeland Security said it recognized that state and local
officials should be kept informed about cybersecurity risks to election
infrastructure.

"We are working with them to refine our processes for sharing this information
while protecting the integrity of investigations and the confidentiality of
system owners," the department said in a statement.

The government did not say who was behind the hacking attempts or provide
details about what had been sought. But election officials in several states
said the attempts were linked to Russia.

The Wisconsin Election Commission, for example, said the state's systems were
targeted by "Russian government cyber actors." Josie Bahnke, Alaska's elections
division director, said computers in Russia were scanning election systems
looking for vulnerabilities.

A spokeswoman for the National Association of Secretaries of State said the
group had requested a list of the states where there were hacking efforts. In
most cases, states said they were told the systems were not breached.

Federal officials said that in most of the 21 states the targeting was
preparatory activity such as scanning computer systems.

The targets included voter registration systems but not vote-tallying software.
Officials said there were some attempts to compromise networks, but most were
unsuccessful.

Only Illinois reported that hackers had succeeded in breaching its voter
systems.

Other states said their cybersecurity measures turned back efforts to get to
crucial information.

"There are constant attempts by bad actors to hack our systems," Iowa's
secretary of state, Paul Pate, a Republican, said in a statement. "But we
continue to deflect those attempts."

Colorado said the hacking did not quite amount to a breach.

"It's really reconnaissance by a bad guy to try and figure out how we would
break into your computer," said Trevor Timmons, a spokesman for the Colorado
secretary of state's office. "It's not an attack. I wouldn't call it a probe.
It's not a breach, it's not a penetration."

Earlier this year, a leaked National Security Agency report detailed that
hackers obtained information from a company that provided software to manage
voter registrations in eight states. The May report said hackers sent phishing
emails to 122 local election officials just before the November 2016 election in
an attempt to break into their systems.

The latest disclosure to the states comes as a special counsel investigates
whether there was any coordination during the 2016 presidential campaign between
Russia and associates of President Trump.

Mr. Trump, a Republican who defeated Hillary Clinton, the Democratic candidate,
in the presidential election, has called the Russia story a hoax. He says
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has "vehemently denied" the conclusions of
numerous American intelligence agencies.

For states that were told they were not targets, the news brought relief.

"This is one time we like being at the bottom of the list," said Lisa Strimple,
a spokeswoman for Nebraska's secretary of state.

Related Articles


     ·    Russian Election Hacking Efforts, Wider Than Previously Known, Draw
          Little Scrutiny
     ·    Russian Hackers Acted to Aid Trump in Election, U.S. Says


LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 22, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iran to U.S.: What About Our Wishes?

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and RICK GLADSTONE; Somini Sengupta contributed
reporting from the United Nations.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 978 words


Iran's foreign minister rejected on Thursday any new negotiation with the United
States over extending the length or conditions of the 2015 nuclear accord,
saying that Iran would talk about changing the accord only if every concession
it made -- including giving up nuclear fuel -- were reconsidered.

In an interview, the foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, said that would
mean Iran would retake possession of the stockpile of nuclear fuel it shipped to
Russia when the accord took effect.

''Are you prepared to return to us 10 tons of enriched uranium?,'' Mr. Zarif
said of the relinquished stockpile -- one of Iran's biggest concessions -- about
98 percent of the country's nuclear fuel holdings.

Under the agreement, Iran retains an amount of enriched uranium too small to
make a single atomic weapon.

Mr. Zarif, who was educated in the United States, spoke with reporters,
columnists and editorial writers for The New York Times, a day after he
conferred privately with counterparts from the six countries that negotiated the
deal with Iran -- Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the United States
-- on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly meetings in New York.

It was the first time Mr. Zarif had met with Secretary of State Rex W.
Tillerson, who has said the United States wants to ''revisit'' what he described
as flaws in the accord even as he acknowledged Iran is abiding by its terms.

Mr. Zarif, who negotiated details of the Iran accord with then-Secretary of
State John Kerry, dismissed the Trump administration as ''seriously
ill-informed'' about the limits on Iran contained in the deal.

He described President Trump's speech to the United Nations on Tuesday, in which
Mr. Trump called the nuclear accord a one-sided embarrassment to the United
States that he may abandon, as ''absurd.''

What the administration really wanted, Mr. Zarif said, was to keep the Iranian
concessions while trying to extract more from Iran -- but with no new
concessions from the United States or other parties. That kind of position, he
said, contradicted the premise of any negotiated deal.

''By definition, a deal is not perfect, because in any deal you have to give and
take,'' he said. ''Otherwise you won't have a deal.''

He further dismissed the idea of an addendum to the agreement to address the
Trump administration's objections, an idea that American officials say has been
floated within the administration as a possible diplomatic way forward.

''Why should we discuss an addendum?,'' Mr. Zarif said. ''If you want to have an
addendum, there has to be an addendum on everything.''

Mr. Trump has strongly hinted he is prepared to ''decertify'' Iran's compliance
with the deal, even while Mr. Tillerson, speaking to reporters after his
encounter with Mr. Zarif on Wednesday evening, acknowledged that Iran is in
''technical compliance.''

Under an American law, a decertification would not terminate the deal, unless
Congress voted to reimpose nuclear-related economic sanctions against Iran --
which would violate the terms of the accord.

The White House has been divided about how to proceed against Iran, with Mr.
Tillerson arguing that to tear up the Obama-era agreement would alienate allies
and empower Iran to resume production of nuclear fuel.

Nonetheless, both Mr. Trump and Mr. Tillerson contend that Iran has violated the
''spirit'' of the nuclear accord by continuing to sponsor groups that the United
States regards as terrorist organizations, supporting President Bashar al-Assad
in Syria and pursuing cyber attacks against Iran's Sunni Arab neighbors and the
United States.

Mr. Zarif said those complaints were all beyond the scope of the agreement
struck in July of 2015, a position shared by other parties to the accord except
the United States.

And the Iranian minister, who was harshly criticized in Iran for surrendering
too much in the negotiation, said that if the United States walked away from the
accord, as Mr. Trump threatened, ''Who would come and listen to you anymore?''

With such a threat, he said, ''The United States is sending the wrong signal.''

Iranian officials seem to be betting that Mr. Trump, for all his criticism of
the accord, will not blow it up. Washington has already run into resistance to
any effort to reopen the terms, and Europeans have privately told the United
States they will not reimpose nuclear sanctions on Iran even if the Americans
do, undercutting any leverage Mr. Trump might hope to achieve.

Mr. Zarif said he was heartened that during a meeting of all the participants in
the meeting on Wednesday evening at the United Nations Security Council,
''everybody, with one exception, said this is a good deal.'' The ''one'' was a
clear reference to Mr. Tillerson.

In fact, after the Wednesday night meeting, the foreign minister of Germany,
Sigmar Gabriel, speaking in German outside the Security Council, told reporters:
''To cancel this agreement would send a very negative signal. It will be much
more difficult to find a diplomatic solution to other conflicts about nuclear
proliferation, notably North Korea.''

Iran analysts who have followed the course of the nuclear agreement said it is
facing the most turbulent time since its inception. Still, some saw reason to
believe the agreement could survive and outlive the Trump administration.

''Trump has an established pattern of shock and awe opening positions in
negotiations, only to later back off or end up in the middle,'' Cliff Kupchan,
chairman of the Eurasia Group, a political risk consultancy, said in an emailed
advisory to clients on Thursday.

''If he holds to hard-line demands, possibly including permanent restrictions on
Iran's program, the deal may well fall apart -- and blame would lie right on
Washington's front porch,'' Mr. Kupchan said. ''That's an outcome the U.S.
doesn't want.''




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/21/world/middleeast/iran-nuclear-trump-zarif.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mohammad Javad Zarif, foreign minister of Iran, at the United
Nations on Wednesday. In an interview, he called President Trump's criticism of
the nuclear deal ''absurd.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     September 23, 2017 Saturday 00:00 EST

How to Survive the Apocalypse

BYLINE: ALEX WILLIAMS

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 2617 words



HIGHLIGHT: Amid natural disasters, terrorist attacks and the North Korea nuclear
crisis, it is not just camouflage-clad cave dwellers who are prepping for
doomsday.


President Trump threatens to "totally destroy North Korea." Another hurricane
lashes out. A second monster earthquake jolts Mexico. Terrorists strike in
London. And that's just this past week or so.

Yes, the world is clearly coming to an end. But is there anything you can do to
prepare?

That is not a philosophical question, or a theological one. And if it is a
question that seems to beg any explication, you may stop reading now.

But if you are among the swelling class of weekend paranoiacs of affluent means
who are starting to mull fantasies of urban escape following the endless
headlines about disasters, both natural and manufactured, you may be starting to
see a different image in your mind when think "survivalist." You may no longer
see the wild-eyed cave dweller in camouflage fatigues, hoarding canned goods.
You may even see one in the mirror.

In a world where the bombproof bunker has replaced the Tesla as the hot status
symbol for young Silicon Valley plutocrats, everyone, it seems, is a "prepper,"
even if the "prep" in question just means he is stashing a well-stocked "bug-out
bag" alongside his Louis Vuitton luggage in a Range Rover pointed toward
Litchfield County, Conn. Here is a checklist for the neo-survivalist preparing
for the apocalypse.

1. Satchels for Survival

The power grid has collapsed. Supermarkets are looted. With the city teetering
on the brink of collapse, the first thing you want to reach for -- after the
Xanax -- is a well-stocked "bug out" bag.

These suddenly chic survival satchels, also known as go bags, are typically
lightweight military-grade backpacks stocked with provisions for at least 72
hours. Ready-made bug-out bags containing staples like water purification
tablets, a 20-hour body warmer and a multifunction shovel are available on
Amazon for under $200.

Hard-core preppers, however, would never leave their survival up to a mouse
click, which is why some sites suggest endless creative tweaks to the standard
equipment. Graywolf Survival recommends a chain-saw blade stashed in an Altoids
tin to harvest firewood. Survival Life touts feminine hygiene products, even for
men, to soak up blood from wounds.

"As long as the gear gets the job done, that's what matters," said Andrew
Pontius, a marketing consultant and disaster preparedness instructor in Kansas
City, Mo., who helps run a site called Bug Out Bag Academy.

2. Go for the Silver

Two years ago, Greece was forced to shutter banks and limit A.T.M. withdrawals
to 60 euros a day during a debt crisis that threatened to shatter Europe's
currency union. In the United States, prominent authors like James Rickards, a
hedge fund veteran, and David Stockman, once the budget director for the Reagan
administration, insist that an even biggercrisis will soon tank Wall Street and
torpedo the dollar.

No wonder so many preppers, some of them wearing pinstriped suits, consider gold
and silver to be a crucial hedge against a crisis.

While Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies make news, many preppers are quietly
packing their bug-out bags with rolls of pre-1965 American dimes, quarters or
half-dollars, which are 90 percent silver and available from coin dealers and
precious-metals websites (silver is currently about $17 an ounce). "My preferred
form of precious metal post-financial collapse, that is, besides high-speed
lead," wrote one prepper on SurvivalistBoards.com.

Unlike gold, which is hovering around $1,300 an ounce, these old silver coins
come in small enough denominations to barter for a loaf of bread or a socket
wrench in an economic "Mad Max" scenario. Even so, some survivalists remain
silver skeptics. "For $100, let's say you get five silver coins," said an urban
preparedness expert who goes by the nom de guerre Selco. "Why not buy 100 cans
of soup?"

3. Alt-Currencies for the Apocalypse

Imagine a true economic apocalypse, one that makes the German hyperinflation of
the 1920s, with its wheelbarrows of near-worthless paper currency, look like a
hiccup. To prepare for the worst worst-case scenario, some doomers prefer daily
staples like tampons, vegetable seeds and cigarettes (that timeless prison
medium of exchange) to silver or gold as an alt-currency.

Liquor, too -- particularly in easy-to-swap airline bottles -- would likely
prove a hot commodity, since it not only deadens the pain of surviving in a
post-apocalyptic wasteland, but, as a blogger named Survival Mom points out,
also provides useful off-label functions as a disinfectant or an ingredient in
herbal remedy tinctures.

Visions of a barter economy are not necessarily the stuff of doomer fever
dreams, said Xavier Thomas, who runs the British site MoreThanJustSurviving.com
with his wife, Elise.

"If we look at examples of systematic social breakdowns, like Argentina in 2001,
or the war in the Balkans, goods that people understood on an intrinsic level
clearly carried the most value when trading -- cans of food, gas, batteries,
cheap Bic lighters," he said. "A good rule of thumb: If you'd find it useful in
an emergency, you'll be able to find someone who will trade for it in an
emergency."

4. Beyond "Duck and Cover"

When President Trump issued his threat to North Korea at the United Nations,
many preppers had an almost Pavlovian response: to check their nuclear survival
kit. Ever since the backyard bomb shelter went the way of tail fins, survival in
the face of mushroom clouds has seemed highly relative.

Some preppers place their faith in unproven home remedies, like bedsheets dusted
with baby powder, which they hope will block X-rays, or generous helpings of
turmeric mixed with black pepper, to inhibit tumor formation. Others turn to
basics, like Geiger counters, wallet-size RADbadges, potassium iodide tablets or
a Seychelle radiological family water pitcher, which the manufacturer claims
will filter out "99.99 percent of the major contaminants that can be found after
a nuclear event."

Or people may just want to stock up on Snuggies, chocolate Easter bunnies,
Hummel figurines or vintage Backstreet Boys paraphernalia, which will do about
as much good in the event of a direct strike.

5. The Other Bug-Out Bag

In the event of apocalypse, bring condoms. This may sound like a slogan from a
fraternity party T-shirt, but survivalists absolutely adore condoms.
Featherweight, ultracompact and durable, condoms (nonlubricated, please) can be
used as a makeshift canteen to store water, a fire starter or as elastic bands
for an improvised slingshot to hunt small game, according to CreekStewart, a
survival instructor and television host.

[Video: 20 Condom Uses for SHTF Survival Watch on YouTube.]

When inflated, they can also be used as fishing bobbers or signaling devices for
semaphore, according to SensiblePrepper. Oh, and they're also great for the
obvious use, too.

6. Armed to the Teeth, but With What?

Should law and order on the streets break down after, say, a massive hurricane
or nuclear-reactor meltdown, that condom slingshot might come in handy in New
York, where possession of the most fundamental survivalist self-defense staple
-- the gun -- is highly restricted by law. (The same goes for brass knuckles,
nunchucks, ninja stars, switchblade knives, wrist-brace slingshots and, that
D.I.Y. prepper favorite, a paint ball pistol loaded with ghost-chili-powder
balls.)

So what is a defenseless, law-abiding survivalist to do? Prepper bibles like
"100 Deadly Skills," by Clint Emerson, a former Navy SEAL, are filled with
improvised alternative weapons, like a collapsible umbrella lined with wrenches,
which is "not illegal to possess," a New York City Police Department spokesman
said, but "would be considered a weapon if you used it on someone."

Sure, you could master jiu-jitsu. "But if it's really on, hand-to-hand
self-defense will only take you so far," said Jason Charles, a firefighter and
organizer of the New York City Prepper's Network. To balance legality with
lethality in a bug-out bag, he said, "you have to go simpler -- hammers,
hatchets, certain heavy tools." That roll of old silver quarters might come in
handy, too.

7. Paddling to Safety

Manhattanites face challenges unknown to their Western counterparts hunkering in
remote desert bunkers. Their home turf, after all, is not only a prime target,
but an island. In the event of a cataclysmic emergency, bridges and tunnels may
be closed, or choked off by marauding mobs, forcing survivors to consider
waterborne escape.

A lightweight, folding kayak like theOru Beach LT is a savvy, albeit expensive
option ($1,299), since it weighs 30 pounds (easy enough to tote to the Hudson
River if Lyft is offline) and collapses to the size of a suitcase -- perfect for
those tiny Upper West Side closets.

Sure, kayak pros counsel against newbies attempting a Hudson crossing. "There
are strong tidal currents, few places to safely launch or land, and an abundance
of commercial and ferry transit traffic," said Randall Henriksen of the New York
Kayak Company. But if the choice is armed mobs or choppy waters, many New
Yorkers may reach for a paddle.

8. Deliverance From Above

Since the Sept. 11 attacks, many cubicle dwellers have been haunted by fears of
being stuck in a skyscraper when disaster strikes. In fact, tragic images from
the World Trade Center inspired a micro-industry of high-rise-escape options.
There are now escape chutes (basically, giant collapsible fabric tubes for
shinnying down) and small parachutes.

The SOS Parachute (about $2,400) is compact enough to store in a cubicle, opens
in about two seconds and is designed to work for the 11th floor and higher.
Granted, the parachute is exactly not 82nd Airborne-grade, and a 200-pound man
might find the landing a little rough. "You may twist an ankle," said Nicolas
Havett, a company executive. But in a situation serious enough to warrant a
parachute, that's a deal that many would take.

9. Who Are You Calling "Rocket Man"?

They were a science-fiction fantasy in the Bond movie "Thunderball," a space-age
gag in "Gilligan's Island." But a half-century later, jet packs actually exist.
A California company called JetPack Aviation unveiled a functioning turbojet
version two years ago, capable of staying aloft for 10 minutes, traveling at
speeds up to 100 miles per hour. Current models are available only to the
military, but David Mayman, the company's founder, said he plans to introduce a
commercial version within 18 months.

Hard-core doomers need not drain their airplane-liquor-bottle stash to envision
the potential: Imagine New York after, say, an electromagnetic pulse attack that
wipes out the power grid (like the kind North Korea recently threatened). The
bridges and streets resemble a scene from the old John Carpenter movie "Escape
From New York," but the privileged few can soar across the Hudson to safety (or
at least New Jersey). "From the time you push the button, you could be in the
air in less than 30 seconds," Mr. Mayman said.

Sure, there is the cost -- about $250,000, which the company is hoping to bring
down "to the price of a luxury car." For now, just think of it as the
survivalists' Maybach.

10. No Place Like Dome

Sandy was not the first hurricane to devastate entire sections of New York. In
1893, a hurricane blew through the city with such force that it wiped an entire
island -- Hog Island, a glittering resort near the Rockaways -- off the map. In
the event of a megadisaster that leaves parts of the city uninhabitable,
survivors might require cheap, stormproof shelter to start a new life.

In the best of times, prefabricated dome shelters receive high marks from
environmentalists and penny pinchers alike because of their low cost and minimal
environmental impact.

A company called Intershelter sells igloo-shape pleasure domes that call to mind
Luke Skywalker's old padon Tatooine, but cost only $12,000 for one big enough to
include a kitchen; it can be thrown together in a few hours, to make an instant
hunting or fishing lodge. But in the worst of times, this dome, "built to
sustain hurricane strength winds or earthquakes," makes great relief housing for
disaster victims and, in theory, would make great bug-out bunkers for urbanites
looking to build a survivalist compound on the fly.

The dome houses are so rugged, according the company's founder, Don Kubley, "you
could buy one today and your grandkids will be playing in it." One can only
hope.

Should disaster not strike? They make a great man cave or backyard cabana.

11. Pets or Meat

In the event of a breakdown of the food supply that leaves the shelves of
Fairway bare and Le Coucou a ghost town on a Saturday night, you will still have
to eat. Often.

That is why many survivalists are placing their hopes of sustenance in rabbit, a
high-protein, low-fat meat that is also being embraced as "the new chicken"by
sustainable food types including Michael Pollan. "Raising meat rabbits is one of
the most space-efficient means of growing livestock for meat," according to the
site Survivalist 101.

By livestock standards, rabbits are relatively clean and quiet, too. They can
survive on table-scrap vegetables or even grass, and as a bonus, yield valuable
fur for improvised winter clothing. And boy do they breed. A doe can produce up
to 50 kits a year, yielding 250 pounds of meat, according to researchers at the
Penn State Extension.

12. Beyond Medieval Times

To master archery and broadsword combat; to learn to manufacture fabric, bread,
ceramic cookware and wood furniture by hand; to perfect the preindustrial arts
of iron craft and tanning: Yes, there are worse things to carry into a
post-apocalyptic world than a membership card to the Society for Creative
Anachronism.

In normal times, this international historical-re-enactment organization seems
like little more than a harmless bunch of Renaissance Faire types playing dress
up on weekends and celebrating the arts, skills and costumes of pre-17th-century
Europe.

But should Armageddon arrive -- say, in the form of a limited nuclear exchange,
global pandemic or cyber mega-attack -- these hobbies could mean your survival.
In other words, chivalry may not be dead after all.

13. The Final Frontier

There is bugging out, and then there is really bugging out. In a scorched-earth
scenario where even a jet pack is not enough to escape harm's way, preppers with
deep pockets and a taste for Arthur C. Clarke might consider the ultimate
escape: launching their DNA into space.

Celestis, a company specializing in "memorial spaceflights" (sending cremated
remains into space), recently introduced "genetic spaceflight." For $12,500, for
example, the cosmologically minded can send their DNA (a mouth swab or hair
sample) into space on a "true mission of exploration," aboard a spacecraft on a
"permanent celestial journey well beyond the moon."

Who knows -- some ultra-intelligent alien being may discover it in the future,
and use your genetic code to reanimate a race of humans on a distant planet.
Let's just hope those humans don't choose to blow themselves up.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.

PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: SOS Parachute offers a portable version, a
potential lifeline for skyscraper dwellers; jetpacks, like this one by JetPack
Aviation, are no longer science fiction; a collapsible kayak, like the Oru Beach
LT, is a must-have for preppers in Manhattan; and a bug-out bag, with such items
as candles and meds, is a necessity for survival. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY
CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST10)
 DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY LEO ACADIA) (ST1; ST10)

Related Articles


     ·    Apocalyptic Thoughts Amid Nature's Chaos? You Could Be Forgiven
     ·    For Doomsday Preppers, the End of the World Is Good for Business


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     September 23, 2017 Saturday 06:01 EST

Will Mark Zuckerberg 'Like' This Column?;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: MAUREEN DOWD

SECTION: OPINION; sunday

LENGTH: 1107 words



HIGHLIGHT: Oops! Facebook admits it created a democracy-crushing Frankenstein
monster that it can't control.


WASHINGTON -- The idea of Mark Zuckerberg running for president was always sort
of scary.

But now it's really scary, given what we've discovered about the power of his
little invention to warp democracy.

All these years, the 33-year-old founder of Facebook has been dismissive of the
idea that social media and A.I. could be used for global domination -- or even
that they should be regulated.

Days after Donald Trump pulled out his disorienting win, Zuckerberg told a tech
conference that the contention that fake news had influenced the election was "a
pretty crazy idea," showing a "profound lack of empathy" toward Trump voters.

But all the while, the company was piling up the rubles and turning a blind eye
as the Kremlin's cyber hit men weaponized anti-Hillary bots on Facebook to sway
the U.S. election. Russian agents also used Facebook and Twitter trolls, less
successfully, to try to upend the French election.

Finally on Thursday, speaking on Facebook Live, Zuckerberg said he would give
Congress more than 3,000 ads linked to Russia. As one Facebooker posted: "Why
did it take EIGHT MONTHS to get here?"

Hillary is right that this $500 billion company has a lot to answer for in
allowing the baby-photo-sharing site to be turned into what, with Twitter, The
Times's Scott Shane called "engines of deception and propaganda."

Robert Mueller's team, as well as House and Senate investigators, are hotly
pursuing the trail of Russian fake news. On Friday, the Department of Homeland
Security told 21 states, including Wisconsin and Ohio, that Russian agents had
tried to hack their elections systems during the campaign.

As Vanity Fair pointed out, Mueller's focus on social media during the campaign
could spell trouble for Jared Kushner, who once bragged that he had called his
Silicon Valley friends to get a tutorial in Facebook microtargeting and brought
in Cambridge Analytica -- Robert Mercer is a big investor -- to help build a
$400 million operation for his father-in-law's campaign.

Some lawmakers suspect that the Russians had help in figuring out which women
and blacks to target in precincts in Wisconsin and Michigan.

Senator Martin Heinrich, a New Mexico Democrat on the Senate Intelligence
Committee looking into Russia's intervention in 2016, has a suspect in mind.
"Paul Manafort made an awful lot of money coming up with a game plan for how
Russian interests could be pushed in Western countries and Western elections,"
Heinrich told Vanity Fair.

ProPublica broke the news that, until it asked about it recently, Facebook had
"enabled advertisers to direct their pitches to the news feeds of almost 2,300
people who expressed interest in the topics of 'Jew hater,' 'How to burn jews,'
or, 'History of "why jews ruin the world."'"

Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's C.O.O., apologized for this on Wednesday and
promised to fix the ad-buying tools, noting, "We never intended or anticipated
this functionality being used this way -- and that is on us."

The Times's Kevin Roose called this Facebook's "Frankenstein moment," like when
Mary Shelley's scientist, Victor Frankenstein, says, "I had been the author of
unalterable evils, and I lived in daily fear lest the monster whom I had created
should perpetrate some new wickedness."

Roose noted that in addition to the Russian chicanery, "In Myanmar, activists
are accusing Facebook of censoring Rohingya Muslims, who are under attack from
the country's military. In Africa, the social network faces accusations that it
helped human traffickers extort victims' families by leaving up abusive videos."

The Sandberg admission was also game, set and match for Elon Musk, who has been
sounding the alarm for years about the danger of Silicon Valley's creations and
A.I. mind children getting out of control and hurting humanity. His pleas for
safeguards and regulations have been mocked as "hysterical" and "pretty
irresponsible" by Zuckerberg.

Zuckerberg, whose project last year was building a Jarvis-style A.I. butler for
his home, likes to paint himself as an optimist and Musk as a doomsday prophet.
But Sandberg's comment shows that Musk is right: The digerati at Facebook and
Google are either being naïve or cynical and greedy in thinking that it's enough
just to have a vague code of conduct that says "Don't be evil," as Google does.

As Musk told me when he sat for a Vanity Fair piece: "It's great when the
emperor is Marcus Aurelius. It's not so great when the emperor is Caligula."

In July, the chief of Tesla and SpaceX told a meeting of governors that they
should adopt A.I. legislation before robots start "going down the street killing
people." In August, he tweeted that A.I. going rogue represents "vastly more
risk than North Korea." And in September, he tweeted out a Gizmodo story
headlined "Hackers Have Already Started to Weaponize Artificial Intelligence,"
reporting that researchers proved that A.I. hackers were better than humans at
getting Twitter users to click on malicious links.

(Musk also tweeted that it was a cautionary tale when Microsoft's chatbot, Tay,
had to be swiftly shut down when Twitter users taught her how to reply with
racist, misogynistic and anti-Semitic slurs, talking approvingly about Hitler.)

Vladimir Putin has denied digital meddling in the U.S. elections. But he
understands the possibilities and threat of A.I. In a recent address, the
Russian president told schoolchildren, "Whoever becomes the leader in this
sphere will become the ruler of the world." Musk agreed on Twitter that
competition for A.I. superiority would be the "most likely cause of WW3."

On Thursday, touring the Moscow tech firm Yandex, Putin asked the company's
chief how long it would be before superintelligent robots "eat us."

Zuckerberg scoffs at such apocalyptic talk. His project this year was visiting
all 50 states, a trip designed by former Obama strategist David Plouffe, which
sparked speculation that he might be the next billionaire to seek the Oval
Office.

As Bloomberg Businessweek wrote in a cover story a few days ago, Zuckerberg has
hired Plouffe, other senior Obama officials and Hillary's pollster. He has said
he is no longer an atheist and he changed Facebook's charter to allow him to
maintain control in the hypothetical event he runs for office.

Yep. Very scary.

I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

PHOTO: Mark Zuckerberg may be learning what it's like to be Dr. Frankenstein.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)

Related Articles


     ·    Facebook's Ad Scandal Isn't a 'Fail,' It's a Feature


LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 23, 2017 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

21 States Saw Hacks Aimed At Elections

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 925 words


WASHINGTON -- The federal government on Friday told election officials in 21
states that hackers targeted their systems before last year's presidential
election.

The notification came roughly a year after officials with the United States
Department of Homeland Security first said states were targeted by hacking
efforts possibly connected to Russia. The states that told The Associated Press
they had been targeted included some key political battlegrounds, such as
Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin.

The A.P. contacted every state election office to determine which ones had been
informed that their election systems had been targeted. The others that
confirmed they were targeted were Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, California,
Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Maryland, Minnesota, North
Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Texas and Washington.

Being targeted does not mean that sensitive voter data was manipulated or that
results were changed. A hacker targeting a system without getting inside is
similar to a burglar circling a house, checking for unlocked doors and windows.

Even so, the widespread nature of the attempts and the yearlong lag time in
notification from the Department of Homeland Security raised concerns among some
election officials and lawmakers.

For many states, the calls on Friday were the first official confirmation that
they were on the list -- even though state election officials across the country
have been calling for months for the federal government to share information
about any hacks, as have members of Congress.

''It is completely unacceptable that it has taken D.H.S. over a year to inform
our office of Russian scanning of our systems, despite our repeated requests for
information,'' California's secretary of state, Alex Padilla, a Democrat, said
in a statement. ''The practice of withholding critical information from
elections officials is a detriment to the security of our elections and our
democracy.''

Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on a committee that is
investigating Russian meddling in last year's election, has been pushing the
department for months to reveal the identities of the targeted states. He said
states need such information in real time so that they can strengthen their
cyber defenses.

''We have to do better in the future,'' he said.

The Department of Homeland Security said it recognized that state and local
officials should be kept informed about cybersecurity risks to election
infrastructure.

''We are working with them to refine our processes for sharing this information
while protecting the integrity of investigations and the confidentiality of
system owners,'' the department said in a statement.

The government did not say who was behind the hacking attempts or provide
details about what had been sought. But election officials in several states
said the attempts were linked to Russia.

The Wisconsin Election Commission, for example, said the state's systems were
targeted by ''Russian government cyber actors.'' Josie Bahnke, Alaska's
elections division director, said computers in Russia were scanning election
systems looking for vulnerabilities.

A spokeswoman for the National Association of Secretaries of State said the
group had requested a list of the states where there were hacking efforts. In
most cases, states said they were told the systems were not breached.

Federal officials said that in most of the 21 states the targeting was
preparatory activity such as scanning computer systems.

The targets included voter registration systems but not vote-tallying software.
Officials said there were some attempts to compromise networks, but most were
unsuccessful.

Only Illinois reported that hackers had succeeded in breaching its voter
systems.

Other states said their cybersecurity measures turned back efforts to get to
crucial information.

''There are constant attempts by bad actors to hack our systems,'' Iowa's
secretary of state, Paul Pate, a Republican, said in a statement. ''But we
continue to deflect those attempts.''

Colorado said the hacking did not quite amount to a breach.

''It's really reconnaissance by a bad guy to try and figure out how we would
break into your computer,'' said Trevor Timmons, a spokesman for the Colorado
secretary of state's office. ''It's not an attack. I wouldn't call it a probe.
It's not a breach, it's not a penetration.''

Earlier this year, a leaked National Security Agency report detailed that
hackers obtained information from a company that provided software to manage
voter registrations in eight states. The May report said hackers sent phishing
emails to 122 local election officials just before the November 2016 election in
an attempt to break into their systems.

The latest disclosure to the states comes as a special counsel investigates
whether there was any coordination during the 2016 presidential campaign between
Russia and associates of President Trump.

Mr. Trump, a Republican who defeated Hillary Clinton, the Democratic candidate,
in the presidential election, has called the Russia story a hoax. He says
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has ''vehemently denied'' the conclusions
of numerous American intelligence agencies.

For states that were told they were not targets, the news brought relief.

''This is one time we like being at the bottom of the list,'' said Lisa
Strimple, a spokeswoman for Nebraska's secretary of state.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/22/us/politics/us-tells-21-states-that-hackers-t
argeted-their-voting-systems.html

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 23, 2017 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

One Surprise Is Already Clear in the German Elections: No Russian Meddling

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1480 words


BERLIN -- Chancellor Angela Merkel's summons to Germany's top cabinet ministers
and senior military and intelligence officials for a meeting of the Federal
Security Council signaled trouble. Such gatherings are rare, typically occurring
only when the country faces a grave threat like a terrorist attack.

There was just one item on the agenda that day last spring: how to protect
Germany's upcoming parliamentary elections from Russian cyberattacks. At the
time, it seemed almost inevitable that Germany would suffer the same fate as
France and the United States, where, officials say, the Kremlin attempted to
alter the results of presidential elections with ''fake news'' and spear
phishing attacks.

But on the eve of Sunday's elections, the Russians have done something few
expected: they have largely disappeared. The trolls who spread distorted and
falsified information before earlier elections have failed to make much of a
splash here. The websites of the campaigns and major news media outlets are
operating like normal.

Germans, according to Sandro Gaycken, the director of the Digital Society
Institute in Berlin, which has been monitoring for Russian meddling, are
''almost disappointed that nothing is happening.''

''We don't see any verified attacks,'' he said. ''We're not really expecting any
Russian interference.''

In some respects, experts say, German elections are insulated from outside
interference in ways those in the United States are not. The country's politics
are not as polarized as they are in the United States, where partisan enmity
provided fertile ground for Russian efforts to sow confusion with distorted and
falsified information amplified by Russian-controlled Twitter bots and Facebook
accounts.

In a move that would seem unimaginable in the United States, the campaigns for
the major political parties entered into a ''gentleman's agreement'' this year
not to exploit any information that might be leaked as a result of a
cyberattack.

Germans also still largely trust their mainstream, traditional news media
sources and, unlike Americans, tend to be wary of information disseminated on
Facebook and Twitter.

Officials warn that there is still a chance that some 16 gigabytes of sensitive
information stolen two years ago by Kremlin-backed hackers from Germany's
Parliament, the Bundestag, could surface, much like emails taken from the
campaign of Emanuel Macron were dumped days before the election in France.

In January, someone registered two websites, btleaks.info and btleaks.org, which
reminiscent of the DCLeaks website that served as a repository for documents
stolen from the Democratic National Committee last year. Staffers from Germany's
domestic intelligence agency have been assigned to check those websites hourly.

But few think the information if leaked would make much difference at this
point. The latest polls show Ms. Merkel in a comfortable lead ahead of her chief
rivals, making it likely that she will secure a fourth term as chancellor.

So why has Russia held back?

After failing to defeat Mr. Macron or so far obtain any positive dividends from
its support of the Trump campaign, it is possible, experts say, that the Kremlin
has decided to rethink its approach.

Russian influence operations, or active measures as they are known, tend to work
only if no one is expecting them. Unlike the Obama administration, which chose
to remain silent about Russia's meddling for months before the election last
November, German officials cannot seem to stop talking about the threat.

Weeks after the election of President Trump, Bruno Kahl, the head of Germany's
foreign intelligence service, the BND, warned of cyberattacks aimed at
''delegitimizing the democratic process'' in Germany. Ms. Merkel herself has
issued similar warnings.

''It makes absolutely no sense to conduct cyber-ops because everyone is waiting
for it,'' Dr. Gaycken said. ''It would almost make more sense for the C.I.A. to
leak fake news to make it seem like the Russians did it.''

Ripjar, a data analytics company founded by former members of Britain's
Government Communications Headquarters, says that scores of automated bots on
Twitter and other social media sites have been pushing anti-Merkel and
anti-immigrant messaging in German. The messages appear to align with Kremlin
positions ahead of the election, but do not seem to have had much resonance.

''It is a very blunt tool that I would assess has very little impact on the
world,'' said David Balson, Ripjar's director of intelligence.

Perhaps Germany's greatest protection is not some 21st century innovation but
old-fashioned paper ballots, counted by hand, that are essentially hack proof.

It would be a mistake to think the aggressive Russian interference in elections
last year represented some kind of new norm, said Thomas Rid, a professor at
Johns Hopkins University who is writing a book on Russian active measures. These
types of operations, he said, are extremely difficult to pull off and, as the
world has seen, can backfire. In many ways, he said, the Russians just got
lucky.

''I think one of the risks of the 2016 operation is that we all overestimate how
much you can achieve from it and how easy it is,'' he said. ''You just can't
replicate this in the country every time.''

Nevertheless, Germans prepared well in advance for any hint of Russian
interference.

The Federal Office for Information Security ran penetration tests looking for
vulnerabilities in computer systems and software of the federal election
authority. The Bundestag and the individual campaigns consulted with experts
about strengthening their computer security. And major news media outlets
established teams of fact checkers to protect against fake news.

German officials are now looking beyond the elections at ways to bolster the
country's cyberdefenses even further.

At the Federal Security Council meeting, which was held in March, officials
hammered out what has become known as the ''hack-back'' strategy. The plan is to
try to turn the tables on the hackers, launching offensive cyberattacks against
them and destroying their online infrastructure before any real damage can be
done.

While the German military can now legally launch a cyber-offensive following
hacker attacks on military resources, there is no provision in German law
allowing for the country's cyber forces to respond to attacks on civilian
infrastructure like the power grid, hospitals or servers that process election
results.

''Our cyber-defenses are Swiss cheese,'' said Jacob Schrot, a Bundestag staffer
responsible for intelligence oversight and cybersecurity matters.

Russia is not the only threat on this front. Germans are still angry about
revelations made by Edward Snowden that the National Security Agency under
President Barack Obama had hacked into Ms. Merkel's cellphone.

Though a precise plan of action has yet to be implemented, that federal
authorities would even consider taking offensive action against an enemy is a
measure of how seriously the country has come to view the cyber threat.

Enduring trauma of the Nazi era has made Germans squeamish about flexing their
country's military muscles. But Russia's recent history of revanchism under
President Vladimir V. Putin -- not just interfering in elections but supporting
hard-right nationalist parties in Europe and dabbling in military adventures,
like the annexation of Crimea and instigation of war in eastern Ukraine -- has
forced Germans to confront a new reality.

Marian Wendt, a member of Parliament from Ms. Merkel's party, the Christian
Democratic Union, who oversees cybersecurity issues, said in an interview that
Germany would prefer cooperation with Mr. Putin and Russia. But he said Germany
also had a responsibility to protect itself.

''At some point you have to attack your attackers,'' he said.

The hack-back strategy has stirred controversy here, with some charging that it
comes close to violating Germany's constitutional prohibition of offensive
warfare adopted after the country's defeat in World War II. Cyber experts also
question whether Germany possesses the technical expertise to pull off such a
tactic, particularly against Russia's own highly advanced teams of cyber
warriors.

''Our main challenge right now is a shortage of skilled I.T. security workers,''
said Sven Herpig, a cybersecurity expert with a German think tank, Stiftung Neue
Verantwortung. ''Why do we waste the few talents that we have on the offensive
side when we could actually use them on the defensive side.''

Germany's talk of offensive cyber actions could also escalate tensions with the
Kremlin, said Mr. Rid, from Johns Hopkins University. And with Russia quiet at
the moment, many question the wisdom of provoking it.

''Loose German talk of hack-back,'' Mr. Rid said, ''could translate into Russian
as 'bring it on.'''




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/21/world/europe/german-election-russia.html

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters rallied against Chancellor Angela Merkel and her
party at a campaign event this month in Torgau, Germany. The latest polls
suggest she has a comfortable lead in Sunday's elections. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FILIP
SINGER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 23, 2017 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Prospect of an Atmospheric Nuclear Test Raises the Specter of Danger

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD; David E. Sanger reported from
Washington and William J. Broad from New York. Steven Lee Myers contributed
reporting from Beijing.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1375 words


WASHINGTON -- If North Korea follows through on its threat to conduct an
atmospheric nuclear test, it would be a far more dangerous step than anything
Kim Jong-un, its leader, has attempted -- and poses a host of hard decisions for
the Trump administration because attempting to stop the test could be as
dangerous as letting it go ahead.

All six of the North's nuclear tests have been underground, containing the
radioactive fallout. But an atmospheric test -- perhaps with a warhead shot over
the Pacific on a North Korean missile, or set off from a ship or barge -- would
put the populations below at the mercy of the North's accuracy and at the winds
that sweep up the radioactive cloud.

That is why the United States and the Soviet Union banned such tests in their
first nuclear test-ban treaty, more than a half-century ago.

It is exactly that fear of an environmental or humanitarian calamity that Mr.
Kim appears eager to foster as he looks for ways to strike back at the United
States, Japan and others seeking to choke off his money and trade. But experts
who have been through the uncertainties of nuclear testing say there are risks
all around, for Mr. Kim as well as his foes.

''It is not clear North Korea has that capability yet,'' said Siegfried S.
Hecker, the former director of Los Alamos National Laboratory and the nuclear
weapons expert the North Koreans let in to see their uranium enrichment plants
years ago, when they wanted to make clear to the Obama administration that their
atomic weapons program was moving ahead, unimpeded by sanctions.

''Besides,'' said Dr. Hecker, now a professor at Stanford University, ''a live
missile test -- one loaded with an H-bomb -- poses enormous risk.'' He recalled
that when the United States performed such tests in the early days of the Cold
War, ''one blew up on the launchpad and one had to be destroyed right after
launch, creating significant radioactive contamination.''

The North Koreans have studied this history, too, according to current and
former American intelligence officials. But the appeal of an atmospheric test is
obvious: It would create a sense of fear that an explosion deep inside a tunnel
in North Korea does not. The underground tests are detected on a Richter scale;
an atmospheric test, like the kind the United States conducted at Bikini Atoll
starting in 1948, creates a terrifying mushroom cloud.

The largest of those, a 1954 test code-named Castle Bravo, turned out to be
roughly three times larger than American bomb designers anticipated. They had
made a mathematical miscalculation about the power of one of the nuclear fuels
contained in the weapon, and the explosion spread radioactive material across
the globe. Ultimately, Castle Bravo helped fuel the call for a ban on
atmospheric tests.

No one knows what kind of test the North Koreans have in mind; the country's
foreign minister, Ri Yong Ho, did not specify when he raised the possibility
when talking to reporters at the United Nations on Thursday. ''This could
probably mean the strongest hydrogen bomb test over the Pacific Ocean,'' he
said. ''Regarding which measures to take, I don't really know since it is what
Kim Jong-un does.''

But the presumption is that if Mr. Kim decided to go ahead, the North would
attempt to conduct the test by firing it on a missile, presumably to an empty
spot in the Pacific. The goal would be to demonstrate that it had solved all the
technological issues involved in delivering a nuclear weapon to an American
city.

But that form of testing -- putting a live weapon on a missile -- is
particularly risky. Other countries have blanched at the potential for disaster,
Dr. Hecker noted, including the Chinese, who conducted one missile launch with a
live nuclear weapon in the warhead. It worked as planned, he said, but ''the
Chinese considered the risks unacceptable'' and never tried it again. In the
hands of the North Koreans, some say, it would be even riskier.

''This would be a regional nightmare'' for East Asia, said Heather Conley, a
former senior State Department official, now at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington.

It is possible the threat will never come to fruition. Detonating a weapon
inside a missile warhead, or even from a ship or barge, would be far more
difficult for the North than setting one off inside a mountain, where engineers
have months to wire up the weapon, and no time pressure.

It would require what experts call a ''weaponized device'' that could survive
shocks, stresses and, if launched from a missile, the heat of re-entry into the
atmosphere, something North Korea has never demonstrated it can handle.

''The DPRK would be taking a big risk -- missile tests fail,'' said Philip E.
Coyle III, a nuclear scientist and former head of the Pentagon's weapons
testing. The live nuclear warhead could come down on a neighboring country, or
if the missile blew up on the launchpad -- as has been known to happen -- set
off the nuclear warhead in North Korea.

The transportation risks would be enormous, including the chance of an
accidental detonation before the nuclear device reached the target zone. And
while the world's best missiles fail roughly once in every 100 flights, the
failure rate for the North's missiles is much higher. Last year, one type of
missile failed seven out of eight times, perhaps in part because it had been
targeted by a series of cyber attacks ordered by President Barack Obama. Since
then, the North has ceased testing that type of missile and been more successful
with others.

And even if one of the North's missiles succeeded in lofting a nuclear weapon,
the bigger challenge would be bringing it back down during the fiery re-entry.
The heat, pressures and forces of deceleration are enormous. To date, evidence
from the North's test launches suggests it is still in the beginning stages of
learning how to build a survivable warhead.

It would be far easier for the North to entrust a nuclear weapon to a plane or a
boat. But it has few with the long-range capability for the job, and the chances
that the United States or its allies would detect it in transit are
considerable.

It would also break a taboo. It has been 37 years since any nation tested a
nuclear weapon in the planet's atmosphere. And given what is now known about the
effects that radioactive fallout from such tests has on human health and the
environment, one now would only intensify the international opprobrium Mr. Kim
already faces.

According to one estimate by a physicians group opposed to nuclear weapons, 2.4
million people could die from cancer caused by the radioactivity from the more
than 2,000 known tests that have already taken place.

The last atmospheric test took place on Oct. 16, 1980, when China fired what
experts believed to be a nuclear-tipped ballistic missiles into a desert salt
flat along what was once the Silk Road, more than 1,300 miles west of Beijing.

The United States attempted a missile-launched nuclear test so only once -- on
May 6, 1962 -- during a frenzy of Cold War tests. A submerged submarine, the
Ethan Allen, fired a Polaris A-2 missile in the direction of Christmas Island in
the Indian Ocean. After traveling more than 1,200 miles, its warhead exploded at
an altitude exceeding 10,000 feet.

[Video: A video of the United States's first and only test of an operation
nuclear weapon "mated" to a ballistic missile, conducted in the Pacific Ocean on
May 6, 1962. Watch on YouTube.]

That test helped spur negotiations that ultimately led to a treaty banning tests
in the atmosphere, outer space or underwater. It was in signed in 1963 by the
United States, the Soviet Union and Britain.

In 1996, a far broader agreement to ban all nuclear testing, the Comprehensive
Test Ban Treaty, was adopted at the United Nations and has been ratified by 166
states. The United States, China and North Korea are among the holdouts, along
with Egypt, India, Israel, Iran and Pakistan.

An effort by the Clinton administration to ratify the treaty failed; Mr. Obama
promised to resubmit it for ratification but never did, fearing a second defeat.
The United States and China have adhered to its restrictions, even if neither
has ratified it.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/22/world/asia/north-korea-atmospheric-nuclear-te
st-risks.html

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The United States had tested a weapon mated with a missile only
once, in 1962. Thus far, all six of North Korea's nuclear tests have been
underground, containing the radioactive fallout. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNIVERSAL
HISTORY ARCHIVE/UIG, VIA GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

S.E.C. Cyber Rules Are Falling Short

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg.
1

LENGTH: 1054 words


At first glance, the hacking disclosed by the Securities and Exchange Commission
on Wednesday didn't seem too much of a concern to investors.

The intrusion, after all, appeared to be limited to the S.E.C.'s database of
corporate filings, like annual and quarterly financial reports and proxy
statements.

While the S.E.C. said it believed that the attack ''did not result in
unauthorized access to personally identifiable information, jeopardize the
operations of the commission, or result in systemic risk,'' the agency did
acknowledge that the hackers could have profited by trading on the corporate
data they gleaned.

Still, said Jay Clayton, the S.E.C. chairman, the episode ''highlighted the
importance of cybersecurity to the agency and market participants.''

I'll say.

The lapse at the S.E.C. and the breach before it at Equifax, the credit
monitoring agency, should both be wake-up calls for investors who regularly
trade stocks. In fact, these breakdowns raise questions about significant gaps
in the S.E.C.'s computer security rules for stock exchanges and certain other
significant trading platforms.

As a result of these holes, investors' trades on certain venues may be more
vulnerable to hacking than on others. And because of the interconnectedness of
the technologies supporting the nation's stock trading systems, hackers gaining
access to one venue could easily disrupt entire swaths of the market.

The concerns center on an S.E.C. rule written in 2014 that was intended to
strengthen the technological underpinnings of the United States securities
markets, making them safer for investors.

The rule, known as Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity, or Reg SCI, came
after a series of troubling market system failures. One was the $440 million
glitch in 2012 at Knight Capital, a big stock trading firm. Other technical
breakdowns occurred the next year on Nasdaq; on one occasion, all trading in
that market was halted for three hours.

The S.E.C. rule required exchanges and certain other trading venues to have
comprehensive procedures ensuring ''the robustness and resiliency of their
technological systems.''

Bolstering cybersecurity measures was a component of the rule. Stock exchanges
like IEX, Nasdaq and the New York Stock Exchange had to comply with the new
requirements and make their operations available for audits by the S.E.C. These
exchanges also had to tell the commission when problems arose, including system
intrusions, a crucial mechanism for investor protection.

But many large trading venues did not have to comply with the rule. Among them
were firms that buy stock orders from retail brokerage firms, known as
wholesalers or internalizers. Certain alternative trading systems were also let
off the hook, including some that are operated by large brokerage companies like
Morgan Stanley.

Among the entities that don't have to adhere to the cybersecurity rule are firms
that handle vast volumes of trades in the nation's equity markets. Citadel
Securities, the broker-dealer unit of the powerhouse founded by Kenneth Griffin,
is an example.

A division of the company -- Citadel Execution Services -- is what's known as a
wholesale firm. It buys investors' orders from retail brokerage firms that don't
have their own trading operations and executes the transactions against stocks
it holds in inventory. Some 200 brokerage firms, including Charles Schwab,
Scottrade and E-Trade, sell their customers' orders to Citadel.

These firms send Citadel almost three million equity orders a day totaling
almost 1.7 billion shares, according to figures cited in an S.E.C. enforcement
action filed against the firm in January. These orders accounted for about 35
percent of the average daily volume of retail stock trades in the United States,
the S.E.C. said.

It seems odd, given the volume of trades handled by Citadel, that the S.E.C.
would not require the firm to follow its heightened cybersecurity rules. So I
asked the S.E.C. about this decision. A spokeswoman declined to comment.

I also asked Citadel about its internal protections against cyberattacks. A
spokesman declined to comment.

A spokesman for Morgan Stanley declined to comment about precautions the bank
had taken against digital attacks on their alternative trading systems. But
since the company qualifies as a systemically important financial institution in
regulators' eyes, at least its operations are watched more closely.

Also disquieting about the rule: Nowhere does the agency publish the list of
entities that comply with the systems integrity rule. If this regulation was
supposed to protect investors, as the S.E.C. contended when it put it into
effect, why aren't investors allowed to know which trading venues have strong
cybersystems in place and which may not?

This question may come up on Thursday, when Mr. Clayton, the S.E.C. chairman, is
scheduled to testify before the Senate banking committee. One of the committee's
members, Mark R. Warner, a Virginia Democrat who is a co-founder of the
bipartisan Senate Cybersecurity Caucus, recently expressed his concern over the
lack of transparency in the rule.

''Investors are unable to determine whether their orders are being routed to
market centers which are being held to the requirement of having a strong,
audited cybersecurity program,'' Mr. Warner wrote in a letter to Mr. Clayton on
Aug. 1. ''If compromised, these market centers could destabilize markets by not
having the protections in place that the S.E.C. has outlined in Reg SCI to
strengthen the integrity of our markets.''

The S.E.C. was right to require market trading venues to tighten their security
systems. Investors rely heavily on these entities.

But exempting major firms may mean it did only half the job. And surely
investors have the right to know which firms are meeting the heightened
standards.

Mr. Warner thinks so. ''Efforts to strengthen our nation's financial
infrastructure, such as Reg SCI, are critical to financial stability and the
security of our country,'' he said in a statement on Thursday. ''Providing
investors with information about which market centers are subject to Reg SCI and
whether they are in compliance would encourage market center adoption of strong
cybersecurity standards and help investors protect themselves from cyberrisks.''




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/22/business/sec-rules-cyber-security.html

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, center, has expressed
concerns about the Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity, the S.E.C.'s
rule on cybersecurity. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL DRAGO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Essentials for the Apocalypse

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2552 words


President Trump threatens to ''totally destroy North Korea.'' Another hurricane
lashes out. A second monster earthquake jolts Mexico. Terrorists strike in
London. And that's just this past week or so.

Yes, the world is clearly coming to an end. But is there anything you can do to
prepare?

That is not a philosophical question, or a theological one. And if it is a
question that seems to beg any explication, you may stop reading now.

But if you are among the swelling class of weekend paranoiacs of affluent means
who are starting to mull fantasies of urban escape following the endless
headlines about disasters, both natural and manufactured, you may be starting to
see a different image in your mind when think ''survivalist.'' You may no longer
see the wild-eyed cave dweller in camouflage fatigues, hoarding canned goods.
You may even see one in the mirror.

In a world where the bombproof bunker has replaced the Tesla as the hot status
symbol for young Silicon Valley plutocrats, everyone, it seems, is a
''prepper,'' even if the ''prep'' in question just means he is stashing a
well-stocked ''bug-out bag'' alongside his Louis Vuitton luggage in a Range
Rover pointed toward Litchfield County, Conn. Here is a checklist for the
neo-survivalist preparing for the apocalypse.

1. Satchels for Survival

The power grid has collapsed. Supermarkets are looted. With the city teetering
on the brink of collapse, the first thing you want to reach for -- after the
Xanax -- is a well-stocked ''bug out'' bag.

These suddenly chic survival satchels, also known as go bags, are typically
lightweight military-grade backpacks stocked with provisions for at least 72
hours. Ready-made bug-out bags containing staples like water purification
tablets, a 20-hour body warmer and a multifunction shovel are available on
Amazon for under than $200.

Hard-core preppers, however, would never leave their survival up to a mouse
click, which is why some sites suggest endless creative tweaks to the standard
equipment. Graywolf Survival recommends a chain-saw blade stashed in an Altoids
tin to harvest firewood. Survival Life touts feminine hygiene products, even for
men, to soak up blood from wounds.

''As long as the gear gets the job done, that's what matters,'' said Andrew
Pontius, a marketing consultant and disaster preparedness instructor in Kansas
City, Mo., who helps run a site called Bug Out Bag Academy.

2. Go for the Silver

Two years ago, Greece was forced to shutter banks and limit A.T.M. withdrawals
to 60 euros a day during a debt crisis that threatened to shatter Europe's
currency union. In the United States, prominent authors like James Rickards, a
hedge fund veteran, and David Stockman, once the budget director for the Reagan
administration, insist that an even bigger crisis will soon tank Wall Street and
torpedo the dollar.

No wonder so many preppers, some of them wearing pinstriped suits, consider gold
and silver to be a crucial hedge against a crisis.

While Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies make news, many preppers are quietly
packing their bug-out bags with rolls of pre-1965 American dimes, quarters or
half-dollars, which are 90 percent silver and available from coin dealers and
precious-metals websites (silver is currently about $17 an ounce). ''My
preferred form of precious metal post-financial collapse, that is, besides
high-speed lead,'' wrote one prepper on SurvivalistBoards.com.

Unlike gold, which is hovering around $1,300 an ounce, these old silver coins
come in small enough denominations to barter for a loaf of bread or a socket
wrench in an economic ''Mad Max'' scenario. Even so, some survivalists remain
silver skeptics. ''For $100, let's say you get five silver coins,'' said an
urban preparedness expert who goes by the nom de guerre Selco. ''Why not buy 100
cans of soup?''

3. Alt-Currencies for the Apocalypse

Imagine a true economic apocalypse, one that makes the German hyperinflation of
the 1920s, with its wheelbarrows of near-worthless paper currency, look like a
hiccup. To prepare for the worst worst-case scenario, some doomers prefer daily
staples like tampons, vegetable seeds and cigarettes (that timeless prison
medium of exchange) to silver or gold as an alt-currency.

Liquor, too -- particularly in easy-to-swap airline bottles -- would likely
prove a hot commodity, since it not only deadens the pain of surviving in a
post-apocalyptic wasteland, but, as a blogger named Survival Mom points out,
also provides useful off-label functions as a disinfectant or an ingredient in
herbal remedy tinctures.

Visions of a barter economy are not necessarily the stuff of doomer fever
dreams, said Xavier Thomas, who runs the British site MoreThanJustSurviving.com
with his wife, Elise.

''If we look at examples of systematic social breakdowns, like Argentina in
2001, or the war in the Balkans, goods that people understood on an intrinsic
level clearly carried the most value when trading -- cans of food, gas,
batteries, cheap Bic lighters,'' he said. ''A good rule of thumb: If you'd find
it useful in an emergency, you'll be able to find someone who will trade for it
in an emergency.''

4. Beyond ''Duck and Cover''

When President Trump issued his threat to North Korea at the United Nations,
many preppers had an almost Pavlovian response: to check their nuclear survival
kit. Ever since the backyard bomb shelter went the way of tail fins, survival in
the face of mushroom clouds has seemed highly relative.

Some preppers place their faith in unproven home remedies, like bedsheets dusted
with baby powder, which they hope will block X-rays, or generous helpings of
turmeric mixed with black pepper, to inhibit tumor formation. Others turn to
basics, like Geiger counters, wallet-size RAD badges, potassium iodide tablets
or a Seychelle radiological family water pitcher, which the manufacturer claims
will filter out ''99.99 percent of the major contaminants that can be found
after a nuclear event.''

Or people may just want to stock up on Snuggies, chocolate Easter bunnies,
Hummel figurines or vintage Backstreet Boys paraphernalia, which will do about
as much good in the event of a direct strike.

5. The Other Bug-Out Bag

In the event of apocalypse, bring condoms. This may sound like a slogan from a
fraternity party T-shirt, but survivalists absolutely adore condoms.
Featherweight, ultracompact and durable, condoms (nonlubricated, please) can be
used as a makeshift canteen to store water, a fire starter or as elastic bands
for an improvised slingshot to hunt small game, according to Creek Stewart, a
survival instructor and television host.

[Video: 20 Condom Uses for SHTF Survival Watch on YouTube.]

When inflated, they can also be used as fishing bobbers or signaling devices for
semaphore, according to SensiblePrepper. Oh, and they're also great for the
obvious use, too.

6. Armed to the Teeth, but With What?

Should law and order on the streets break down after, say, a massive hurricane
or nuclear-reactor meltdown, that condom slingshot might come in handy in New
York, where possession of the most fundamental survivalist self-defense staple
-- the gun -- is highly restricted by law. (The same goes for brass knuckles,
nunchucks, ninja stars, switchblade knives, wrist-brace slingshots and, that
D.I.Y. prepper favorite, a paint ball pistol loaded with ghost-chili-powder
balls.)

So what is a defenseless, law-abiding survivalist to do? Prepper bibles like
''100 Deadly Skills,'' by Clint Emerson, a former Navy SEAL, are filled with
improvised alternative weapons, like a collapsible umbrella lined with wrenches,
which is ''not illegal to possess,'' a New York City Police Department spokesman
said, but ''would be considered a weapon if you used it on someone.''

Sure, you could master jiu-jitsu. ''But if it's really on, hand-to-hand
self-defense will only take you so far,'' said Jason Charles, a firefighter and
organizer of the New York City Prepper's Network. To balance legality with
lethality in a bug-out bag, he said, ''you have to go simpler -- hammers,
hatchets, certain heavy tools.'' That roll of old silver quarters might come in
handy, too.

7. Paddling to Safety

Manhattanites face challenges unknown to their Western counterparts hunkering in
remote desert bunkers. Their home turf, after all, is not only a prime target,
but an island. In the event of a cataclysmic emergency, bridges and tunnels may
be closed, or choked off by marauding mobs, forcing survivors to consider
waterborne escape.

A lightweight, folding kayak like the Oru Beach LT is a savvy, albeit expensive
option ($1,299), since it weighs 30 pounds (easy enough to tote to the Hudson
River if Lyft is offline) and collapses to the size of a suitcase -- perfect for
those tiny Upper West Side closets.

Sure, kayak pros counsel against newbies attempting a Hudson crossing. ''There
are strong tidal currents, few places to safely launch or land, and an abundance
of commercial and ferry transit traffic,'' said Randall Henriksen of the New
York Kayak Company. But if the choice is armed mobs or choppy waters, many New
Yorkers may reach for a paddle.

8. Deliverance From Above

Since the Sept. 11 attacks, many cubicle dwellers have been haunted by fears of
being stuck in a skyscraper when disaster strikes. In fact, tragic images from
the World Trade Center inspired a micro-industry of high-rise-escape options.
There are now escape chutes (basically, giant collapsible fabric tubes for
shinnying down) and small parachutes.

The SOS Parachute (about $2,400) is compact enough to store in a cubicle, opens
in about two seconds and is designed to work for the 11th floor and higher.
Granted, the parachute is exactly not 82nd Airborne-grade, and a 200-pound man
might find the landing a little rough. ''You may twist an ankle,'' said Nicolas
Havett, a company executive. But in a situation serious enough to warrant a
parachute, that's a deal that many would take.

9. Who Are You Calling ''Rocket Man''?

They were a science-fiction fantasy in the Bond movie ''Thunderball,'' a
space-age gag in ''Gilligan's Island.'' But a half-century later, jet packs
actually exist. A California company called JetPack Aviation unveiled a
functioning turbojet version two years ago, capable of staying aloft for 10
minutes, traveling at speeds up to 100 miles per hour. Current models are
available only to the military, but David Mayman, the company's founder, said he
plans to introduce a commercial version within 18 months.

Hard-core doomers need not drain their airplane-liquor-bottle stash to envision
the potential: Imagine New York after, say, an electromagnetic pulse attack that
wipes out the power grid (like the kind North Korea recently threatened). The
bridges and streets resemble a scene from the old John Carpenter movie ''Escape
From New York,'' but the privileged few can soar across the Hudson to safety (or
at least New Jersey). ''From the time you push the button, you could be in the
air in less than 30 seconds,'' Mr. Mayman said.

Sure, there is the cost -- about $250,000, which the company is hoping to bring
down ''to the price of a luxury car.'' For now, just think of it as the
survivalists' Maybach.

10. No Place Like Dome

Sandy was not the first hurricane to devastate entire sections of New York. In
1893, a hurricane blew through the city with such force that it wiped an entire
island -- Hog Island, a glittering resort near the Rockaways -- off the map. In
the event of a megadisaster that leaves parts of the city uninhabitable,
survivors might require cheap, stormproof shelter to start a new life.

In the best of times, prefabricated dome shelters receive high marks from
environmentalists and penny pinchers alike because of their low cost and minimal
environmental impact.

A company called Intershelter sells igloo-shape pleasure domes that call to mind
Luke Skywalker's old pad on Tatooine, but cost only $12,000 for one big enough
to include a kitchen; it can be thrown together in a few hours, to make an
instant hunting or fishing lodge. But in the worst of times, this dome, ''built
to sustain hurricane strength winds or earthquakes,'' makes great relief housing
for disaster victims and, in theory, would make great bug-out bunkers for
urbanites looking to build a survivalist compound on the fly.

The dome houses are so rugged, according the company's founder, Don Kubley,
''you could buy one today and your grandkids will be playing in it.'' One can
only hope.

Should disaster not strike? They make a great man cave or backyard cabana.

11. Pets or Meat

In the event of a breakdown of the food supply that leaves the shelves of
Fairway bare and Le Coucou a ghost town on a Saturday night, you will still have
to eat. Often.

That is why many survivalists are placing their hopes of sustenance in rabbit, a
high-protein, low-fat meat that is also being embraced as ''the new chicken'' by
sustainable food types including Michael Pollan. ''Raising meat rabbits is one
of the most space-efficient means of growing livestock for meat,'' according to
the site Survivalist 101.

By livestock standards, rabbits are relatively clean and quiet, too. They can
survive on table-scrap vegetables or even grass, and as a bonus, yield valuable
fur for improvised winter clothing. And boy do they breed. A doe can produce up
to 50 kits a year, yielding 250 pounds of meat, according to researchers at the
Penn State Extension.

12. Beyond Medieval Times

To master archery and broadsword combat; to learn to manufacture fabric, bread,
ceramic cookware and wood furniture by hand; to perfect the preindustrial arts
of iron craft and tanning: Yes, there are worse things to carry into a
post-apocalyptic world than a membership card to the Society for Creative
Anachronism.

In normal times, this international historical-re-enactment organization seems
like little more than a harmless bunch of Renaissance Faire types playing dress
up on weekends and celebrating the arts, skills and costumes of pre-17th-century
Europe.

But should Armageddon arrive -- say, in the form of a limited nuclear exchange,
global pandemic or cyber mega-attack -- these hobbies could mean your survival.
In other words, chivalry may not be dead after all.

13. The Final Frontier

There is bugging out, and then there is really bugging out. In a scorched-earth
scenario where even a jet pack is not enough to escape harm's way, preppers with
deep pockets and a taste for Arthur C. Clarke might consider the ultimate
escape: launching their DNA into space.

Celestis, a company specializing in ''memorial spaceflights'' (sending cremated
remains into space), recently introduced ''genetic spaceflight.'' For $12,500,
for example, the cosmologically minded can send their DNA (a mouth swab or hair
sample) into space on a ''true mission of exploration,'' aboard a spacecraft on
a ''permanent celestial journey well beyond the moon.''

Who knows -- some ultra-intelligent alien being may discover it in the future,
and use your genetic code to reanimate a race of humans on a distant planet.
Let's just hope those humans don't choose to blow themselves up.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/23/style/how-to-survive-the-apocalypse.html

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: SOS Parachute offers a portable
version, a potential lifeline for skyscraper dwellers
jetpacks, like this one by JetPack Aviation, are no longer science fiction
a collapsible kayak, like the Oru Beach LT, is a must-have for preppers in
Manhattan
and a bug-out bag, with such items as candles and meds, is a necessity for
survival. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST10) DRAWINGS
(DRAWINGS BY LEO ACADIA) (ST1
 ST10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Will Zuck 'Like' This Column?

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1092 words


WASHINGTON -- The idea of Mark Zuckerberg running for president was always sort
of scary.

But now it's really scary, given what we've discovered about the power of his
little invention to warp democracy.

All these years, the 33-year-old founder of Facebook has been dismissive of the
idea that social media and A.I. could be used for global domination -- or even
that they should be regulated.

Days after Donald Trump pulled out his disorienting win, Zuckerberg told a tech
conference that the contention that fake news had influenced the election was
''a pretty crazy idea,'' showing a ''profound lack of empathy'' toward Trump
voters.

But all the while, the company was piling up the rubles and turning a blind eye
as the Kremlin's cyber hit men weaponized anti-Hillary bots on Facebook to sway
the U.S. election. Russian agents also used Facebook and Twitter trolls, less
successfully, to try to upend the French election.

Finally on Thursday, speaking on Facebook Live, Zuckerberg said he would give
Congress more than 3,000 ads linked to Russia. As one Facebooker posted: ''Why
did it take EIGHT MONTHS to get here?''

Hillary is right that this $500 billion company has a lot to answer for in
allowing the baby-photo-sharing site to be turned into what, with Twitter, The
Times's Scott Shane called ''engines of deception and propaganda.''

Robert Mueller's team, as well as House and Senate investigators, are hotly
pursuing the trail of Russian fake news. On Friday, the Department of Homeland
Security told 21 states, including Wisconsin and Ohio, that Russian agents had
tried to hack their elections systems during the campaign.

As Vanity Fair pointed out, Mueller's focus on social media during the campaign
could spell trouble for Jared Kushner, who once bragged that he had called his
Silicon Valley friends to get a tutorial in Facebook microtargeting and brought
in Cambridge Analytica -- Robert Mercer is a big investor -- to help build a
$400 million operation for his father-in-law's campaign.

Some lawmakers suspect that the Russians had help in figuring out which women
and blacks to target in precincts in Wisconsin and Michigan.

Senator Martin Heinrich, a New Mexico Democrat on the Senate Intelligence
Committee looking into Russia's intervention in 2016, has a suspect in mind.
''Paul Manafort made an awful lot of money coming up with a game plan for how
Russian interests could be pushed in Western countries and Western elections,''
Heinrich told Vanity Fair.

ProPublica broke the news that, until it asked about it recently, Facebook had
''enabled advertisers to direct their pitches to the news feeds of almost 2,300
people who expressed interest in the topics of 'Jew hater,' 'How to burn jews,'
or, 'History of ''why jews ruin the world.'''''

Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's C.O.O., apologized for this on Wednesday and
promised to fix the ad-buying tools, noting, ''We never intended or anticipated
this functionality being used this way -- and that is on us.''

The Times's Kevin Roose called this Facebook's ''Frankenstein moment,'' like
when Mary Shelley's scientist, Victor Frankenstein, says, ''I had been the
author of unalterable evils, and I lived in daily fear lest the monster whom I
had created should perpetrate some new wickedness.''

Roose noted that in addition to the Russian chicanery, ''In Myanmar, activists
are accusing Facebook of censoring Rohingya Muslims, who are under attack from
the country's military. In Africa, the social network faces accusations that it
helped human traffickers extort victims' families by leaving up abusive
videos.''

The Sandberg admission was also game, set and match for Elon Musk, who has been
sounding the alarm for years about the danger of Silicon Valley's creations and
A.I. mind children getting out of control and hurting humanity. His pleas for
safeguards and regulations have been mocked as ''hysterical'' and ''pretty
irresponsible'' by Zuckerberg.

Zuckerberg, whose project last year was building a Jarvis-style A.I. butler for
his home, likes to paint himself as an optimist and Musk as a doomsday prophet.
But Sandberg's comment shows that Musk is right: The digerati at Facebook and
Google are either being naïve or cynical and greedy in thinking that it's enough
just to have a vague code of conduct that says ''Don't be evil,'' as Google
does.

As Musk told me when he sat for a Vanity Fair piece: ''It's great when the
emperor is Marcus Aurelius. It's not so great when the emperor is Caligula.''

In July, the chief of Tesla and SpaceX told a meeting of governors that they
should adopt A.I. legislation before robots start ''going down the street
killing people.'' In August, he tweeted that A.I. going rogue represents
''vastly more risk than North Korea.'' And in September, he tweeted out a
Gizmodo story headlined ''Hackers Have Already Started to Weaponize Artificial
Intelligence,'' reporting that researchers proved that A.I. hackers were better
than humans at getting Twitter users to click on malicious links.

(Musk also tweeted that it was a cautionary tale when Microsoft's chatbot, Tay,
had to be swiftly shut down when Twitter users taught her how to reply with
racist, misogynistic and anti-Semitic slurs, talking approvingly about Hitler.)

Vladimir Putin has denied digital meddling in the U.S. elections. But he
understands the possibilities and threat of A.I. In a recent address, the
Russian president told schoolchildren, ''Whoever becomes the leader in this
sphere will become the ruler of the world.'' Musk agreed on Twitter that
competition for A.I. superiority would be the ''most likely cause of WW3.''

On Thursday, touring the Moscow tech firm Yandex, Putin asked the company's
chief how long it would be before superintelligent robots ''eat us.''

Zuckerberg scoffs at such apocalyptic talk. His project this year was visiting
all 50 states, a trip designed by former Obama strategist David Plouffe, which
sparked speculation that he might be the next billionaire to seek the Oval
Office.

As Bloomberg Businessweek wrote in a cover story a few days ago, Zuckerberg has
hired Plouffe, other senior Obama officials and Hillary's pollster. He has said
he is no longer an atheist and he changed Facebook's charter to allow him to
maintain control in the hypothetical event he runs for office.

Yep. Very scary.

I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/23/opinion/sunday/facebook-zuckerberg-dowd.html

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Zuckerberg may be learning what it's like to be Dr.
Frankenstein. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      September 26, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

California Today: Autumn's First Blush;
California Today

BYLINE: MIKE McPHATE

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1034 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tuesday: A look at the fall foliage, a fast-moving fire in Corona,
and ranking happiness in the Golden State.


Good morning.

(Want to get California Today by email? Here's the sign-up.)

"Dude, autumn happens here too."

So writes John Poimiroo, a travel writer who can understably be a little
defensive about California's fall foliage.

Mr. Poimiroo runs californiafallcolor.com, the go-to website for reports on when
and where the state's trees are swapping their summer greens for reds, oranges
and yellows.

Fall officially started last Friday. As if on cue, a day earlier a cold front
moved in to kick start the season, dropping several inches of snow on higher
elevations in the Sierra Nevada.

Since then, reports from Mr. Poimiroo's army of volunteer leaf-spotters have
been trickling in from elevations around 10,000 feet in the Eastern Sierra
counties of Mono and Inyo, where the aspens and willows are now changing color.

"We're like one week out from it being ridiculously good," said Jared Smith,
general manager at Parchers Resort near South Lake, in the Inyo National Forest.

In contrast to the East Coast, where the autumn hues sweep from north to south,
California's colors parade down the mountains, starting in the high country in
September and ending at the palm trees on the desert floor as late as December.

That means in California, with its extreme topography, weekend travelers can
find their way to fall foliage for much longer. Our recent wet winter is only
expected to strengthen the displays this year.

"You have late September and October, there's a lot of peak, particularly in the
Sierra," said Mr. Poimiroo. "Then into November you start to see the vineyards
going. So we have such varied fall colors."

But if you want to catch the first blush of fall in the Eastern Sierra, the time
to plan is now.

Check out some photos taken there in the last few weeks:

Want to submit your fall foliage photos for possible publication? You can do it
here.

California Online

(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited
access for nonsubscribers.)

A fast-moving wildfire that started near the Anaheim-Corona border surged to
more than three square miles forcing evacuations and threatening hundreds of
homes. [The Press-Enterprise]

California is taking the sparring between President Trump and North Korea
seriously. Last month, a bulletin was issued urging officials to shore up their
nuclear attack response plans. [Foreign Policy]

A decades-long battle over a proposed development in the Santa Clarita Valley
ended in a deal with environmental groups that will allow a new city of 58,000
residents to be built. [Los Angeles Times]

California's bullet train was supposed to be completed in the San Joaquin Valley
by this Saturday. It's not even close. [Fresno Bee]

Childcare funding, parental leave and diaper changing tables -- A bunch of
California state lawmakers have young children and it's affecting policy-making
decisions. [The Mercury News]

"The only reason 'integrative medicine' exists is to integrate quackery into
medicine." A $200-million donation to U.C. Irvine's medical school is raising
hackles among some doctors. [Opinion | Los Angeles Times]

A group is paying $1,500 a week for a billboard along the Bay Bridge with a
picture of President Trump and the word "Impeach." [KTVU]

Why should universities like U.C. Berkeley have to pay millions to host speakers
like Milo Yiannopoulos? [Opinion | The New York Times]

California's whale tail license plates -- now celebrating 20 years -- have been
one of state's most successful environmental programs. [San Gabriel Valley
Tribune]

A group is suing in a California court to force Starbucks and other companies to
post cancer warnings for their coffee, citing a chemical byproduct of the
roasting process. [The Associated Press]

Facebook piled up the rubles and turned a blind eye as the Kremlin's cyber hit
men weaponized anti-Hillary bots, writes Maureen Dowd. [Opinion | The New York
Times]

"It's like trying to find one of your eyelashes in Disneyland." A retired
builder has spent decades as a search-and-rescue volunteer in the California
mountains. He's helped recover 66 bodies. [The Tribune]

A Los Angeles Daily News photographer spent a year making portraits of the
area's homeless and asking them what they wanted to say. The results are
heart-wrenching. [Los Angeles Daily News]

N.F.L. Protest

Eric Reid, a safety for the San Francisco 49ers, wrote in The New York Times
Opinion Section about his decision to kneel alongside Colin Kaepernick during
the national anthem.

"It baffles me that our protest is still being misconstrued as disrespectful to
the country, flag and military personnel," he wrote. "We chose it because it's
exactly the opposite."

On Sunday, N.F.L. players demonstrated in a show of solidarity against President
Trump after he scolded the league over sideline protests.

And Finally ...

Are you happy?

If you live in California, the odds would seem to be in your favor.

A new survey by the website WalletHub crunched data on depression, income,
community involvement and dozens of other metrics and found that California was
the country's fourth happiest state.

Minnesota was No. 1, followed by Utah and Hawaii.

There's no magic formula to happiness, but scientists have learned a few things
about how people get there.

Relationships, gratitude, exercise, nature and genes are some of the ingredients
they've cited.

Weather too, many assume, must also play a role, though the research on that has
been mixed.

Even so, California's year-round sunshine can't hurt.

A separate survey this year by Gallup-Healthways interviewed thousands of
Americans to measure their well-being across nearly 190 metropolitan areas.

Among the 25 highest-ranked areas nationwide, six were situated in nearly
perfect climes along the Pacific Coast -- Santa Rosa, Santa Cruz, Salinas, San
Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara and San Diego.

California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you
want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.

The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a third-generation Californian
-- born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Los
Osos. Follow him on Twitter.

California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and
graduated from U.C. Berkeley.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     September 28, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Trump's Apprentice Plan Seems to Need a Mentor;
Labor Force

BYLINE: KEVIN CAREY

SECTION: UPSHOT

LENGTH: 1293 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Trump is seeking to increase the number of apprenticeships,
which seems like a great idea -- unless doing so leads to watered-down
standards.


Last December, Destina Garcia found herself outside a locked front door in the
Hunts Point section of the Bronx. Somewhere on the other side was an older man
who needed her help.

She didn't know yet that he had terminal cancer. She hadn't met his estranged
daughter, the one she would eventually bring north to spend the final days at
her father's side.

At that moment, Ms. Garcia was only a few weeks into a brand-new and also very
old kind of job, one being modernized to help fix the broken American system of
education, training and employment. She had just begun work as an apprentice.

President Trump has started a debate about whether it's possible to vastly
expand the number of apprenticeships nationwide without losing the elements that
make them work best.

Ms. Garcia, who is 30, grew up in the Manhattanville Houses project in West
Harlem and had a son at 18. She found entry-level work coding medical records.
But she soon ran into a quandary: While most good jobs require some kind of
credential, going to college can be expensive and time-consuming. Even if you
finish, there's no guarantee of employment.

She picked up certificates as a certified nurse assistant and an emergency
medical technician, but neither led to permanent work -- perhaps because in
those fields, as in most, employers value skills that can be learned only on the
job. But how do you get a job without the skills?

Then Ms. Garcia got connected to a new program jointly sponsored by
Bronx-Lebanon Hospital, the New York Alliance for Careers in Health Care,
LaGuardia Community College and the nation's largest health care workers union,
1199 S.E.I.U. Using apprenticeships, the program trains people to become
community health workers.

Apprenticeships have been around for ages. Ben Franklin and Paul Revere were
apprentices. Since the Industrial Revolution, apprenticeship in America has been
concentrated in areas like plumbing, welding and ironwork: male-dominated,
blue-collar trades.

But the real growth in today's job market is in fields like health care and
technology. The number of community health workers, who connect vulnerable
people to the medical and social service systems, increased to 51,900 in 2016
from 38,000 in 2013.

To learn the trade, Ms. Garcia took classes at Bronx-Lebanon taught by LaGuardia
Community College professors. They covered the ins and outs of the health care
system -- insurance, government programs, medical terminology -- along with
interview techniques and principles of case management.

It was important knowledge, but not enough. The rest of her education came from
her mentor, a 20-year veteran of the field named Dwight Chambers.

He was the one, she recounted months later, who assigned her first case file,
the elderly man in Hunts Point. Nobody answered the door there on the first day,
or the second, or the third, even though she knew someone was inside. Ms. Garcia
checked back daily with her mentor for advice. Travel light and reduce the risk
of losing your case files, he said. No heels -- wear comfortable shoes. Look at
how people dress and keep up their rooms to understand their state of mind.
Listen for turns of phrase that suggest involvement with drugs. In most
apartment buildings, the porter or super knows everyone's business. Make
friends, and he'll open up doors.

She finally got the old man to let her inside. He was born and raised in Puerto
Rico and came to New York years ago. The doctors wanted to do a lot of tests,
but he didn't see the use. It's my time, he told her. She persuaded him to go
anyway, but after a day of poking and prodding, the diagnosis was grim.

She went back to Mr. Chambers, who relayed more tricks of the trade. Ask him,
"How are your children?" They live in Florida, the man replied. He hadn't talked
to them in a long time. He felt that he hadn't been the best father. His
emergency contact number, for his son, was disconnected. But Ms. Garcia found a
daughter living in Orlando, who got her father a cellphone and helped him keep
appointments. Things went better for a while.

Ms. Garcia took on more cases as her apprenticeship continued. She got two
raises, bringing her salary up to $42,000 per year. This is a hallmark of the
apprentice system. Unlike interns, who are often exploited by employers,
apprentices are paid more as they advance in experience and skill.

Health care isn't the only field embracing apprenticeship. There are growing
programs in cyber security, computer programming, financial services, insurance
claims adjustment and early education. Gail Mellow, president of LaGuardia
Community College, says programs like Destina Garcia's apprenticeship create a
career ladder for low-income workers by bringing the college, union and employer
together.

President Trump has called for increasing the number of apprentices nationwide
to 5 million from roughly 500,000 today. To do this, he wants to direct $100
million of federal job training money to the program. He also wants to relax
federal standards for "registered" apprenticeships, which require a mentor,
salaries that increase with experience, and minimum hours of formal instruction
in both the classroom and workplace.

But research and recent experience suggest this approach could backfire. Over
the last decade, Britain tried to increase the number of apprentices through a
mix of public subsidies and changes that watered down the definition of
apprenticeship. The result? Subway took out ads to hire "apprentice sandwich
artists" who would be paid the minimum wage.

A 2014 study of 11 different work force training programs in Washington State
found that registered apprenticeships had by far the largest positive effect on
short- and long-term salaries, returning 18 times the cost of the program in
lifetime earnings. A 2012 study of 10 states found that registered apprentices
earned $240,000 more over a lifetime than similar workers who hadn't gone
through such a program.

After a few months went by, Ms. Garcia said, she got a call from the daughter.
She couldn't find her father. He didn't want chemotherapy and wouldn't answer
his phone. Now Mr. Chambers's advice focused less on short-term tactics and more
on the philosophy of the profession. Put yourself in the patient's shoes.
Advocate what he wants, not what an impersonal system demands. Sometimes people
can be frustrating, but you can't give up. You have to let them be whoever they
are.

So she took another trip to the apartment, where she talked to a neighbor who
knew something. She found the man in a nearby hospital and gave the daughter
information about a local hospice and advice about how to spend the last weeks
at home.

Ms. Garcia completed her apprenticeship in June and has continued on with
Bronx-Lebanon as a community health worker. She is also a member of 1199
S.E.I.U. and plans to use union-funded tuition assistance to pursue a bachelor's
in social work at the Lehman campus of CUNY.

Mr. Chambers expresses pride in his former pupil, who still calls him up to ask
for advice. Her clients look forward to seeing her and remember her name --
another good sign, in his experience.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.

Kevin Carey directs the education policy program at New America. You can follow
him on Twitter at @kevincarey1.

PHOTO: Destina Garcia, a community health worker with Bronx-Lebanon Hospital,
received her job training through an apprenticeship. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR J.
BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Switching Careers Doesn't Have to Be Hard: Charting Jobs That Are
          Similar to Yours
     ·    Job Listings That Are Too 'Feminine' for Men
     ·    Under Trump, Job Market Has Improved More for Clinton Supporters


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     September 30, 2017 Saturday 00:00 EST

U.S. in Direct Communication With North Korea, Says Tillerson

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1792 words



HIGHLIGHT: The confirmation marks the first time the Trump administration has
acknowledged it is in contact with Pyongyang without the help of an
intermediary.


BEIJING -- The Trump administration acknowledged on Saturday for the first time
that it was in direct communication with the government of North Korea over its
missile and nuclear tests, seeking a possible way forward beyond the escalating
threats of a military confrontation from both sides.

"We are probing, so stay tuned," Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson said, when
pressed about how he might begin a conversation with Kim Jong-un, the North
Korean leader, that could avert what many government officials fear is a
significant chance of open conflict between the two countries.

"We ask, 'Would you like to talk?' We have lines of communications to Pyongyang
-- we're not in a dark situation, a blackout," he added. "We have a couple,
three channels open to Pyongyang," a reference to North Korea's capital.

The two countries have been trading public threats over North Korea's nuclear
program, with the North declaring that its missiles have the capacity to strike
the United States and President Trump vowing to "totally destroy" North Korea.

So far, the North Koreans have shown no interest in a serious negotiation. For
his part, Mr. Tillerson gave no indication of what the administration might be
willing to give up if talks began, and Mr. Trump has made clear he would make no
concessions. But many inside and outside government have noted there were no
major military exercises between the United States and South Korea scheduled
until the spring, so the promise of scaling them back could be dangled.

But Mr. Kim would be unlikely to see that as much of a victory and he has
rejected any talks that would ultimately require him to disarm.

Speaking at the residence of the United States ambassador to Beijing after a
meeting with China's top leadership, Mr. Tillerson, the former chief executive
of Exxon Mobil and a newcomer to diplomacy, was cagey about whether the
inquiries yielded anything, or seem likely to.

But hours after he left China, his spokeswoman, Heather Nauert, responding to
news reports of Mr. Tillerson's comments, said in a statement that "despite
assurances that the United States is not interested in promoting the collapse of
the current regime" or sending American forces into the country, "North Korean
officials have shown no indication that they are interested in or ready for
talks regarding denuclearization."

In fact, while the Americans' outreach was underway, the exchange of public
threats between the two countries accelerated. They have included declarations
that the North might conduct an atmospheric nuclear test and that it had the
right to shoot down American warplanes in international waters.

"We can talk to them," Mr. Tillerson said at the end of a long day of engaging
China's leadership. "We do talk to them." When asked whether those channels ran
through China, he shook his head.

"Directly," he said. "We have our own channels."

During the 2016 presidential campaign, Mr. Trump said that, if elected, he would
sit down and negotiate directly with Mr. Kim, perhaps over a hamburger. He
seemed confident that his deal-making skills could extend to nuclear
disarmament, but at times talked about getting other powers -- chiefly China and
Iran -- to deal with North Korea for him, because they would have more leverage.

But Mr. Tillerson seemed to suggest that the urgency of the problem, with Mr.
Kim "launching 84 missiles" in his brief few years as the country's leader, and
its efforts to develop a hydrogen bomb, called for direct talks. And while he
said the ultimate goal of those talks had to be denuclearization of the Korean
Peninsula -- something the two Koreas agreed on in 1992 -- progress toward that
goal would be "incremental."

His comments marked the first sign that the Trump administration has been trying
its own version of what the Obama administration did with Iran: using a series
of backchannel, largely secret communications that, after years of negotiation,
resulted in a nuclear accord.

But Mr. Tillerson was quick to distinguish the very different circumstances of
North Korea and Iran -- Pyongyang has nuclear weapons, Tehran just a program
that could have led to them -- and then added: "We are not going to put together
a nuclear deal in North Korea that is as flimsy as the one in Iran."

Mr. Tillerson's comments came as the administration was nearing major decision
points about North Korea. While he argued that economic sanctions were finally
beginning to bite -- "the Chinese are saying it is having an effect," he argued
-- he did not claim they would change the North's behavior.

His visit to China came as the Pentagon was considering a variety of far more
aggressive military moves, including whether to strike at North Korea's missile
launching sites if it sees preparations for an atmospheric test -- which would
spew radioactivity into the skies -- or use missile defenses to try to shoot
down missiles.

But all those approaches risk public failure, and if they did not stop Mr. Kim
he would appear able to absorb, and ignore, an American effort to strip North
Korea of its nuclear arms.

American intelligence agencies are looking for ways to step up sabotage of the
program, beyond the intensification of cyber attacks launched against some of
its missile sites, secretly ordered by President Barack Obama in 2014.

Speaking less than an hour after he left a meeting with President Xi Jinping of
China, Mr. Tillerson said the most important thing was to lower the temperature
of the threats being exchanged in recent days between Mr. Kim and President
Trump.

"The whole situation is a bit overheated right now," he said. "If North Korea
would stop firing its missiles, that would calm things down a lot."

When asked whether that caution applied as well to Mr. Trump, who tweeted last
weekend that if the North were to keep issuing threats, "they won't be around
much longer," he skirted any direct criticism of the president.

"I think everyone would like for it to calm down," he said.

A study conducted by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a
Washington think tank, and released in recent days, suggests that at times of
diplomatic engagement with the United States, North Korean provocations usually
decline. But it is unclear that the trend applies to Mr. Kim, who at 33 has
invested dramatically in the nuclear capability, seeing it as critical to his
hold on power.

There is a long history of negotiations, both secret and public, between the
United States and the North, most ending in disappointment. The biggest success
came in 1994, when former President Jimmy Carter intervened in a crisis that
seemed to threaten the resumption of the Korean War.

But there are risks in the talks, too. American intelligence officials believe
Mr. Kim is racing ahead to complete his ability to strike the United States with
a weapon, figuring that at a minimum that would give him huge negotiating
leverage. Some former officials, like Michael J. Morell, who served as acting
director and deputy director of the C.I.A., have written in recent weeks that
Washington should give up on the hopeless goal of denuclearization, and work on
how to deter the North from ever using its weapons.

In Japan, where Prime Minister Shinzo Abe recently dissolved the lower house of
Parliament and called a snap election, the news that the United States was
already in direct contact with North Korea could give ammunition to Mr. Abe's
opponents. The Japanese leader has steadfastly maintained that it is not the
time for dialogue with North Korea, arguing in a recentOp-Ed article inThe New
York Times, that "emphasizing the importance of dialogue will not work with
North Korea."

"Now," said Narushige Michishita, director of the Security and International
Studies Program at the National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies in Tokyo,
"the opposition party members can say, 'Look, you have been talking about
pressure, but the U.S. is just leaving you behind.' "

Mr. Tillerson's comments came after three back-to-back meetings in Beijing's
Great Hall of the People, just off Tiananmen Square, after his trip was delayed
by a malfunction in his plane. The aging Boeing 757, which his predecessors
complained about, stranded him in Japan during a refueling stop.

He eventually got to Beijing, albeit half a day late, after boarding a C-130
cargo plane, leading to the unusual sight of an American secretary of state
walking off the rear ramp of an aircraft better known for carrying troops than
diplomats.

That left Mr. Tillerson with just six hours or so to meet with Beijing's
leadership before most of the country shut down for Golden Week, a holiday that
starts with China's national day. That will be followed by the 19th Communist
Party Congress, a meeting that occurs once every five years.

The congress represents Mr. Xi's moment to solidify his reputation as one of the
strongest Chinese leaders in decades. In the period leading up to the Congress,
Beijing has sought to preserve the status quo.

That was reflected in the public comments of Mr. Tillerson and his Chinese
interlocutors, none of whom mentioned the words "North Korea" in public.

Mr. Xi told Mr. Tillerson earlier that he wanted to ensure that a planned visit
by Mr. Trump to China in November would be a success, according to a summary of
their meeting issued by the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Chinese
Foreign Ministry noted that China's foreign minister, Wang Yi, and state
councilor, Yang Jiechi, who also oversees foreign policy, did discuss the North
Korean crisis with Mr. Tillerson. Those accounts did not give any details.

But at the end of the day, settling into a couch at the residence of Ambassador
Terry Branstad, Mr. Tillerson tried to sound optimistic that traditional
diplomacy would help resolve the North Korean issue, even though it has failed
past presidents.

He insisted that the ultimate goal of the negotiations would be complete
denuclearization, a goal many experts believe is foolhardy to attempt, because
the North has made clear that its nuclear arsenal is a pillar of the state. That
is acknowledged in the North Korean Constitution.

"They can change their Constitution," Mr. Tillerson said. "Especially the people
running North Korea -- it's pretty easy for them to change it."

Follow David E. Sanger on Twitter: @SangerNYT.Chris Buckley contributed
reporting from Beijing, Motoko Rich and Makiko Inoue from Tokyo, and Choe
Sang-Hun from Seoul, South Korea.

PHOTO: Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, in Beijing on Saturday, said the
U.S. wasn't using channels through China to talk with North Korea. (POOL PHOTO
BY ANDY WONG) (A10)

Related Articles


     ·    In Tillerson's China Stop, Questions on North Korea but Slim Chance of
          Clarity
     ·    North Korea Says U.N. Sanctions Are Causing 'Colossal' Damage


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 30, 2017 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump's Apprentice Plan May Need a Mentor

BYLINE: By KEVIN CAREY.

Kevin Carey directs the education policy program at New America. You can follow
him on Twitter at @kevincarey1.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LABOR FORCE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1219 words


Last December, Destina Garcia found herself outside a locked front door in the
Hunts Point section of the Bronx. Somewhere on the other side was an older man
who needed her help.

She didn't know yet that he had terminal cancer. She hadn't met his estranged
daughter, the one she would eventually bring north to spend the final days at
her father's side.

At that moment, Ms. Garcia was only a few weeks into a brand-new and also very
old kind of job, one being modernized to help fix the broken American system of
education, training and employment. She had just begun work as an apprentice.

President Trump has started a debate about whether it's possible to vastly
expand the number of apprenticeships nationwide without losing the elements that
make them work best.

Ms. Garcia, who is 30, grew up in the Manhattanville Houses project in West
Harlem and had a son at 18. She found entry-level work coding medical records.
But she soon ran into a quandary: While most good jobs require some kind of
credential, going to college can be expensive and time-consuming. Even if you
finish, there's no guarantee of employment.

She picked up certificates as a certified nurse assistant and an emergency
medical technician, but neither led to permanent work -- perhaps because in
those fields, as in most, employers value skills that can be learned only on the
job. But how do you get a job without the skills?

Then Ms. Garcia got connected to a new program jointly sponsored by
Bronx-Lebanon Hospital, the New York Alliance for Careers in Health Care,
LaGuardia Community College and the nation's largest health care workers union,
1199 S.E.I.U. Using apprenticeships, the program trains people to become
community health workers.

Apprenticeships have been around for ages. Ben Franklin and Paul Revere were
apprentices. Since the Industrial Revolution, apprenticeship in America has been
concentrated in areas like plumbing, welding and ironwork: male-dominated,
blue-collar trades.

But the real growth in today's job market is in fields like health care and
technology. The number of community health workers, who connect vulnerable
people to the medical and social service systems, increased to 51,900 in 2016
from 38,000 in 2013.

To learn the trade, Ms. Garcia took classes at Bronx-Lebanon taught by LaGuardia
Community College professors. They covered the ins and outs of the health care
system -- insurance, government programs, medical terminology -- along with
interview techniques and principles of case management.

It was important knowledge, but not enough. The rest of her education came from
her mentor, a 20-year veteran of the field named Dwight Chambers.

He was the one, she recounted months later, who assigned her first case file,
the elderly man in Hunts Point. Nobody answered the door there on the first day,
or the second, or the third, even though she knew someone was inside. Ms. Garcia
checked back daily with her mentor for advice. Travel light and reduce the risk
of losing your case files, he said. No heels -- wear comfortable shoes. Look at
how people dress and keep up their rooms to understand their state of mind.
Listen for turns of phrase that suggest involvement with drugs. In most
apartment buildings, the porter or super knows everyone's business. Make
friends, and he'll open up doors.

She finally got the old man to let her inside. He was born and raised in Puerto
Rico and came to New York years ago. The doctors wanted to do a lot of tests,
but he didn't see the use. It's my time, he told her. She persuaded him to go
anyway, but after a day of poking and prodding, the diagnosis was grim.

She went back to Mr. Chambers, who relayed more tricks of the trade. Ask him,
''How are your children?'' They live in Florida, the man replied. He hadn't
talked to them in a long time. He felt that he hadn't been the best father. His
emergency contact number, for his son, was disconnected. But Ms. Garcia found a
daughter living in Orlando, who got her father a cellphone and helped him keep
appointments. Things went better for a while.

Ms. Garcia took on more cases as her apprenticeship continued. She got two
raises, bringing her salary up to $42,000 per year. This is a hallmark of the
apprentice system. Unlike interns, who are often exploited by employers,
apprentices are paid more as they advance in experience and skill.

Health care isn't the only field embracing apprenticeship. There are growing
programs in cyber security, computer programming, financial services, insurance
claims adjustment and early education. Gail Mellow, president of LaGuardia
Community College, says programs like Destina Garcia's apprenticeship create a
career ladder for low-income workers by bringing the college, union and employer
together.

President Trump has called for increasing the number of apprentices nationwide
to 5 million from roughly 500,000 today. To do this, he wants to direct $100
million of federal job training money to the program. He also wants to relax
federal standards for ''registered'' apprenticeships, which require a mentor,
salaries that increase with experience, and minimum hours of formal instruction
in both the classroom and workplace.

But research and recent experience suggest this approach could backfire. Over
the last decade, Britain tried to increase the number of apprentices through a
mix of public subsidies and changes that watered down the definition of
apprenticeship. The result? Subway took out ads to hire ''apprentice sandwich
artists'' who would be paid the minimum wage.

A 2014 study of 11 different work force training programs in Washington State
found that registered apprenticeships had by far the largest positive effect on
short- and long-term salaries, returning 18 times the cost of the program in
lifetime earnings. A 2012 study of 10 states found that registered apprentices
earned $240,000 more over a lifetime than similar workers who hadn't gone
through such a program.

After a few months went by, Ms. Garcia said, she got a call from the daughter.
She couldn't find her father. He didn't want chemotherapy and wouldn't answer
his phone. Now Mr. Chambers's advice focused less on short-term tactics and more
on the philosophy of the profession. Put yourself in the patient's shoes.
Advocate what he wants, not what an impersonal system demands. Sometimes people
can be frustrating, but you can't give up. You have to let them be whoever they
are.

So she took another trip to the apartment, where she talked to a neighbor who
knew something. She found the man in a nearby hospital and gave the daughter
information about a local hospice and advice about how to spend the last weeks
at home.

Ms. Garcia completed her apprenticeship in June and has continued on with
Bronx-Lebanon as a community health worker. She is also a member of 1199
S.E.I.U. and plans to use union-funded tuition assistance to pursue a bachelor's
in social work at the Lehman campus of CUNY.

Mr. Chambers expresses pride in his former pupil, who still calls him up to ask
for advice. Her clients look forward to seeing her and remember her name --
another good sign, in his experience.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/28/upshot/apprentices-need-expert-eye-so-does-tr
umps-plan-for-them.html

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Destina Garcia, a community health worker with Bronx-Lebanon
Hospital, received her job training through an apprenticeship. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
VICTOR J. BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 1, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Reaching Out To North Korea On Nuclear Tests

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Chris Buckley contributed reporting from Beijing,
Motoko Rich and Makiko Inoue from Tokyo, and Choe Sang-Hun from Seoul, South
Korea..

Follow David E. Sanger on Twitter: @SangerNYT.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1729 words


BEIJING -- The Trump administration acknowledged on Saturday for the first time
that it was in direct communication with the government of North Korea over its
missile and nuclear tests, seeking a possible way forward beyond the escalating
threats of a military confrontation from both sides.

''We are probing, so stay tuned,'' Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson said,
when pressed about how he might begin a conversation with Kim Jong-un, the North
Korean leader, that could avert what many government officials fear is a
significant chance of open conflict between the two countries.

''We ask, 'Would you like to talk?' We have lines of communications to Pyongyang
-- we're not in a dark situation, a blackout,'' he added. ''We have a couple,
three channels open to Pyongyang,'' a reference to North Korea's capital.

The two countries have been trading public threats over North Korea's nuclear
program, with the North declaring that its missiles have the capacity to strike
the United States and President Trump vowing to ''totally destroy'' North Korea.

So far, the North Koreans have shown no interest in a serious negotiation. For
his part, Mr. Tillerson gave no indication of what the administration might be
willing to give up if talks began, and Mr. Trump has made clear he would make no
concessions. But many inside and outside government have noted there were no
major military exercises between the United States and South Korea scheduled
until the spring, so the promise of scaling them back could be dangled.

But Mr. Kim would be unlikely to see that as much of a victory and he has
rejected any talks that would ultimately require him to disarm.

Speaking at the residence of the United States ambassador to Beijing after a
meeting with China's top leadership, Mr. Tillerson, the former chief executive
of Exxon Mobil and a newcomer to diplomacy, was cagey about whether the
inquiries yielded anything, or seem likely to.

But hours after he left China, his spokeswoman, Heather Nauert, responding to
news reports of Mr. Tillerson's comments, said in a statement that ''despite
assurances that the United States is not interested in promoting the collapse of
the current regime'' or sending American forces into the country, ''North Korean
officials have shown no indication that they are interested in or ready for
talks regarding denuclearization.''

In fact, while the Americans' outreach was underway, the exchange of public
threats between the two countries accelerated. They have included declarations
that the Nortth might conduct an atmospheric nuclear test and that it had the
right to shoot down American warplanes in international waters.

''We can talk to them,'' Mr. Tillerson said at the end of a long day of engaging
China's leadership. ''We do talk to them.'' When asked whether those channels
ran through China, he shook his head.

''Directly,'' he said. ''We have our own channels.''

During the 2016 presidential campaign, Mr. Trump said that, if elected, he would
sit down and negotiate directly with Mr. Kim, perhaps over a hamburger. He
seemed confident that his deal-making skills could extend to nuclear
disarmament, but at times talked about getting other powers -- chiefly China and
Iran -- to deal with North Korea for him, because they would have more leverage.

But Mr. Tillerson seemed to suggest that the urgency of the problem, with Mr.
Kim ''launching 84 missiles'' in his brief few years as the country's leader,
and its efforts to develop a hydrogen bomb, called for direct talks. And while
he said the ultimate goal of those talks had to be denuclearization of the
Korean Peninsula -- something the two Koreas agreed on in 1992 -- progress
toward that goal would be ''incremental.''

His comments marked the first sign that the Trump administration has been trying
its own version of what the Obama administration did with Iran: using a series
of backchannel, largely secret communications that, after years of negotiation,
resulted in a nuclear accord.

But Mr. Tillerson was quick to distinguish the very different circumstances of
North Korea and Iran -- Pyongyang has nuclear weapons, Tehran just a program
that could have led to them -- and then added: ''We are not going to put
together a nuclear deal in North Korea that is as flimsy as the one in Iran.''

Mr. Tillerson's comments came as the administration was nearing major decision
points about North Korea. While he argued that economic sanctions were finally
beginning to bite -- ''the Chinese are saying it is having an effect,'' he
argued -- he did not claim they would change the North's behavior.

His visit to China came as the Pentagon was considering a variety of far more
aggressive military moves, including whether to strike at North Korea's missile
launching sites if it sees preparations for an atmospheric test -- which would
spew radioactivity into the skies -- or use missile defenses to try to shoot
down missiles.

But all those approaches risk public failure, and if they did not stop Mr. Kim
he would appear able to absorb, and ignore, an American effort to strip North
Korea of its nuclear arms.

American intelligence agencies are looking for ways to step up sabotage of the
program, beyond the intensification of cyber attacks launched against some of
its missile sites, secretly ordered by President Barack Obama in 2014.

Speaking less than an hour after he left a meeting with President Xi Jinping of
China, Mr. Tillerson said the most important thing was to lower the temperature
of the threats being exchanged in recent days between Mr. Kim and President
Trump.

''The whole situation is a bit overheated right now,'' he said. ''If North Korea
would stop firing its missiles, that would calm things down a lot.''

When asked whether that caution applied as well to Mr. Trump, who tweeted last
weekend that if the North were to keep issuing threats, ''they won't be around
much longer,'' he skirted any direct criticism of the president.

''I think everyone would like for it to calm down,'' he said.

A study conducted by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a
Washington think tank, and released in recent days, suggests that at times of
diplomatic engagement with the United States, North Korean provocations usually
decline. But it is unclear that the trend applies to Mr. Kim, who at 33 has
invested dramatically in the nuclear capability, seeing it as critical to his
hold on power.

There is a long history of negotiations, both secret and public, between the
United States and the North, most ending in disappointment. The biggest success
came in 1994, when former President Jimmy Carter intervened in a crisis that
seemed to threaten the resumption of the Korean War.

But there are risks in the talks, too. American intelligence officials believe
Mr. Kim is racing ahead to complete his ability to strike the United States with
a weapon, figuring that at a minimum that would give him huge negotiating
leverage. Some former officials, like Michael J. Morell, who served as acting
director and deputy director of the C.I.A., have written in recent weeks that
Washington should give up on the hopeless goal of denuclearization, and work on
how to deter the North from ever using its weapons.

In Japan, where Prime Minister Shinzo Abe recently dissolved the lower house of
Parliament and called a snap election, the news that the United States was
already in direct contact with North Korea could give ammunition to Mr. Abe's
opponents. The Japanese leader has steadfastly maintained that it is not the
time for dialogue with North Korea, arguing in a recent Op-Ed article in The New
York Times, that ''emphasizing the importance of dialogue will not work with
North Korea.''

''Now,'' said Narushige Michishita, director of the Security and International
Studies Program at the National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies in Tokyo,
''the opposition party members can say, 'Look, you have been talking about
pressure, but the U.S. is just leaving you behind.' ''

Mr. Tillerson's comments came after three back-to-back meetings in Beijing's
Great Hall of the People, just off Tiananmen Square, after his trip was delayed
by a malfunction in his plane. The aging Boeing 757, which his predecessors
complained about, stranded him in Japan during a refueling stop.

He eventually got to Beijing, albeit half a day late, after boarding a C-130
cargo plane, leading to the unusual sight of an American secretary of state
walking off the rear ramp of an aircraft better known for carrying troops than
diplomats.

That left Mr. Tillerson with just six hours or so to meet with Beijing's
leadership before most of the country shut down for Golden Week, a holiday that
starts with China's national day. That will be followed by the 19th Communist
Party Congress, a meeting that occurs once every five years.

The congress represents Mr. Xi's moment to solidify his reputation as one of the
strongest Chinese leaders in decades. In the period leading up to the Congress,
Beijing has sought to preserve the status quo.

That was reflected in the public comments of Mr. Tillerson and his Chinese
interlocutors, none of whom mentioned the words ''North Korea'' in public.

Mr. Xi told Mr. Tillerson earlier that he wanted to ensure that a planned visit
by Mr. Trump to China in November would be a success, according to a summary of
their meeting issued by the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Chinese
Foreign Ministry noted that China's foreign minister, Wang Yi, and state
councilor, Yang Jiechi, who also oversees foreign policy, did discuss the North
Korean crisis with Mr. Tillerson. Those accounts did not give any details.

But at the end of the day, settling into a couch at the residence of Ambassador
Terry Branstad, Mr. Tillerson tried to sound optimistic that traditional
diplomacy would help resolve the North Korean issue, even though it has failed
past presidents.

He insisted that the ultimate goal of the negotiations would be complete
denuclearization, a goal many experts believe is foolhardy to attempt, because
the North has made clear that its nuclear arsenal is a pillar of the state. That
is acknowledged in the North Korean Constitution.

''They can change their Constitution,'' Mr. Tillerson said. ''Especially the
people running North Korea -- it's pretty easy for them to change it.''




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/30/world/asia/us-north-korea-tillerson.html

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, in Beijing on Saturday,
said the U.S. wasn't using channels through China to talk with North Korea.
(POOL PHOTO BY ANDY WONG) (A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        October 2, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

The TV Shows We'll Be Talking About in October;
Chatter

BYLINE: NOEL MURRAY

SECTION: WATCHING

LENGTH: 1024 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Fall TV season began a few weeks ago, but October is when the
major networks really ramp up.


The Fall TV season began a few weeks ago, but October is when the major networks
really ramp up, bringing back old favorites and introducing new sensations.
(We're looking forward to meeting you, "The Mayor." And we can't wait to see
what's going to happen to you, "Crazy Ex-Girlfriend.")

Adding to the hubbub this month are the fall debuts of two shows that previously
were summer sensations: USA's "Mr. Robot" and Netflix's "Stranger Things." Throw
in new comedies from Amy Sedaris and Tracy Morgan and a new entry to the Marvel
Comics television universe, and there'll be a lot to talk about in the weeks
ahead.

[Video:  Watch on YouTube.]

'The Gifted'
Debuts: Oct. 2 on Fox
Add it to your Watchlist

The creator of "Burn Notice," Matt Nix brings Marvel's X-Men universe to network
television, in an action drama starring the geek TV favorites Stephen Moyer
(from "True Blood") and Amy Acker (from "Angel" and "Person of Interest"). The
two leads play parents who are secretly trying to keep their mutant children
safe, with help from an underground society. Although it's not based on any
specific comic book or story line, "The Gifted" promises to keep X-Men fans
happy with cameo appearances by some of the Marvel universe's more obscure
heroes and villains.
--

[Video:  Watch on YouTube.]

'The Mayor'
Debuts: Oct. 3 on ABC
Add it to your Watchlist

ABC takes a break from its usual lineup of underdog family sitcoms to try some
gentle political satire in this show about a California rapper (played by
Brandon Micheal Hall) who runs for office as a publicity stunt -- and then has
to figure out how to run a city after he unexpectedly wins. Created by the
former "Hardball" producer and "Late Night With Jimmy Fallon" writer Jeremy
Bronson, "The Mayor" promises to be a culture-clash comedy with something to say
about civic responsibility.
--

[Video:  Watch on YouTube.]

'Mr. Robot' Season 3
Debuts: Oct. 11 on USA
Add it to your Watchlist

After a phenomenal first season, this cutting-edge, critically acclaimed cyber
-thriller from USA stumbled a bit in Season 2 -- primarily because that season's
story line kept the show's socially maladjusted genius antihero, Elliot
Alderson, on the sidelines too much. Now that all of the second season's
complicated setup and mythology building has played out, perhaps Season 3 will
get back to the high-tech capers and apocalyptic angst that made "Mr. Robot" so
creepily relevant when it debuted.
--

'I Love You, America'
Debuts: Oct. 12 on Hulu
Add it to your Watchlist

Although she's spent much of her career getting under the skin of conservatives
(and, to be fair, liberals), comedian Sarah Silverman has promised that her new
weekly talk show on Hulu will be about getting to know and appreciate people who
think differently from the way she does. Silverman will be mixing
ripped-from-the-headlines jokes with field pieces in which she hangs out with
ordinary folks across the country, celebrating the idea that there's more
uniting us than dividing us.
--

[Video:  Watch on YouTube.]

'Mindhunter'
Debuts: Oct. 13 on Netflix
Add it to your Watchlist

The novelist Thomas Harris reportedly based "Red Dragon" (the first book in his
Hannibal Lecter series) on interviews he conducted in the late 1970s with
real-life F.B.I. profilers. Now the producer-director David Fincher is going
back to the source, telling true stories about the agents who helped pioneer the
methods still used to understand and track serial killers today. The Broadway
star Jonathan Groff (also of HBO's "Looking") plays the legendary G-man John
Douglas, in adventures adapted from the memoir "Mind Hunter: Inside the F.B.I.'s
Elite Serial Crime Unit."
--

[Video:  Watch on YouTube.]

'Crazy Ex-Girlfriend' Season 3
Debuts: Oct. 13 on The CW
Add it to your Watchlist

After ending last season by bringing its heroine, Rebecca Bunch, to the brink of
matrimony with her childhood crush Josh Chan, "Crazy Ex-Girlfriend" looks to
ramp up the madness in Season 3, as the jilted bride tries to ruin the life of
her runaway groom. As always, expect the dark obsession to be leavened with
catchy musical numbers, in which the characters sing about everything from petty
daily annoyances to the enduring mysteries of sexual attraction.
--

[Video:  Watch on YouTube.]

'White Famous'
Debuts: Oct. 15 on Showtime
Add it to your Watchlist

Comedian Jay Pharoah was cut from the "Saturday Night Live" cast last year, but
he's rebounding quickly with his first lead role in a TV series, playing a
popular stand-up comic trying to hit the next level of wealth and fame ... kind
of like, well, Jay Pharoah. "White Famous" is partially based on the experiences
of one of its producers, Jamie Foxx, who will also occasionally appear, as
himself.--

[Video:  Watch on YouTube.]

'At Home With Amy Sedaris'
Debuts: Oct. 24 on truTV
Add it to your Watchlist

The veteran comedian Amy Sedaris brings her big personality and eccentric energy
to a parody of DIY craft shows, appropriately airing on one of cable's main
homes for nonfiction programming. The guest stars Jane Krakowski, Christopher
Meloni, Rachel Dratch and Michael Shannon pop by to let Sedaris teach them about
such things as using the right glue.
--

[Video:  Watch on YouTube.]

'Stranger Things' Season 2
Debuts: Oct. 27 on Netflix
Add it to your Watchlist

The first season of "Stranger Things" came out of nowhere to become one of the
most talked-about TV series of 2016, which means that calling Season 2 "highly
anticipated" would be an understatement. Fans have had over a year to swap
theories obsessively. And now they will finally get to learn more about the
small town of Hawkins, Ind., and why in the mid-1980s it was overrun by shadowy
government agents and scientists investigating the weird extra-dimensional
region known as "the Upside Down."
--

Also of Interest:

"black-ish" (ABC, Oct. 3), "Kevin (Probably) Saves the World" (ABC, Oct. 3),
"Queen Sugar" (OWN, Oct. 3), "Scandal" (ABC, Oct. 5), "Supergirl" (the CW, Oct.
9), "DC's Legends of Tomorrow" (the CW, Oct. 10), "The Flash" (the CW, Oct. 10),
"Riverdale" (the CW, Oct. 11), "Jane the Virgin" (the CW, Oct. 13), "Red Oaks"
(Amazon, Oct. 20), "The Walking Dead" (AMC, Oct. 22).
--

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       October 5, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Un-erasing Puerto Rico's Debt, Unbundling Bloomberg: DealBook Briefing

BYLINE: AMIE TSANG and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

SECTION: BUSINESS; dealbook

LENGTH: 1169 words



HIGHLIGHT: The White House tried to walk back President Trump's vow to wipe out
the island's debt amid investor panic. But the territory faces a fiscal
deadline.


Never mind President Trump's comments about wiping out Puerto Rico's $74 billion
debt.

Here's what Mick Mulvaney, the director of the Office of Management and Budget,
said to CNN:

"Puerto Rico is going to have to figure out how to fix the errors that it's made
for the last generation on its own finances."

He later told Bloomberg:

"We are not going to bail them out ... We are not going to pay off those debts.
We are not going to bail out those bond holders."

The context

Heather Gillers, WSJ:

Puerto Rico's benchmark general obligation bonds maturing in 2035 traded at
record lows of 30 cents on the dollar Wednesday, down from roughly 44 cents late
Tuesday and 56 cents the day before Hurricane Maria hit. Holders of the bonds,
which include mutual funds, hedge funds and direct investors, sold in heavy
volume.

Howard Cure of Evercore Wealth Management told The WSJ: "I think the market was
very anxious about the paper to begin with."

David Kotok of Cumberland Advisors told Politico: "No idea what [Trump] means.
It certainly threw a curve at markets."

A reminder

Here are Mr. Trump's comments on Puerto Rico, in an interview with Fox News:

[Video: President Trump on Puerto Rico's hurricane recovery Watch on YouTube.]

A looming deadline

Puerto Rico's Treasury secretary, Raúl Maldonado, said the government could shut
down on Oct. 31 if Congress doesn't provide billions of dollars in emergency
funds. (He has requested $6 billion to $8 billion.)

The commonwealth's governor, Ricardo Rosselló, told Bloomberg:

"Essentially you're looking at zero revenue for the next couple of months ...
While you have zero revenue, you still have expenditures, plus emergency
expenditures. That means the money is going to run out very quickly."

A Big Creditor Is Unmasked

The Intercept's David Dayen figured out that Seth Klarman's $30 billion hedge
fund, Baupost Group, owns nearly $1 billion worth of the island's debt.

Baupost owns Cofina bonds, which are backed by some of Puerto Rico's sales tax
revenue.

The hedge fund bought the bonds through a shell company named Decagon Holdings.

More from The Intercept:

But while GoldenTree and Whitebox were known Cofina bondholders, Baupost had
never publicly stated that they owned Puerto Rican debt. When Roll Call asked
Sean Neary, a spokesperson for the coalition of Cofina bondholders, about
Baupost's role, he would only say, "They are not part of the steering committee
group that is the main driver of the coalition."

Must-read

Antonio Weiss, the former Lazard deal maker who worked on Puerto Rico issues
while serving in the Obama administration, argues in an NYT op-ed that the
island's debt should be cut as much as possible:

President Trump, who visited Puerto Rico on Tuesday, has said in tweets that the
island's debts "sadly must be dealt with." That is true -- but not by enhancing
creditors' returns. Instead, the island's crushing debt should be reduced to the
maximum extent through the legal framework established by Congress last year.

Bloomberg Fights Back Against Goldman-Financed Rival

The financial information juggernaut plans to roll out a $10-a-month-per-user
chat service, available to all customers, by the end of the year, according to
The FT.

The reason

To combat Symphony, the "Bloomberg killer" backed by Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan
Chase, BlackRock and a slew of other financial firms.

The tale of the tape

Bloomberg's standard service bundle, terminal and all, costs $22,000 a year per
user for a two-year contract.

Symphony costs $20 a month per user.

Bloomberg has about 33 percent of the financial data market, per The FT. Thomson
Reuters has 23 percent.

But Bloomberg's installed base fell slightly last year, to 324,485 terminals,
according to Burton-Taylor International Consulting.

The context

Symphony was born after reports in 2013 that Bloomberg reporters were using
terminal data to gather information on bank employees.

Cost-conscious banks are reconsidering how many employees need pricey Bloomberg
terminals.

The reaction

Morgan Downey, the C.E.O. of a financial data service and a former Bloomberg
employee, told The FT: "They're betting the whole system without chat is worth
$21,900 a year. Is it? Maybe for some old bond traders, but for everyone else, I
don't think so."

FT Lex: "The next problem for Bloomberg is to figure out if it can create new
products that get users excited about paying full price again."

More in finance-goes-Silicon-Valley

Deutsche Bank:

The bank will put over 150,000 lines of code from its award-winning electronic
platform Autobahn into the public domain so that trading applications from
different providers can use it as a shared foundation and work seamlessly with
each other.

SoftBank's Tender Offer for Uber Shares Begins

The details, per Serena Saitto, Alfred Lee and Amir Efrati of The Information:

SoftBank will buy existing shares at a valuation of $50 billion, or $35 per
share.

Employees can sell up to 50 percent of their holdings.

The first stage of the tender offer will run for 30 days. If SoftBank doesn't
get at least 14 percent of Uber's outstanding stock, it will raise its offer
price.

Bonus

Think you could make it as an Uber driver? Play this game from The FT and find
out.

Oleg Deripaska's En+ Plans an I.P.O.

The Russian group of metals and energy business is aiming to raise $1.5 billion
and list in London and Moscow.

The context

En+ manages the aluminum and hydropower businesses of Mr. Deripaska, one of
Russia's wealthiest men, who is close to President Vladimir Putin.

It would be the first major I.P.O. of a Russian company in London since 2014,
when Western countries imposed sanctions on Russia over its incursion into
Ukraine.

Worth noting

A $500 million cornerstone investment in the forthcoming I.P.O. will come from a
company associated with CEFC China Energy, which also owns a $9 billion stake in
Rosneft, the big Russian oil company.

The underwriters

Citigroup, Credit Suisse, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, SIB
(Cyrus), VTB Capital, BMO Capital Markets, JSC Gazprombank, Société Générale,
UBS, Atonline Limited

Bank of America Is Wary of Bitcoin

They're on the Jamie Dimon side of the wall, Catherine Bessant told DealBook's
Andrew Ross Sorkin at the Cambridge Cyber Summit.

Just a Coincidence?

Politico's Jake Sherman on Twitter:

Any guesses or info about what they were up to? Send us a tip.

Revolving Door

Marni Walden, the head of Verizon's global media operations -- including Yahoo
and AOL, whose takeovers she helped lead -- will leave the company in February.

Greg Fleming, the veteran deal maker who worked in senior positions at Merrill
Lynch and Morgan Stanley, has become the C.E.O. of Rockefeller Capital
Management, an investment and advisory firm formed from the Rockefeller family's
investment vehicle.

Alexander Anderson has joined the law firm O'Melveny as a partner focusing on
tax and restructuring advice. He was most recently at Hughes, Hubbard & Reed.

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Brings His Own Storm to Puerto Rico
     ·    White House Dials Back Trump's Vow to Clear Puerto Rico's Debt


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 6, 2017 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Un-erasing Puerto Rico's Debt, Unbundling Bloomberg: DealBook Briefing

BYLINE: By AMIE TSANG and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1176 words


Never mind President Trump's comments about wiping out Puerto Rico's $74 billion
debt.

Here's what Mick Mulvaney, the director of the Office of Management and Budget,
said to CNN:

''Puerto Rico is going to have to figure out how to fix the errors that it's
made for the last generation on its own finances.''

He later told Bloomberg:

''We are not going to bail them out ... We are not going to pay off those debts.
We are not going to bail out those bond holders.''

The context

Heather Gillers, WSJ:

Puerto Rico's benchmark general obligation bonds maturing in 2035 traded at
record lows of 30 cents on the dollar Wednesday, down from roughly 44 cents late
Tuesday and 56 cents the day before Hurricane Maria hit. Holders of the bonds,
which include mutual funds, hedge funds and direct investors, sold in heavy
volume.

Howard Cure of Evercore Wealth Management told The WSJ: ''I think the market was
very anxious about the paper to begin with.''

David Kotok of Cumberland Advisors told Politico: ''No idea what [Trump] means.
It certainly threw a curve at markets.''

A reminder

Here are Mr. Trump's comments on Puerto Rico, in an interview with Fox News:

[Video: President Trump on Puerto Rico's hurricane recovery Watch on YouTube.]

A looming deadline

Puerto Rico's Treasury secretary, Raúl Maldonado, said the government could shut
down on Oct. 31 if Congress doesn't provide billions of dollars in emergency
funds. (He has requested $6 billion to $8 billion.)

The commonwealth's governor, Ricardo Rosselló, told Bloomberg:

''Essentially you're looking at zero revenue for the next couple of months ...
While you have zero revenue, you still have expenditures, plus emergency
expenditures. That means the money is going to run out very quickly.''

A Big Creditor Is Unmasked

The Intercept's David Dayen figured out that Seth Klarman's $30 billion hedge
fund, Baupost Group, owns nearly $1 billion worth of the island's debt.

Baupost owns Cofina bonds, which are backed by some of Puerto Rico's sales tax
revenue.

The hedge fund bought the bonds through a shell company named Decagon Holdings.

More from The Intercept:

But while GoldenTree and Whitebox were known Cofina bondholders, Baupost had
never publicly stated that they owned Puerto Rican debt. When Roll Call asked
Sean Neary, a spokesperson for the coalition of Cofina bondholders, about
Baupost's role, he would only say, ''They are not part of the steering committee
group that is the main driver of the coalition.''

Must-read

Antonio Weiss, the former Lazard deal maker who worked on Puerto Rico issues
while serving in the Obama administration, argues in an NYT op-ed that the
island's debt should be cut as much as possible:

President Trump, who visited Puerto Rico on Tuesday, has said in tweets that the
island's debts ''sadly must be dealt with.'' That is true -- but not by
enhancing creditors' returns. Instead, the island's crushing debt should be
reduced to the maximum extent through the legal framework established by
Congress last year.

Bloomberg Fights Back Against Goldman-Financed Rival

The financial information juggernaut plans to roll out a $10-a-month-per-user
chat service, available to all customers, by the end of the year, according to
The FT.

The reason

To combat Symphony, the ''Bloomberg killer'' backed by Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan
Chase, BlackRock and a slew of other financial firms.

The tale of the tape

Bloomberg's standard service bundle, terminal and all, costs $22,000 a year per
user for a two-year contract.

Symphony costs $20 a month per user.

Bloomberg has about 33 percent of the financial data market, per The FT. Thomson
Reuters has 23 percent.

But Bloomberg's installed base fell slightly last year, to 324,485 terminals,
according to Burton-Taylor International Consulting.

The context

Symphony was born after reports in 2013 that Bloomberg reporters were using
terminal data to gather information on bank employees.

Cost-conscious banks are reconsidering how many employees need pricey Bloomberg
terminals.

The reaction

Morgan Downey, the C.E.O. of a financial data service and a former Bloomberg
employee, told The FT: ''They're betting the whole system without chat is worth
$21,900 a year. Is it? Maybe for some old bond traders, but for everyone else, I
don't think so.''

FT Lex: ''The next problem for Bloomberg is to figure out if it can create new
products that get users excited about paying full price again.''

More in finance-goes-Silicon-Valley

Deutsche Bank:

The bank will put over 150,000 lines of code from its award-winning electronic
platform Autobahn into the public domain so that trading applications from
different providers can use it as a shared foundation and work seamlessly with
each other.

SoftBank's Tender Offer for Uber Shares Begins

The details, per Serena Saitto, Alfred Lee and Amir Efrati of The Information:

SoftBank will buy existing shares at a valuation of $50 billion, or $35 per
share.

Employees can sell up to 50 percent of their holdings.

The first stage of the tender offer will run for 30 days. If SoftBank doesn't
get at least 14 percent of Uber's outstanding stock, it will raise its offer
price.

Bonus

Think you could make it as an Uber driver? Play this game from The FT and find
out.

Oleg Deripaska's En+ Plans an I.P.O.

The Russian group of metals and energy business is aiming to raise $1.5 billion
and list in London and Moscow.

The context

En+ manages the aluminum and hydropower businesses of Mr. Deripaska, one of
Russia's wealthiest men, who is close to President Vladimir Putin.

It would be the first major I.P.O. of a Russian company in London since 2014,
when Western countries imposed sanctions on Russia over its incursion into
Ukraine.

Worth noting

A $500 million cornerstone investment in the forthcoming I.P.O. will come from a
company associated with CEFC China Energy, which also owns a $9 billion stake in
Rosneft, the big Russian oil company.

The underwriters

Citigroup, Credit Suisse, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, SIB
(Cyrus), VTB Capital, BMO Capital Markets, JSC Gazprombank, Société Générale,
UBS, Atonline Limited

Bank of America Is Wary of Bitcoin

They're on the Jamie Dimon side of the wall, Catherine Bessant told DealBook's
Andrew Ross Sorkin at the Cambridge Cyber Summit.

Just a Coincidence?

Politico's Jake Sherman on Twitter:

Any guesses or info about what they were up to? Send us a tip.

Revolving Door

Marni Walden, the head of Verizon's global media operations -- including Yahoo
and AOL, whose takeovers she helped lead -- will leave the company in February.

Greg Fleming, the veteran deal maker who worked in senior positions at Merrill
Lynch and Morgan Stanley, has become the C.E.O. of Rockefeller Capital
Management, an investment and advisory firm formed from the Rockefeller family's
investment vehicle.

Alexander Anderson has joined the law firm O'Melveny as a partner focusing on
tax and restructuring advice. He was most recently at Hughes, Hubbard & Reed.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/05/business/dealbook/puerto-rico-debt-trump.html

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       October 7, 2017 Saturday 00:00 EST

Who Invented 'Zero'?;
Opinion

BYLINE: MANIL SURI

SECTION: OPINION; sunday

LENGTH: 1071 words



HIGHLIGHT: The void is as old as time, but it was a human innovation to harness
it with a symbol.


Carbon dating of an ancient Indian document, the Bakhshali manuscript, has
recently placed the first written occurrence of the number zero in the third or
fourth century A.D., about 500 years earlier than previously believed. While the
news has no practical bearing on the infrastructure of zeros (and ones)
underlying our high-tech civilization, it does remind us how indebted we are for
this invention. But to whom is this debt owed? And how should it be repaid?

Chauvinistic politicians might loudly trumpet India's role (as they have, more
controversially, in the case of the Pythagorean theorem), but the history of
zero remains unsettled enough to still be the subject of continuing quests. The
Babylonians used it as a placeholder, an idea later developed independently by
the Mayans. The Chinese, at some point in time, indicated it by an empty space
in their counting-rod system. Some claim the Greeks flirted with the idea but,
finding the concept of the void too frightening in their Aristotelian framework,
passed it on to the Indians. The Hindus are generally acknowledged as being the
first to formulate it as an independent number -- the key to using it in
mathematical calculations or binary code. What's clear is that this history is
dominated by non-European civilizations. Truly an alt-right nightmare.

Obviously, there were no intellectual property rights in force back then. Had
there been a patent office, it might have ruled, as courts do now, that
mathematical advances uncover pre-existing knowledge rather than create anything
new -- and are hence unpatentable. The conundrum of whether mathematics is
discovered or invented is as old as Plato. Certainly, zero displays this
duality: The void is as old as time, but it was a human innovation to harness it
with a symbol.

In recognition of this innovation, and ignoring all practicalities, suppose
someone, somehow, had figured out how to put a price tag on zero. The royalties
generated would be staggering -- imagine the tab for just your personal use
alone! This might lead to a significant redistribution of wealth, most of it
going to the developing world.

One difficulty is splitting the payments, since no one could claim exclusive
"ownership" of zero's creation. I asked my "History of Mathematics" class to
come up with an exact breakdown based on zero's provenance, something that,
coincidentally, we had just discussed when the carbon dating news broke. Not
unexpectedly, India fared best, with 42 percent of the proceeds, though students
directed it be split with neighboring countries -- after all, the manuscript was
found in what is now Pakistan (I can already hear the Indian ministers howl
their protests).

Babylon ended up with 18 percent, which if allotted to Iraq, the present-day
country of its location, might be just compensation for the years of war
endured. Greece came next, with a surprising 15 percent -- perhaps my class felt
the country was getting shortchanged for all its other mathematical
contributions. The Mayans raked in 14 percent, which means Mexico would be
rolling in so much money from its share that it might be the one clamoring (and
paying) for a wall. My class's most left-leaning group declared it wouldn't
disburse the money at all, "so as not to encourage capitalism."

Of course, the exercise was pure fantasy for many reasons; any compensatory
scheme would be dead on arrival based on the mention of "reparations." And yet
it highlighted the fact that there were cultures and peoples that parented zero,
whose descendants may not be doing as well now. If not financial recompense, is
at least some enhanced ethical responsibility toward them owed?

If so, the primary onus might fall on tech companies, arguably the biggest users
of this resource. Right now, their prize target is India, with Microsoft, Google
and Facebook all vying to bring its enormous population online. These giants
might point out that they're already being altruistic by offering free
connectivity, through schemes that will plug in rural areas, vitalize the
economy and transform the country -- and just happen to add hundreds of millions
of potential customers to their rosters for a variety of ads and e-products.
Could it be a coincidence that Microsoft, for instance, has also been investing
heavily in future cloud services, cybersecurity and e-commerce for India?

Think of it. The companies will use the indigenously developed resource of zeros
and ones (the Arabs got their numerals from India, after all), package them into
new services and products, and sell them back. India has lived through such
irony before. The British Empire took her raw cotton and sold it back as
finished garments, destroying the local textile industry and helping lower
India's share of the world gross domestic product to 3 percent from 23 percent.

Fortunately, the parallel flounders. The finished e-products will mostly be
manufactured in India, even if backed by foreign investment. Also, the country
is wiser: It will not succumb easily to a new cyber-colonialism. Last year,
under a broader "net neutrality" decision, the government banned Facebook's
"Free Basics" plan, which offered free Wi-Fi but only to websites of the
company's choosing (Facebook, undeterred, is already marketing a replacement).
This year, it also declined a bid from Microsoft to offer connectivity through
old television bands. Instead, under pressure from Indian cellular operators,
the bands will be auctioned off.

Whether Indian tech companies will prevail remains to be seen. What's clear is
that vigorous market competition is underway to control all those zeros and
ones. Despite my liberal student group's disapproval, zero encourages
capitalistic forces, after all.

In fact, zero is essential to much of human endeavor; it has become a
fundamental part of our legacy, too seemingly immutable for any kind of
compensatory reckoning. And yet the Bakhshali manuscript reminds us that zero
wasn't always at hand. Rather, it was the intellectual product of cultures
perhaps far different from our own, of peoples and regions that may have
subsided but could once again rise to dominance.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Manil Suri, the author of the novel "The City of Devi," is a mathematics
professor at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY LINDA HUANG)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 8, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Who Invented 'Zero'?

BYLINE: By MANIL SURI.

Manil Suri, the author of the novel ''The City of Devi,'' is a mathematics
professor at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1051 words


Carbon dating of an ancient Indian document, the Bakhshali manuscript, has
recently placed the first written occurrence of the number zero in the third or
fourth century A.D., about 500 years earlier than previously believed. While the
news has no practical bearing on the infrastructure of zeros (and ones)
underlying our high-tech civilization, it does remind us how indebted we are for
this invention. But to whom is this debt owed? And how should it be repaid?

Chauvinistic politicians might loudly trumpet India's role (as they have, more
controversially, in the case of the Pythagorean theorem), but the history of
zero remains unsettled enough to still be the subject of continuing quests. The
Babylonians used it as a placeholder, an idea later developed independently by
the Mayans. The Chinese, at some point in time, indicated it by an empty space
in their counting-rod system. Some claim the Greeks flirted with the idea but,
finding the concept of the void too frightening in their Aristotelian framework,
passed it on to the Indians. The Hindus are generally acknowledged as being the
first to formulate it as an independent number -- the key to using it in
mathematical calculations or binary code. What's clear is that this history is
dominated by non-European civilizations. Truly an alt-right nightmare.

Obviously, there were no intellectual property rights in force back then. Had
there been a patent office, it might have ruled, as courts do now, that
mathematical advances uncover pre-existing knowledge rather than create anything
new -- and are hence unpatentable. The conundrum of whether mathematics is
discovered or invented is as old as Plato. Certainly, zero displays this
duality: The void is as old as time, but it was a human innovation to harness it
with a symbol.

In recognition of this innovation, and ignoring all practicalities, suppose
someone, somehow, had figured out how to put a price tag on zero. The royalties
generated would be staggering -- imagine the tab for just your personal use
alone! This might lead to a significant redistribution of wealth, most of it
going to the developing world.

One difficulty is splitting the payments, since no one could claim exclusive
''ownership'' of zero's creation. I asked my ''History of Mathematics'' class to
come up with an exact breakdown based on zero's provenance, something that,
coincidentally, we had just discussed when the carbon dating news broke. Not
unexpectedly, India fared best, with 42 percent of the proceeds, though students
directed it be split with neighboring countries -- after all, the manuscript was
found in what is now Pakistan (I can already hear the Indian ministers howl
their protests).

Babylon ended up with 18 percent, which if allotted to Iraq, the present-day
country of its location, might be just compensation for the years of war
endured. Greece came next, with a surprising 15 percent -- perhaps my class felt
the country was getting shortchanged for all its other mathematical
contributions. The Mayans raked in 14 percent, which means Mexico would be
rolling in so much money from its share that it might be the one clamoring (and
paying) for a wall. My class's most left-leaning group declared it wouldn't
disburse the money at all, ''so as not to encourage capitalism.''

Of course, the exercise was pure fantasy for many reasons; any compensatory
scheme would be dead on arrival based on the mention of ''reparations.'' And yet
it highlighted the fact that there were cultures and peoples that parented zero,
whose descendants may not be doing as well now. If not financial recompense, is
at least some enhanced ethical responsibility toward them owed?

If so, the primary onus might fall on tech companies, arguably the biggest users
of this resource. Right now, their prize target is India, with Microsoft, Google
and Facebook all vying to bring its enormous population online. These giants
might point out that they're already being altruistic by offering free
connectivity, through schemes that will plug in rural areas, vitalize the
economy and transform the country -- and just happen to add hundreds of millions
of potential customers to their rosters for a variety of ads and e-products.
Could it be a coincidence that Microsoft, for instance, has also been investing
heavily in future cloud services, cybersecurity and e-commerce for India?

Think of it. The companies will use the indigenously developed resource of zeros
and ones (the Arabs got their numerals from India, after all), package them into
new services and products, and sell them back. India has lived through such
irony before. The British Empire took her raw cotton and sold it back as
finished garments, destroying the local textile industry and helping lower
India's share of the world gross domestic product to 3 percent from 23 percent.

Fortunately, the parallel flounders. The finished e-products will mostly be
manufactured in India, even if backed by foreign investment. Also, the country
is wiser: It will not succumb easily to a new cyber-colonialism. Last year,
under a broader ''net neutrality'' decision, the government banned Facebook's
''Free Basics'' plan, which offered free Wi-Fi but only to websites of the
company's choosing (Facebook, undeterred, is already marketing a replacement).
This year, it also declined a bid from Microsoft to offer connectivity through
old television bands. Instead, under pressure from Indian cellular operators,
the bands will be auctioned off.

Whether Indian tech companies will prevail remains to be seen. What's clear is
that vigorous market competition is underway to control all those zeros and
ones. Despite my liberal student group's disapproval, zero encourages
capitalistic forces, after all.

In fact, zero is essential to much of human endeavor; it has become a
fundamental part of our legacy, too seemingly immutable for any kind of
compensatory reckoning. And yet the Bakhshali manuscript reminds us that zero
wasn't always at hand. Rather, it was the intellectual product of cultures
perhaps far different from our own, of peoples and regions that may have
subsided but could once again rise to dominance.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the  Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/07/opinion/sunday/who-invented-zero.html

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LINDA HUANG)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       October 10, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Australian Cybersecurity Report Shows Gaps in Private Companies' Defenses

BYLINE: ADAM BAIDAWI

SECTION: WORLD; australia

LENGTH: 856 words



HIGHLIGHT: The government revealed that one of its national security contractors
was extensively hacked last year.


MELBOURNE, Australia -- The Australian government presented its annual
cybersecurity report on Tuesday, revealing that one of its national security
contractors had suffered a breach in which it lost a "significant amount of
data" last year.

Included in the report was a case study that said the government's cybersecurity
team discovered that an attacker had compromised the network of a "small
Australian company with contracting links to national security projects," adding
that the attacker was on the network for an "extended period of time."

Though the report outlined the breach as a case study, Dan Tehan, a minister
tasked with advising the prime minister on cybersecurity, did not divulge
specifics to the local news media about who was affected or what data might have
been compromised. "We don't know and we cannot confirm exactly who the actor
was," he said Tuesday on ABC Radio.

The revelation of the security contractor's breach, and the lack of detail
surrounding it, comes at a time of increased concern over the government's
ability to protect citizens' personal information -- especially when accounting
for third parties that have access to sensitive data.

Last week, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull introduced a far-reaching plan to
collect Australians' driver's license photos and distribute them across security
agencies, leaving open the possibility of sharing them with private companies.
Privacy advocates criticized the plan as risky, with some pointing to a hacking
attack on Australian census data last year, and the revelation this year that
Australians' Medicare card details were being sold on the web for less than 30
Australian dollars, or around $23.

Experts say that private industry has been one of the most glaring
vulnerabilities in Australia's cybersecurity. Tuesday's report, the Australian
Cyber Security Center Threat Report, noted that 734 private-sector systems of
"national interest" were affected by cyberattacks last year.

"Certain companies take cybersecurity quite seriously," said Alana Maurushat,
academic co-director of the Cyberspace Law and Policy Center at the University
of New South Wales in Sydney. "But you have key industries to Australia who --
while there may not be the same media coverage -- you know through internal
sources are being breached. Our mining industry has notoriously been rumored to
have been breached by competitors."

Ms. Maurushat said that Australia as a whole was not far behind the rest of the
developed world's level of cybersecurity, but emphasized concerns about its
private sector.

"The crazy thing about this is that they don't even know that they've been
breached," she said. "There are certain breaches that occur, and there are
studies on this, where sometimes someone would be on your system for almost a
year, without the breach even being noticed. That's the stuff that keeps me up
at night."

A cybersecurity report released this year by Telstra, the country's dominant
telecommunications company, said that 59 percent of surveyed companies in
Australia had detected a security breach on at least a monthly basis. A similar
number reported experiencing at least one ransomware attack. Over half of
Australian organizations that came under such an attack paid the ransom, the
report said.

Ms. Maurushat said that, in part, Australia's private-sector cybersecurity was
lacking because of an acute shortage of skilled workers.

The government report also noted "extensive" state-sponsored activity against
Australia's government, saying that its defense contractors continued to be
targeted by foreign nations' cyberespionage efforts.

At a news conference on Tuesday, Mr. Tehan said that the government was pivoting
toward offensive capabilities to "prevent and shut down safe havens for offshore
cybercriminals."

Last year, the Australian government blamed foreign actors for an attack on its
online census portal.

"The whole census thing -- that's an I.B.M. mistake," Ms. Maurushat said,
referring to the technology company's contracting role in the census. "That's
not a government mistake, that's an industry mistake, from a company you
wouldn't expect to make those errors."

In a settlement over the census problems, I.B.M. paid the government about 30
million Australian dollars, or about $23 million.

Not unlike vaccines and herd immunity, Ms. Maurushat said, a government's
cybersecurity is only as strong as those it chooses to share its data with.

When asked whether Australia's lagging digital infrastructure and poor internet
speeds might have a detrimental effect on its security, Ms. Maurushat said that
a beleaguered attempt to speed up Australia's internet, the National Broadband
Network initiative, may prove to be a silver lining.

"It's the opposite," she said, adding that hackers rely on fast internet speeds.
"So in some ways, if the N.B.N. is a disaster, it might be better for us."

Follow Adam Baidawi on Twitter @ads_b

Related Articles


     ·    Australia Wants All Citizens' Driver's License Photos, Citing Terror
          Fight
     ·    With Ransomware, It's Pay and Embolden Perpetrators, or Lose Precious
          Data
     ·    Study Urges Tougher Oversight for Police Use of Facial Recognition


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       October 10, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

North Korean Hackers Stole U.S.-South Korean Military Plans, Lawmaker Says

BYLINE: CHOE SANG-HUN

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1052 words



HIGHLIGHT: Among the data stolen in a hack last year was a plan to remove the
North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, referred to as a "decapitation" plan.


SEOUL, South Korea -- North Korean hackers stole a vast cache of data, including
classified wartime contingency plans jointly drawn by the United States and
South Korea, when they breached the computer network of the South Korean
military last year, a South Korean lawmaker said Tuesday.

One of the plans included the South Korean military's plan to remove the North
Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, referred to as a "decapitation" plan, should war
break out on the Korean Peninsula, the lawmaker, Rhee Cheol-hee, told reporters.

Mr. Rhee, a member of the governing Democratic Party who serves on the defense
committee of the National Assembly, said he only recently learned of the scale
of the North Korean hacking attack, which was first discovered in September last
year.

It was not known whether any of the military's top secrets were leaked, although
Mr. Rhee said that nearly 300 lower-classification confidential documents were
stolen. The military has not yet identified nearly 80 percent of the 235
gigabytes of leaked data, he said.

A Defense Ministry spokesman, Moon Sang-gyun, refused to comment on Mr. Rhee's
disclosure.

A spokesman for the Pentagon, Col. Robert Manning, would not discuss if the hack
had occurred, repeating, when pressed, that he would not "discuss the specifics"
of the incident.

North Korea and South Korea have long had each other's computer networks in
their sights. The United States, piggybacking on South Korean operations, broke
into the North's computer systems in 2010, targeting the Reconnaissance General
Bureau, the North's equivalent of the C.I.A.

South Korean intelligence officials told lawmakers in June that Mr. Kim was
desperate to get hold of South Korea's decapitation plan. He had also begun
using his deputies' cars as decoys to move from place to place, they said.

When the hack was discovered last year, the ministry blamed North Korea. But it
has acknowledged only that "some classified information" was stolen, saying that
revealing more details would only benefit its enemies.

Some South Korean news media, citing anonymous sources, had earlier reported
that the leaked data included wartime contingency plans. But Mr. Rhee is the
first member of the parliamentary committee that oversees the military to
disclose similar details.

It remained unclear how much the hacking has undermined the joint preparedness
of the South Korean and United States militaries, with South Korean officials
simply saying that they have been redressing whatever damage was caused by the
cyberattack.

The military plans for dealing with North Korea have been rewritten in recent
months by Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis, in response to the North's
accelerated threats.

The plan containing the so-called decapitation operation, Operations Plan 5015,
had been updated in 2015 to reflect the growing nuclear and missile threat from
North Korea. Its details remain classified.

Under their mutual defense treaty, the United States takes operational control
of South Korean troops in the event of war on the divided Korean Peninsula. The
two allies hone their war plans through annual joint military exercises.

As Mr. Kim, the North Korean leader, has accelerated his nuclear missile program
in recent years, South Korean defense officials have publicly discussed
pre-emptive strikes at critical missile and nuclear sites in North Korea and an
operation to eliminate the North's top leaders.

After North Korea's sixth -- and by far most powerful -- nuclear test last
month, the South Korean defense minister, Song Young-moo, told lawmakers in
Seoul that a special forces unit with a task of removing Mr. Kim would be
established by the end of the year.

Last month, United States strategic bombers and fighter jets alsoflew deep to
the north along the east coast of North Korea in what some South Korean defense
analysts said was an exercise to target the North Korean leadership in the event
of conflict.

North Korea bristles at any threat to Mr. Kim, and a war of words has escalated
between North Korea and the Trump administration. North Korea claimed a right to
shoot down American warplanes flying in international airspace if they came near
the country. When President Trump threatened to "totally destroy" North Korea
last month, Mr. Kim vowed to "tame the mentally deranged U.S. dotard with fire."

North Korea runsan army of hackers trained to disrupt enemy computer networks
and steal cash and sensitive data. In the past decade, it has been blamed for
numerous cyber-heists and other hacking attacks in South Korea and elsewhere.

In the attack in September last year, later code-named "Desert Wolf" by
anti-hacking security officials, North Korean hackers infected 3,200 computers,
including 700 connected to the South Korean military's internal network, which
is normally cut off from the internet. The attack even affected a computer used
by the defense minister.

Investigators later learned that the hackers first infiltrated the network of a
company providing a computer vaccine service to the ministry's computer network
in 2015. They said the hackers operated out of IP addresses originating in
Shenyang, a city in northeast China that had long been cited as an operating
ground for North Korean hackers.

The intruders used the vaccine server to infect internet-connected computers of
the military with malicious codes in August last year, the investigators said.
They could also infiltrate the malware into intranet computers when the
military's closed internal network was mistakenly linked to the internet during
maintenance.

The break-in by the United States into North Korea's own government networks in
2010 was documented in classified materials released by Edward J. Snowden, a
former National Security Agency contractor. The New York Times reported in 2015
that the penetration figured in quickly identifying the North Korean origins of
the hack of Sony Pictures Entertainment.

David E. Sanger contributed reporting from Washington.

PHOTO: American soldiers with the South Korean military in Pocheon, near the
border with the North. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUNG YEON-JE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY
IMAGES)

Related Articles


     ·    South Korea Plans 'Decapitation Unit' to Try to Scare North's Leaders
     ·    Behind North Korea's Bluster, Some See Caution
     ·    North Korea Says It Has the Right to Shoot Down U.S. Warplanes


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       October 10, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

How Israel Caught Russian Hackers Scouring the World for U.S. Secrets

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH and SCOTT SHANE

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1677 words



HIGHLIGHT: Exploiting the popular Kaspersky antivirus software, Russian hackers
searched millions of computers for American intelligence keywords. Israeli
intelligence tipped off American officials.


It was a case of spies watching spies watching spies: Israeli intelligence
officers looked on in real time as Russian government hackers searched computers
around the world for the code names of American intelligence programs.

What gave the Russian hacking, detected more than two years ago, such global
reach was its improvised search tool -- antivirus software made by a Russian
company, Kaspersky Lab, that is used by 400 million people worldwide, including
by officials at some two dozen American government agencies.

The Israeli officials who had hacked into Kaspersky's own network alerted the
United States to the broad Russian intrusion, which has not been previously
reported, leading to a decision just last month to order Kaspersky software
removed from government computers.

The Russian operation, described by multiple people who have been briefed on the
matter, is known to have stolen classified documents from a National Security
Agency employee who had improperly stored them on his home computer, on which
Kaspersky's antivirus software was installed. What additional American secrets
the Russian hackers may have gleaned from multiple agencies, by turning the
Kaspersky software into a sort of Google search for sensitive information, is
not yet publicly known.

The current and former government officials who described the episode spoke
about it on condition of anonymity because of classification rules.

Like most security software, Kaspersky Lab's products require access to
everything stored on a computer in order to scour it for viruses or other
dangers. Its popular antivirus software scans for signatures of malicious
software, or malware, then removes or neuters it before sending a report back to
Kaspersky. That procedure, routine for such software, provided a perfect tool
for Russian intelligence to exploit to survey the contents of computers and
retrieve whatever they found of interest.

The National Security Agency and the White House declined to comment for this
article. The Israeli Embassy declined to comment, and the Russian Embassy did
not respond to requests for comment.

The Wall Street Journal reported last week that Russian hackers had stolen
classified N.S.A. materials from a contractor using the Kaspersky software on
his home computer. But the role of Israeli intelligence in uncovering that
breach and the Russian hackers' use of Kaspersky software in the broader search
for American secrets have not previously been disclosed.

Kaspersky Lab denied any knowledge of, or involvement in, the Russian hacking.
"Kaspersky Lab has never helped, nor will help, any government in the world with
its cyberespionage efforts," the company said in a statement Tuesday afternoon.
Kaspersky Lab also said it "respectfully requests any relevant, verifiable
information that would enable the company to begin an investigation at the
earliest opportunity."

The Kaspersky-related breach is only the latest bad news for the security of
American intelligence secrets. It does not appear to be related to a devastating
leak of N.S.A. hacking tools last year to a group, still unidentified, calling
itself the Shadow Brokers, which has placed many of them online. Nor is it
evidently connected to a parallel leak of hacking data from the C.I.A. to
WikiLeaks, which has posted classified C.I.A. documents regularly under the name
Vault7.

For years, there has been speculation that Kaspersky's popular antivirus
software might provide a back door for Russian intelligence. More than 60
percent, or $374 million, of the company's $633 million in annual sales come
from customers in the United States and Western Europe. Among them have been
nearly two dozen American government agencies -- including the State Department,
the Department of Defense, Department of Energy, Justice Department, Treasury
Department and the Army, Navy and Air Force.

The N.S.A. bans its analysts from using Kaspersky antivirus at the agency, in
large part because the agency has exploited antivirus software for its own
foreign hacking operations and knows the same technique is used by its
adversaries.

"Antivirus is the ultimate back door," Blake Darché, a former N.S.A. operator
and co-founder of Area 1 Security. "It provides consistent, reliable and remote
access that can be used for any purpose, from launching a destructive attack to
conducting espionage on thousands or even millions of users."

On Sept. 13, the Department of Homeland Security ordered all federal executive
branch agencies to stop using Kaspersky products, giving agencies 90 days to
remove the software. Acting Department of Homeland Security Secretary Elaine C.
Duke cited the "information security risks" presented by Kaspersky and said the
company's antivirus and other software "provide broad access to files" and "can
be exploited by malicious cyber actors to compromise" federal computer systems.

That directive, which some officials thought was long overdue, was based, in
large part, on intelligence gleaned from Israel's 2014 intrusion into
Kaspersky's corporate systems. It followed months of discussions among
intelligence officials, which included a study of how Kaspersky's software works
and the company's suspected ties with the Kremlin.

"The risk that the Russian government, whether acting on its own or in
collaboration with Kaspersky," D.H.S. said in its statement, "could capitalize
on access provided by Kaspersky products to compromise federal information and
information systems directly implicates U.S. national security."

Kaspersky Lab did not discover the Israeli intrusion into its systems until
mid-2015, when a Kaspersky engineer testing a new detection tool noticed unusual
activity in the company's network. The company investigated and detailed its
findings in June 2015 in a public report.

The report did not name Israel as the intruder but noted that the breach bore
striking similarities to a previous attack, known as "Duqu," which researchers
had attributed to the same nation states responsible for the infamous Stuxnet
cyberweapon. Stuxnet was a joint American-Israeli operation that successfully
infiltrated Iran's Natanz nuclear facility, and used malicious code to destroy a
fifth of Iran's uranium centrifuges in 2010.

Kaspersky reported that its attackers had used the same algorithm and some of
the same code as Duqu, but noted that in many ways it was even more
sophisticated. So the company researchers named the new attack Duqu 2.0, noting
that other victims of the attack were prime Israeli targets.

Among the targets Kaspersky uncovered were hotels and conference venues used for
closed-door meetings by members of the United Nations Security Council to
negotiate the terms of the Iran nuclear deal -- negotiations from which Israel
was excluded. Several targets were in the United States, which suggested that
the operation was Israel's alone, not a joint American-Israeli operation like
Stuxnet.

Kaspersky's researchers noted that attackers had managed to burrow deep into the
company's computers and evade detection for months. Investigators later
discovered that the Israeli hackers had implanted multiple back doors into
Kaspersky's systems, employing sophisticated tools to steal passwords, take
screenshots, and vacuum up emails and documents.

In its June 2015 report, Kaspersky noted that its attackers seemed primarily
interested in the company's work on nation-state attacks, particularly
Kaspersky's work on the "Equation Group" -- its private industry term for the
N.S.A. -- and the "Regin" campaign, another industry term for a hacking unit
inside the United Kingdom's intelligence agency, the Government Communications
Headquarters, or GCHQ.

Israeli intelligence officers informed the N.S.A. that in the course of their
Kaspersky hack, they uncovered evidence that Russian government hackers were
using Kaspersky's access to aggressively scan for American government classified
programs, and pulling any findings back to Russian intelligence systems. They
provided their N.S.A. counterparts with solid evidence of the Kremlin campaign
in the form of screenshots and other documentation, according to the people
briefed on the events.

It is not clear whether, or to what degree, Eugene V. Kaspersky, the founder of
Kaspersky Lab, and other company employees have been complicit in the hacking
using their products. Technical experts say that at least in theory, Russian
intelligence hackers could have exploited Kaspersky's worldwide deployment of
software and sensors without the company's cooperation or knowledge. Another
possibility is that Russian intelligence officers might have infiltrated the
company without the knowledge of its executives.

But experts on Russia say that under President Vladimir V. Putin, a former
K.G.B. officer, businesses asked for assistance by Russian spy agencies may feel
they have no choice but to give it. To refuse might well invite hostile action
from the government against the business or its leaders. Mr. Kaspersky, who
attended an intelligence institute and served in Russia's Ministry of Defense,
would have few illusions about the cost of refusing a Kremlin request.

Steven L. Hall, a former chief of Russian operations at the C.I.A., said his
former agency never used Kaspersky software, but other federal agencies did. By
2013, he said, Kaspersky officials were "trying to do damage control and
convince the U.S. government that it was just another security company."

He didn't buy it, Mr. Hall said. "I had the gravest concerns about Kaspersky,
and anyone who worked on Russia or in counterintelligence shared those
concerns," he said.

PHOTOS: It is not clear whether, or to what degree, Eugene V. Kaspersky, above,
the founder of Kaspersky Lab, and other company employees, left, have been
complicit in the hacking using their products. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAVEL
GOLOVKIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

Related Articles


     ·    Kaspersky Lab Antivirus Software Is Ordered Off U.S. Government
          Computers
     ·    Trove of Stolen Data Is Said to Include Top-Secret U.S. Hacking Tools
     ·    A Russian Cybersleuth Battles the 'Dark Ages' of the Internet


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      October 11, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

'In Spite of It All, America'

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 3404 words



HIGHLIGHT: The following is an English translation of the document by a group of
foreign-policy experts on German-American relations.


Read the Article: "German Foreign Policy Experts Warn Against Anti-Americanism"

The following is an English translation of the manifesto "In Spite of It All,
America: A Trans-Atlantic Manifesto in Times of Donald Trump -- a German
Perspective," written by a group of foreign-policy experts on German-American
relations, that was to be published in Thursday's edition of the weekly Die Zeit
newspaper. The New York Times was provided a draft advance copy.

1. International Order -- the new German-American conflict of interests

One of the new German government's premier challenges will be to manage the
trans-Atlantic relationship during Donald Trump's presidency. Its success in
this endeavor will be one way to measure its overall performance. We, a group of
foreign policy experts from civil society, would like to offer some ideas.

The liberal world order with its foundation in multilateralism, its global norms
and values, its open societies and markets -- is in danger. It is exactly this
order on which Germany's freedom and prosperity depends. The order is being
challenged from various directions and sources: rising powers strive for
influence; illiberal governments and authoritarian regimes are ascending;
anti-modern thinking is gaining traction and influence even within Western
democracies; Russia is challenging the peaceful European order; and new
technologies are disrupting old economic structures.

Lastly, the United States, inventor and -- until recently -- guardian of the
liberal order, currently does not see itself as system guarantor. Donald Trump
is the first U.S. president since World War II to fundamentally question the
ideas and institutions of the liberal international order. He opposes this order
by advocating a system of raw power and national interest. In his alternative
system, small and medium sized countries play a role as dependent and secondary
actors. Donald Trump is skeptical of any and all of the United States'
commitments to multilateral institutions and norms.

With its preference for stable treaty-based alliances and long term,
multilateral commitments, Germany sees the current international order as a
cornerstone of its foreign policy. For Germany, Donald Trump's foreign policy
creates a previously unknown conflict of interest with its most important ally.

Since Germany's as well as Europe's security and affluence rest upon the current
international order even as President Trump charts a different course for the
United States, an increased responsibility falls to the European Union and its
member state Germany to safeguard and strengthen the international order.

2. A president sui generis

It is impossible to ignore that President Trump was able to attract the support
of 60 million voters. It is also true that unilateral foreign policy,
protectionist moods, and periodic calls for "America First" policies have a long
tradition in the United States. Still, Donald Trump is a president sui generis
whose ideas about international order do not fit within the modern American
politician tradition. These ideas are supported by few in the United States. His
disdain for international alliances and institutions is not even shared by many
in the government he leads, much less by those outside of government. Donald
Trump's positions on global order are outside the mainstream of the foreign
policy expert community in the United States. It is unclear, maybe even
unlikely, that his strategy of undermining the international order will ever
succeed in the United States and become his country's policy.

3. Dangerous consequences

Some analysts and political actors in Germany would like to draw far-reaching
conclusions from this period of uncertainty about the direction of the United
States. They endorse a strategic reorientation for Germany. Some strive to
decouple Europe's foreign and security policy from the United States. Others
place their faith in a German-French mini version of Europe. Sometimes, European
aspirations only disguise German nationalism as a response to American
nationalism. Some recommend that Germany should focus on ad hoc coalitions or
maintain equidistance between Russia and the United States. Some even recommend
that Germany should go further, and align itself with Russia or China in the
future.

All of these propositions are costly or dangerous -- or both.

4. The United States remains indispensable

Turning away from the United States would bring insecurity to Germany and
ultimately to Europe.

The bond with the United States was born from dependence, but it has long been
in Germany's core national interest. Today, no other actor in the world can
offer the same advantages to Germany that it gains from its alliance with the
United States. No other power takes on such far-reaching security guarantees and
offers such comprehensive political resources.

As a liberal hegemon, the United States made European integration possible. The
majority of the political establishment in the United States continues to see
the country as a supporter of European integration - also because it suits its
own interest. The country needs allies that share its values and interests.

If Germany wants to be an effective actor in Europe, it needs the United States.
If the ties to the United States are cut, with them go the reassurance that
other European countries need in order to accept a strong Germany in the center
of the continent. The more leadership that Germany can and should take on, the
closer the coordination must be with the United States.

Decoupling from the United States would fundamentally question one of the most
important political and cultural achievements of the past 70 years: Germany's
integration in the West.

In aligning itself with the West Germany also committed itself to the values of
freedom and democracy, and to cooperation with all those who stand for these
values. Freedom is the precondition for human beings to lead a self-determined
and dignified live. Germany has committed itself to this set of ideas in its
constitution, the Basic Law. Its anchoring in the West gave Germany the
steadfastness to resist the Communist regimes and make possible Germany and
European reunification. A departure from this trans-Atlantic orientation will
renew the threat of a special path (Sonderweg) of Germany, it will strengthen
nationalists on the left and the right, and it will endanger the peaceful
European order.

The West, even today, does not exist without the United States, neither as a
concept, nor as a political subject America is the anchor of liberal
universalism and the open world order. Even if Donald Trump's presidency carries
significant risks for the liberal order, these perils will not diminish if
Germany puts its strategic partnership with the United States at stake. A
strategic decoupling from the United States would ultimately endanger the
liberal international order more than prudent cooperation with a United States
whose leadership currently rattles this order. Autocracies such as China and
Russia can be important ad hoc partners for single projects; the United States,
however, must remain the strategic partner for a democratic and European
Germany.

The relationship with the United States is a values-based partnership built on
our democratic political systems. Even if the current U.S. president challenges
significant elements of the political system, the United States remains a
democracy. President Trump is not America, nor is the illiberal movement for
which he stands a solely American phenomenon. In Europe too it has made its
mark. What we see today is not a divergence between Europe and the United
States; it is a conflict within the West unfolding on both sides of the
Atlantic.

Finally, the economic, scientific, and cultural linkages with the United States
are far stronger than with any other region in the world. The interplay with the
United States remains a central element of Europe's capacity for innovation.

5. Yet, no business as usual

So, how do we engage with the United States in times of Donald Trump?

Even if turning away from the United States is not a responsible option for
Germany, business as usual is not an option with the current presidency either.
It would be equally unhelpful to stay silent and look the other way, waiting
until this presidency is finally over and a successor occupies the White House.
Four or even eight years is too long to sit it out, especially since there will
not be a return to the supposed good old times.

6. Ideas for a new U.S. Strategy

German policy now requires something that it did not need before: a U.S.
strategy.

A responsible policy toward the United States must be long-term and build a
bridge into the post-Trump age. This policy must look beyond an exceptional
period of U.S. skepticism toward any multilateral commitment. However, Germany
must not fall prey to the illusion that there will be a return to the status quo
ante following the Trump Presidency. Several political trends in the United
States will outlive Trump's time in office -- for example, the demand for more
balanced burden-sharing between Europe and the United States within NATO.
However, the end of the Trump presidency should be the end of the inner Western
conflict about the fundamentals of the world order. Once this fundamental
consensus is reestablished policy disagreements can be resolved or bridged more
easily and more constructively.

This long-term goal must be the point of reference for Germany's short-term
engagement with the Trump administration.

In the short term, Germany must learn to distinguish between the problems that
are solvable, those that are unsolvable, and those in between that require
pragmatic management.

It goes without saying that the German government should double down on those
policy areas where it finds common ground with the current U.S. administration.
But successful relationship management in times of Donald Trump may also require
to adjust an increasingly untenable position or -- vice versa -- to enter into a
limited conflict. Finally, we will need to look for partners not only at the
highest federal levels, but elsewhere in the administration, in the U.S.
Congress, in the states, in civil society, and in business.

It will be more important than ever to manage differences responsibly. In its
own long-term interest, Germany should attempt to handle these differences with
the Trump administration in such a way that does not escalate them or allow them
to spiral out of control.

Germany should not succumb to illusions: large scale joint projects with the
Trump government will have little chance for success in policy areas that are
central to President Trump's populist agenda. Trying to do too much in these key
policy areas will only cause new disagreements.

In short, Germany's U.S. strategy must allow for multitasking: to actively
pursue key national interests in collaboration with the United States, to
moderate conflicts, to avoid unrealistic ambitions, and to thus build a bridge
to a better future for trans-Atlantic relations.

This nuanced approach will have different consequences for the different policy
areas.

7. Trade policy -- aim only for conflict management

Soberingly, the signs are not favorable for larger projects in several policy
areas that would actually be vital, such as trade policy. Despite all
controversies, the strategic and economic reasons for a trans-Atlantic free
trade agreement (TTIP) have not disappeared since November 2016. Some in Berlin
and Brussels hope that one can resurrect TTIP in an adapted version. This idea
is illusory, maybe even dangerous. A president who castigates all free trade
agreements as unfair toward the United States will not easily compromise in
international negotiations. A negotiating failure will be more devastating to
the project than a long hibernation.

There are signs already that the United States and the European Union might be
headed toward trade disputes. The European Union must react to punitive tariffs.
But it should do so exclusively in a legal, proportional, and symmetrical
manner. Everything else could trigger an unwanted escalation.

8. International refugee policy -- no chance for a joint vision

Joint initiatives regarding international refugee policy do not look very
promising either. The global system of protection, however, urgently needs to be
reformed to cope with modern conditions. The rights of refugees need to be
protected while illegal migration needs to be curtailed, organized trafficking
should be combated so that the universal refugee regime is not undermined.
Equally important will be a push toward new and improved United Nations'
resettlement programs. However, it appears difficult to imagine that the Trump
administration will agree to such initiatives. Consequently, Europe must become
active itself here -- as best as it can.

Therefore, trade and refugee policies fall in the category of currently
difficult, hardly resolvable issues. The best we can expect is limited progress,
but no large scale initiatives.

9. Security policy -- strive for progress, also with President Trump

Security policy is a different matter. Without the United States there will be
no security for and in Germany for the foreseeable future. This applies to
territorial as well as alliance defense within NATO, but also to nuclear
deterrence, to combating cyber crimes and money laundering, and finally to
counterterrorism and the cooperation of intelligence agencies. No single
European country, not Germany, not any other country, and not the European
Union, can provide the necessary resources to guarantee the continent's
security. Therefore, the existing cooperation must be strengthened. Remaining
committed to NATO also provides a way to integrate the United States into the
structures of multilateral security policy and may dissuade Washington from
going it alone.

Alliance defense is the most cost-effective form of defense. Germany should thus
take seriously the call for fairer burden-sharing within the alliance. Acting
against its own core interest, Germany has not done enough in this respect.
Germany still has a long way to go until it's NATO goals and commitments are
met. To be clear: Germany agreed to increase its defense expenditures toward 2
percent of its GDP. Germany should keep its word. To present this commitment as
a threat to the military balance in European is to get it backwards. It is
precisely our European neighbors and partners that are asking for more German
commitment within the NATO framework and within European defense policy.

It would be even better if Germany were to invest an extra percentage point of
GDP into development assistance, international police operations, UN missions,
conflict prevention, and diplomacy. With this linkage, nonmilitary aspects of
security would also be upgraded. This would substantially strengthen European
defense capabilities within the trans-Atlantic alliance. Germany would do
something that is in its own interest and would stabilize the trans-Atlantic
alliance at the same time. It would address concerns of the Trump administration
and build good will for the time after Donald Trump. The chances of success for
this strategy are high: Despite all of the skeptical rhetoric about NATO, the
Trump administration has fulfilled America's NATO commitments so far.

Security policy cooperation with the Trump government should be central to
Germany and should also include security guarantees for the central and eastern
European NATO members, support for an independent Ukraine, as well as the
stabilization of the North African coast.

In the conflict over North Korea's nuclear weapons program and the uncertainties
around future Iran policy, a trans-Atlantic schism should be avoided. We should
do whatever possible to convince the Trump administration of joint approaches.

10. Energy security policy -- giving up Nord Stream 2 is in Germany's interest

There is one more policy area in which the German government should reconsider
its position to open the door for productive cooperation: energy security
policy. The United States has identified Nord Stream 2, the planned pipeline
running through the Baltic Sea to Russia, as a geostrategic project. They are
correct. More important: This pipeline project is not in the joint European
interest. Nord Stream 2 contradicts a policy of greater energy independence and
undermines the envisaged European Energy Union. We should try to identify a
joint approach with our European partners and the United States.

11. Climate, energy and digital policy -- manage conflicts responsibly

After having addressed the solvable issues and set aside the unsolvable issues
for now, one will need to turn to those policy areas that require responsible
conflict management. It would be useless to try to convince the U.S.
administration of the importance of the Paris Climate Agreement, but it is
equally wrongheaded to isolate President Trump on international climate and
energy policy. Necessary criticism should not turn into dogmatism.

Instead, Germany should seek concrete steps forward in climate protection
together with the United States. Germany does not need President Trump in order
to engage with partners who are interested in climate policy cooperation. A
number of states (not just California) and large cities are already rapidly
reducing their CO2 emissions. Political, scientific, and technical cooperation
with local partners is possible. There is no shortage of potent allies on
climate policy in the United States, in the private sector as well as in civil
society. Here, the key is to be proactive, to invest money, and to build
networks that will endure and outlast the Trump administration.

Digital policy is another policy area where confrontation is possible -- about
regulatory questions as well as about market shares. It is important to identify
points of contention as soon as possible and to avoid unnecessary escalation.
Sealing off Europe's and the United States' digital markets from each other will
seriously damage the outlook for jobs and growth on both sides of the Atlantic.
European consumer and data protection standards might be able to be maintained
globally if they have U.S. support, but certainly not without it.

12. Final point -- more Europe within the Alliance

Making progress with the Trump administration wherever possible, moderating
conflicts and avoiding escalation, expanding the spectrum of trans-Atlantic
partners beyond the current U.S. administration -- these are all core aims of a
U.S. strategy that can preserve the trans-Atlantic partnership with and if
necessary against this American President, and function beyond his time in
office. The United States has proved its capacity for self-correction
repeatedly. America remains the indispensable power for those countries that
stand for freedom and democracy and strive for an open world order. But Europe
-- and thus Germany -- must do more to support and preserve these values. More
European self-reliance is imperative. It would be an error of historical
proportions to play out "more Europe" against the trans-Atlantic alliance. The
new German government's foreign policy will be measured by how clearly it
pursues this course.

Authors:

Deidre Berger, Ramer Institute, American Jewish Committee, Berlin

James D. Bindenagel, Center for International Security and Governance,
University of Bonn

Ralf Fücks, Centre for Liberal Modernity, Berlin

Stefan Heumann, Stiftung Neue Verantwortung, Berlin

Patrick Keller, Konrad Adenauer Stiftung, Berlin

Thomas Kleine-Brockhoff, The German Marshall Fund of the United States, Berlin

Anna Kuchenbecker, Aspen Institute Deutschland, Berlin

Sergey Lagodinsky, Heinrich Böll Stiftung, Berlin

Rüdiger Lentz, Aspen Institute Deutschland, Berlin

Daniela Schwarzer, German Council on Foreign Relations, Berlin

Jan Techau, Richard C. Holbrooke Forum, American Academy, Berlin

Sylke Tempel, German Council on Foreign Relations, "Internationale Politik"
Magazine, Berlin

The text solely reflects the personal opinions of the authors.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Related Articles


     ·    German Foreign Policy Experts Warn Against Anti-Americanism
     ·    Merkel Knows She Has to Deal With Trump. The Question Is How.
     ·    What the Far Right's Rise May Mean for Germany's Future
     ·    German Elites Drawn to Anti-Euro Party, Spelling Trouble for Merkel


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 11, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Here to Help; Looking for Something to Watch?

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 322 words


Mr. Robot 2015 - Present. Wednesdays at 10 p.m., on USA; Seasons 1 and 2
available on Amazon Prime.

Elliot Alderson, a mentally unstable superhacker, tries to sabotage the world
economy, with the assistance of an organization led by a shadowy countercultural
icon.

IS ''MR. ROBOT'' FOR YOU?

Yes, if you're looking for an intense cyber-thriller that feels frighteningly
real. Elliot's voice-over narration refers to actual corporations and describes
the kind of internet disruptions that terrorists use. Because the story sticks
close to its antihero, it puts the audience inside the mind of a millennial
who's paranoid, distrustful and disconnected from the institutions that earlier
generations built. Rami Malek gives a fully committed performance, at once
sympathetic and scary, while Carly Chaikin and Christian Slater are as good as
they've ever been, playing Elliot's primary confederates. The actors' flashes of
humor and pathos help ground a series that otherwise can be awfully grim.

SHOULD YOU FIND SOMETHING ELSE?

Maybe, if you hate it when TV gets ''arty.'' The creator, Sam Esmail,
establishes a distinctive -- some would say pretentious -- visual style, with
odd camera angles and framing. And he throws in winking references to movies
like ''E.T.'' (in Elliot's name and clothes) and ''Fight Club'' (via music cues
and a general ''nothing is as it seems'' vibe). ''Mr. Robot'' fans appreciate
these special touches, but they're so self-conscious that others may find them
distracting.

CAN YOU JUMP IN NOW?

It's best to watch ''Mr. Robot'' from the beginning. But if you're comfortable
with getting all the mood and about 65 percent of the story, you can start now
with the Season 3 premiere on Oct. 11: Between the frequent voice-overs by
Elliot and his apparent need to constantly explain himself, the show is not
completely impenetrable.

For more show recommendations, visit Watching at nytimes.com/watching.




URL:

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARAH SHATZ/USA NETWORK)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 11, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

How Israel Caught Russian Hackers Scouring for American Secrets

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH and SCOTT SHANE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1613 words


It was a case of spies watching spies watching spies: Israeli intelligence
officers looked on in real time as Russian government hackers searched computers
around the world for the code names of American intelligence programs.

What gave the Russian hacking, detected more than two years ago, such global
reach was its improvised search tool -- antivirus software made by a Russian
company, Kaspersky Lab, that is used by 400 million people worldwide, including
by officials at some two dozen American government agencies.

The Israeli officials who had hacked into Kaspersky's own network alerted the
United States to the broad Russian intrusion, which has not been previously
reported, leading to a decision just last month to order Kaspersky software
removed from government computers.

The Russian operation, described by multiple people who have been briefed on the
matter, is known to have stolen classified documents from a National Security
Agency employee who had improperly stored them on his home computer, on which
Kaspersky's antivirus software was installed. What additional American secrets
the Russian hackers may have gleaned from multiple agencies, by turning the
Kaspersky software into a sort of Google search for sensitive information, is
not yet publicly known.

The current and former government officials who described the episode spoke
about it on condition of anonymity because of classification rules.

Like most security software, Kaspersky Lab's products require access to
everything stored on a computer in order to scour it for viruses or other
dangers. Its popular antivirus software scans for signatures of malicious
software, or malware, then removes or neuters it before sending a report back to
Kaspersky. That procedure, routine for such software, provided a perfect tool
for Russian intelligence to exploit to survey the contents of computers and
retrieve whatever they found of interest.

The National Security Agency and the White House declined to comment for this
article. The Israeli Embassy declined to comment, and the Russian Embassy did
not respond to requests for comment.

The Wall Street Journal reported last week that Russian hackers had stolen
classified N.S.A. materials from a contractor using the Kaspersky software on
his home computer. But the role of Israeli intelligence in uncovering that
breach and the Russian hackers' use of Kaspersky software in the broader search
for American secrets have not previously been disclosed.

Kaspersky Lab denied any knowledge of, or involvement in, the Russian hacking.
''Kaspersky Lab has never helped, nor will help, any government in the world
with its cyberespionage efforts,'' the company said in a statement Tuesday
afternoon. Kaspersky Lab also said it ''respectfully requests any relevant,
verifiable information that would enable the company to begin an investigation
at the earliest opportunity.''

The Kaspersky-related breach is only the latest bad news for the security of
American intelligence secrets. It does not appear to be related to a devastating
leak of N.S.A. hacking tools last year to a group, still unidentified, calling
itself the Shadow Brokers, which has placed many of them online. Nor is it
evidently connected to a parallel leak of hacking data from the C.I.A. to
WikiLeaks, which has posted classified C.I.A. documents regularly under the name
Vault7.

For years, there has been speculation that Kaspersky's popular antivirus
software might provide a back door for Russian intelligence. More than 60
percent, or $374 million, of the company's $633 million in annual sales come
from customers in the United States and Western Europe. Among them have been
nearly two dozen American government agencies -- including the State Department,
the Department of Defense, Department of Energy, Justice Department, Treasury
Department and the Army, Navy and Air Force.

The N.S.A. bans its analysts from using Kaspersky antivirus at the agency, in
large part because the agency has exploited antivirus software for its own
foreign hacking operations and knows the same technique is used by its
adversaries.

''Antivirus is the ultimate back door,'' Blake Darché, a former N.S.A. operator
and co-founder of Area 1 Security. ''It provides consistent, reliable and remote
access that can be used for any purpose, from launching a destructive attack to
conducting espionage on thousands or even millions of users.''

On Sept. 13, the Department of Homeland Security ordered all federal executive
branch agencies to stop using Kaspersky products, giving agencies 90 days to
remove the software. Acting Department of Homeland Security Secretary Elaine C.
Duke cited the ''information security risks'' presented by Kaspersky and said
the company's antivirus and other software ''provide broad access to files'' and
''can be exploited by malicious cyber actors to compromise'' federal computer
systems.

That directive, which some officials thought was long overdue, was based, in
large part, on intelligence gleaned from Israel's 2014 intrusion into
Kaspersky's corporate systems. It followed months of discussions among
intelligence officials, which included a study of how Kaspersky's software works
and the company's suspected ties with the Kremlin.

''The risk that the Russian government, whether acting on its own or in
collaboration with Kaspersky,'' D.H.S. said in its statement, ''could capitalize
on access provided by Kaspersky products to compromise federal information and
information systems directly implicates U.S. national security.''

Kaspersky Lab did not discover the Israeli intrusion into its systems until
mid-2015, when a Kaspersky engineer testing a new detection tool noticed unusual
activity in the company's network. The company investigated and detailed its
findings in June 2015 in a public report.

The report did not name Israel as the intruder but noted that the breach bore
striking similarities to a previous attack, known as ''Duqu,'' which researchers
had attributed to the same nation states responsible for the infamous Stuxnet
cyberweapon. Stuxnet was a joint American-Israeli operation that successfully
infiltrated Iran's Natanz nuclear facility, and used malicious code to destroy a
fifth of Iran's uranium centrifuges in 2010.

Kaspersky reported that its attackers had used the same algorithm and some of
the same code as Duqu, but noted that in many ways it was even more
sophisticated. So the company researchers named the new attack Duqu 2.0, noting
that other victims of the attack were prime Israeli targets.

Among the targets Kaspersky uncovered were hotels and conference venues used for
closed-door meetings by members of the United Nations Security Council to
negotiate the terms of the Iran nuclear deal -- negotiations from which Israel
was excluded. Several targets were in the United States, which suggested that
the operation was Israel's alone, not a joint American-Israeli operation like
Stuxnet.

Kaspersky's researchers noted that attackers had managed to burrow deep into the
company's computers and evade detection for months. Investigators later
discovered that the Israeli hackers had implanted multiple back doors into
Kaspersky's systems, employing sophisticated tools to steal passwords, take
screenshots, and vacuum up emails and documents.

In its June 2015 report, Kaspersky noted that its attackers seemed primarily
interested in the company's work on nation-state attacks, particularly
Kaspersky's work on the ''Equation Group'' -- its private industry term for the
N.S.A. -- and the ''Regin'' campaign, another industry term for a hacking unit
inside the United Kingdom's intelligence agency, the Government Communications
Headquarters, or GCHQ.

Israeli intelligence officers informed the N.S.A. that in the course of their
Kaspersky hack, they uncovered evidence that Russian government hackers were
using Kaspersky's access to aggressively scan for American government classified
programs, and pulling any findings back to Russian intelligence systems. They
provided their N.S.A. counterparts with solid evidence of the Kremlin campaign
in the form of screenshots and other documentation, according to the people
briefed on the events.

It is not clear whether, or to what degree, Eugene V. Kaspersky, the founder of
Kaspersky Lab, and other company employees have been complicit in the hacking
using their products. Technical experts say that at least in theory, Russian
intelligence hackers could have exploited Kaspersky's worldwide deployment of
software and sensors without the company's cooperation or knowledge. Another
possibility is that Russian intelligence officers might have infiltrated the
company without the knowledge of its executives.

But experts on Russia say that under President Vladimir V. Putin, a former
K.G.B. officer, businesses asked for assistance by Russian spy agencies may feel
they have no choice but to give it. To refuse might well invite hostile action
from the government against the business or its leaders. Mr. Kaspersky, who
attended an intelligence institute and served in Russia's Ministry of Defense,
would have few illusions about the cost of refusing a Kremlin request.

Steven L. Hall, a former chief of Russian operations at the C.I.A., said his
former agency never used Kaspersky software, but other federal agencies did. By
2013, he said, Kaspersky officials were ''trying to do damage control and
convince the U.S. government that it was just another security company.''

He didn't buy it, Mr. Hall said. ''I had the gravest concerns about Kaspersky,
and anyone who worked on Russia or in counterintelligence shared those
concerns,'' he said.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/10/technology/kaspersky-lab-israel-russia-hackin
g.html

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: It is not clear whether, or to what degree, Eugene V.
Kaspersky, above, the founder of Kaspersky Lab, and other company employees,
left, have been complicit in the hacking using their products. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
PAVEL GOLOVKIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 11, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawmaker: Hackers Got South's Plan to Oust Kim

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN; David E. Sanger contributed reporting from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 994 words


SEOUL, South Korea -- North Korean hackers stole a vast cache of data, including
classified wartime contingency plans jointly drawn by the United States and
South Korea, when they breached the computer network of the South Korean
military last year, a South Korean lawmaker said Tuesday.

One of the plans included the South Korean military's plan to remove the North
Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, referred to as a ''decapitation'' plan, should war
break out on the Korean Peninsula, the lawmaker, Rhee Cheol-hee, told reporters.

Mr. Rhee, a member of the governing Democratic Party who serves on the defense
committee of the National Assembly, said he only recently learned of the scale
of the North Korean hacking attack, which was first discovered in September last
year.

It was not known whether any of the military's top secrets were leaked, although
Mr. Rhee said that nearly 300 lower-classification confidential documents were
stolen. The military has not yet identified nearly 80 percent of the 235
gigabytes of leaked data, he said.

A Defense Ministry spokesman, Moon Sang-gyun, refused to comment on Mr. Rhee's
disclosure.

A spokesman for the Pentagon, Col. Robert Manning, would not discuss if the hack
had occurred, repeating, when pressed, that he would not ''discuss the
specifics'' of the incident.

North Korea and South Korea have long had each other's computer networks in
their sights. The United States, piggybacking on South Korean operations, broke
into the North's computer systems in 2010, targeting the Reconnaissance General
Bureau, the North's equivalent of the C.I.A.

South Korean intelligence officials told lawmakers in June that Mr. Kim was
desperate to get hold of South Korea's decapitation plan. He had also begun
using his deputies' cars as decoys to move from place to place, they said.

When the hack was discovered last year, the ministry blamed North Korea. But it
has acknowledged only that ''some classified information'' was stolen, saying
that revealing more details would only benefit its enemies.

Some South Korean news media, citing anonymous sources, had earlier reported
that the leaked data included wartime contingency plans. But Mr. Rhee is the
first member of the parliamentary committee that oversees the military to
disclose similar details.

It remained unclear how much the hacking has undermined the joint preparedness
of the South Korean and United States militaries, with South Korean officials
simply saying that they have been redressing whatever damage was caused by the
cyberattack.

The military plans for dealing with North Korea have been rewritten in recent
months by Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis, in response to the North's
accelerated threats.

The plan containing the so-called decapitation operation, Operations Plan 5015,
had been updated in 2015 to reflect the growing nuclear and missile threat from
North Korea. Its details remain classified.

Under their mutual defense treaty, the United States takes operational control
of South Korean troops in the event of war on the divided Korean Peninsula. The
two allies hone their war plans through annual joint military exercises.

As Mr. Kim, the North Korean leader, has accelerated his nuclear missile program
in recent years, South Korean defense officials have publicly discussed
pre-emptive strikes at critical missile and nuclear sites in North Korea and an
operation to eliminate the North's top leaders.

After North Korea's sixth -- and by far most powerful -- nuclear test last
month, the South Korean defense minister, Song Young-moo, told lawmakers in
Seoul that a special forces unit with a task of removing Mr. Kim would be
established by the end of the year.

Last month, United States strategic bombers and fighter jets also flew deep to
the north along the east coast of North Korea in what some South Korean defense
analysts said was an exercise to target the North Korean leadership in the event
of conflict.

North Korea bristles at any threat to Mr. Kim, and a war of words has escalated
between North Korea and the Trump administration. North Korea claimed a right to
shoot down American warplanes flying in international airspace if they came near
the country. When President Trump threatened to ''totally destroy'' North Korea
last month, Mr. Kim vowed to ''tame the mentally deranged U.S. dotard with
fire.''

North Korea runs an army of hackers trained to disrupt enemy computer networks
and steal cash and sensitive data. In the past decade, it has been blamed for
numerous cyber-heists and other hacking attacks in South Korea and elsewhere.

In the attack in September last year, later code-named ''Desert Wolf'' by
anti-hacking security officials, North Korean hackers infected 3,200 computers,
including 700 connected to the South Korean military's internal network, which
is normally cut off from the internet. The attack even affected a computer used
by the defense minister.

Investigators later learned that the hackers first infiltrated the network of a
company providing a computer vaccine service to the ministry's computer network
in 2015. They said the hackers operated out of IP addresses originating in
Shenyang, a city in northeast China that had long been cited as an operating
ground for North Korean hackers.

The intruders used the vaccine server to infect internet-connected computers of
the military with malicious codes in August last year, the investigators said.
They could also infiltrate the malware into intranet computers when the
military's closed internal network was mistakenly linked to the internet during
maintenance.

The break-in by the United States into North Korea's own government networks in
2010 was documented in classified materials released by Edward J. Snowden, a
former National Security Agency contractor. The New York Times reported in 2015
that the penetration figured in quickly identifying the North Korean origins of
the hack of Sony Pictures Entertainment.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/10/world/asia/north-korea-hack-war-plans.html

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American soldiers with the South Korean military in Pocheon,
near the border with the North. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUNG YEON-JE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
-- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 11, 2017 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Australian Cybersecurity Report Shows Gaps in Private Companies' Defenses

BYLINE: By ADAM BAIDAWI

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 823 words


MELBOURNE, Australia -- The Australian government presented its annual
cybersecurity report on Tuesday, revealing that one of its national security
contractors had suffered a breach in which it lost a ''significant amount of
data'' last year.

Included in the report was a case study that said the government's cybersecurity
team discovered that an attacker had compromised the network of a ''small
Australian company with contracting links to national security projects,''
adding that the attacker was on the network for an ''extended period of time.''

Though the report outlined the breach as a case study, Dan Tehan, a minister
tasked with advising the prime minister on cybersecurity, did not divulge
specifics to the local news media about who was affected or what data might have
been compromised. ''We don't know and we cannot confirm exactly who the actor
was,'' he said Tuesday on ABC Radio.

The revelation of the security contractor's breach, and the lack of detail
surrounding it, comes at a time of increased concern over the government's
ability to protect citizens' personal information -- especially when accounting
for third parties that have access to sensitive data.

Last week, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull introduced a far-reaching plan to
collect Australians' driver's license photos and distribute them across security
agencies, leaving open the possibility of sharing them with private companies.
Privacy advocates criticized the plan as risky, with some pointing to a hacking
attack on Australian census data last year, and the revelation this year that
Australians' Medicare card details were being sold on the web for less than 30
Australian dollars, or around $23.

Experts say that private industry has been one of the most glaring
vulnerabilities in Australia's cybersecurity. Tuesday's report, the Australian
Cyber Security Center Threat Report, noted that 734 private-sector systems of
''national interest'' were affected by cyberattacks last year.

''Certain companies take cybersecurity quite seriously,'' said Alana Maurushat,
academic co-director of the Cyberspace Law and Policy Center at the University
of New South Wales in Sydney. ''But you have key industries to Australia who --
while there may not be the same media coverage -- you know through internal
sources are being breached. Our mining industry has notoriously been rumored to
have been breached by competitors.''

Ms. Maurushat said that Australia as a whole was not far behind the rest of the
developed world's level of cybersecurity, but emphasized concerns about its
private sector.

''The crazy thing about this is that they don't even know that they've been
breached,'' she said. ''There are certain breaches that occur, and there are
studies on this, where sometimes someone would be on your system for almost a
year, without the breach even being noticed. That's the stuff that keeps me up
at night.''

A cybersecurity report released this year by Telstra, the country's dominant
telecommunications company, said that 59 percent of surveyed companies in
Australia had detected a security breach on at least a monthly basis. A similar
number reported experiencing at least one ransomware attack. Over half of
Australian organizations that came under such an attack paid the ransom, the
report said.

Ms. Maurushat said that, in part, Australia's private-sector cybersecurity was
lacking because of an acute shortage of skilled workers.

The government report also noted ''extensive'' state-sponsored activity against
Australia's government, saying that its defense contractors continued to be
targeted by foreign nations' cyberespionage efforts.

At a news conference on Tuesday, Mr. Tehan said that the government was pivoting
toward offensive capabilities to ''prevent and shut down safe havens for
offshore cybercriminals.''

Last year, the Australian government blamed foreign actors for an attack on its
online census portal.

''The whole census thing -- that's an I.B.M. mistake,'' Ms. Maurushat said,
referring to the technology company's contracting role in the census. ''That's
not a government mistake, that's an industry mistake, from a company you
wouldn't expect to make those errors.''

In a settlement over the census problems, I.B.M. paid the government about 30
million Australian dollars, or about $23 million.

Not unlike vaccines and herd immunity, Ms. Maurushat said, a government's
cybersecurity is only as strong as those it chooses to share its data with.

When asked whether Australia's lagging digital infrastructure and poor internet
speeds might have a detrimental effect on its security, Ms. Maurushat said that
a beleaguered attempt to speed up Australia's internet, the National Broadband
Network initiative, may prove to be a silver lining.

''It's the opposite,'' she said, adding that hackers rely on fast internet
speeds. ''So in some ways, if the N.B.N. is a disaster, it might be better for
us.''




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/10/world/australia/cybersecurity-data-breach.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 12, 2017 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

'In Spite of It All, America'

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg.

LENGTH: 3389 words


Read the Article: ''German Foreign Policy Experts Warn Against
Anti-Americanism''

The following is an English translation of the manifesto ''In Spite of It All,
America: A Trans-Atlantic Manifesto in Times of Donald Trump -- a German
Perspective,'' written by a group of foreign-policy experts on German-American
relations, that was to be published in Thursday's edition of the weekly Die Zeit
newspaper. The New York Times was provided a draft advance copy.

1. International Order -- the new German-American conflict of interests

One of the new German government's premier challenges will be to manage the
trans-Atlantic relationship during Donald Trump's presidency. Its success in
this endeavor will be one way to measure its overall performance. We, a group of
foreign policy experts from civil society, would like to offer some ideas.

The liberal world order with its foundation in multilateralism, its global norms
and values, its open societies and markets -- is in danger. It is exactly this
order on which Germany's freedom and prosperity depends. The order is being
challenged from various directions and sources: rising powers strive for
influence; illiberal governments and authoritarian regimes are ascending;
anti-modern thinking is gaining traction and influence even within Western
democracies; Russia is challenging the peaceful European order; and new
technologies are disrupting old economic structures.

Lastly, the United States, inventor and -- until recently -- guardian of the
liberal order, currently does not see itself as system guarantor. Donald Trump
is the first U.S. president since World War II to fundamentally question the
ideas and institutions of the liberal international order. He opposes this order
by advocating a system of raw power and national interest. In his alternative
system, small and medium sized countries play a role as dependent and secondary
actors. Donald Trump is skeptical of any and all of the United States'
commitments to multilateral institutions and norms.

With its preference for stable treaty-based alliances and long term,
multilateral commitments, Germany sees the current international order as a
cornerstone of its foreign policy. For Germany, Donald Trump's foreign policy
creates a previously unknown conflict of interest with its most important ally.

Since Germany's as well as Europe's security and affluence rest upon the current
international order even as President Trump charts a different course for the
United States, an increased responsibility falls to the European Union and its
member state Germany to safeguard and strengthen the international order.

2. A president sui generis

It is impossible to ignore that President Trump was able to attract the support
of 60 million voters. It is also true that unilateral foreign policy,
protectionist moods, and periodic calls for ''America First'' policies have a
long tradition in the United States. Still, Donald Trump is a president sui
generis whose ideas about international order do not fit within the modern
American politician tradition. These ideas are supported by few in the United
States. His disdain for international alliances and institutions is not even
shared by many in the government he leads, much less by those outside of
government. Donald Trump's positions on global order are outside the mainstream
of the foreign policy expert community in the United States. It is unclear,
maybe even unlikely, that his strategy of undermining the international order
will ever succeed in the United States and become his country's policy.

3. Dangerous consequences

Some analysts and political actors in Germany would like to draw far-reaching
conclusions from this period of uncertainty about the direction of the United
States. They endorse a strategic reorientation for Germany. Some strive to
decouple Europe's foreign and security policy from the United States. Others
place their faith in a German-French mini version of Europe. Sometimes, European
aspirations only disguise German nationalism as a response to American
nationalism. Some recommend that Germany should focus on ad hoc coalitions or
maintain equidistance between Russia and the United States. Some even recommend
that Germany should go further, and align itself with Russia or China in the
future.

All of these propositions are costly or dangerous -- or both.

4. The United States remains indispensable

Turning away from the United States would bring insecurity to Germany and
ultimately to Europe.

The bond with the United States was born from dependence, but it has long been
in Germany's core national interest. Today, no other actor in the world can
offer the same advantages to Germany that it gains from its alliance with the
United States. No other power takes on such far-reaching security guarantees and
offers such comprehensive political resources.

As a liberal hegemon, the United States made European integration possible. The
majority of the political establishment in the United States continues to see
the country as a supporter of European integration -- also because it suits its
own interest. The country needs allies that share its values and interests.

If Germany wants to be an effective actor in Europe, it needs the United States.
If the ties to the United States are cut, with them go the reassurance that
other European countries need in order to accept a strong Germany in the center
of the continent. The more leadership that Germany can and should take on, the
closer the coordination must be with the United States.

Decoupling from the United States would fundamentally question one of the most
important political and cultural achievements of the past 70 years: Germany's
integration in the West.

In aligning itself with the West Germany also committed itself to the values of
freedom and democracy, and to cooperation with all those who stand for these
values. Freedom is the precondition for human beings to lead a self-determined
and dignified live. Germany has committed itself to this set of ideas in its
constitution, the Basic Law. Its anchoring in the West gave Germany the
steadfastness to resist the Communist regimes and make possible Germany and
European reunification. A departure from this trans-Atlantic orientation will
renew the threat of a special path (Sonderweg) of Germany, it will strengthen
nationalists on the left and the right, and it will endanger the peaceful
European order.

The West, even today, does not exist without the United States, neither as a
concept, nor as a political subject America is the anchor of liberal
universalism and the open world order. Even if Donald Trump's presidency carries
significant risks for the liberal order, these perils will not diminish if
Germany puts its strategic partnership with the United States at stake. A
strategic decoupling from the United States would ultimately endanger the
liberal international order more than prudent cooperation with a United States
whose leadership currently rattles this order. Autocracies such as China and
Russia can be important ad hoc partners for single projects; the United States,
however, must remain the strategic partner for a democratic and European
Germany.

The relationship with the United States is a values-based partnership built on
our democratic political systems. Even if the current U.S. president challenges
significant elements of the political system, the United States remains a
democracy. President Trump is not America, nor is the illiberal movement for
which he stands a solely American phenomenon. In Europe too it has made its
mark. What we see today is not a divergence between Europe and the United
States; it is a conflict within the West unfolding on both sides of the
Atlantic.

Finally, the economic, scientific, and cultural linkages with the United States
are far stronger than with any other region in the world. The interplay with the
United States remains a central element of Europe's capacity for innovation.

5. Yet, no business as usual

So, how do we engage with the United States in times of Donald Trump?

Even if turning away from the United States is not a responsible option for
Germany, business as usual is not an option with the current presidency either.
It would be equally unhelpful to stay silent and look the other way, waiting
until this presidency is finally over and a successor occupies the White House.
Four or even eight years is too long to sit it out, especially since there will
not be a return to the supposed good old times.

6. Ideas for a new U.S. Strategy

German policy now requires something that it did not need before: a U.S.
strategy.

A responsible policy toward the United States must be long-term and build a
bridge into the post-Trump age. This policy must look beyond an exceptional
period of U.S. skepticism toward any multilateral commitment. However, Germany
must not fall prey to the illusion that there will be a return to the status quo
ante following the Trump Presidency. Several political trends in the United
States will outlive Trump's time in office -- for example, the demand for more
balanced burden-sharing between Europe and the United States within NATO.
However, the end of the Trump presidency should be the end of the inner Western
conflict about the fundamentals of the world order. Once this fundamental
consensus is reestablished policy disagreements can be resolved or bridged more
easily and more constructively.

This long-term goal must be the point of reference for Germany's short-term
engagement with the Trump administration.

In the short term, Germany must learn to distinguish between the problems that
are solvable, those that are unsolvable, and those in between that require
pragmatic management.

It goes without saying that the German government should double down on those
policy areas where it finds common ground with the current U.S. administration.
But successful relationship management in times of Donald Trump may also require
to adjust an increasingly untenable position or -- vice versa -- to enter into a
limited conflict. Finally, we will need to look for partners not only at the
highest federal levels, but elsewhere in the administration, in the U.S.
Congress, in the states, in civil society, and in business.

It will be more important than ever to manage differences responsibly. In its
own long-term interest, Germany should attempt to handle these differences with
the Trump administration in such a way that does not escalate them or allow them
to spiral out of control.

Germany should not succumb to illusions: large scale joint projects with the
Trump government will have little chance for success in policy areas that are
central to President Trump's populist agenda. Trying to do too much in these key
policy areas will only cause new disagreements.

In short, Germany's U.S. strategy must allow for multitasking: to actively
pursue key national interests in collaboration with the United States, to
moderate conflicts, to avoid unrealistic ambitions, and to thus build a bridge
to a better future for trans-Atlantic relations.

This nuanced approach will have different consequences for the different policy
areas.

7. Trade policy -- aim only for conflict management

Soberingly, the signs are not favorable for larger projects in several policy
areas that would actually be vital, such as trade policy. Despite all
controversies, the strategic and economic reasons for a trans-Atlantic free
trade agreement (TTIP) have not disappeared since November 2016. Some in Berlin
and Brussels hope that one can resurrect TTIP in an adapted version. This idea
is illusory, maybe even dangerous. A president who castigates all free trade
agreements as unfair toward the United States will not easily compromise in
international negotiations. A negotiating failure will be more devastating to
the project than a long hibernation.

There are signs already that the United States and the European Union might be
headed toward trade disputes. The European Union must react to punitive tariffs.
But it should do so exclusively in a legal, proportional, and symmetrical
manner. Everything else could trigger an unwanted escalation.

8. International refugee policy -- no chance for a joint vision

Joint initiatives regarding international refugee policy do not look very
promising either. The global system of protection, however, urgently needs to be
reformed to cope with modern conditions. The rights of refugees need to be
protected while illegal migration needs to be curtailed, organized trafficking
should be combated so that the universal refugee regime is not undermined.
Equally important will be a push toward new and improved United Nations'
resettlement programs. However, it appears difficult to imagine that the Trump
administration will agree to such initiatives. Consequently, Europe must become
active itself here -- as best as it can.

Therefore, trade and refugee policies fall in the category of currently
difficult, hardly resolvable issues. The best we can expect is limited progress,
but no large scale initiatives.

9. Security policy -- strive for progress, also with President Trump

Security policy is a different matter. Without the United States there will be
no security for and in Germany for the foreseeable future. This applies to
territorial as well as alliance defense within NATO, but also to nuclear
deterrence, to combating cyber crimes and money laundering, and finally to
counterterrorism and the cooperation of intelligence agencies. No single
European country, not Germany, not any other country, and not the European
Union, can provide the necessary resources to guarantee the continent's
security. Therefore, the existing cooperation must be strengthened. Remaining
committed to NATO also provides a way to integrate the United States into the
structures of multilateral security policy and may dissuade Washington from
going it alone.

Alliance defense is the most cost-effective form of defense. Germany should thus
take seriously the call for fairer burden-sharing within the alliance. Acting
against its own core interest, Germany has not done enough in this respect.
Germany still has a long way to go until it's NATO goals and commitments are
met. To be clear: Germany agreed to increase its defense expenditures toward 2
percent of its GDP. Germany should keep its word. To present this commitment as
a threat to the military balance in European is to get it backwards. It is
precisely our European neighbors and partners that are asking for more German
commitment within the NATO framework and within European defense policy.

It would be even better if Germany were to invest an extra percentage point of
GDP into development assistance, international police operations, UN missions,
conflict prevention, and diplomacy. With this linkage, nonmilitary aspects of
security would also be upgraded. This would substantially strengthen European
defense capabilities within the trans-Atlantic alliance. Germany would do
something that is in its own interest and would stabilize the trans-Atlantic
alliance at the same time. It would address concerns of the Trump administration
and build good will for the time after Donald Trump. The chances of success for
this strategy are high: Despite all of the skeptical rhetoric about NATO, the
Trump administration has fulfilled America's NATO commitments so far.

Security policy cooperation with the Trump government should be central to
Germany and should also include security guarantees for the central and eastern
European NATO members, support for an independent Ukraine, as well as the
stabilization of the North African coast.

In the conflict over North Korea's nuclear weapons program and the uncertainties
around future Iran policy, a trans-Atlantic schism should be avoided. We should
do whatever possible to convince the Trump administration of joint approaches.

10. Energy security policy -- giving up Nord Stream 2 is in Germany's interest

There is one more policy area in which the German government should reconsider
its position to open the door for productive cooperation: energy security
policy. The United States has identified Nord Stream 2, the planned pipeline
running through the Baltic Sea to Russia, as a geostrategic project. They are
correct. More important: This pipeline project is not in the joint European
interest. Nord Stream 2 contradicts a policy of greater energy independence and
undermines the envisaged European Energy Union. We should try to identify a
joint approach with our European partners and the United States.

11. Climate, energy and digital policy -- manage conflicts responsibly

After having addressed the solvable issues and set aside the unsolvable issues
for now, one will need to turn to those policy areas that require responsible
conflict management. It would be useless to try to convince the U.S.
administration of the importance of the Paris Climate Agreement, but it is
equally wrongheaded to isolate President Trump on international climate and
energy policy. Necessary criticism should not turn into dogmatism.

Instead, Germany should seek concrete steps forward in climate protection
together with the United States. Germany does not need President Trump in order
to engage with partners who are interested in climate policy cooperation. A
number of states (not just California) and large cities are already rapidly
reducing their CO2 emissions. Political, scientific, and technical cooperation
with local partners is possible. There is no shortage of potent allies on
climate policy in the United States, in the private sector as well as in civil
society. Here, the key is to be proactive, to invest money, and to build
networks that will endure and outlast the Trump administration.

Digital policy is another policy area where confrontation is possible -- about
regulatory questions as well as about market shares. It is important to identify
points of contention as soon as possible and to avoid unnecessary escalation.
Sealing off Europe's and the United States' digital markets from each other will
seriously damage the outlook for jobs and growth on both sides of the Atlantic.
European consumer and data protection standards might be able to be maintained
globally if they have U.S. support, but certainly not without it.

12. Final point -- more Europe within the Alliance

Making progress with the Trump administration wherever possible, moderating
conflicts and avoiding escalation, expanding the spectrum of trans-Atlantic
partners beyond the current U.S. administration -- these are all core aims of a
U.S. strategy that can preserve the trans-Atlantic partnership with and if
necessary against this American President, and function beyond his time in
office. The United States has proved its capacity for self-correction
repeatedly. America remains the indispensable power for those countries that
stand for freedom and democracy and strive for an open world order. But Europe
-- and thus Germany -- must do more to support and preserve these values. More
European self-reliance is imperative. It would be an error of historical
proportions to play out ''more Europe'' against the trans-Atlantic alliance. The
new German government's foreign policy will be measured by how clearly it
pursues this course.

Authors:

Deidre Berger, Ramer Institute, American Jewish Committee, Berlin

James D. Bindenagel, Center for International Security and Governance,
University of Bonn

Ralf Fücks, Centre for Liberal Modernity, Berlin

Stefan Heumann, Stiftung Neue Verantwortung, Berlin

Patrick Keller, Konrad Adenauer Stiftung, Berlin

Thomas Kleine-Brockhoff, The German Marshall Fund of the United States, Berlin

Anna Kuchenbecker, Aspen Institute Deutschland, Berlin

Sergey Lagodinsky, Heinrich Böll Stiftung, Berlin

Rüdiger Lentz, Aspen Institute Deutschland, Berlin

Daniela Schwarzer, German Council on Foreign Relations, Berlin

Jan Techau, Richard C. Holbrooke Forum, American Academy, Berlin

Sylke Tempel, German Council on Foreign Relations, ''Internationale Politik''
Magazine, Berlin

The text solely reflects the personal opinions of the authors.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       October 15, 2017 Sunday 00:00 EST

The World Once Laughed at North Korean Cyberpower. No More.

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER, DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK and NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 3655 words



HIGHLIGHT: While the world is fixated on its nuclear missiles, North Korea has
also developed a cyberattack program that is stealing millions and unleashing
havoc.


When North Korean hackers tried to steal $1 billion from the New York Federal
Reserve last year, only a spelling error stopped them. They were digitally
looting an account of the Bangladesh Central Bank, when bankers grew suspicious
about a withdrawal request that had misspelled "foundation" as "fandation."

Even so, Kim Jong-un's minions still got away with $81 million in that heist.

Then only sheer luck enabled a 22-year-old British hacker to defuse the biggest
North Korean cyberattack to date, aransomware attacklast May that failed to
generate much cash but brought down hundreds of thousands of computers across
dozens of countries -- and briefly crippled Britain's National Health Service.

Their track record is mixed, but North Korea's army of more than 6,000 hackers
is undeniably persistent, and undeniably improving, according to American and
British security officials who have traced these attacks and others back to the
North.

Amid all the attention on Pyongyang's progress in developing a nuclear weapon
capable of striking the continental United States, the North Koreans have also
quietly developed a cyberprogram that is stealing hundreds of millions of
dollars and proving capable of unleashing global havoc.

Unlike its weapons tests, which have led to international sanctions, the North's
cyberstrikes have faced almost no pushback or punishment, even as the regime is
already using its hacking capabilities for actual attacks against its
adversaries in the West.

And just as Western analysts once scoffed at the potential of the North's
nuclear program, so did experts dismiss its cyberpotential -- only to now
acknowledge that hacking is an almost perfect weapon for a Pyongyang that is
isolated and has little to lose.

The country's primitive infrastructure is far less vulnerable to
cyberretaliation, and North Korean hackers operate outside the country, anyway.
Sanctions offer no useful response, since a raft of sanctions are already
imposed. And Mr. Kim's advisers are betting that no one will respond to a
cyberattack with a military attack, for fear of a catastrophic escalation
between North and South Korea.

"Cyber is a tailor-made instrument of power for them," said Chris Inglis, a
former deputy director of the National Security Agency, who now teaches about
security at the United States Naval Academy. "There's a low cost of entry, it's
largely asymmetrical, there's some degree of anonymity and stealth in its use.
It can hold large swaths of nation state infrastructure and private-sector
infrastructure at risk. It's a source of income."

Mr. Inglis, speaking at the Cambridge Cyber Summit this month, added: "You could
argue that they have one of the most successful cyberprograms on the planet, not
because it's technically sophisticated, but because it has achieved all of their
aims at very low cost."

It is hardly a one-way conflict: By some measures the United States and North
Korea have been engaged in an active cyberconflict for years.

Both the United States and South Korea have also placed digital "implants" in
the Reconnaissance General Bureau, the North Korean equivalent of the Central
Intelligence Agency, according to documents that Edward J. Snowden released
several years ago. American-created cyber- and electronic warfare weapons were
deployed to disable North Korean missiles, an attack that was, at best, only
partially successful.

Indeed, both sides see cyber as the way to gain tactical advantage in their
nuclear and missile standoff.

A South Korean lawmaker last week revealed that the North had successfully
broken into the South's military networks to steal war plans, including for the
"decapitation" of the North Korean leadership in the opening hours of a new
Korean war.

There is evidence Pyongyang has planted so-called digital sleeper cells in the
South's critical infrastructure, and its Defense Ministry, that could be
activated to paralyze power supplies and military command and control networks.

But the North is not motivated solely by politics: Its most famous cyberattack
came in 2014, against Sony Pictures Entertainment, in a largely successful
effort to block the release of a movie that satirized Mr. Kim.

What has not been disclosed, until now, is that North Korea had also hacked into
a British television network a few weeks earlier to stop it from broadcasting a
drama about a nuclear scientist kidnapped in Pyongyang.

Once North Korea counterfeited crude $100 bills to try to generate hard cash.
Now intelligence officials estimate that North Korea reaps hundreds of millions
of dollars a year from ransomware, digital bank heists, online video game
cracking, and more recently, hacks of South Korean Bitcoin exchanges.

One former British intelligence chief estimates the take from its cyberheists
may bring the North as much as $1 billion a year, or a third of the value of the
nation's exports.

The North Korean cyberthreat "crept up on us," said Robert Hannigan, the former
director of Britain's Government Communications Headquarters, which handles
electronic surveillance and cybersecurity.

"Because they are such a mix of the weird and absurd and medieval and highly
sophisticated, people didn't take it seriously," he said. "How can such an
isolated, backward country have this capability? Well, how can such an isolated
backward country have this nuclear ability?"

From Minor Leaguers to Serious Hackers

Kim Jong-il, the father of the current dictator and the initiator of North
Korea's cyberoperations, was a movie lover who became an internet enthusiast, a
luxury reserved for the country's elite. When Mr. Kim died in 2011, the country
was estimated to have 1,024 IP addresses, fewer than on most New York City
blocks.

Mr. Kim, like the Chinese, initially saw the internet as a threat to his
regime's ironclad control over information. But his attitude began to change in
the early 1990s, after a group of North Korean computer scientists returned from
travel abroad proposing to use the web to spy on and attack enemies like the
United States and South Korea, according to defectors.

North Korea began identifying promising students at an early age for special
training, sending many to China's top computer science programs. In the late
1990s, the Federal Bureau of Investigation's counterintelligence division
noticed that North Koreans assigned to work at the United Nations were also
quietly enrolling in university computer programming courses in New York.

"The F.B.I. called me and said, 'What should we do?' " recalled James A. Lewis,
at the time in charge of cybersecurity at the Commerce Department. "I told them,
'Don't do anything. Follow them and see what they are up to.'"

The North's cyberwarfare unit gained priority after the 2003 invasion of Iraq by
the United States. After watching the American "shock and awe" campaign on CNN,
Kim Jong-il issued a warning to his military: "If warfare was about bullets and
oil until now," he told top commanders, according to a prominent defector, Kim
Heung-kwang, "warfare in the 21st century is about information."

The unit was marked initially by mishaps and bluster.

"There was an enormous growth in capability from 2009 or so, when they were a
joke," said Ben Buchanan, the author of "The Cybersecurity Dilemma" and a fellow
at the Cyber Security Project at Harvard. "They would execute a very basic
attack against a minor web page put up by the White House or an American
intelligence agency, and then their sympathizers would claim they'd hacked the
U.S. government. But since then, their hackers have gotten a lot better."

A National Intelligence Estimate in 2009 wrote off the North's hacking prowess,
much as it underestimated its long-range missile program. It would be years
before it could mount a meaningful threat, it claimed.

But the regime was building that threat.

When Kim Jong-un succeeded his father, in 2011, he expanded the cybermission
beyond serving as just a weapon of war, focusing also on theft, harassment and
political-score settling.

"Cyberwarfare, along with nuclear weapons and missiles, is an 'all-purpose
sword' that guarantees our military's capability to strike relentlessly," Kim
Jong-un reportedly declared, according to the testimony of a South Korean
intelligence chief.

And the array of United Nations sanctions against Pyongyang only incentivized
Mr. Kim's embrace.

"We're already sanctioning anything and everything we can," said Robert P.
Silvers, the former assistant secretary for cyberpolicy at the Department of
Homeland Security during the Obama administration. "They're already the most
isolated nation in the world."

By 2012, government officials and private researchers say North Korea had
dispersed its hacking teams abroad, relying principally on China's internet
infrastructure. This allowed the North to exploit largely nonsecure internet
connections and maintain a degree of plausible deniability.

A recent analysis by the cybersecurity firm Recorded Future found heavy North
Korean internet activity in India, Malaysia, New Zealand, Nepal, Kenya,
Mozambique, and Indonesia. In some cases, like that of New Zealand, North Korean
hackers were simply routing their attacks through the country's computers from
abroad. In others, researchers believe they are now physically stationed in
countries like India, where nearly one-fifth of Pyongyang's cyberattacks now
originate.

Intelligence agencies are now trying to track the North Korean hackers in these
countries the way they have previously tracked terrorist sleeper cells or
nuclear proliferators: looking for their favorite hotels, lurking in online
forums they may inhabit, attempting to feed them bad computer code and
counterattacking their own servers.

Learning From Iran, Growing Bolder

For decades Iran and North Korea have shared missile technology, and American
intelligence agencies have long sought evidence of secret cooperation in the
nuclear arena. In cyber, the Iranians taught the North Koreans something
important: When confronting an enemy that has internet-connected banks, trading
systems, oil and water pipelines, dams, hospitals, and entire cities, the
opportunities to wreak havoc are endless.

By midsummer 2012, Iran's hackers, still recovering from an American and
Israeli-led cyberattack on Iran's nuclear enrichment operations, found an easy
target in Saudi Aramco, Saudi Arabia's state-owned oil company and the world's
most valuable company.

That August, Iranian hackers flipped a kill switch at precisely 11:08 a.m.,
unleashing a simple wiper virus onto 30,000 Aramco computers and 10,000 servers
that would destroy data, and replace it with a partial image of a burning
American flag. The damage was tremendous.

Seven months later, during joint military exercises between American and South
Korean forces, North Korean hackers, operating from computers inside China,
deployed a very similar cyberweapon against computer networks at three major
South Korean banks and South Korea's two largest broadcasters. Like Iran's
Aramco attacks, the North Korean attacks on South Korean targets used wiping
malware to eradicate data and paralyze their business operations.

It may have been a copycat operation, but Mr. Hannigan, the former British
official, said recently: "We have to assume they are getting help from the
Iranians."

And inside the National Security Agency, just a few years after analysts had
written off Pyongyang as a low grade threat, there was suddenly a new
appreciation that the country was figuring out cyber just as it had figured out
nuclear weapons: test by test.

"North Korea showed that to achieve its political objectives, it will take down
any company -- period," Mr. Silvers said.

Protecting Kim's Image

A chief political objective of the cyberprogram is to preserve the image of the
North's 33-year-old leader, Kim Jong-un. In August 2014, North Korean hackers
went after a British broadcaster, Channel Four, which had announced plans for a
television series about a British nuclear scientist kidnapped in Pyongyang.

First, the North Koreans protested to the British government. "A scandalous
farce," North Korea called the series. When that was ignored, British
authorities found that the North had hacked into the television network's
computer system. The attack was stopped before inflicting any damage, and David
Abraham, the chief executive of Channel Four, initially vowed to continue the
production.

That attack, however, was just a prelude. When Sony Pictures Entertainment
released a trailer for "The Interview," a comedy about two journalists
dispatched to Pyongyang to assassinate North Korea's young new dictator,
Pyongyang wrote a letter of complaint to the secretary general of the United
Nations to stop the production. Then came threats to Sony.

Michael Lynton, then Sony's chief executive, said when Sony officials called the
State Department, they were told it was just more "bluster," he said.

"At that point in time, Kim Jong-un was relatively new in the job, and I don't
think it was clear yet how he was different from his father," Mr. Lynton said in
an interview. "Nobody ever mentioned anything about their cyber capabilities."

In September 2014, while still attempting to crack Channel 4, North Korean
hackers buried deep into Sony's networks, lurking patiently for the next three
months, as both Sony and American intelligence completely missed their presence.

The director of national intelligence, James Clapper, was even in Pyongyang at
the time, trying to win the release of a detained American, and had dinner with
the then-chief of the Reconnaissance General Bureau.

On Nov. 24, the attack on Sony began: Employees arriving at work that day found
their computer screens taken over by a picture of a red skeleton with a message
signed "GOP," for "Guardians of Peace."

"We've obtained all your internal data including your secrets and top secrets,"
the message said. "If you don't obey us, we'll release data shown below to the
world."

That was actually a diversion: The code destroyed 70 percent of Sony Pictures'
laptops and computers. Sony employees were reduced to communicating via pen,
paper and phone.

Mr. Lynton said the F.B.I. told him that nothing could have been done to prevent
the attack, since it was waged by a sovereign state. "We learned that you really
have no way of protecting yourself in any meaningful way," he said of such
nation-state attacks.

Sony struggled to distribute the film as theaters were intimidated. (Ultimately
it was distributed for download, and may have done better than it would have.)
In London, outside investors in Channel Four's North Korea project suddenly
dried up, and the project effectively died.

The Obama White House responded to the Sony hack with sanctions that the North
barely noticed, but with no other retaliation. "A cyberbattle would be a lot
more risky for the United States and its allies than for North Korea," said Mr.
Silvers.

Robbing Banks, Pyongyang Style

Beyond respect, and retribution, the North wanted hard currency from its
cyberprogram.

So soon the digital bank heists began -- an attack in the Philippines in October
2015; then the Tien Phong Bank in Vietnam at the end of the same year; and then
the Bangladesh Central Bank. Researchers at Symantec said it was the first time
a state had used a cyberattack not for espionage or war, but to finance the
country's operations.

Now, the attacks are increasingly cunning. Security experts noticed in February
that the website of Poland's financial regulator was unintentionally infecting
visitors with malware.

It turned out that visitors to the Polish regulator's website -- employees from
Polish banks, from the central banks of Brazil, Chile, Estonia, Mexico,
Venezuela, and even from prominent Western banks like Bank of America -- had
been targeted with a so-called watering hole attack, in which North Korean
hackers waited for their victims to visit the site, then installed malware in
their machines. Forensics showed that the hackers had put together a list of
internet addresses from 103 organizations, most of them banks, and designed
their malware to specifically infect visitors from those banks, in what
researchers said appeared to be an effort to move around stolen currency.

More recently, North Koreans seemed to have changed tack once again. North
Korean hackers' fingerprints showed up in a series of attempted attacks on
so-called cryptocurrency exchanges in South Korea, and were successful in at
least one case, according to researchers at FireEye.

The attacks on Bitcoin exchanges, which see hundreds of millions of dollars
worth of Bitcoin exchanged a day, offered Pyongyang a potentially very lucrative
source of new funds. And, researchers say, there is evidence they have been
exchanging Bitcoin gathered from their heists for Monero, a highly anonymous
version of cryptocurrency that is far harder for global authorities to trace.

The most widespread hack was WannaCry, a global ransomware attack that used a
program that cripples a computer and demands a ransom payment in exchange for
unlocking the computer, or its data. In a twist the North Koreans surely
enjoyed, their hackers based the attack on a secret tool, called "Eternal Blue,"
stolen from the National Security Agency.

In the late afternoon of May 12, panicked phone calls flooded in from around
Britain and the world. The computer systems of several major British hospital
systems were shut down, forcing diversions of ambulances and the deferral of
nonemergency surgeries. Banks and transportation systems across dozens of
countries were affected.

Britain's National Cyber Security Center had picked up no warning of the attack,
said Paul Chichester, its director of operations. Investigators now think the
WannaCry attack may have been an early misfire of a weapon that was still under
development -- or a test of tactics and vulnerabilities.

"This was part of an evolving effort to find ways to disable key industries,"
said Brian Lord, a former deputy director for intelligence and cyber operations
at the Government Communications Headquarters in Britain. "All I have to do is
create a moderately disabling attack on a key part of the social infrastructure,
and then watch the media sensationalize it and panic the public."

It ended thanks to Marcus Hutchins, a college dropout and self-taught hacker
living with his parents in the southwest of England. He spotted a web address
somewhere in the software and, on a lark, paid $10.69 to register it as a domain
name. The activation of the domain name turned out to act as a kill switch
causing the malware to stop spreading.

British officials privately acknowledge that they know North Korea perpetrated
the attack, but the government has taken no retaliatory action, uncertain what
they can do.

A Cyber Arms Race

While American and South Korean officials often express outrage about North
Korea's cyberactivities, they rarely talk about their own -- and whether that
helps fuel the cyber arms race.

Yet both Seoul and Washington target the North's Reconnaissance General Bureau,
its nuclear program and its missile program. Hundreds, if not thousands, of
American cyberwarriors spend each day mapping the North's few networks, looking
for vulnerabilities that could be activated in time of crisis.

At a recent meeting of American strategists to evaluate North Korea's
capabilities, some participants expressed concerns that the escalating cyberwar
could actually tempt the North to use its weapons -- both nuclear and cyber --
very quickly in any conflict, for fear that the United States has secret ways to
shut the country down.

The director of the Central Intelligence Agency, Mike Pompeo, said last week
that the United States is trying to compile a better picture of the leadership
around Kim Jong-un, for a report to President Trump. Figuring out who oversees
cyber and special operations is a central mystery. The Japanese press recently
speculated it could be an official named Jang Kil-su. Others are curious about
Gen. No Kwang-chol, who was elevated to the Central Committee of the North's
ruling party in May 2016, and is one of the only members whose portfolio is
undisclosed.

The big question is whether Mr. Kim, fearful that his nuclear program is
becoming too large and obvious a target, is focusing instead on how to shut down
the United States without ever lighting off a missile. "Everyone is focused on
mushroom clouds," Mr. Silvers said, "but there is far more potential for another
kind of disastrous escalation."

Choe Sang-Hun contributed reporting from Seoul.

PHOTOS: A military officer who teaches computer science at the Mangyongdae
Revolutionary School, on the outskirts of Pyongyang, North Korea. Experts say
the country's digital army is growing stronger. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER F.
YUAN/ASSOCIATED PRES); North Korea's most famous breach came in 2014, against
Sony Pictures Entertainment, in a bid to disrupt the release of "The Interview."
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DEAN HOFFMEYER/RICHMOND TIMES-DISPATCH, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS);
Under Kim Jong-un, the North Koreans have quietly developed a hacking program
that is stealing hundreds of millions of dollars. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KOREAN CENTRAL
NEWS AGENCY) (A8); Staff members at the Korea Internet and Security Agency in
Seoul monitored the spread of ransomware cyberattacks in May. More than 6,000
hackers are part of North Korea's digital army. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YONHAP); News
coverage in August, outside Pyongyang, of a North Korean missile test. The
country's digital abilities are overshadowed by its nuclear push. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
KIM WON-JIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A9)

Related Articles


     ·    U.S. Weighs Response to Sony Cyberattack, With North Korea
          Confrontation Possible
     ·    North Korea Renews Guam Threat Ahead of Joint Naval Exercise
     ·    Kim's Rejoinder to Trump's Rocket Man: 'Mentally Deranged U.S. Dotard'
     ·    Full Text of Kim Jong-un's Response to President Trump
     ·    N.S.A. Breached North Korean Networks Before Sony Attack, Officials
          Say


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       October 16, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

As U.S. Confronts Internet's Disruptions, China Feels Vindicated

BYLINE: STEVEN LEE MYERS and SUI-LEE WEE

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1514 words



HIGHLIGHT: It censors online expression, but it has also taken a hard line
against fake news, hacking and deception.


HULUNBUIR, China -- In the United States, some of the world's most powerful
technology companies face rising pressure to do more to fight false information
and stop foreign infiltration.

China, however, has watchdogs like Zhao Jinxu.

From his small town on the windswept grasslands of the Inner Mongolia region of
China, Mr. Zhao, 27, scours the internet for fake news, pornography and calls to
violence. He is one of a battalion of online "supervisors" whom Weibo, one of
China's biggest social media platforms, announced last month it would hire to
help enforce China's stringent limits on online content.

For years, the United States and others saw this sort of heavy-handed censorship
as a sign of political vulnerability and a barrier to China's economic
development. But as countries in the West discuss potential internet
restrictions and wring their hands over fake news, hacking and foreign meddling,
some in China see a powerful affirmation of the country's vision for the
internet.

"This kind of thing would not happen here," Mr. Zhao said of the controversy
over Russia's influence in the American presidential election last year.

Besides Communist Party loyalists, few would argue that China's internet control
serves as a model for democratic societies. China squelches online dissent and
imprisons many of those who practice it. It blocks foreign news and information,
including the website of The New York Times, and promotes homegrown technology
companies while banning global services like Facebook and Twitter.

At the same time, China anticipated many of the questions now flummoxing
governments from the United States to Germany to Indonesia. Where the Russians
have turned the internet into a political weapon, China has used it as a shield.

In fact, when it comes to technology, China has prospered. It has a booming
technology culture. Its internet companies rival Facebook and Amazon in heft. To
other countries, China may offer an enticing top-down model that suggests that
technology can thrive even under the government's thumb.

"It doesn't matter how efficient the internet is," said Zhu Wei, deputy director
of the Communications Law Research Center at the China University of Political
Science and Law, which advises the government on internet laws. "It won't work
without security."

China is not resting on its laurels.

In the weeks leading up to the major party congress that opens in Beijing on
Wednesday, the country's internet regulator, the Cyberspace Administration of
China, has issued a raft of new regulations.

One, which took effect last week, holds the creators of online forums or group
chats responsible for their users' comments.

Another bans anonymous users, a blow at the bots and deceptive accounts -- like
those on Facebook and Twitter -- that distributed false stories aimed at
American voters.

"If our party cannot traverse the hurdle presented by the internet, it cannot
traverse the hurdle of remaining in power," a department of the cyberspace
administration wrote in a top party journal last month.

The article was in keeping with President Xi Jinping's early recognition of the
power of the internet. Mr. Xi created and empowered the cyberspace
administration, which has subsumed many of the overlapping agencies that once
governed content in cyberspace.

The administration is now seen as an institution as important as the defense
ministry. Since last year, it has been led by Xu Lin, 54, a party technocrat and
former propaganda official, who, like other influential officials who previously
worked beside Mr. Xi in Shanghai, has soared through the ranks.

Samm Sacks, a senior fellow with the Center for Strategic and International
Studies, said the cyberspace administration was a core part of Mr. Xi's vow to
make China a cyber superpower, on par with the United States.

"There's a recognition that technology has advanced more quickly than the
government's ability to control it," Ms. Sacks said. Russia's interference with
Facebook, to cite only one example, was "justification for exactly what they are
doing here."

China's homegrown internet companies are key to its top-down approach. Tech
firms are expected to keep content on file for 60 days and report to the police
any forbidden content. The government is acquiring small equity stakes in some
tech companies in exchange for board seats, giving it a direct role in the
governance of new internet titans.

The tech firms also face tight penalties if they fail to keep users in line. In
September, the cybersecurity administration imposed fines on social media
platforms owned wholly or in part by three of China's biggest internet companies
-- Tencent Holdings, the Alibaba Group and Baidu -- for failing to stop the
circulation of fabricated rumors, violence and pornography. (Companies can be
fined up to $76,000 per offense, and have their business licenses canceled, if
they cannot prevent the transmission of banned content.)

Human rights observers worry that the crackdown may have a chilling effect on
political speech that is already tightly curbed. Last month, for example, the
police raided the home of a university professor, Liu Pengfei, who had hosted a
current-affairs forum on Tencent's WeChat software, one of the world's most
popular messaging apps.

In exchange for accepting tight controls, China internet companies have been
allowed to grow while their foreign rivals were shut out of the country. They
can now claim their own technology successes. Tencent's WeChat has transformed
social life in China: People use it to chat, pay bills, transfer money, book
cabs and hook up romantically.

China is now embarking on an ambitious project to dominate fields like
artificial intelligence, and some say China could be at an advantage. It has
more than 700 million internet users, and it doesn't have a robust legal
framework to deal with data privacy intrusions. That makes it easier for
companies to harness user data -- which is core to developing A.I. technology.

Still, China's advantage could be double-edged. Chinese internet companies have
struggled to expand abroad, which experts say stems in part from their
dependence on their government.

"To a large extent, the competitive advantage is the political relationship they
have with the government there and that's not something you can carry across
borders," said Lokman Tsui, an assistant professor at the Chinese University of
Hong Kong.

Moreover, not all of the new restrictions have been welcomed here. Some of the
companies -- and internet users -- balked at tightened enforcement of rules
requiring users of social media platforms to provide their real identities to
the companies (although they may still use online pseudonyms). Weibo's
announcement that it was seeking 1,000 recruits to become supervisors to report
illegal content online -- the definitions of which can be expansive -- was met
by derision on its own site.

"Online and offline, Big Brother is watching," wrote one user, who used the
handle mingxinjianxing.

But when it comes to the controversy over Russia's intervention, there has been
little discussion here. Among the few who are discussing it on Weibo, some
expressed shock that the United States does not censor information shared on
social media platforms.

Mr. Zhao, the young volunteer on Weibo, is typical of those here who believe
government control is justified.

In a restaurant called Europa, Mr. Zhao -- who declined to disclose details of
where and how he works -- described China's system not as "Big Brother" so much
as a younger brother, which he is, protecting children, like those of his
sister, from harmful material.

"Even though the internet is virtual, it is still part of society," he added.
"So in any space I feel no one should create pornographic, illegal or violent
posts."

In his new capacity, he scours Weibo in search of the lurid and illicit. Some
posts, he explained, are thinly veiled solicitations for pornography or
prostitution, including one message he reported to the police the other day for
using what he said was a euphemism for selling sex.

When he reports abuse, it is the police who follow up. He excitedly displayed
his smartphone to show the latest of his more than 3,000 followers on Weibo: the
division of the Beijing police that monitors the internet.

"Normally, if you don't do bad things, you don't get followed by the police," he
said. "I think this -- for someone who has been online for so many years -- is
really special."

Follow Steven Lee Myers @stevenleemyers and Sui-Lee Wee @suilee on
Twitter.Steven Lee Myers reported from Hulunbuir and Beijing, and Sui-Lee Wee
from Beijing. Olivia Mitchell Ryan, Cao Li and Zhang Tiantian contributed
research from Beijing.

PHOTO: A display showing recent cyberattacks in China at a security conference
in Beijing last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK SCHIEFELBEIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A8)

Related Articles


     ·    68 Things You Cannot Say on China's Internet
     ·    Facebook Faces a New World as Officials Rein In a Wild Web
     ·    China's Internet Censors Play a Tougher Game of Cat and Mouse
     ·    China Seeks Small Stakes in, and More Sway Over, Online Firms


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 16, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

North Korea Deploys Corps Of Hackers Bent on Chaos

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK and NICOLE PERLROTH; Choe
Sang-Hun contributed reporting from Seoul.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3451 words


When North Korean hackers tried to steal $1 billion from the New York Federal
Reserve last year, only a spelling error stopped them. They were digitally
looting an account of the Bangladesh Central Bank, when bankers grew suspicious
about a withdrawal request that had misspelled ''foundation'' as ''fandation.''

Even so, Kim Jong-un's minions still got away with $81 million in that heist.

Then only sheer luck enabled a 22-year-old British hacker to defuse the biggest
North Korean cyberattack to date, a ransomware attack last May that failed to
generate much cash but brought down hundreds of thousands of computers across
dozens of countries -- and briefly crippled Britain's National Health Service.

Their track record is mixed, but North Korea's army of more than 6,000 hackers
is undeniably persistent, and undeniably improving, according to American and
British security officials who have traced these attacks and others back to the
North.

Amid all the attention on Pyongyang's progress in developing a nuclear weapon
capable of striking the continental United States, the North Koreans have also
quietly developed a cyberprogram that is  stealing hundreds of millions of
dollars and proving capable of unleashing global havoc.

Unlike its weapons tests, which have led to international sanctions, the North's
cyberstrikes have faced almost no pushback or punishment, even as the regime is
already using its hacking capabilities for actual attacks against its
adversaries in the West.

And just as Western analysts once scoffed at the potential of the North's
nuclear program, so did experts dismiss its cyberpotential -- only to now
acknowledge that hacking is an almost perfect weapon for a Pyongyang that is
isolated and has little to lose.

The country's primitive infrastructure is far less vulnerable to
cyberretaliation, and North Korean hackers operate outside the country, anyway.
Sanctions offer no useful response, since a raft of sanctions are already
imposed. And Mr. Kim's advisers are betting that no one will respond to a
cyberattack with a military attack, for fear of a catastrophic escalation
between North and South Korea.

''Cyber is a tailor-made instrument of power for them,'' said Chris Inglis, a
former deputy director of the National Security Agency, who now directs
cyberstudies at the United States Naval Academy. ''There's a low cost of entry,
it's largely asymmetrical, there's some degree of anonymity and stealth in its
use. It can hold large swaths of nation state infrastructure and private-sector
infrastructure at risk. It's a source of income.''

Mr. Inglis, speaking at the Cambridge Cyber Summit this month, added: ''You
could argue that they have one of the most successful cyberprograms on the
planet, not because it's technically sophisticated, but because it has achieved
all of their aims at very low cost.''

It is hardly a one-way conflict: By some measures the United States and North
Korea have been engaged in an active cyberconflict for years.

Both the United States and South Korea have also placed digital ''implants'' in
the Reconnaissance General Bureau, the North Korean equivalent of the Central
Intelligence Agency, according to documents that Edward J. Snowden released
several years ago. American-created cyber- and electronic warfare weapons were
deployed to disable North Korean missiles, an attack that was, at best, only
partially successful.

Indeed, both sides see cyber as the way to gain tactical advantage in their
nuclear and missile standoff.

A South Korean lawmaker last week revealed that the North had successfully
broken into the South's military networks to steal war plans, including for the
''decapitation'' of the North Korean leadership in the opening hours of a new
Korean war.

There is evidence Pyongyang has planted so-called digital sleeper cells in the
South's critical infrastructure, and its Defense Ministry, that could be
activated to paralyze power supplies and military command and control networks.

But the North is not motivated solely by politics: Its most famous cyberattack
came in 2014, against Sony Pictures Entertainment, in a largely successful
effort to block the release of a movie that satirized Mr. Kim.

What has not been disclosed, until now, is that North Korea had also hacked into
a British television network a few weeks earlier to stop it from broadcasting a
drama about a nuclear scientist kidnapped in Pyongyang.

Once North Korea counterfeited crude $100 bills to try to generate hard cash.
Now intelligence officials estimate that North Korea reaps hundreds of millions
a dollars a year from ransomware, digital bank heists, online video game
cracking, and more recently, hacks of South Korean Bitcoin exchanges.

One former British intelligence chief estimates the take from its cyberheists
may bring the North as much as $1 billion a year, or a third of the value of the
nation's exports.

The North Korean cyberthreat ''crept up on us,'' said Robert Hannigan, the
former director of Britain's Government Communications Headquarters, which
handles electronic surveillance and cybersecurity.

''Because they are such a mix of the weird and absurd and medieval and highly
sophisticated, people didn't take it seriously,'' he said. ''How can such an
isolated, backward country have this capability? Well, how can such an isolated
backward country have this nuclear ability?''

From Minor Leaguers to Serious Hackers

Kim Jong-il, the father of the current dictator and the initiator of North
Korea's cyberoperations, was a movie lover who became an internet enthusiast, a
luxury reserved for the country's elite. When Mr. Kim died in 2011, the country
was estimated to have 1,024 IP addresses, fewer than on most New York City
blocks.

Mr. Kim, like the Chinese, initially saw the internet as a threat to his
regime's ironclad control over information. But his attitude began to change in
the early 1990s, after a group of North Korean computer scientists returned from
travel abroad proposing to use the web to spy on and attack enemies like the
United States and South Korea, according to defectors.

North Korea began identifying promising students at an early age for special
training, sending many to China's top computer science programs. In the late
1990s, the Federal Bureau of Investigation's counterintelligence division
noticed that North Koreans assigned to work at the United Nations were also
quietly enrolling in university computer programming courses in New York.

''The F.B.I. called me and said, 'What should we do?' '' recalled James A.
Lewis, at the time in charge of cybersecurity at the Commerce Department. ''I
told them, 'Don't do anything. Follow them and see what they are up to.'''

The North's cyberwarfare unit gained priority after the 2003 invasion of Iraq by
the United States. After watching the American ''shock and awe'' campaign on
CNN, Kim Jong-il issued a warning to his military: ''If warfare was about
bullets and oil until now,'' he told top commanders, according to a prominent
defector, Kim Heung-kwang, ''warfare in the 21st century is about information.''

The unit was marked initially by mishaps and bluster.

''There was an enormous growth in capability from 2009 or so, when they were a
joke,'' said Ben Buchanan, the author of ''The Cybersecurity Dilemma'' and a
fellow at the Cyber Security Project at Harvard. ''They would execute a very
basic attack against a minor web page put up by the White House or an American
intelligence agency, and then their sympathizers would claim they'd hacked the
U.S. government. But since then, their hackers have gotten a lot better.''

A National Intelligence Estimate in 2009 wrote off the North's hacking prowess,
much as it underestimated its long-range missile program. It would be years
before it could mount a meaningful threat, it claimed.

But the regime was building that threat.

When Kim Jong-un succeeded his father, in 2011, he expanded the cybermission
beyond serving as just a weapon of war, focusing also on theft, harassment and
political-score settling.

''Cyberwarfare, along with nuclear weapons and missiles, is an 'all-purpose
sword' that guarantees our military's capability to strike relentlessly,'' Kim
Jong-un reportedly declared, according to the testimony of a South Korean
intelligence chief.

And the array of United Nations sanctions against Pyongyang only incentivized
Mr. Kim's embrace.

''We're already sanctioning anything and everything we can,'' said Robert P.
Silvers, the former assistant secretary for cyberpolicy at the Department of
Homeland Security during the Obama administration. ''They're already the most
isolated nation in the world.''

By 2012, government officials and private researchers say North Korea had
dispersed its hacking teams abroad, relying principally on China's internet
infrastructure. This allowed the North to exploit largely nonsecure internet
connections and maintain a degree of plausible deniability.

A recent analysis by the cybersecurity firm Recorded Future found heavy North
Korean internet activity in India, Malaysia, New Zealand, Nepal, Kenya,
Mozambique, and Indonesia. In some cases, like that of New Zealand, North Korean
hackers were simply routing their attacks through the country's computers from
abroad. In others, researchers believe they are now physically stationed in
countries like India, where nearly one-fifth of Pyongyang's cyberattacks now
originate.

Intelligence agencies are now trying to track the North Korean hackers in these
countries the way they have previously tracked terrorist sleeper cells or
nuclear proliferators: looking for their favorite hotels, lurking in online
forums they may inhabit, attempting to feed them bad computer code and
counterattacking their own servers.

Learning From Iran, Growing Bolder

For decades Iran and North Korea have shared missile technology, and American
intelligence agencies have long sought evidence of secret cooperation in the
nuclear arena. In cyber, the Iranians taught the North Koreans something
important: When confronting an enemy that has internet-connected banks, trading
systems, oil and water pipelines, dams, hospitals, and entire cities, the
opportunities to wreak havoc are endless.

By midsummer 2012, Iran's hackers, still recovering from an American and
Israeli-led cyberattack on Iran's nuclear enrichment operations, found an easy
target in Saudi Aramco, Saudi Arabia's state-owned oil company and the world's
most valuable company.

That August, Iranian hackers flipped a kill switch at precisely 11:08 a.m.,
unleashing a simple wiper virus onto 30,000 Aramco computers and 10,000 servers
that would destroy data, and replace it with a partial image of a burning
American flag. The damage was tremendous.

Seven months later, during joint military exercises between American and South
Korean forces, North Korean hackers, operating from computers inside China,
deployed a very similar cyberweapon against computer networks at three major
South Korean banks and South Korea's two largest broadcasters. Like Iran's
Aramco attacks, the North Korean attacks on South Korean targets used wiping
malware to eradicate data and paralyze their business operations.

It may have been a copycat operation, but Mr. Hannigan, the former British
official, said recently: ''We have to assume they are getting help from the
Iranians.''

And inside the National Security Agency, just a few years after analysts had
written off Pyongyang as a low grade threat, there was suddenly a new
appreciation that the country was figuring out cyber just as it had figured out
nuclear weapons: test by test.

''North Korea showed that to achieve its political objectives, it will take down
any company -- period,'' Mr. Silvers said.

Protecting Kim's Image

A chief political objective of the cyberprogram is to preserve the image of the
North's 33-year-old leader, Kim Jong-un. In August 2014, North Korean hackers
went after a British broadcaster, Channel Four, which had announced plans for a
television series about a British nuclear scientist kidnapped in Pyongyang.

First, the North Koreans protested to the British government. ''A scandalous
farce,'' North Korea called the series. When that was ignored, British
authorities found that the North had hacked into the television network's
computer system. The attack was stopped before inflicting any damage, and David
Abraham, the chief executive of Channel Four, initially vowed to continue the
production.

That attack, however, was just a prelude. When Sony Pictures Entertainment
released a trailer for ''The Interview,'' a comedy about two journalists
dispatched to Pyongyang to assassinate North Korea's young new dictator,
Pyongyang wrote a letter of complaint to the secretary general of the United
Nations to stop the production. Then came threats to Sony.

Michael Lynton, then Sony's chief executive, said when Sony officials called the
State Department, they were told it was just more ''bluster,'' he said.

''At that point in time, Kim Jong-un was relatively new in the job, and I don't
think it was clear yet how he was different from his father,'' Mr. Lynton said
in an interview. ''Nobody ever mentioned anything about their cyber
capabilities.''

In September 2014, while still attempting to crack Channel 4, North Korean
hackers buried deep into Sony's networks, lurking patiently for the next three
months, as both Sony and American intelligence completely missed their presence.

The director of national intelligence, James Clapper, was even in Pyongyang at
the time, trying to win the release of a detained American, and had dinner with
the then-chief of the Reconnaissance General Bureau.

On Nov. 24, the attack on Sony began: Employees arriving at work that day found
their computer screens take over by picture of a red skeleton with a message
signed ''GOP,'' for ''Guardians of Peace.''

''We've obtained all your internal data including your secrets and top
secrets,'' the message said. ''If you don't obey us, we'll release data shown
below to the world.''

That was actually a diversion: The code destroyed 70 percent of Sony Pictures'
laptops and computers. Sony employees were reduced to communicating via pen,
paper and phone.

Mr. Lynton said the F.B.I. told him that nothing could have been done to prevent
the attack, since it was waged by a sovereign state. ''We learned that you
really have no way of protecting yourself in any meaningful way,'' he said of
such nation-state attacks.

Sony struggled to distribute the film as theaters were intimidated. (Ultimately
it was distributed for download, and may have done better than it would have.)
In London, outside investors in Channel Four's North Korea project suddenly
dried up, and the project effectively died.

The Obama White House responded to the Sony hack with sanctions that the North
barely noticed, but with no other retaliation. ''A cyberbattle would be a lot
more risky for the United States and its allies than for North Korea,'' said Mr.
Silvers.

Robbing Banks, Pyongyang Style

Beyond respect, and retribution, the North wanted hard currency from its
cyberprogram.

So soon the digital bank heists began -- an attack in the Philippines in October
2015; then the Tien Phong Bank in Vietnam at the end of the same year; and then
the Bangladesh Central Bank. Researchers at Symantec said it was the first time
a state had used a cyberattack not for espionage or war, but to finance the
country's operations.

Now, the attacks are increasingly cunning. Security experts noticed in February
that the website of Poland's financial regulator was unintentionally infecting
visitors with malware.

It turned out that visitors to the Polish regulator's website -- employees from
Polish banks, from the central banks of Brazil, Chile, Estonia, Mexico,
Venezuela, and even from prominent Western banks like Bank of America -- had
been targeted with a so-called watering hole attack, in which North Korean
hackers waited for their victims to visit the site, then installed malware in
their machines. Forensics showed that the hackers had put together a list of
internet addresses from 103 organizations, most of them banks, and designed
their malware to specifically infect visitors from those banks, in what
researchers said appeared to be an effort to move around stolen currency.

More recently, North Koreans seemed to have changed tack once again. North
Korean hackers' fingerprints showed up in a series of attempted attacks on
so-called cryptocurrency exchanges in South Korea, and were successful in at
least one case, according to researchers at FireEye.

The attacks on Bitcoin exchanges, which see hundreds of millions of dollars
worth of Bitcoin exchanged a day, offered Pyongyang a potentially very lucrative
source of new funds. And, researchers say, there is evidence they have been
exchanging Bitcoin gathered from their heists for Monero, a highly anonymous
version of cryptocurrency that is far harder for global authorities to trace.

The most widespread hack was WannaCry, a global ransomware attack that used a
program that cripples a computer and demands a ransom payment in exchange for
unlocking the computer, or its data. In a twist the North Koreans surely
enjoyed, their hackers based the attack on a secret tool, called ''Eternal
Blue,'' stolen from the National Security Agency.

In the late afternoon of May 12, panicked phone calls flooded in from around
Britain and the world. The computer systems of several major British hospital
systems were shut down, forcing diversions of ambulances and the deferral of
nonemergency surgeries. Banks and transportation systems across dozens of
countries were affected.

Britain's National Cyber Security Center had picked up no warning of the attack,
said Paul Chichester, its director of operations. Investigators now think the
WannaCry attack may have been an early misfire of a weapon that was still under
development -- or a test of tactics and vulnerabilities.

''This was part of an evolving effort to find ways to disable key industries,''
said Brian Lord, a former deputy director for intelligence and cyber operations
at the Government Communications Headquarters in Britain. ''All I have to do is
create a moderately disabling attack on a key part of the social infrastructure,
and then watch the media sensationalize it and panic the public.''

It ended thanks to Marcus Hutchins, a college dropout and self-taught hacker
living with his parents in the southwest of England. He spotted a web address
somewhere in the software and, on a lark, paid $10.69 to register it as a domain
name. The activation of the domain name turned out to act as a kill switch
causing the malware to stop spreading.

British officials privately acknowledge that they know North Korea perpetrated
the attack, but the government has taken no retaliatory action, uncertain what
they can do.

A Cyber Arms Race

While American and South Korean officials often express outrage about North
Korea's cyberactivities, they rarely talk about their own -- and whether that
helps fuel the cyber arms race.

Yet both Seoul and Washington target the North's Reconnaissance General Bureau,
its nuclear program and its missile program. Hundreds, if not thousands, of
American cyberwarriors spend each day mapping the North's few networks, looking
for vulnerabilities that could be activated in time of crisis.

At a recent meeting of American strategists to evaluate North Korea's
capabilities, some participants expressed concerns that the escalating cyberwar
could actually tempt the North to use its weapons -- both nuclear and cyber --
very quickly in any conflict, for fear that the United States has secret ways to
shut the country down.

The director of the Central Intelligence Agency, Mike Pompeo, said last week
that the United States is trying to compile a better picture of the leadership
around Kim Jong-un, for a report to President Trump. Figuring out who oversees
cyber and special operations is a central mystery. The Japanese press recently
speculated it could be an official named Jang Kil-su. Others are curious about
Gen. No Kwang-chol, who was elevated to the Central Committee of the North's
ruling party in May 2016, and is one of the only members whose portfolio is
undisclosed.

The big question is whether Mr. Kim, fearful that his nuclear program is
becoming too large and obvious a target, is focusing instead on how to shut down
the United States without ever lighting off a missile. ''Everyone is focused on
mushroom clouds,'' Mr. Silvers said, ''but there is far more potential for
another kind of disastrous escalation.''




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/15/world/asia/north-korea-hacking-cyber
-sony.html

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A military officer who teaches computer science at the
Mangyongdae Revolutionary School, on the outskirts of Pyongyang, North Korea.
Experts say the country's digital army is growing stronger. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ALEXANDER F. YUAN/ASSOCIATED PRES)
North Korea's most famous breach came in 2014, against Sony Pictures
Entertainment, in a bid to disrupt the release of ''The Interview.'' (PHOTOGRAPH
BY DEAN HOFFMEYER/RICHMOND TIMES-DISPATCH, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Under Kim Jong-un, the North Koreans have quietly developed a hacking program
that is stealing hundreds of millions of dollars. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KOREAN CENTRAL
NEWS AGENCY) (A8)
Staff members at the Korea Internet and Security Agency in Seoul monitored the
spread of ransomware cyberattacks in May. More than 6,000 hackers are part of
North Korea's digital army. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YONHAP)
 News coverage in August, outside Pyongyang, of a North Korean missile test. The
country's digital abilities are overshadowed by its nuclear push. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
KIM WON-JIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 17, 2017 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Struggles Hearten China On Web Tactics

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and SUI-LEE WEE; Steven Lee Myers reported from
Hulunbuir and Beijing, and Sui-Lee Wee from Beijing. Olivia Mitchell Ryan, Cao
Li and Zhang Tiantian contributed research from Beijing..

Follow Steven Lee Myers @stevenleemyers and Sui-Lee Wee @suilee on Twitter.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1426 words


HULUNBUIR, China -- In the United States, some of the world's most powerful
technology companies face rising pressure to do more to fight false information
and stop foreign infiltration.

China, however, has watchdogs like Zhao Jinxu.

From his small town on the windswept grasslands of the Inner Mongolia region of
China, Mr. Zhao, 27, scours the internet for calls to violence, fake news and
pornography. He is one of a battalion of online ''supervisors'' whom Weibo, one
of China's biggest social media platforms, announced last month it would hire to
help enforce China's stringent limits on online content.

For years, the United States and others saw this sort of heavy-handed censorship
as a sign of political vulnerability and a barrier to China's economic
development. But as countries in the West discuss potential internet
restrictions and wring their hands over fake news, hacking and foreign meddling,
some in China see a powerful affirmation of the country's vision for the
internet.

''This kind of thing would not happen here,'' Mr. Zhao said of the controversy
over Russia's influence in the American presidential election last year.

Besides Communist Party loyalists, few would argue that China's internet control
serves as a model for democratic societies. China squelches online dissent and
imprisons many of those who practice it. It blocks foreign news and information,
including the website of The New York Times, and promotes homegrown technology
companies while banning global services like Facebook and Twitter.

At the same time, China anticipated many of the questions now flummoxing
governments from the United States to Germany to Indonesia. Where the Russians
have turned the internet into a political weapon, China has used it as a shield.

In fact, when it comes to technology, China has prospered. It has a booming
technology culture. Its internet companies  rival Facebook and Amazon in heft.
To other countries, China may offer an enticing top-down model that suggests
that technology can thrive even under the government's thumb.

''It doesn't matter how efficient the internet is,'' said Zhu Wei, deputy
director of the Communications Law Research Center at the China University of
Political Science and Law, which advises the government on internet laws. ''It
won't work without security.''

China is not resting on its laurels.

In the weeks leading up to the major party congress that opens in Beijing on
Wednesday, the country's internet regulator, the Cyberspace Administration of
China, has issued a raft of new regulations.

One, which took effect last week, holds the creators of online forums or group
chats responsible for their users' comments.

Another bans anonymous users, a blow at the bots and deceptive accounts -- like
those on Facebook and Twitter -- that distributed false stories aimed at
American voters.

''If our party cannot traverse the hurdle presented by the internet, it cannot
traverse the hurdle of remaining in power,'' a department of the cyberspace
administration wrote in a top party journal last month.

The article was in keeping with President Xi Jinping's early recognition of the
power of the internet. Mr. Xi created and empowered the cyberspace
administration, which has subsumed many of the overlapping agencies that once
governed content in cyberspace.

The administration is now seen as an institution as important as the defense
ministry. Since last year, it has been led by Xu Lin, 54, a party technocrat and
former propaganda official, who, like other influential officials who previously
worked beside Mr. Xi in Shanghai, has soared through the ranks.

Samm Sacks, a senior fellow with the Center for Strategic and International
Studies, said the cyberspace administration was a core part of Mr. Xi's vow to
make China a cyber superpower, on par with the United States.

''There's a recognition that technology has advanced more quickly than the
government's ability to control it,'' Ms. Sacks said. Russia's interference with
Facebook, to cite only one example, was ''justification for exactly what they
are doing here.''

China's homegrown internet companies are key to its top-down approach. Tech
firms are expected to keep content on file for 60 days and report to the police
any forbidden content. The government is acquiring small equity stakes in some
tech companies in exchange for board seats, giving it a direct role in the
governance of new internet titans.

The tech firms also face tight penalties if they fail to keep users in line. In
September, the cybersecurity administration imposed fines on social media
platforms owned wholly or in part by three of China's biggest internet companies
-- Tencent Holdings, the Alibaba Group and Baidu -- for failing to stop the
circulation of fabricated rumors, violence and pornography. (Companies can be
fined up to $76,000 per offense, and have their business licenses canceled, if
they cannot prevent the transmission of banned content.)

Human rights observers worry that the crackdown may have a chilling effect on
political speech that is already tightly curbed. Last month, for example, the
police raided the home of a university professor, Liu Pengfei, who had hosted a
current-affairs forum on Tencent's WeChat software, one of the world's most
popular messaging apps.

In exchange for accepting tight controls, China internet companies have been
allowed to grow while their foreign rivals were shut out of the country. They
can now claim their own technology successes. Tencent's WeChat has transformed
social life in China: People use it to chat, pay bills, transfer money, book a
cab and hook up romantically.

China is now embarking on an ambitious project to dominate fields like
artificial intelligence, and some say China could be at an advantage. It has
more than 700 million internet users, and it doesn't have a robust legal
framework to deal with data privacy intrusions. That makes it easier for
companies to harness user data -- which is core to developing A.I. technology.

Still, China's advantage could be double-edged. Chinese internet companies have
struggled to expand abroad, which experts say stems in part from their
dependence on their government.

''To a large extent, the competitive advantage is the political relationship
they have with the government there and that's not something you can carry
across borders,'' said Lokman Tsui, an assistant professor at the Chinese
University of Hong Kong.

Moreover, not all of the new restrictions have been welcomed here. Some of the
companies -- and internet users -- balked at tightened enforcement of rules
requiring users of social media platforms to provide their real identities to
the companies (although they may still use online pseudonyms). Weibo's
announcement that it was seeking 1,000 recruits to become supervisors to report
illegal content online -- the definitions of which can be expansive -- was met
by derision on its own site.

''Online and offline, Big Brother is watching,'' wrote one user, who used the
handle mingxinjianxing.

But when it comes to the controversy over Russia's intervention, there has been
little discussion here. Among the few who are discussing it on Weibo, some
expressed shock that the United States does not censor information shared on
social media platforms.

Mr. Zhao, the young volunteer on Weibo, is typical of those here who believe
government control is justified.

In a restaurant called Europa, Mr. Zhao -- who declined to disclose details of
where and how he works -- described China's system not as ''Big Brother'' so
much as a younger brother, which he is, protecting children, like those of his
sister, from harmful material.

''Even though the internet is virtual, it is still part of society,'' he added.
''So in any space I feel no one should create pornographic, illegal or violent
posts.''

In his new capacity, he scours Weibo in search of the lurid and illicit. Some
posts, he explained, are thinly veiled solicitations for pornography or
prostitution, including one message he reported to the police the other day for
using what he said was a euphemism for selling sex.

When he reports abuse, it is the police that follow up. He excitedly displayed
his smartphone to show the latest of his more than 3,000 followers on Weibo: the
division of the Beijing police that monitors the internet.

''Normally, if you don't do bad things, you don't get followed by the police,''
he said. ''I think this -- for someone who has been online for so many years --
is really special.''




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/16/world/asia/china-internet-cyber
-control.html

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A display showing recent cyberattacks in China at a security
conference in Beijing last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK SCHIEFELBEIN/ASSOCIATED
PRESS) (A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       October 20, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Farhad and Mike's Week in Tech: Regulation Is Looming;
Bits

BYLINE: FARHAD MANJOO and MIKE ISAAC

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 921 words



HIGHLIGHT: In this week's tech newsletter, the tech giants battle Washington's
regulatory fervor. Also, Lyft gets a lot of money, and Google may remake
Toronto.


Each Friday, Farhad Manjoo and Mike Isaac, technology reporters at The New York
Times, review the week's news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about
the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in
your inbox? Sign up here.

Mike: Hello, Farhad! How was your week? Right now, I'm still mulling my second
viewing of "Blade Runner 2049," which offers a dim view of the future provided
by the best of what technology has to offer.

Just imagine: One day, I might be doing this newsletter with a cyber-Farhad
instead of the real thing. Hmm, maybe that means the future is actually good?

Farhad: There's no way a cyber-Farhad could be as handsome and charismatic as
the real thing. Artificial intelligence will never be that good.

Mike: Um, OK. Let's move to tech news!

Tech Remaking Cities

Mike: The week actually started off with a very "Blade Runner"-esque bit of tech
news, now that I think about it. Sidewalk Labs, a start-up spun out of Google's
parent company, Alphabet, announced a smart-city initiative in Toronto, in
cooperation with the local government. The premise is essentially something like
using one city to test all sorts of futuristic ways of interacting with the
world, from self-driving cars to modular buildings that convert from retail to
housing to carbon-neutral thermal energy grids -- oh, my!

I guess that's cool, but also sort of freaks me out? I do wonder if Torontans --
Torontonians? Toronti? -- are O.K. with the whole thing.

Farhad: No surprise, I'm going to disagree with you. We worry about techies for
the way they stick in their West Coast bubbles and send their software out into
the world, often not pausing to think of its real-world effect.

From what I can tell, Sidewalk is doing just the opposite here. Alphabet is
interested in a lot of tech that will change the physical world around us, from
self-driving cars to robots. This is a way to see how all that stuff will play
out in the real world and, even better, to get city officials involved in the
planning. That's better than moving fast and breaking things.

Mike: Mmm, yes. Well, I'd still like to know where they stand on creating a
cybernetic version of you.

Lyft Hauls In Funding

Mike: Moving on, Thursday morning we saw CapitalG, an investment arm of
Alphabet, lead a $1 billion venture round into Lyft, the ride-hailing start-up.

The move ratchets up the stakes in the cutthroat world of ride hailing. Uber is
working on its own $1 billion deal -- this one with SoftBank -- while automakers
and other start-ups look on warily at the state of play.

Isn't it funny that just one year ago Lyft was all but dead in the court of
public opinion? Now they've got this encouraging second wind, after Uber spent
the entire past year in complete disarray.

Farhad: Right -- and I really think they've got a chance. The big problem for
Uber in North America is that Lyft is functionally the same. I've been using it
as my go-to ride app for several months now, and in most cases I couldn't find a
significant difference from Uber. Prices, wait times, car quality -- they're all
pretty much the same.

This is unusual in tech. Usually bigger companies have advantages that lead to
better products. Amazon, for instance, has greater selection and faster shipping
times than any other online retailer, while Facebook has all your friends and
family. The ride-hailing business doesn't seem to have those dynamics -- Uber is
far bigger than Lyft, but that size is not evident to customers in any way.
Which seems bad for Uber, in the long run.

The Specter of Regulation

Mike: Finally, let's turn back to Facebook, Google and Twitter, the three tech
companies that are in the doghouse with Congress right now.

After the 2016 election, these giants are taking tons of flak for their
advertising products and whatever kind of influence they may have had in shaping
the outcome of the vote. Now, as we slowly head toward a future where digital
advertising regulation may occur, we're seeing the extent to which Facebook and
others have avoided being regulated for years.

This burns me up. As Facebook continues to say, over and over, that it wants to
be as transparent as possible, it neglects the fact that it has fought against
external oversight of how its platform worked for years. And on Nov. 1, when
Facebook and others are called to testify in the Senate and House, it's likely
that the C.E.O.s or C.O.O.s of these companies won't even show up to explain
what happened.

That's an enormous cop-out in my book. But maybe I've just been drinking too
much coffee today.

Farhad: It's looking like it will be pretty hard for them to avoid at least some
limited regulation. Now the battle will shift to how they can limit the fallout.
And if they can shape a bill that isn't too onerous, they might be O.K. with it.
They'd have to add disclosures and perhaps keep greater records of political
ads, but it might not greatly limit their overall ad business.

Then everyone would be able to claim they've fixed the problem and tech
companies are wonderful now. See, easy!

O.K., have fun at "Blade Runner"! See you in 2049 -- er, alas, next week.

Mike: Bye!

Farhad Manjoo writes a weekly technology column called State of the Art. Mike
Isaac covers Facebook, Uber and Twitter. You can follow them on Twitter here:
@fmanjoo and @MikeIsaac

Related Articles


     ·    Senators Demand Online Ad Disclosures as Tech Lobby Mobilizes
     ·    Lyft Is Said to Explore I.P.O. as It Raises $1 Billion Led by Alphabet
     ·    Google's Founders Wanted to Shape a City. Toronto Is Their Chance.


LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 21, 2017 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Farhad and Mike's Week in Tech: Regulation Is Looming

BYLINE: By FARHAD MANJOO and MIKE ISAAC

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg.

LENGTH: 896 words


Each Friday, Farhad Manjoo and Mike Isaac, technology reporters at The New York
Times, review the week's news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about
the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in
your inbox? Sign up here.

Mike: Hello, Farhad! How was your week? Right now, I'm still mulling my second
viewing of ''Blade Runner 2049,'' which offers a dim view of the future provided
by the best of what technology has to offer.

Just imagine: One day, I might be doing this newsletter with a cyber-Farhad
instead of the real thing. Hmm, maybe that means the future is actually good?

Farhad: There's no way a cyber-Farhad could be as handsome and charismatic as
the real thing. Artificial intelligence will never be that good.

Mike: Um, OK. Let's move to tech news!

Tech Remaking Cities

Mike: The week actually started off with a very ''Blade Runner''-esque bit of
tech news, now that I think about it. Sidewalk Labs, a start-up spun out of
Google's parent company, Alphabet, announced a smart-city initiative in Toronto,
in cooperation with the local government. The premise is essentially something
like using one city to test all sorts of futuristic ways of interacting with the
world, from self-driving cars to modular buildings that convert from retail to
housing to carbon-neutral thermal energy grids -- oh, my!

I guess that's cool, but also sort of freaks me out? I do wonder if Torontans --
Torontonians? Toronti? -- are O.K. with the whole thing.

Farhad: No surprise, I'm going to disagree with you. We worry about techies for
the way they stick in their West Coast bubbles and send their software out into
the world, often not pausing to think of its real-world effect.

From what I can tell, Sidewalk is doing just the opposite here. Alphabet is
interested in a lot of tech that will change the physical world around us, from
self-driving cars to robots. This is a way to see how all that stuff will play
out in the real world and, even better, to get city officials involved in the
planning. That's better than moving fast and breaking things.

Mike: Mmm, yes. Well, I'd still like to know where they stand on creating a
cybernetic version of you.

Lyft Hauls In Funding

Mike: Moving on, Thursday morning we saw CapitalG, an investment arm of
Alphabet, lead a $1 billion venture round into Lyft, the ride-hailing start-up.

The move ratchets up the stakes in the cutthroat world of ride hailing. Uber is
working on its own $1 billion deal -- this one with SoftBank -- while automakers
and other start-ups look on warily at the state of play.

Isn't it funny that just one year ago Lyft was all but dead in the court of
public opinion? Now they've got this encouraging second wind, after Uber spent
the entire past year in complete disarray.

Farhad: Right -- and I really think they've got a chance. The big problem for
Uber in North America is that Lyft is functionally the same. I've been using it
as my go-to ride app for several months now, and in most cases I couldn't find a
significant difference from Uber. Prices, wait times, car quality -- they're all
pretty much the same.

This is unusual in tech. Usually bigger companies have advantages that lead to
better products. Amazon, for instance, has greater selection and faster shipping
times than any other online retailer, while Facebook has all your friends and
family. The ride-hailing business doesn't seem to have those dynamics -- Uber is
far bigger than Lyft, but that size is not evident to customers in any way.
Which seems bad for Uber, in the long run.

The Specter of Regulation

Mike: Finally, let's turn back to Facebook, Google and Twitter, the three tech
companies that are in the doghouse with Congress right now.

After the 2016 election, these giants are taking tons of flak for their
advertising products and whatever kind of influence they may have had in shaping
the outcome of the vote. Now, as we slowly head toward a future where digital
advertising regulation may occur, we're seeing the extent to which Facebook and
others have avoided being regulated for years.

This burns me up. As Facebook continues to say, over and over, that it wants to
be as transparent as possible, it neglects the fact that it has fought against
external oversight of how its platform worked for years. And on Nov. 1, when
Facebook and others are called to testify in the Senate and House, it's likely
that the C.E.O.s or C.O.O.s of these companies won't even show up to explain
what happened.

That's an enormous cop-out in my book. But maybe I've just been drinking too
much coffee today.

Farhad: It's looking like it will be pretty hard for them to avoid at least some
limited regulation. Now the battle will shift to how they can limit the fallout.
And if they can shape a bill that isn't too onerous, they might be O.K. with it.
They'd have to add disclosures and perhaps keep greater records of political
ads, but it might not greatly limit their overall ad business.

Then everyone would be able to claim they've fixed the problem and tech
companies are wonderful now. See, easy!

O.K., have fun at ''Blade Runner''! See you in 2049 -- er, alas, next week.

Mike: Bye!

Farhad Manjoo writes a weekly technology column called State of the Art. Mike
Isaac covers Facebook, Uber and Twitter. You can follow them on Twitter here:
@fmanjoo and @MikeIsaac




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/20/technology/farhad-and-mike-tech-regulation-is
-coming.html

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 23, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Farhad and Mike's Week in Tech: Regulation Is Looming

BYLINE: By FARHAD MANJOO and MIKE ISAAC

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 911 words


Each Friday, Farhad Manjoo and Mike Isaac, technology reporters at The New York
Times, review the week's news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about
the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in
your inbox? Sign up here.

Mike: Hello, Farhad! How was your week? Right now, I'm still mulling my second
viewing of ''Blade Runner 2049,'' which offers a dim view of the future provided
by the best of what technology has to offer.

Just imagine: One day, I might be doing this newsletter with a cyber-Farhad
instead of the real thing. Hmm, maybe that means the future is actually good?

Farhad: There's no way a cyber-Farhad could be as handsome and charismatic as
the real thing. Artificial intelligence will never be that good.

Mike: Um, OK. Let's move to tech news!

Tech Remaking Cities

Mike: The week actually started off with a very ''Blade Runner''-esque bit of
tech news, now that I think about it. Sidewalk Labs, a start-up spun out of
Google's parent company, Alphabet, announced a smart-city initiative in Toronto,
in cooperation with the local government. The premise is essentially something
like using one city to test all sorts of futuristic ways of interacting with the
world, from self-driving cars to modular buildings that convert from retail to
housing to carbon-neutral thermal energy grids -- oh, my!

I guess that's cool, but also sort of freaks me out? I do wonder if Torontans --
Torontonians? Toronti? -- are O.K. with the whole thing.

Farhad: No surprise, I'm going to disagree with you. We worry about techies for
the way they stick in their West Coast bubbles and send their software out into
the world, often not pausing to think of its real-world effect.

From what I can tell, Sidewalk is doing just the opposite here. Alphabet is
interested in a lot of tech that will change the physical world around us, from
self-driving cars to robots. This is a way to see how all that stuff will play
out in the real world and, even better, to get city officials involved in the
planning. That's better than moving fast and breaking things.

Mike: Mmm, yes. Well, I'd still like to know where they stand on creating a
cybernetic version of you.

Lyft Hauls In Funding

Mike: Moving on, Thursday morning we saw CapitalG, an investment arm of
Alphabet, lead a $1 billion venture round into Lyft, the ride-hailing start-up.

The move ratchets up the stakes in the cutthroat world of ride hailing. Uber is
working on its own $1 billion deal -- this one with SoftBank -- while automakers
and other start-ups look on warily at the state of play.

Isn't it funny that just one year ago Lyft was all but dead in the court of
public opinion? Now they've got this encouraging second wind, after Uber spent
the entire past year in complete disarray.

Farhad: Right -- and I really think they've got a chance. The big problem for
Uber in North America is that Lyft is functionally the same. I've been using it
as my go-to ride app for several months now, and in most cases I couldn't find a
significant difference from Uber. Prices, wait times, car quality -- they're all
pretty much the same.

This is unusual in tech. Usually bigger companies have advantages that lead to
better products. Amazon, for instance, has greater selection and faster shipping
times than any other online retailer, while Facebook has all your friends and
family. The ride-hailing business doesn't seem to have those dynamics -- Uber is
far bigger than Lyft, but that size is not evident to customers in any way.
Which seems bad for Uber, in the long run.

The Specter of Regulation

Mike: Finally, let's turn back to Facebook, Google and Twitter, the three tech
companies that are in the doghouse with Congress right now.

After the 2016 election, these giants are taking tons of flak for their
advertising products and whatever kind of influence they may have had in shaping
the outcome of the vote. Now, as we slowly head toward a future where digital
advertising regulation may occur, we're seeing the extent to which Facebook and
others have avoided being regulated for years.

This burns me up. As Facebook continues to say, over and over, that it wants to
be as transparent as possible, it neglects the fact that it has fought against
external oversight of how its platform worked for years. And on Nov. 1, when
Facebook and others are called to testify in the Senate and House, it's likely
that the C.E.O.s or C.O.O.s of these companies won't even show up to explain
what happened.

That's an enormous cop-out in my book. But maybe I've just been drinking too
much coffee today.

Farhad: It's looking like it will be pretty hard for them to avoid at least some
limited regulation. Now the battle will shift to how they can limit the fallout.
And if they can shape a bill that isn't too onerous, they might be O.K. with it.
They'd have to add disclosures and perhaps keep greater records of political
ads, but it might not greatly limit their overall ad business.

Then everyone would be able to claim they've fixed the problem and tech
companies are wonderful now. See, easy!

O.K., have fun at ''Blade Runner''! See you in 2049 -- er, alas, next week.

Mike: Bye!

Farhad Manjoo writes a weekly technology column called State of the Art. Mike
Isaac covers Facebook, Uber and Twitter. You can follow them on Twitter here:
@fmanjoo and @MikeIsaac

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/20/technology/farhad-and-mike-tech-regulation-is
-coming.html

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 23, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Farhad and Mike's Week in Tech: Regulation Is Looming

BYLINE: By FARHAD MANJOO and MIKE ISAAC

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 911 words


Each Friday, Farhad Manjoo and Mike Isaac, technology reporters at The New York
Times, review the week's news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about
the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in
your inbox? Sign up here.

Mike: Hello, Farhad! How was your week? Right now, I'm still mulling my second
viewing of ''Blade Runner 2049,'' which offers a dim view of the future provided
by the best of what technology has to offer.

Just imagine: One day, I might be doing this newsletter with a cyber-Farhad
instead of the real thing. Hmm, maybe that means the future is actually good?

Farhad: There's no way a cyber-Farhad could be as handsome and charismatic as
the real thing. Artificial intelligence will never be that good.

Mike: Um, OK. Let's move to tech news!

Tech Remaking Cities

Mike: The week actually started off with a very ''Blade Runner''-esque bit of
tech news, now that I think about it. Sidewalk Labs, a start-up spun out of
Google's parent company, Alphabet, announced a smart-city initiative in Toronto,
in cooperation with the local government. The premise is essentially something
like using one city to test all sorts of futuristic ways of interacting with the
world, from self-driving cars to modular buildings that convert from retail to
housing to carbon-neutral thermal energy grids -- oh, my!

I guess that's cool, but also sort of freaks me out? I do wonder if Torontans --
Torontonians? Toronti? -- are O.K. with the whole thing.

Farhad: No surprise, I'm going to disagree with you. We worry about techies for
the way they stick in their West Coast bubbles and send their software out into
the world, often not pausing to think of its real-world effect.

From what I can tell, Sidewalk is doing just the opposite here. Alphabet is
interested in a lot of tech that will change the physical world around us, from
self-driving cars to robots. This is a way to see how all that stuff will play
out in the real world and, even better, to get city officials involved in the
planning. That's better than moving fast and breaking things.

Mike: Mmm, yes. Well, I'd still like to know where they stand on creating a
cybernetic version of you.

Lyft Hauls In Funding

Mike: Moving on, Thursday morning we saw CapitalG, an investment arm of
Alphabet, lead a $1 billion venture round into Lyft, the ride-hailing start-up.

The move ratchets up the stakes in the cutthroat world of ride hailing. Uber is
working on its own $1 billion deal -- this one with SoftBank -- while automakers
and other start-ups look on warily at the state of play.

Isn't it funny that just one year ago Lyft was all but dead in the court of
public opinion? Now they've got this encouraging second wind, after Uber spent
the entire past year in complete disarray.

Farhad: Right -- and I really think they've got a chance. The big problem for
Uber in North America is that Lyft is functionally the same. I've been using it
as my go-to ride app for several months now, and in most cases I couldn't find a
significant difference from Uber. Prices, wait times, car quality -- they're all
pretty much the same.

This is unusual in tech. Usually bigger companies have advantages that lead to
better products. Amazon, for instance, has greater selection and faster shipping
times than any other online retailer, while Facebook has all your friends and
family. The ride-hailing business doesn't seem to have those dynamics -- Uber is
far bigger than Lyft, but that size is not evident to customers in any way.
Which seems bad for Uber, in the long run.

The Specter of Regulation

Mike: Finally, let's turn back to Facebook, Google and Twitter, the three tech
companies that are in the doghouse with Congress right now.

After the 2016 election, these giants are taking tons of flak for their
advertising products and whatever kind of influence they may have had in shaping
the outcome of the vote. Now, as we slowly head toward a future where digital
advertising regulation may occur, we're seeing the extent to which Facebook and
others have avoided being regulated for years.

This burns me up. As Facebook continues to say, over and over, that it wants to
be as transparent as possible, it neglects the fact that it has fought against
external oversight of how its platform worked for years. And on Nov. 1, when
Facebook and others are called to testify in the Senate and House, it's likely
that the C.E.O.s or C.O.O.s of these companies won't even show up to explain
what happened.

That's an enormous cop-out in my book. But maybe I've just been drinking too
much coffee today.

Farhad: It's looking like it will be pretty hard for them to avoid at least some
limited regulation. Now the battle will shift to how they can limit the fallout.
And if they can shape a bill that isn't too onerous, they might be O.K. with it.
They'd have to add disclosures and perhaps keep greater records of political
ads, but it might not greatly limit their overall ad business.

Then everyone would be able to claim they've fixed the problem and tech
companies are wonderful now. See, easy!

O.K., have fun at ''Blade Runner''! See you in 2049 -- er, alas, next week.

Mike: Bye!

Farhad Manjoo writes a weekly technology column called State of the Art. Mike
Isaac covers Facebook, Uber and Twitter. You can follow them on Twitter here:
@fmanjoo and @MikeIsaac

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/20/technology/farhad-and-mike-tech-regulation-is
-coming.html

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       October 24, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Fake News Floods the Philippines;
Contributing Op-Ed Writer

BYLINE: MIGUEL SYJUCO

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1236 words



HIGHLIGHT: What happens to a democracy when you mix trolls, disinformation and a
populist strongman?


MANILA -- Yen Makabenta, a veteran journalist now at The Manila Times, wrote a
prominent column last month about the American ambassador to the United Nations,
Nikki Haley, who enthusiastically praised President Rodrigo Duterte of the
Philippines. "The Philippines is suffocating," Mr. Makabenta quoted the
ambassador as saying. "We must give President Duterte the space to run his
nation." Ms. Haley, he reported, warned of "destructive forces" that "have
calibrated their plot to ouster movements" against Mr. Duterte.

Mr. Duterte no doubt appreciated Ms. Haley's support. The only problem: It
wasn't true. Mr. Makabenta had based his column on a fake story from a website
whose web address, grammatical errors and far-fetched assertions should have
made clear that it was a counterfeit of Al Jazeera.

As it has around the world, the internet in the Philippines has become a morass
of fake news and conspiracy theories, harassment and bullying. This has muddied
public discourse and cultivated a populist attitude toward democracy. What is
true, or legal, is no longer important as long as the majority supports it.
Responsibility has been discarded for partisanship.

Since well before the presidential election last year, a multitude of dubious
independent news sites, counterfeits of established news outlets and blatantly
partisan blogs have supported Mr. Duterte. They have featured fake endorsements
from leaders like Pope Francis ("chosen by God"), Emmanuel Macron ("role model")
and Angela Merkel ("a giant"). Celebrities who have offered praise, according to
fake news, include Angelina Jolie, Dwayne Johnson and Arnold Schwarzenegger (who
was said to have called Mr. Duterte "a real starring fighter"). Even NASA
purportedly named him "the best president in the solar system."

The fake news isn't always complimentary. An opposition politician was said to
be "recruiting soldiers for a coup." Vice President Leni Robredo, of the
opposition Liberal Party, had supposedly met with Ban Ki-moon, the United
Nations secretary general at the time, to conspire to remove the president.

Mr. Duterte's opponents have at times benefited from fake news, but a
disproportionate amount of it favors him. Nobody knows for sure who funds these
efforts, though a study by Oxford University's Computational Propaganda Research
Project determined that the Duterte campaign paid $200,000 for as many as 500
dedicated trolls to attack dissenters and spread disinformation. (In response,
Mr. Duterte called Oxford "a school for stupid people" -- before admitting that
he had in fact hired trolls.)

One of the most egregious employers of this tactic is an informal group that
calls itself the Duterte Diehard Supporters, whose initials, not coincidentally,
are the same as those for the Davao Death Squads, which killed crime suspects in
Mr. Duterte's hometown when he was mayor. These supporters spin circuitous
defenses of Mr. Duterte's administration, disseminate spurious reports and cast
dissent as destabilization. The most dedicated have been rewarded with
government positions or other employment with his allies.

I know well what it's like to be targeted by this propaganda machine. My
opposition to the president's violent rhetoric and his disdain for democratic
checks and balances has earned me attacks and threats. Usually Duterte Diehard
Supporters will seize on one of my columns or Facebook posts, engaging in ad
hominem assaults on their pages that they tacitly encourage their followers to
continue onto mine. It has come to the point that I check every morning to see
if something I wrote has prompted more abuse. (You can imagine what this essay
will elicit.)

I am far from the only Filipino to get this treatment. The attacks come in waves
from outraged trolls -- with social media accounts and inboxes flooded with
insults, promises of violence and memes made to expressly mock and disgrace --
before they move on to the next target after several days. The duration and
intensity seem directly correlated to the reach and influence of the person
being attacked. Recently, an anonymous anti-Duterte blogger and the man who
merely administers the server hosting her popular blog were publicly outed and
threatened, and now face libel charges -- a criminal offense that carries
possible imprisonment.

These online assaults mirror what is known as "tokhang" -- the door-to-door,
sometimes lethal visits by policemen in search of drug suspects. A group called
the Duterte Cyber Warriors even adopted the term "cyber tokhang" for its efforts
to shut down Facebook accounts of people who oppose the president.

Just as the real-world killings include innocents, the online assassinations
have proven similarly indiscriminate. A Filipina propagandist living in the
Netherlands recently sought to discredit a journalist who, it turned out, only
had the same name as someone who had worked for the opposition.

Mr. Duterte not only has refused to condemn the flood of fake news and the
belligerence of his online supporters but also has rewarded some of their
leaders. Mocha Uson, for example, now has a job at the Presidential
Communications Operations Office even as she maintains her popular pro-Duterte
blog. Another unabashedly partisan blogger, R. J. Nieto, was hired by the
Department of Foreign Affairs as a social media consultant.

Ms. Uson and Mr. Nieto were among the bloggers and journalists invited to a
recent Senate hearing on fake news. They were grilled by opposition senators
about responsibility and fairness, but the two bloggers adamantly insisted that
they are exempt from such standards -- Ms. Uson said that she is not a
journalist; Mr. Nieto said he used his blog to "imagine scenarios." The
televised hearing ended without any definitive result, except perhaps to
increase the visibility of the bloggers.

Meanwhile, irresponsible conduct online continues, with only a few independent
sites like the fact-checking blog Memebuster attempting scrutiny. Others have
started campaigns against fake news or online harassment but have largely failed
or come uncomfortably close to censorship. Despite our country's issues, free
speech still thrives, though the mob rule of populism certainly tries to control
it through brute force and denial.

In The Manila Times, Mr. Makabenta issued neither correction nor retraction of
his article on Ms. Haley, despite public criticism as well as a statement from
the American Embassy. Instead he doubled down in a subsequent column, citing
President Trump's rhetoric on a hands-off foreign policy.

"Some will continue to badger me for allegedly falling victim to fake news," Mr.
Makabenta wrote, as if his lack of responsibility was ultimately
inconsequential. He continued: "The idea will live on long after the hysterics
are over."

Mr. Makabenta's fake news article remains on The Manila Times website, just as
if it were true. That speaks volumes about accountability in the era of Mr.
Duterte. Given this administration, and those who prop it up, this is typical
and expected. And that, sadly, is a fact.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Miguel Syjuco (@MiguelSyjuco), a contributing opinion writer, is the author of
the novel "Ilustrado" and a professor at N.Y.U. Abu Dhabi.

President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines in Manila this month. NOEL
CELIS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 25, 2017 Wednesday
                        The International New York Times

Fake news floods the Philippines

BYLINE: By MIGUEL SYJUCO.

Miguel Syjuco (@MiguelSyjuco), a contributing opinion writer, is the author of
the novel ''Ilustrado'' and a professor at N.Y.U. Abu Dhabi.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER; Pg.

LENGTH: 1206 words


MANILA -- Yen Makabenta, a veteran journalist now at The Manila Times, wrote a
prominent column last month about the American ambassador to the United Nations,
Nikki Haley, who enthusiastically praised President Rodrigo Duterte of the
Philippines. ''The Philippines is suffocating,'' Mr. Makabenta quoted the
ambassador as saying. ''We must give President Duterte the space to run his
nation.'' Ms. Haley, he reported, warned of ''destructive forces'' that ''have
calibrated their plot to ouster movements'' against Mr. Duterte.

Mr. Duterte no doubt appreciated Ms. Haley's support. The only problem: It
wasn't true. Mr. Makabenta had based his column on a fake story from a website
whose web address, grammatical errors and far-fetched assertions should have
made clear that it was a counterfeit of Al Jazeera.

As it has around the world, the internet in the Philippines has become a morass
of fake news and conspiracy theories, harassment and bullying. This has muddied
public discourse and cultivated a populist attitude toward democracy. What is
true, or legal, is no longer important as long as the majority supports it.
Responsibility has been discarded for partisanship.

Since well before the presidential election last year, a multitude of dubious
independent news sites, counterfeits of established news outlets and blatantly
partisan blogs have supported Mr. Duterte. They have featured fake endorsements
from leaders like Pope Francis (''chosen by God''), Emmanuel Macron (''role
model'') and Angela Merkel (''a giant''). Celebrities who have offered praise,
according to fake news, include Angelina Jolie, Dwayne Johnson and Arnold
Schwarzenegger (who was said to have called Mr. Duterte ''a real starring
fighter''). Even NASA purportedly named him ''the best president in the solar
system.''

The fake news isn't always complimentary. An opposition politician was said to
be ''recruiting soldiers for a coup.'' Vice President Leni Robredo, of the
opposition Liberal Party, had supposedly met with Ban Ki-moon, the United
Nations secretary general at the time, to conspire to remove the president.

Mr. Duterte's opponents have at times benefited from fake news, but a
disproportionate amount of it favors him. Nobody knows for sure who funds these
efforts, though a study by Oxford University's Computational Propaganda Research
Project determined that the Duterte campaign paid $200,000 for as many as 500
dedicated trolls to attack dissenters and spread disinformation. (In response,
Mr. Duterte called Oxford ''a school for stupid people'' -- before admitting
that he had in fact hired trolls.)

One of the most egregious employers of this tactic is an informal group that
calls itself the Duterte Diehard Supporters, whose initials, not coincidentally,
are the same as those for the Davao Death Squads, which killed crime suspects in
Mr. Duterte's hometown when he was mayor. These supporters spin circuitous
defenses of Mr. Duterte's administration, disseminate spurious reports and cast
dissent as destabilization. The most dedicated have been rewarded with
government positions or other employment with his allies.

I know well what it's like to be targeted by this propaganda machine. My
opposition to the president's violent rhetoric and his disdain for democratic
checks and balances has earned me attacks and threats. Usually Duterte Diehard
Supporters will seize on one of my columns or Facebook posts, engaging in ad
hominem assaults on their pages that they tacitly encourage their followers to
continue onto mine. It has come to the point that I check every morning to see
if something I wrote has prompted more abuse. (You can imagine what this essay
will elicit.)

I am far from the only Filipino to get this treatment. The attacks come in waves
from outraged trolls -- with social media accounts and inboxes flooded with
insults, promises of violence and memes made to expressly mock and disgrace --
before they move on to the next target after several days. The duration and
intensity seem directly correlated to the reach and influence of the person
being attacked. Recently, an anonymous anti-Duterte blogger and the man who
merely administers the server hosting her popular blog were publicly outed and
threatened, and now face libel charges -- a criminal offense that carries
possible imprisonment.

These online assaults mirror what is known as ''tokhang'' -- the door-to-door,
sometimes lethal visits by policemen in search of drug suspects. A group called
the Duterte Cyber Warriors even adopted the term ''cyber tokhang'' for its
efforts to shut down Facebook accounts of people who oppose the president.

Just as the real-world killings include innocents, the online assassinations
have proven similarly indiscriminate. A Filipina propagandist living in the
Netherlands recently sought to discredit a journalist who, it turned out, only
had the same name as someone who had worked for the opposition.

Mr. Duterte not only has refused to condemn the flood of fake news and the
belligerence of his online supporters but also has rewarded some of their
leaders. Mocha Uson, for example, now has a job at the Presidential
Communications Operations Office even as she maintains her popular pro-Duterte
blog. Another unabashedly partisan blogger, R. J. Nieto, was hired by the
Department of Foreign Affairs as a social media consultant.

Ms. Uson and Mr. Nieto were among the bloggers and journalists invited to a
recent Senate hearing on fake news. They were grilled by opposition senators
about responsibility and fairness, but the two bloggers adamantly insisted that
they are exempt from such standards -- Ms. Uson said that she is not a
journalist; Mr. Nieto said he used his blog to ''imagine scenarios.'' The
televised hearing ended without any definitive result, except perhaps to
increase the visibility of the bloggers.

Meanwhile, irresponsible conduct online continues, with only a few independent
sites like the fact-checking blog Memebuster attempting scrutiny. Others have
started campaigns against fake news or online harassment but have largely failed
or come uncomfortably close to censorship. Despite our country's issues, free
speech still thrives, though the mob rule of populism certainly tries to control
it through brute force and denial.

In The Manila Times, Mr. Makabenta issued neither correction nor retraction of
his article on Ms. Haley, despite public criticism as well as a statement from
the American Embassy. Instead he doubled down in a subsequent column, citing
President Trump's rhetoric on a hands-off foreign policy.

''Some will continue to badger me for allegedly falling victim to fake news,''
Mr. Makabenta wrote, as if his lack of responsibility was ultimately
inconsequential. He continued: ''The idea will live on long after the hysterics
are over.''

Mr. Makabenta's fake news article remains on The Manila Times website, just as
if it were true. That speaks volumes about accountability in the era of Mr.
Duterte. Given this administration, and those who prop it up, this is typical
and expected. And that, sadly, is a fact.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/24/opinion/fake-news-philippines.html

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines in Manila this month. NOEL
CELIS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       October 30, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

How We Got Here: A Timeline of Events Leading Up to the Charges

BYLINE: MIKAYLA BOUCHARD and EMILY COCHRANE

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1325 words



HIGHLIGHT: The charges come after months of investigation, but the timeline of
activity that shaped the special counsel's actions stretches back over two
years.


The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, announced charges on Monday against
three former campaign advisers of President Trump. Paul J. Manafort and his
protégé, Rick Gates, surrendered to federal authorities and were charged with
money laundering, tax fraud, foreign lobbying violations and lying to the
federal government. George Papadopoulos secretly pleaded guilty three weeks ago
to lying to the F.B.I. about his encounters with Russian contacts.

The charges come after months of investigation, but the timeline of activity
that shaped the special counsel's actions stretches back two years. The
following is a look at how we got here. The dates in bold mark events revealed
in court documents released on Monday by the Department of Justice.

June 16, 2015

Donald J. Trump announced his campaign for president.

September 2015

The F.B.I. first tried to inform the Democratic National Committee that they had
been the target of a cyber attack.

December 10, 2015

Michael T. Flynn was paid more than $45,000 to deliver a speech at a dinner for
the Russian media outlet, Russia Today, in Moscow. He sat next to Vladimir V.
Putin, the Russian president.

March 6, 2016

Mr. Papadopoulos was named a Trump foreign policy adviser and told that "a
principal foreign policy focus of the campaign was an improved U.S. relationship
with Russia."

March 14, 2016

Mr. Papadopoulos met in Italy with a professor with ties to the Russian
government, according to court documents. The professor "appeared to take great
interest in defendant Papadopoulos'' when he learned Mr. Papadopoulos had joined
the campaign, the documents state. On Monday a Senate aide identified the
professor as Joseph Mifsud, a London-based professor of international relations.

March 24, 2016

Mr. Papadopoulos met in London with Mr. Mifsud and a Russian woman whom Mr.
Papadopoulos described as a relative of Mr. Putin. Mr. Papadopoulos later
learned, the court documents say, that the woman was not related to Putin.

March 28, 2016

Paul J. Manafort began work for Mr. Trump's presidential campaign as an unpaid
adviser to wrangle delegates for the Republican National Convention in
Cleveland.

March 31, 2016

Mr. Trump met in Washington with his foreign policy advisers, including Mr.
Papadopoulos, who told the group that he had connections to help arrange a
meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin. Others at the meeting noted that Russia
was under sanctions. Jeff Sessions, now the attorney general but then a senator
from Alabama and a top Trump campaign adviser, quickly shut down the subject and
said it should not be discussed again, a former campaign official said.

April 18, 2016

Mr. Mifsud introduced Mr. Papadopoulos by email to a contact who claimed
connections to the Russian foreign ministry. Mr. Papadopoulos and the contact
had multiple conversations by Skype and email over the next weeks about "setting
the groundwork" for a "potential" meeting between the Trump campaign and Russian
government officials, according to court documents.

April 26, 2016

Mr. Mifsud informed Mr. Papadopoulos over breakfast in London that the Russians
had "dirt" on Hillary Clinton. Mr. Mifsud told Mr. Papadopoulos that "the
Russians had emails of Clinton" and they numbered in the thousands, Mr.
Papadopoulos later told the F.B.I.

May 19, 2016

Mr. Manafort was promoted to chairman and chief strategist for the Trump
campaign.

May 26, 2016

Mr. Trump won the support of enough delegates to clinch the Republican
presidential nomination.

June 3, 2016

Donald Trump Jr. was contacted by Rob Goldstone, a British-born tabloid
reporter, offering to connect him with Emin and Aras Agalarov, who claimed to
have incriminating information about Mrs. Clinton's relationship with the
Russians.

Three hours later, Mr. Trump accepted the Republican nomination for president
and promised to deliver a major address detailing Mrs. Clinton's "corrupt
dealings" that gave "favorable treatment" to foreign governments, including
Russia.

June 9, 2016

Donald Trump Jr. met with Natalia V. Veselnitskaya, a Russian lawyer, at Trump
Tower to discuss what an intermediary promised as incriminating information
about Mrs. Clinton. Six others were present at the meeting, including Mr.
Manafort; Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump's son-in-law and now senior adviser; Mr.
Goldstone and others.

The New York Times learned that the memo that Ms. Veselnitskaya brought to the
meeting had been shared with the Kremlin, and incorporated language that the
Russian government sent to an American congressman.

June 14, 2016

Crowdstrike, a cybersecurity firm hired by the Democratic National Committee,
said that two groups of Russian hackers -- called Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear --
had penetrated the committee's systems and gained access to thousands of emails
and confidential documents.

July 22, 2016

WikiLeaks released nearly 20,000 hacked Democratic emails.

August 19, 2016

Mr. Manafort was ousted from the Trump campaign days after published reports
disclosed his financial dealings with the pro-Russia party of a former Ukrainian
president, Viktor F. Yanukovych.

November 8, 2016

Mr. Trump was elected president of the United States.

November 17, 2016

Mr. Trump appointed Michael T. Flynn as national security adviser.

December 29, 2016

Then-President Obama announced sanctions against the Russian government, citing
attempts to influence the 2016 presidential election through cyberattacks.
Around this time, Mr. Flynn discussed the sanctions with Sergey I. Kislyak, the
Russian ambassador to the United States.

January 27, 2017

Mr. Papadopoulos was interviewed by the F.B.I. for the first time. According to
court documents, he made false statements during this interview about his
interactions with Russian contacts.

February 13, 2017

Mr. Flynn resigned as national security adviser following revelations that he
had misled Vice President Mike Pence and other top officials about his
conversations with Mr. Kislyak in December.

February 16, 2017

Mr. Papadopoulos was interviewed for the second time by the F.B.I. The next day,
according to court documents, he shut down his Facebook account in an attempt to
erase messages with foreign contacts.

March 2, 2017

Mr. Sessions recused himself from the Russia investigation because of meetings
he had with Mr. Kislyak.

May 9, 2017

President Trump fired the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, citing his handling
of the investigation into Mrs. Clinton's use of a private email server.

May 17, 2017

The Justice Department appointed Mr. Mueller, the former F.B.I. director, to
serve as special counsel and oversee the investigation into Russian interference
in the 2016 presidential election, including any contacts between Mr. Trump's
campaign and Russian officials.

July 26, 2017

Federal agents raided Mr. Manafort's home before dawn, leaving with binders
stuffed with documents and copies of the former campaign chairman's computer
files. The raid came a day after Mr. Manafort was interviewed by staff members
of the Senate Intelligence Committee.

July 27, 2017

F.B.I. agents arrested Mr. Papadopoulos at Dulles International Airport.

October 3, 2017

Mr. Papadopoulos was charged and signed a plea deal two days later.

October 30, 2017

Mr. Manafort and his business associate, Mr. Gates, surrendered to federal
authorities and pleaded not guilty to charges including money laundering and tax
fraud.

Eileen Sullivan and Scott Shane contributed reporting.

PHOTOS: Donald J. Trump, left, announcing his bid in 2015. Natalia V.
Veselnitskaya, above, last November. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK
TIMES; REUTERS); Michael T. Flynn, above, at Trump Tower last year. Attorney
General Jeff Sessions, right, in March. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAM HODGSON FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES; DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       October 30, 2017 Monday 09:37 EST

Manafort Indictment Is Bad News for Trump;
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: NORMAN EISEN, NOAH BOOKBINDER and BARRY BERKE

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 945 words



HIGHLIGHT: The president and his allies say it's old news. They're wrong.


Just hours after the revelation of federal indictments against President Trump's
former campaign chairman and chief strategist, Paul Manafort, and his former
campaign deputy, Rick Gates, the administration's first response came in the
form, of course, of a tweet from the president: "Sorry, but this is years ago,
before Paul Manafort was part of the Trump campaign. But why aren't Crooked
Hillary & the Dems the focus?????"

Expect to hear this line repeatedly from the president and his defenders: The
indictments, on charges of money laundering and conspiracy, are a vindication of
President Trump because he was not charged and because of the absence of
allegations about campaign collusion with Russia. But they're wrong -- the
president should be very worried.

For one thing, it is now clear that President Trump closely relied upon Mr.
Manafort and Mr. Gates while they were engaged in alleged criminal activity.
That is a damning indictment of the president's judgment. Their prosecution will
hang over him and his administration for the foreseeable future, since these
proceedings will continue for many months, and perhaps years. And these are
unlikely to be the last of the charges pursued by Robert Mueller, the special
counsel, who is also reported to be looking at other actors, including the
president himself.

The idea that Mr. Manafort's indictment vindicates Mr. Trump also ignores how
complex criminal investigations typically proceed, and the attendant peril Mr.
Trump now faces. In our half century of collective experience prosecuting and
defending criminal cases, we have watched repeatedly as prosecutors charged
lower-level individuals with readily provable offenses that are distinct from
the core conduct and targets that are the primary focus of the prosecutor's
investigation.

It's also significant that Mr. Mueller threw the book at Mr. Manafort and Mr.
Gates. Because the federal sentencing guidelines recommend a significant prison
sentence for money-laundering offenses and are largely driven by the dollar
amounts involved in the crime, this indictment, which involves millions of
dollars, puts tremendous pressure on them to make a cooperation deal with the
special counsel's office to try to reduce the lengthy prison sentences each
could face.

The power of this "squeeze play" approach is demonstrated by the other filing
released today, reflecting a guilty plea by George Papadopoulos, a former Trump
foreign policy adviser who admits to communications with foreign individuals
during the campaign, including at least one about the Russians' possessing
"dirt" concerning Hillary Clinton "in the form of 'thousands of emails.' " Mr.
Papadopoulos lied about these engagements when questioned, and was caught doing
so. When confronted with the prospect of jail time, he decided to cooperate. His
statements constitute yet another troubling quantum of evidence that the Trump
campaign may have known about and encouraged the Russian intrusion on our
elections -- so-called collusion.

The Papadopoulos plea was finalized this month, and it's no coincidence that Mr.
Mueller held off announcing it until today. It's a clear signal to Mr. Manafort
and Mr. Gates about how they should proceed -- and how much the special counsel
wants them to. Mr. Manafort was privy to the inner workings of the Trump
campaign, and he attended the now-famous June 2016 meeting between Donald Trump
Jr. and Jared Kushner and apparent Russian emissaries. Should Mr. Manafort
cooperate, he would be an important witness as to what those in attendance said
about the event before, during and after -- and whether Mr. Trump himself was
briefed on it.

Mr. Gates, though less well known, was also intertwined with Mr. Trump,
including during the administration itself. If Mr. Mueller can secure his
cooperation through a plea or immunity, he too can offer a wealth of
information, including what he did, who he met with and what he discussed in his
White House visits. To take another example, Mr. Gates' colleagues in a
pro-Trump outside group he worked with in the first months of the administration
included Brad Parscale, the Trump campaign's digital director. Mr. Mueller would
surely be interested in knowing whether Mr. Parscale ever offered any indication
that he was aware of or cooperated with Russian cyber-intrusions during the
campaign.

Finally, what do today's developments tell us about the largest questions of
all: whether Mr. Mueller is going to bring charges against Mr. Trump himself
relating to campaign collusion with Russia, or obstruction? We can't answer
those questions yet, but the seriousness and speed of today's indictments
suggests that if there is a case to be made on either of those grounds, Mr.
Mueller will make it. We believe the greatest risk to Mr. Trump remains the
possibility that he obstructed justice by firing the former F.B.I. director
James Comey. The fact that Mr. Mueller has found enough evidence to bring
credible charges in just five months suggests that he is moving forward with
determination and skill. For anyone in the path of his investigation who has
committed an offense, that cannot be welcome news.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Norman Eisen, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, is the chairman of
Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. Noah Bookbinder is the
executive director of CREW and a former federal corruption prosecutor. Barry
Berke is a co-chairman of the litigation department at Kramer Levin Naftalis &
Frankel, where he is a partner specializing in white-collar criminal defense.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 31, 2017 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Events, Stretched Over Two Years, That Led to Charges

BYLINE: By MIKAYLA BOUCHARD and EMILY COCHRANE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1267 words


The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, announced charges on Monday against
three former campaign advisers of President Trump. Paul J. Manafort and his
protégé, Rick Gates, surrendered to federal authorities and were charged with
money laundering, tax fraud, foreign lobbying violations and lying to the
federal government. George Papadopoulos secretly pleaded guilty three weeks ago
to lying to the F.B.I. about his encounters with Russian contacts.

The charges come after months of investigation, but the timeline of activity
that shaped the special counsel's actions stretches back two years. The
following is a look at how we got here. The dates in bold mark events revealed
in court documents released on Monday by the Department of Justice.

June 16, 2015

Donald J. Trump announced his campaign for president.

September 2015

The F.B.I. first tried to inform the Democratic National Committee that they had
been the target of a cyber attack.

December 10, 2015

Michael T. Flynn was paid more than $45,000 to deliver a speech at a dinner for
the Russian media outlet, Russia Today, in Moscow. He sat next to Vladimir V.
Putin, the Russian president.

March 6, 2016

Mr. Papadopoulos was named a Trump foreign policy adviser and told that "a
principal foreign policy focus of the campaign was an improved U.S. relationship
with Russia."

March 14, 2016

Mr. Papadopoulos met in Italy with a professor with ties to the Russian
government, according to court documents. The professor ''appeared to take great
interest in defendant Papadopoulos'' when he learned Mr. Papadopoulos had joined
the campaign, the documents state. On Monday a Senate aide identified the
professor as Joseph Mifsud, a London-based professor of international relations.

March 24, 2016

Mr. Papadopoulos met in London with Mr. Mifsud and a Russian woman whom Mr.
Papadopoulos described as a relative of Mr. Putin. Mr. Papadopoulos later
learned, the court documents say, that the woman was not related to Putin.

March 28, 2016

Paul J. Manafort began work for Mr. Trump's presidential campaign as an unpaid
adviser to wrangle delegates for the Republican National Convention in
Cleveland.

March 31, 2016

Mr. Trump met in Washington with his foreign policy advisers, including Mr.
Papadopoulos, who told the group that he had connections to help arrange a
meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin. Others at the meeting noted that Russia
was under sanctions. Jeff Sessions, now the attorney general but then a senator
from Alabama and a top Trump campaign adviser, quickly shut down the subject and
said it should not be discussed again, a former campaign official said.

April 18, 2016

Mr. Mifsud introduced Mr. Papadopoulos by email to a contact who claimed
connections to the Russian foreign ministry. Mr. Papadopoulos and the contact
had multiple conversations by Skype and email over the next weeks about
''setting the groundwork'' for a ''potential'' meeting between the Trump
campaign and Russian government officials, according to court documents.

April 26, 2016

Mr. Mifsud informed Mr. Papadopoulos over breakfast in London that the Russians
had ''dirt'' on Hillary Clinton. Mr. Mifsud told Mr. Papadopoulos that ''the
Russians had emails of Clinton'' and they numbered in the thousands, Mr.
Papadopoulos later told the F.B.I.

May 19, 2016

Mr. Manafort was promoted to chairman and chief strategist for the Trump
campaign.

May 26, 2016

Mr. Trump won the support of enough delegates to clinch the Republican
presidential nomination.

June 3, 2016

Donald Trump Jr. was contacted by Rob Goldstone, a British-born tabloid
reporter, offering to connect him with Emin and Aras Agalarov, who claimed to
have incriminating information about Mrs. Clinton's relationship with the
Russians.

Three hours later, Mr. Trump accepted the Republican nomination for president
and promised to deliver a major address detailing Mrs. Clinton's ''corrupt
dealings'' that gave ''favorable treatment'' to foreign governments, including
Russia.

June 9, 2016

Donald Trump Jr. met with Natalia V. Veselnitskaya, a Russian lawyer, at Trump
Tower to discuss what an intermediary promised as incriminating information
about Mrs. Clinton. Six others were present at the meeting, including Mr.
Manafort; Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump's son-in-law and now senior adviser; Mr.
Goldstone and others.

The New York Times learned that the memo that Ms. Veselnitskaya brought to the
meeting had been shared with the Kremlin, and incorporated language that the
Russian government sent to an American congressman.

June 14, 2016

Crowdstrike, a cybersecurity firm hired by the Democratic National Committee,
said that two groups of Russian hackers -- called Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear --
had penetrated the committee's systems and gained access to thousands of emails
and confidential documents.

July 22, 2016

WikiLeaks released nearly 20,000 hacked Democratic emails.

August 19, 2016

Mr. Manafort was ousted from the Trump campaign days after published  reports
disclosed his financial dealings with the pro-Russia party of a former Ukrainian
president, Viktor F. Yanukovych.

November 8, 2016

Mr. Trump was elected president of the United States.

November 17, 2016

Mr. Trump appointed Michael T. Flynn as national security adviser.

December 29, 2016

Then-President Obama announced sanctions against the Russian government, citing
attempts to influence the 2016 presidential election through cyberattacks.
Around this time, Mr. Flynn discussed the sanctions with Sergey I. Kislyak, the
Russian ambassador to the United States.

January 27, 2017

Mr. Papadopoulos was interviewed by the F.B.I. for the first time. According to
court documents, he made false statements during this interview about his
interactions with Russian contacts.

February 13, 2017

Mr. Flynn resigned as national security adviser  following revelations that he
had misled Vice President Mike Pence and other top officials about his
conversations with Mr. Kislyak in December.

February 16, 2017

Mr. Papadopoulos was interviewed for the second time by the F.B.I. The next day,
according to court documents, he shut down his Facebook account in an attempt to
erase messages with foreign contacts.

March 2, 2017

Mr. Sessions recused himself from the Russia investigation because of meetings
he had with Mr. Kislyak.

May 9, 2017

President Trump fired the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, citing his handling
of the investigation into Mrs. Clinton's use of a private email server.

May 17, 2017

The Justice Department appointed Mr. Mueller, the former F.B.I. director, to
serve as special counsel and oversee the investigation into Russian interference
in the 2016 presidential election, including any contacts between Mr. Trump's
campaign and Russian officials.

July 26, 2017

Federal agents raided Mr. Manafort's home before dawn, leaving with binders
stuffed with documents and copies of the former campaign chairman's computer
files. The raid came a day after Mr. Manafort was interviewed by staff members
of the Senate Intelligence Committee.

July 27, 2017

F.B.I. agents arrested Mr. Papadopoulos at Dulles International Airport.

October 3, 2017

Mr. Papadopoulos was charged and signed a plea deal two days later.

October 30, 2017

Mr. Manafort and his business associate, Mr. Gates, surrendered to federal
authorities and pleaded not guilty to charges including money laundering and tax
fraud.

Eileen Sullivan and Scott Shane contributed reporting.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/30/us/politics/timeline-charges-special-counsel-
mueller.html

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Donald J. Trump, left, announcing his bid in 2015. Natalia V.
Veselnitskaya, above, last November. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK
TIMES
REUTERS)
Michael T. Flynn, above, at Trump Tower last year. Attorney General Jeff
Sessions, right, in March. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAM HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 1, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

'Mr. Robot' Season 3, Episode 4: Elliot Under Fire;
Mr. Robot

BYLINE: JEREMY EGNER

SECTION: ARTS; television

LENGTH: 1003 words



HIGHLIGHT: In the third season of "Mr. Robot," Elliot's persecution has reached
a new intensity.


Season 3, Episode 4, 'eps3.3.metadata.par2'

It's never been easy being Elliot, what with the shattered family and history of
depression, anxiety and addiction, not to mention the caustic alter ego battling
him for control of his own mind and body.

But in this third season of "Mr. Robot," Elliot's persecution has reached a new
intensity. Because as we saw in Wednesday's busy setup for the long-promised
Stage 2 -- or its undoing -- now that the secret about Elliot's dual nature is
all the way out, pretty much everyone in this story is using his Hyde against
him.

Angela and the rest of Team Whiterose are riding Mr. Robot's rage and
capabilities toward Stage 2 as well as perhaps some reality manipulating cyber
-feat to be named later. Wellick, Elliot's erstwhile adorer, now has absolutely
no use for "this [expletive]" and has declared their partnership over. (Last
week we wondered how he would handle dealing with Elliot's duality, and we now
have our answer: Not well!)

Darlene is using Mr. Robot as a patsy for her own self-preservation, wielding
his recent abuses -- "I'm not gonna let you hurt me again" -- as a cudgel
against Elliot. It had the desired effect, stopping his inquisition into her
actions and obfuscating, for another week at least, the fact that she's
betraying her brother. (Which, right, that's another thing that stinks for
Elliot.)

As for Elliot himself: He's accepted that Mr. Robot is definitely still around
and plotting to blow up E Corp's records building, but he's still playing the
chess game, trying to thwart Stage 2 himself rather than tip off the F.B.I. The
reason is he needs "to see where this leads," he tells Darlene, and also seems
related to his previously stated desire to be part of something more significant
than office parties and his co-worker's overshares.

"There's something inside me that can't let go of what we started," Elliot says.

In other words there are signs that Elliot, too, may be subconsciously using Mr.
Robot in a way that is harmful to himself along with however many people work in
the E Corp facility his alter ego hopes to blow up. "Now he's trying to wage a
terrorist attack and that excites me," Elliot says. "Why?"

Perhaps answers will arrive Sept. 29. That's when Stage 2 is set to go down, per
Irving's instructions to Angela over breakfast ribs. With Elliot's shipping
counter-maneuvers and new tendency to randomly "show up" threatening the plan,
Irving has either handed the keys to Wellick or set him up to take the fall.
(Perhaps both.) We talked last week about Irving's manipulative skill and here
he reeled in Wellick like a rageful Swedish fish, using the man's
destiny-and-gods rhetoric against him. "This is the moment you were born for,"
he says.

I want my family sent to Ukraine, Wellick says. Tell my wife about the plan.

"Of course," Irving replies softly, Bobby Cannavale managing to convey both pity
and pragmatism in one pregnant pause. (Remember Agent Santiago is one of the few
people who knows Joanna is dead, which means that Irving does, too.)

Speaking of tragic families, the episode's other major thread involved the
beginning of a possible reconciliation between Darlene and Elliot, as we
returned -- after last week's detour into the life and times of Tyrell Wellick,
lumberjack fugitive -- to the tense reunion at the FBI safe house.

Darlene blamed her hacking of Elliot's computer on the fact that Mr. Robot was
not to be trusted, a cagey diversion that also happens to be true. Soon they
were walking Flipper and planning a sibling project, which in the Alderson clan
means one of you staking out the other in case his sinister alter ego sneaks off
to smash the world's economy. ("It's weird but I guess we passed weird a long
time ago," Darlene notes.) The gambit reveals that Angela is in league with Mr.
Robot.

A theme this season has been the slow but steady revelation of how badly
Darlene, too, has been scarred by the disintegration of her family. Her trauma
lacks the Gothic edge of Elliot's certainly, but it was devastating enough to
drive her to murder.

The episode opened with her confessing her sins to a subway pickpocket,
requesting the return of only a Polaroid of the Aldersons in happier times.
"Metadata is story behind the data," Elliot tells us later. When people post
pictures to on social media, they don't realize they've handed over a wealth of
private information "all hidden inside the photograph's metadata," he said.

So what story is hidden within Darlene's analog photo, or at least in its
surpassing meaningfulness to her? That the only thing that Darlene cares about
is her memory of a time when her family was intact, at least, and perhaps even
happy. A time before her father's death or Elliot's mental break, before
cellphone photos or cataclysmic hacks.

Perhaps it's that while she's telling Dom that her cooperation with the F.B.I.
means that "I'm gonna lose my brother," when the time comes to effectively sever
that tie, she won't be able to go through with it.

A Few Thoughts While We Turn In Our I.D. Badge

Angela confirmed that she got Elliot the E Corp job because "it was the best way
to manage him." We all saw how that worked out, so now she's having him banned
from the building. I know this random employee doesn't matter to you, she told
Pryce, but while Angela may believe think that, it's not really true, is it?
Pryce told Whiterose he knows who was behind the 5/9 hack back in Season 1.

By the way how is Elliot not collapsing, working with Wellick every night and at
E Corp during the day? Or Angela either, for that matter? Probably best not to
ponder this aspect too deeply.

So what's in Angela's hypodermic, anyway? One shot and Dr. Jekyll reverts to
Hyde.

What was your read on the fsociety wannabe taken in by the F.B.I.? A Dark Army
patsy offered up to distract law enforcement from Stage 2? Or a sign that the
movement is still out there, inspiring Fruity Pebbles-munching malcontents?

Related Articles


     ·    The Best TV Shows and Movies New to Netflix, Amazon and More in
          November


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 2, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Navy Orders New Training After Deadly Ship Collisions

BYLINE: ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1032 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Navy's top admiral ordered new procedures for vessel
certification and more training for ship crews after a series of accidents this
year in the western Pacific.


WASHINGTON -- After a string of deadly accidents in the western Pacific this
year, the Navy's top admiral said on Thursday he has ordered ship crews around
the world to receive more training in basic safety, seamanship and navigation,
and directed new procedures to ensure vessels are fully certified for a growing
set of complex missions.

The officer, Adm. John Richardson, the chief of naval operations, described in
an interview and at a Pentagon briefing several corrective measures that are
designed to address gaps and inconsistencies in operations, training and
equipment that contributed to two collisions that left 17 sailors dead.

The changes, most of which were outlined in a comprehensive review the admiral
ordered after the accidents and made public on Thursday, would likely cost $400
million to $500 million over the next five to six years, he said.

"Recent experience has shown that if we're not careful, we can become
overstretched, overextended," Admiral Richardson told reporters. "And if we take
our eye off the fundamentals, we become vulnerable to mistakes at all levels of
command."

His comments came a day after the Navy released two chilling reports that told
of missed warnings, chains of errors and frantic American sailors fighting to
save their shipmates -- in accidents that the admiral called "preventable."

Seven sailors were killed in June when the destroyer Fitzgerald collided with a
container ship near Japan. And 10 sailors died in August when the John S. McCain
-- another destroyer, named after Senator John McCain's father and grandfather
-- collided with an oil tanker while approaching Singapore.

The broader review, conducted by Adm. Philip S. Davidson, the head of the Navy's
Fleet Forces Command in Norfolk, Va., focused on the Seventh Fleet, based in
Yokosuka, Japan. But the report's findings and recommendations will affect Navy
ships worldwide, and to some extent, the service's aviation and submarine
branches.

The Seventh Fleet is the Navy's largest and busiest, consisting of 20,000
sailors and 50 to 70 vessels, including about a dozen cruisers and destroyers.
Even as the Navy has shrunk overall in recent years, its missions have grown to
meet demands in a region that has become increasingly unstable with a rising
China and North Korea's nuclear weapons arsenal.

Despite repeated warnings from congressional watchdogs and the Navy's own
experts over the past several years, Navy ship commanders and their chains of
command have more recently approved waivers to expiring certifications of
standards so long as temporary steps were put in place to mitigate the risks.

As of June, 37 percent of the certifications for the crews of cruisers and
destroyers based in Japan had expired, according to the Government
Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress. That was more than a
fivefold increase in the percentage of expired certifications for the crews of
those ships since the G.A.O.'s report in May 2015.

Navy officials found that commanders came to believe these lower standards were
the new normal.

"The risks that were taken in the Western Pacific accumulated over time, and did
so insidiously," Admiral Davidson's review concluded, adding the accidents
stemmed from "an unrecognized accumulation of risk that resulted in ships not
ready to safely operate at sea."

"While that 'can-do' attitude culture has served us well in crisis and combat
for decades, it does not relieve our commanders of the need to continuously
assess, mitigate and accept risk," the review continued.

In response, the Navy is revamping its scheduling process for ship operations in
region, assessing the readiness standards for all ships based in Japan, and a
creating a new naval office in the Western Pacific specifically to ensure those
standards do not erode.

Compounding the stress of the increasing operations, officers and crew have said
the Navy has allowed ships to rely on grueling watch schedules that leave
captains and crews exhausted, even though the service ordered submarines to
abandon similar schedules two years ago. A G.A.O. report from May said sailors
were on duty up to 108 hours each week.

Navy officials have now ordered more sleep for crews and no more 100-hour
workweeks for sailors. The new rules essentially will adopt studies by the Naval
Postgraduate School to develop a shorter watch schedule to match circadian
rhythms, which uses three hours of watch duty and nine hours off.

The Navy will also buy new equipment, such as additional simulators to be used
in the increased training programs and updated search radars that can more
effectively track nearby vessels.

Ships steaming in crowded waters, like those near Singapore and Tokyo, will now
broadcast their positions, as do other vessels. Until now, most Navy ships had
the Automatic Identification System devices on board, but did not turn them on
to prevent other countries, like China, from easily tracking them.

Before Admiral Davidson's report was made public on Thursday, the Navy had
already adopted a range of new measures based on lessons collected from a
24-hour safety stand-down conducted over the summer. Those steps included
standardized rules for watch teams on the bridge when the captain is not
present; new reporting requirements for major equipment failures and near
misses; and manually tracking vessels that come within 5,000 yards of a Navy
ship to avoid collisions.

Immediately after the collision, there were some suspicions that the Navy ships'
internal systems had been hacked and interfered with. But Admiral Richardson in
the interview ruled out any cyber intrusions in the two deadly accidents,
although he said the Navy will now add that to the list of factors to examine in
future collision investigations.

PHOTO: The destroyer John S. McCain after a collision with an oil tanker in
August that killed 10 sailors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AHMAD MASOOD/REUTERS)

Related Articles


     ·    Navy Collisions That Killed 17 Sailors Were 'Avoidable,' Official
          Inquiry Says
     ·    Navy Returns to Compasses and Pencils to Help Avoid Collisions at Sea
     ·    7 Navy Sailors Missing After U.S. Destroyer Collides With Merchant
          Vessel Off Japan
     ·    Remains of 10 Sailors Who Died in Navy Collision Are Found


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 3, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

The Sleazy Case Against Mueller's Probe;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: BRET STEPHENS

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 895 words



HIGHLIGHT: The suggestion that the Steele dossier has been discredited is
discreditable to the point of being dishonest.


In the matter of Robert Mueller's investigation of the Trump-Russia connection,
administration apologists make three significant claims in an effort to
discredit the former F.B.I. director's work. Let's have a look at them:

First, they insist that the intelligence dossier compiled by British ex-spook
Christopher Steele that's one basis for the F.B.I.'s own investigation has been
discredited or is at best uncorroborated. In the same vein, they claim that
Fusion GPS, the research firm that helped pay Steele for the dossier, is little
more than a "sleazy operator."

The truth about Fusion is that it is paid to dig up dirt by whoever is willing
to pay for the dirt. Its business model relies on the Beatles' timeless insight
that "everybody's got something to hide except me and my monkey."

But questions about Fusion's credibility, client list or aggressive tactics are
irrelevant. Fusion brokered the dossier but Steele produced it. What's relevant
is his credibility, the reliability of his sources and the truthfulness of their
claims.

These check out. Bill Browder, the anti-Putin campaigner who is an outspoken
critic of Fusion, calls Steele "a top-class person whose reputation is beyond
reproach." At least one of Steele's possible Russian sources was found dead and
three others were charged with treason, suggesting, as one Wall Street Journal
news account noted, that the Kremlin was cleaning out the moles who had betrayed
its hand in last year's election meddling.

As for the allegations themselves, former C.I.A. station chief John Sipher laid
out the decisive case for their broad truthfulness in a lengthy article in
September in Just Security.

"Well before any public knowledge of these events," Sipher notes, Steele's
report "identified multiple elements of the Russian operation including a cyber
campaign, leaked documents related to Hillary Clinton, and meetings with Paul
Manafort and other Trump affiliates to discuss the receipt of stolen documents.
Mr. Steele could not have known that the Russians stole information on Hillary
Clinton, or that they were considering means to weaponize them in the U.S.
election, all of which turned out to be stunningly accurate."

(After this column went to print, The Times reported that Trump foreign-policy
adviser Carter Page met with Russian government officials in a July 2016 trip to
Moscow, something he has long denied. This further confirms another claim made
in the Steele dossier.)

There's more of this, but you get the point: The suggestion that the Steele
dossier has been discredited is discreditable to the point of being dishonest.

This brings us to the second anti-Mueller contention, which is that his
indictment of former campaign chairman Paul Manafort for tax fraud connected to
his political work in Ukraine, along with news of the guilty plea entered by
Trump foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos for lying to the F.B.I., is
merely evidence of the slimness of the special counsel's case.

The nonchalance about Manafort's illicit ties to pro-Russian politicians in
Ukraine is almost funny, coming from the same people who went berserk over
China's alleged meddling on behalf of Democrats in the 1996 presidential
campaign.

But if nothing else, the Manafort indictment underscores the Trump campaign's
astonishing vulnerability to Russian blackmail.

Did that vulnerability explain the campaign's bizarre intervention (denied by
Manafort) to soften the Republican Party platform's language on providing help
to Ukraine?

Why did the campaign pursue a course of semi-secret outreach to Russia through
George Papadopoulos, giving him just enough visibility to let the Russians know
he was a player but not so much visibility as to attract much media attention?

What else about Trump's obsequious overtures to the Kremlin might similarly be
explained by the contents of the Steele dossier?

These questions require answers, which is what makes calls to remove Mueller
from his job or have Trump pardon Manafort, Papadopoulos and even himself both
strange and repugnant. Since when did conservatives suddenly become conveniently
bored with getting to the bottom of Russian conspiracies?

As it turns out, they're not bored. They just want the conspiracies to involve
liberals.

Thus the third Trumpian claim: That the real scandal is that the Clinton
campaign and Democratic National Committee paid for the Steele dossier. Somehow
that's supposed to add up to "collusion" between Clinton and the Russians, on
the remarkable theory that Steele was merely retailing Kremlin-invented fables
about Trump.

Yet how else was Steele supposed to investigate allegations of Russia's ties to
the Trump campaign except by talking to Russian sources with insight into the
Kremlin? If Clinton was the beneficiary of the Kremlin's designs, why did it
leak her emails? And why would Putin favor the candidate most hostile to him in
last year's election but undermine the one who kept offering improved relations?

You already know the answers. The deeper mystery is why certain conservatives
who were once Trump's fiercest critics have become his most sophistical
apologists. The answer to that one requires a mode of analysis more
psychological than political.

I invite you to follow me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 3, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Fatal Crashes, Navy Bulks Up Training and Safety Efforts

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 967 words


WASHINGTON -- After a string of deadly accidents in the western Pacific this
year, the Navy's top admiral said on Thursday he has ordered ship crews around
the world to receive more training in basic safety, seamanship and navigation,
and directed new procedures to ensure vessels are fully certified for a growing
set of complex missions.

The officer, Adm. John Richardson, the chief of naval operations, described in
an interview and at a Pentagon briefing several corrective measures that are
designed to address gaps and inconsistencies in operations, training and
equipment that contributed to two collisions that left 17 sailors dead.

The changes, most of which were outlined in a comprehensive review the admiral
ordered after the accidents and made public on Thursday, would likely cost $400
million to $500 million over the next five to six years, he said.

''Recent experience has shown that if we're not careful, we can become
overstretched, overextended,'' Admiral Richardson told reporters. ''And if we
take our eye off the fundamentals, we become vulnerable to mistakes at all
levels of command.''

His comments came a day after the Navy released two chilling reports that told
of missed warnings, chains of errors and frantic American sailors fighting to
save their shipmates -- in accidents that the admiral called ''preventable.''

Seven sailors were killed in June when the destroyer Fitzgerald collided with a
container ship near Japan. And 10 sailors died in August when the John S. McCain
-- another destroyer, named after Senator John McCain's father and grandfather
-- collided with an oil tanker while approaching Singapore.

The broader review, conducted by Adm. Philip S. Davidson, the head of the Navy's
Fleet Forces Command in Norfolk, Va., focused on the Seventh Fleet, based in
Yokosuka, Japan. But the report's findings and recommendations will affect Navy
ships worldwide, and to some extent, the service's aviation and submarine
branches.

The Seventh Fleet is the Navy's largest and busiest, consisting of 20,000
sailors and 50 to 70 vessels, including about a dozen cruisers and destroyers.
Even as the Navy has shrunk overall in recent years, its missions have grown to
meet demands in a region that has become increasingly unstable with a rising
China and North Korea's nuclear weapons arsenal.

Despite repeated warnings from congressional watchdogs and the Navy's own
experts over the past several years, Navy ship commanders and their chains of
command have more recently approved waivers to expiring certifications of
standards so long as temporary steps were put in place to mitigate the risks.

As of June, 37 percent of the certifications for the crews of cruisers and
destroyers based in Japan had expired, according to the Government
Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress. That was more than a
fivefold increase in the percentage of expired certifications for the crews of
those ships since the G.A.O.'s report in May 2015.

Navy officials found that commanders came to believe these lower standards were
the new normal.

''The risks that were taken in the Western Pacific accumulated over time, and
did so insidiously,'' Admiral Davidson's review concluded, adding the accidents
stemmed from ''an unrecognized accumulation of risk that resulted in ships not
ready to safely operate at sea.''

''While that 'can-do' attitude culture has served us well in crisis and combat
for decades, it does not relieve our commanders of the need to continuously
assess, mitigate and accept risk,'' the review continued.

In response, the Navy is revamping its scheduling process for ship operations in
region, assessing the readiness standards for all ships based in Japan, and a
creating a new naval office in the Western Pacific specifically to ensure those
standards do not erode.

Compounding the stress of the increasing operations, officers and crew have said
the Navy has allowed ships to rely on grueling watch schedules that leave
captains and crews exhausted, even though the service ordered submarines to
abandon similar schedules two years ago. A G.A.O. report from May said sailors
were on duty up to 108 hours each week.

Navy officials have now ordered more sleep for crews and no more 100-hour
workweeks for sailors. The new rules essentially will adopt studies by the Naval
Postgraduate School to develop a shorter watch schedule to match circadian
rhythms, which uses three hours of watch duty and nine hours off.

The Navy will also buy new equipment, such as additional simulators to be used
in the increased training programs and updated search radars that can more
effectively track nearby vessels.

Ships steaming in crowded waters, like those near Singapore and Tokyo, will now
broadcast their positions, as do other vessels. Until now, most Navy ships had
the Automatic Identification System devices on board, but did not turn them on
to prevent other countries, like China, from easily tracking them.

Before Admiral Davidson's report was made public on Thursday, the Navy had
already adopted a range of new measures based on lessons collected from a
24-hour safety stand-down conducted over the summer. Those steps included
standardized rules for watch teams on the bridge when the captain is not
present; new reporting requirements for major equipment failures and near
misses; and manually tracking vessels that come within 5,000 yards of a Navy
ship to avoid collisions.

Immediately after the collision, there were some suspicions that the Navy ships'
internal systems had been hacked and interfered with. But Admiral Richardson in
the interview ruled out any cyber intrusions in the two deadly accidents,
although he said the Navy will now add that to the list of factors to examine in
future collision investigations.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/02/us/politics/navy-training-ship-collisions.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The destroyer John S. McCain after a collision with an oil
tanker in August that killed 10 sailors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AHMAD MASOOD/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 4, 2017 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Sleazy Case Against Mueller's Probe

BYLINE: By BRET STEPHENS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 903 words


In the matter of Robert Mueller's investigation of the Trump-Russia connection,
administration apologists make three significant claims in an effort to
discredit the former F.B.I. director's work. Let's have a look at them:

First, they insist that the intelligence dossier compiled by British ex-spook
Christopher Steele that's one basis for the F.B.I.'s own investigation has been
discredited or is at best uncorroborated. In the same vein, they claim that
Fusion GPS, the research firm that helped pay Steele for the dossier, is little
more than a ''sleazy operator.''

The truth about Fusion is that it is paid to dig up dirt by whoever is willing
to pay for the dirt. Its business model relies on the Beatles' timeless insight
that ''everybody's got something to hide except me and my monkey.''

But questions about Fusion's credibility, client list or aggressive tactics are
irrelevant. Fusion brokered the dossier but Steele produced it. What's relevant
is his credibility, the reliability of his sources and the truthfulness of their
claims.

These check out. Bill Browder, the anti-Putin campaigner who is an outspoken
critic of Fusion, calls Steele ''a top-class person whose reputation is beyond
reproach.'' At least one of Steele's possible Russian sources was found dead and
three others were charged with treason, suggesting, as one Wall Street Journal
news account noted, that the Kremlin was cleaning out the moles who had betrayed
its hand in last year's election meddling.

As for the allegations themselves, former C.I.A. station chief John Sipher laid
out the decisive case for their broad truthfulness in a lengthy article in
September in Just Security.

''Well before any public knowledge of these events,'' Sipher notes, Steele's
report ''identified multiple elements of the Russian operation including a cyber
campaign, leaked documents related to Hillary Clinton, and meetings with Paul
Manafort and other Trump affiliates to discuss the receipt of stolen documents.
Mr. Steele could not have known that the Russians stole information on Hillary
Clinton, or that they were considering means to weaponize them in the U.S.
election, all of which turned out to be stunningly accurate.''

(After this column went to print, The Times reported that Trump foreign-policy
adviser Carter Page met with Russian government officials in a July 2016 trip to
Moscow, something he has long denied. This further confirms another claim made
in the Steele dossier.)

There's more of this, but you get the point: The suggestion that the Steele
dossier has been discredited is discreditable to the point of being dishonest.

This brings us to the second anti-Mueller contention, which is that his
indictment of former campaign chairman Paul Manafort for tax fraud connected to
his political work in Ukraine, along with news of the guilty plea entered by
Trump foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos for lying to the F.B.I., is
merely evidence of the slimness of the special counsel's case.

The nonchalance about Manafort's illicit ties to pro-Russian politicians in
Ukraine is almost funny, coming from the same people who went berserk over
China's alleged meddling on behalf of Democrats in the 1996 presidential
campaign.

But if nothing else, the Manafort indictment underscores the Trump campaign's
astonishing vulnerability to Russian blackmail.

Did that vulnerability explain the campaign's bizarre intervention (denied by
Manafort) to soften the Republican Party platform's language on providing help
to Ukraine?

Why did the campaign pursue a course of semi-secret outreach to Russia through
George Papadopoulos, giving him just enough visibility to let the Russians know
he was a player but not so much visibility as to attract much media attention?

What else about Trump's obsequious overtures to the Kremlin might similarly be
explained by the contents of the Steele dossier?

These questions require answers, which is what makes calls to remove Mueller
from his job or have Trump pardon Manafort, Papadopoulos and even himself both
strange and repugnant. Since when did conservatives suddenly become conveniently
bored with getting to the bottom of Russian conspiracies?

As it turns out, they're not bored. They just want the conspiracies to involve
liberals.

Thus the third Trumpian claim: That the real scandal is that the Clinton
campaign and Democratic National Committee paid for the Steele dossier. Somehow
that's supposed to add up to ''collusion'' between Clinton and the Russians, on
the remarkable theory that Steele was merely retailing Kremlin-invented fables
about Trump.

Yet how else was Steele supposed to investigate allegations of Russia's ties to
the Trump campaign except by talking to Russian sources with insight into the
Kremlin? If Clinton was the beneficiary of the Kremlin's designs, why did it
leak her emails? And why would Putin favor the candidate most hostile to him in
last year's election but undermine the one who kept offering improved relations?

You already know the answers. The deeper mystery is why certain conservatives
who were once Trump's fiercest critics have become his most sophistical
apologists. The answer to that one requires a mode of analysis more
psychological than political.

I invite you to follow me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/03/opinion/robert-mueller-trump-dossier.html

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 5, 2017 Sunday 00:00 EST

Stephanie Goodman, Nathaniel Pollack

SECTION: FASHION; weddings

LENGTH: 166 words



HIGHLIGHT: The bride is a registered nurse, and the groom is the head of
investor relations for Symantec.


Stephanie Rochelle Goodman and Nathaniel Jonathan Pollack were married Nov. 4 at
the Oceano Hotel and Spa in Half Moon Bay, Calif. Rabbi Jonathan Singer
officiated.

The bride, 32, is a registered nurse in the transplant unit at California
Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco. She graduated from the University of
California, Irvine, and from Quinnipiac University. She is a daughter of Heather
E. Goodman and Charles F. Goodman of Saratoga, Calif. The bride's father is a
principal software engineer at Plantronics, the headset manufacturer in Santa
Cruz, Calif.

The groom, 32, is the head of investor relations for the Symantec Corporation,
the cyber security company in Mountain View, Calif. He graduated, magna cum
laude, from Cornell. He is a son of Marilyn J. Pollack and Ronald Pollack of
Troy, N.Y. The groom's father, who is retired, was a hospital pharmacist at St.
Claire's Hospital in Schenectady, N.Y.

The couple met in 2008 through a mutual friend at Beauty Bar, a nightclub in New
York.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 5, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stephanie Goodman, Nathaniel Pollack

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 167 words


Stephanie Rochelle Goodman and Nathaniel Jonathan Pollack were married Nov. 4 at
the Oceano Hotel and Spa in Half Moon Bay, Calif. Rabbi Jonathan Singer
officiated.

The bride, 32, is a registered nurse in the transplant unit at California
Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco. She graduated from the University of
California, Irvine, and from Quinnipiac University. She is a daughter of Heather
E. Goodman and Charles F. Goodman of Saratoga, Calif. The bride's father is a
principal software engineer at Plantronics, the headset manufacturer in Santa
Cruz, Calif.

The groom, 32, is the head of investor relations for the Symantec Corporation,
the cyber security company in Mountain View, Calif. He graduated, magna cum
laude, from Cornell. He is a son of Marilyn J. Pollack and Ronald Pollack of
Troy, N.Y. The groom's father, who is retired, was a hospital pharmacist at St.
Claire's Hospital in Schenectady, N.Y.

The couple met in 2008 through a mutual friend at Beauty Bar, a nightclub in New
York.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/05/fashion/weddings/stephanie-goodman-nathaniel-
pollack.html

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 10, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Alibaba's Singles Day Sales Hit New Record of $25.3 Billion

BYLINE: TIFFANY HSU

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 383 words



HIGHLIGHT: The shopping extravaganza -- China's version of Black Friday and
Amazon's Prime Day -- was a test of logistics networks and retail innovations.


Singles Day -- the frenzied annual celebration of consumption and commerce that
is China's much larger version of Black Friday -- began as a protest of sorts
against Valentine's Day, propelled by college students in the 1990s.

The event's date, written numerically as 11/11, was associated with unattached
singles, known as "bare sticks."

This year's shopping festival entered new territory, blazing past $1 billion
within two minutes of the holiday, starting at midnight on Saturday. By the end
of the day, sales had hit a new record of $25.3 billion, more than 40 percent
higher than sales on Singles Day 2016.

Singles Day is now inextricably linked with Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce
leviathan that in recent years has turned the holiday into an online -- and
occasionally brick-and-mortar -- mercantile extravaganza. It routinely eclipses
Amazon's yearly Prime Day promotional event.

In July, Prime Day generated an estimated $1 billion in revenue during its
30-hour sale window, resulting in what Amazon called its "biggest day ever."

The event has evolved into a cultural phenomenon. On Friday night, Alibaba
hosted a lavish gala in Shanghai, directed by one of the producers behind the
2016 Academy Awards. Celebrities such as Nicole Kidman, Pharrell Williams and
Maria Sharapova helped count down the moments before the 60,000 participating
global brands released their Singles Day deals to shoppers.

One offer, from the Chongqing-based online alcohol brand Jiang Xiao Bai, allowed
33 fast-moving customers to make a single payment of 11,111 yuan, or $1,673, for
a lifetime supply of a grain liquor known as baijiu.

Singles Day, which is largely powered through Alibaba's Tmall marketplace, was a
test of the company's logistics network. The company promised delivery within an
hour for certain products and, in advance of the shopping festival, converted
nearly 100,000 stores across China into "smart stores" capable of processing
payment using facial recognition and other advanced technologies.

Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu

Related Articles


     ·    Alibaba's Earnings Jump as China's Online Shopping Boom Continues
     ·    A Showdown Brews Between Amazon and Alibaba, Far From Home
     ·    The World's Biggest Tech Companies Are No Longer Just American
     ·    Alibaba, Amid Intense Hype, Confronts a Slowdown on Singles Day


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 11, 2017 Saturday 00:00 EST

Holding Hands, Drinking Wine and Other Ways to Go to Jail in Dubai

BYLINE: ROD NORDLAND

SECTION: WORLD; middleeast

LENGTH: 1565 words



HIGHLIGHT: Dubai says it welcomes foreigners, but some end up in prison for
offenses that few Westerners would dream were even crimes.


DUBAI, United Arab Emirates -- A Scottish electrician named Jamie Harron,
visiting Dubai as a tourist, was sentenced to three months in jail for touching
a man in a bar.

The British head of a professional soccer team, David Haigh, was ordered jailed
for seven months for a tweet that he says could not have been from him -- since
he was already in jail without a phone.

An Australian aid worker living in Dubai, Scott Richards, was locked up for
trying to raise money to buy blankets for freezing Afghan children, because he
was not part of a recognized charity.

Dubai, one of the seven United Arab Emirates, portrays itself as welcoming to
foreigners. Its boosters claim it is the fourth most-visited tourism destination
in the world, and it has at least 12 times as many foreign residents as
citizens.

But a legal system based on a hard-line interpretation of Shariah law often
lands foreigners in jail for offenses that few Westerners would dream were even
crimes.

Recent examples cited by lawyers include holding hands in public; posting praise
on Facebook for a charity opposed to fox hunting; drinking alcohol without a
license; and sharing a hotel room with a person of the opposite sex (other than
one's spouse).

[Video: An official video promoting tourism in Dubai.  Watch on YouTube.]

Mostly, the Dubai authorities look the other way when it comes to such behavior
by foreigners -- until they don't. Hotels do not ask couples for their marriage
licenses. Dubai has a lively night life, with numerous gay bars and nightclubs
where East European prostitutes openly solicit customers.

Yet cohabitation is a crime, homosexuality is subject to the death penalty
(though it is rarely imposed) and prostitution can be punished with lashes and
even worse.

Even victims of violent crimes can be accused of morality offenses: Gay people
who report assaults have been jailed along with their attackers, and women who
report being raped can be imprisoned for adultery if they do not have four male
witnesses to support their story.

Radha Stirling, a British lawyer, says she has represented hundreds of
Westerners who have been jailed in Dubai for behavior that is usually permitted
there.

"You go there and its facade is that all of this is legal, everyone is doing it,
you think it's O.K.," said Ms. Stirling, who runs a British-based group,
Detained in Dubai, that publicizes such cases. "But you offend someone and
you're the one who gets it."

Two recent cases, both handled by Ms. Stirling, have aroused widespread ire in
Britain, which has more nationals living in Dubai than any other Western
country.

Mr. Harron, 27, the Scottish electrician visiting Dubai, was arrested and
sentenced to three months in jail for public indecency for allegedly touching a
man's hip as he brushed past him in a crowded bar. And a British man from
Leicester, Jamil Ahmed Mukadam, 23, is facing trial for giving the middle finger
to a Dubai driver who he said was tailgating him.

Mr. Mukadam, a computer consultant, had been in a rental car, so it took the
police a while to trace him. But six months later, in September, he was arrested
at the airport upon returning to Dubai. He is now free on bail, without his
passport, awaiting trial.

He could face six months in jail if convicted of making the "obscene gesture."
Mr. Mukadam said he had often visited Dubai with his wife and that he liked the
city, particularly its variety of halal food, but does not plan to return.

"No chance I'm coming back here again," he said. "I wouldn't set foot here
again, not the way I've been treated."

Emiratis are mostly unapologetic about their country's contradictions.

"Westerners' culture differs from Arab culture," Judge Ahmad Saif, head of the
Dubai civil court, said in a recent interviewwith The National, a newspaper
based in Abu Dhabi. "In their countries, flashing your middle finger or
insulting another is not acceptable but it is not punishable by the law. The
culture for people living in the U.A.E. is much different. At the end of the
day, we are Muslims and committing such acts is not acceptable."

Most cases that ensnare unwary foreigners involve morality offenses. It is
against the law to drink without a license, for instance, but foreigners can
only get one if they are residents. So any tourist who is drinking is doing so
illegally, even in a licensed bar. Couples cannot share a room together if they
are not married, even in their homes.

When Emlyn Culverwell, a 29-year-old South African, took his fiancée, Iryna
Nohal, a Ukrainian, to a doctor in Dubai, complaining of stomach pain, the
diagnosis was pregnancy -- and the treatment was a phone call to the police. The
couple were arrested and jailed when they could not produce a marriage license.

Some Emiratis acknowledge that their laws have not kept pace with a rapidly
changing society.

"It is unreasonable to expect a country to warn each and every visitor about its
complete set of rules and regulations in place," Essam Tamimi, a Dubai lawyer,
said in an email. "In a short period of time, Dubai has greatly developed and
has become one of the world's most diverse melting pots. That being said, laws
in general are made to accommodate the society's needs and the U.A.E., like most
other countries, still has some changes to make."

Dubai officials did not respond to requests for comment for this article.

Critics complain that the Emirates' legal system is stacked against foreigners,
and both Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have accused the country
of arbitrary detention and abuse of prisoners.

Mr. Haigh, a former managing director of Leeds United Football Club and a
partner in Ms. Stirling's law firm, said he was jailed for 22 months and
tortured repeatedly in an attempt to force him to sign a confession, but never
managed to see a copy of the charges to which he was supposed to confess.

Mr. Haigh had gotten into a business dispute with a Dubai bank, GFH Capital,
that owned a stake in the team. He said he was tricked into coming to Dubai to
resolve their differences, then jailed on arrival for breach of trust and held
for several months without being allowed to see a lawyer.

While in jail, he was charged with postingan offensive Twitter message, though
he says he had no phone or internet access. For that, his sentence was increased
by seven months. He was eventually acquitted of the Twitter charge, but not
until he had served another seven months on top of his original 15 month
sentence.

"Ninety percent of the population are breaking the law 90 percent of the time
and no one does anything against them until they upset the wrong person and they
get arrested," Mr. Haigh said of Dubai.

In recent years, the United Arab Emirates has cracked down on social media,
making it a crime to criticize the country, its citizens or businesses on
Facebook or Twitter. The law has mainly been used to punish domestic critics,
but it also swept up Ryan Pate,a helicopter mechanic from Florida, who was
jailed after he unleashed a Facebook rant over a sick leave dispute with his
employer, Global Aerospace Logistics, a U.A.E. company.

[Video: Ryan Pate, who was accused of cyber slander by Abu Dhabi authorities, is
back home in Tampa Bay Watch on YouTube.]

Foreign residents and tourists encounter similar problems throughout the
Emirates -- Mr. Pate's company was based in Abu Dhabi -- but they are more
common in Dubai because more Westerners live and visit there.

Other offenses that few foreigners realize can lead to jail time include passing
a bad check, even accidentally; failing to pay a credit-card bill on time;
taking a photograph of someone without his or her permission; and touching
someone.

That was the accusation against Mr. Harron: that he had touched a man intimately
in a public place, the Rock Bottom Cafe, a club frequented by gay men. He says
he was just pushing through a crowd and put a hand on the man's hip to avoid
spilling his drink.

He was sentenced to three months in jail, although he was allowed to leave the
country after the ruler of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum,
nullified the court's ruling. Heavy publicity has often helped resolve such
cases, even when legally they looked hopeless.

"The U.A.E. government is just a huge public relations entity," Ms. Stirling
said. "If they think a case is going to harm them, the government will speak to
the police and get the charges dropped."

Follow Rod Nordland on Twitter: @rodnordland

PHOTOS: A restaurant in the Marina neighborhood in Dubai. A legal system based
on a hard-line interpretation of Shariah law can mean jail sentences for
offenses like making an obscene gesture. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAMRAN
JEBREILI/ASSOCIATED PRESS); Jamie Harron of Scotland, top, was jailed for
touching a man in a Dubai bar. Jamil Mukadam, above, a Briton, is accused of
making an obscene gesture.; The fountain at Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest
building, in Dubai. As the emirate has grown into a top tourism destination,
some in Dubai admit that its laws have not kept pace with a changing society.

Related Articles


     ·    With New Minister, United Arab Emirates Want to Top the World in
          Happiness, Too
     ·    Dubai Tower Burns a 2nd Time, and Flammable Cladding Is Again Under
          Scrutiny
     ·    Persian Gulf Rivals Competed to Host Taliban, Leaked Emails Show
     ·    As Dubai's Skyline Adds a Trophy, the Architect Calls It Stolen
     ·    Dubai Introduces Its Own Font, Lauding Free Expression It Does Not
          Permit


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 11, 2017 Saturday 00:00 EST

7 Cyber Monday Travel Deals;
Chasing the Deal

BYLINE: SHIVANI VORA

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 555 words



HIGHLIGHT: In the world of travel, Cyber Monday -- on Nov. 27 this year -- means
attractive deals on hotel stays, safaris, group tours and more.


Cyber Monday, on Nov. 27 this year, isn't just a day to score discounts on
retail goods -- in the world of travel, it means attractive deals on hotel
stays, safaris, group tours and more.

But buy with caution, said the travel industry analyst Henry Harteveldt, the
founder of Atmosphere Research Group. "Travel brands discount throughout the
year so make sure that the sale you're considering really is a good one," he
said.

Here are seven offers which may just entice you to book your next vacation.

Guests at the Cloister at Sea Island, in Sea Island, Ga., who book two or more
nights between Jan. 2 and Feb. 28, get 90 percent off the third night, breakfast
and a 10 percent discount on all activities. Nightly rates start at $395. Book
at seaisland.com.

The home rental company Oasis is offering $200 off a stay and $50 of drinks and
snacks (and free housekeeping) at one of its properties in more than 22
destinations, including Paris, Miami and Cartagena. Stays must be between Nov.
27, 2017 and Nov. 27, 2019. Book at oasiscollections.com, and use the code
DIGITALGETDOWN.

From Nov. 27 to Dec. 4, the 12 properties that make up Viceroy Hotel Group will
offer nightly rates at a discount of between 30 and 40 percent for travel
between Nov. 27, 2017 and December 2018 (the exact date ranges vary by
property). The Viceroy Central Park, in New York, for example, is offering 40
percent off nightly rates; usual rates start at $275, but with the Cyber Week
discount, they begin at $195. Book at viceroyhotelsandresorts.com.

The safari outfitter AndBeyond is offering 30 percent off one of its four small
group journeys in 2018 (each journey has multiple departure dates), including a
mobile camping trip to Botswana and a photography safari in Kenya. Itineraries
range from five nights to two weeks. Rates before the discount begin at $4,030 a
person, but with the discount, the starting rate is $2,821 a person. Book at
andbeyond.com.

Grace Bay Club, in Turks and Caicos, is offering 35 percent off nightly rates. A
junior suite, for example, usually begins at $720, but after the discount, it
drops to $468. A stay includes breakfast, nonmotorized watersports and afternoon
tea with wine. Travel must be between Nov. 27, 2017 and Dec. 19, 2018. Book at
gracebayresorts.com.

The tour operator Friendly Planet Travel is offering up to $1,100 off per person
on 68 tours in 2018 to over 40 countries, including Portugal, China, South
Africa and Peru. The sale lasts through Nov. 28. The 14-day Best of Kenya and
Tanzania tour, for example, is $4,599 a person -- a savings of $900. All trips
include airfare, accommodations, most meals and guided tours. Book at
friendlyplanet.com.

Expedia has several Cyber Monday deals: From noon to 7 p.m. E.S.T., nightly
rates at select hotels are 90 percent off on Expedia's app while select hotels
on the site are offering 50 percent off nightly rates (around 2,000 hotels in
total are participating, but the exact number will change every hour). Also, all
day, Expedia.com is offering $100 off on $1,000 travel packages and is giving
$100 credit for a hotel stay to travelers who book a cruise through the site.

PHOTO: The Grace Bay Club in Turks and Caicos. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRACE BAY CLUB)

Related Articles


     ·    Traveling to Portugal? Consider the Off-Season
     ·    A Getaway to Australia Can Be Worth the Long Flight


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 12, 2017 Sunday 09:50 EST

Security Breach and Spilled Secrets Have Shaken the N.S.A. to Its Core

BYLINE: SCOTT SHANE, NICOLE PERLROTH and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 3850 words



HIGHLIGHT: A serial leak of the agency's cyberweapons has damaged morale, slowed
intelligence operations and resulted in hacking attacks on businesses and
civilians worldwide.


WASHINGTON -- Jake Williams awoke last April in an Orlando, Fla., hotel where he
was leading a training session. Checking Twitter, Mr. Williams, a cybersecurity
expert, was dismayed to discover that he had been thrust into the middle of one
of the worst security debacles ever to befall American intelligence.

Mr. Williams had written on his company blog about the Shadow Brokers, a
mysterious group that had somehow obtained many of the hacking tools the United
States used to spy on other countries. Now the group had replied in an angry
screed on Twitter. It identified him -- correctly -- as a former member of the
National Security Agency's hacking group, Tailored Access Operations, or T.A.O.,
a job he had not publicly disclosed. Then the Shadow Brokers astonished him by
dropping technical details that made clear they knew about highly classified
hacking operations that he had conducted.

America's largest and most secretive intelligence agency had been deeply
infiltrated.

"They had operational insight that even most of my fellow operators at T.A.O.
did not have," said Mr. Williams, now with Rendition Infosec, a cybersecurity
firm he founded. "I felt like I'd been kicked in the gut. Whoever wrote this
either was a well-placed insider or had stolen a lot of operational data."

The jolt to Mr. Williams from the Shadow Brokers' riposte was part of a much
broader earthquake that has shaken the N.S.A. to its core. Current and former
agency officials say the Shadow Brokers disclosures, which began in August 2016,
have been catastrophic for the N.S.A., calling into question its ability to
protect potent cyberweapons and its very value to national security. The agency
regarded as the world's leader in breaking into adversaries' computer networks
failed to protect its own.

"These leaks have been incredibly damaging to our intelligence and cyber
capabilities," said Leon E. Panetta, the former defense secretary and director
of the Central Intelligence Agency. "The fundamental purpose of intelligence is
to be able to effectively penetrate our adversaries in order to gather vital
intelligence. By its very nature, that only works if secrecy is maintained and
our codes are protected."

With a leak of intelligence methods like the N.S.A. tools, Mr. Panetta said,
"Every time it happens, you essentially have to start over."

Fifteen months into a wide-ranging investigation by the agency's
counterintelligence arm, known as Q Group, and the F.B.I., officials still do
not know whether the N.S.A. is the victim of a brilliantly executed hack, with
Russia as the most likely perpetrator, an insider's leak, or both. Three
employees have been arrested since 2015 for taking classified files, but there
is fear that one or more leakers may still be in place. And there is broad
agreement that the damage from the Shadow Brokers already far exceeds the harm
to American intelligence done by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor
who fled with four laptops of classified material in 2013.

Mr. Snowden's cascade of disclosures to journalists and his defiant public
stance drew far more media coverage than this new breach. But Mr. Snowden
released code words, while the Shadow Brokers have released the actual code; if
he shared what might be described as battle plans, they have loosed the weapons
themselves. Created at huge expense to American taxpayers, those cyberweapons
have now been picked up by hackers from North Korea to Russia and shot back at
the United States and its allies.

Millions of people saw their computers shut down by ransomware, with demands for
payments in digital currency to have their access restored. Tens of thousands of
employees at Mondelez International, the maker of Oreo cookies, had their data
completely wiped. FedEx reported that an attack on a European subsidiary had
halted deliveries and cost $300 million. Hospitals in Pennsylvania, Britain and
Indonesia had to turn away patients. The attacks disrupted production at a car
plant in France, an oil company in Brazil and a chocolate factory in Tasmania,
among thousands of enterprises affected worldwide.

American officials had to explain to close allies -- and to business leaders in
the United States -- how cyberweapons developed at Fort Meade in Maryland came
to be used against them. Experts believe more attacks using the stolen N.S.A.
tools are all but certain.

Inside the agency's Maryland headquarters and its campuses around the country,
N.S.A. employees have been subjected to polygraphs and suspended from their jobs
in a hunt for turncoats allied with the Shadow Brokers. Much of the agency's
arsenal is still being replaced, curtailing operations. Morale has plunged, and
experienced specialists are leaving the agency for better-paying jobs --
including with firms defending computer networks from intrusions that use the
N.S.A.'s leaked tools.

"It's a disaster on multiple levels," Mr. Williams said. "It's embarrassing that
the people responsible for this have not been brought to justice."

In response to detailed questions, an N.S.A. spokesman, Michael T. Halbig, said
the agency "cannot comment on Shadow Brokers." He denied that the episode had
hurt morale. "N.S.A. continues to be viewed as a great place to work; we receive
more than 140,000 applications each year for our hiring program," he said.

Compounding the pain for the N.S.A. is the attackers' regular online public
taunts, written in ersatz broken English. Their posts are a peculiar mash-up of
immaturity and sophistication, laced with profane jokes but also savvy cultural
and political references. They suggest that their author -- if not an American
-- knows the United States well.

"Is NSA chasing shadowses?" the Shadow Brokers asked in a post on Oct. 16,
mocking the agency's inability to understand the leaks and announcing a price
cut for subscriptions to its "monthly dump service" of stolen N.S.A. tools. It
was a typically wide-ranging screed, touching on George Orwell's "1984"; the end
of the federal government's fiscal year on Sept. 30; Russia's creation of bogus
accounts on Facebook and Twitter; and the phenomenon of American intelligence
officers going to work for contractors who pay higher salaries.

One passage, possibly hinting at the Shadow Brokers' identity, underscored the
close relationship of Russian intelligence to criminal hackers. "Russian
security peoples," it said, "is becoming Russian hackeres at nights, but only
full moons."

Russia is the prime suspect in a parallel hemorrhage of hacking tools and secret
documents from the C.I.A.'s Center for Cyber Intelligence, posted week after
week since March to the WikiLeaks website under the names Vault7 and Vault8.
That breach, too, is unsolved. Together, the flood of digital secrets from
agencies that invest huge resources in preventing such breaches is raising
profound questions.

Have hackers and leakers made secrecy obsolete? Has Russian intelligence simply
outplayed the United States, penetrating the most closely guarded corners of its
government? Can a work force of thousands of young, tech-savvy spies ever be
immune to leaks?

Some veteran intelligence officials believe a lopsided focus on offensive
weapons and hacking tools has, for years, left American cyberdefense dangerously
porous.

"We have had a train wreck coming," said Mike McConnell, the former N.S.A.
director and national intelligence director. "We should have ratcheted up the
defense parts significantly."

America's Cyber Special Forces

At the heart of the N.S.A. crisis is Tailored Access Operations, the group where
Mr. Williams worked, which was absorbed last year into the agency's new
Directorate of Operations.

T.A.O. -- the outdated name is still used informally -- began years ago as a
side project at the agency's research and engineering building at Fort Meade. It
was a cyber Skunk Works, akin to the special units that once built stealth
aircraft and drones. As Washington's need for hacking capabilities grew, T.A.O.
expanded into a separate office park in Laurel, Md., with additional teams at
facilities in Colorado, Georgia, Hawaii and Texas.

The hacking unit attracts many of the agency's young stars, who like the thrill
of internet break-ins in the name of national security, according to a dozen
former government officials who agreed to describe its work on the condition of
anonymity. T.A.O. analysts start with a shopping list of desired information and
likely sources -- say, a Chinese official's home computer or a Russian oil
company's network. Much of T.A.O.'s work is labeled E.C.I., for "exceptionally
controlled information," material so sensitive it was initially stored only in
safes. When the cumulative weight of the safes threatened the integrity of
N.S.A.'s engineering building a few years ago, one agency veteran said, the
rules were changed to allow locked file cabinets.

The more experienced T.A.O. operators devise ways to break into foreign
networks; junior operators take over to extract information. Mr. Williams, 40, a
former paramedic who served in military intelligence in the Army before joining
the N.S.A., worked in T.A.O. from 2008 to 2013, which he described as an
especially long tenure. He called the work "challenging and sometimes exciting."

T.A.O. operators must constantly renew their arsenal to stay abreast of changing
software and hardware, examining every Windows update and new iPhone for
vulnerabilities. "The nature of the business is to move with the technology," a
former T.A.O. hacker said.

Long known mainly as an eavesdropping agency, the N.S.A. has embraced hacking as
an especially productive way to spy on foreign targets. The intelligence
collection is often automated, with malware implants -- computer code designed
to find material of interest -- left sitting on the targeted system for months
or even years, sending files back to the N.S.A.

The same implant can be used for many purposes: to steal documents, tap into
email, subtly change data or become the launching pad for an attack. T.A.O.'s
most public success was an operation against Iran called Olympic Games, in which
implants in the network of the Natanz nuclear plant caused centrifuges enriching
uranium to self-destruct. The T.A.O. was also critical to attacks on the Islamic
State and North Korea.

It was this arsenal that the Shadow Brokers got hold of, and then began to
release.

Like cops studying a burglar's operating style and stash of stolen goods, N.S.A.
analysts have tried to figure out what the Shadow Brokers took. None of the
leaked files date from later than 2013 -- a relief to agency officials assessing
the damage. But they include a large share of T.A.O.'s collection, including
three so-called ops disks -- T.A.O.'s term for tool kits -- containing the
software to bypass computer firewalls, penetrate Windows and break into the
Linux systems most commonly used on Android phones.

Evidence shows that the Shadow Brokers obtained the entire tool kits intact,
suggesting that an insider might have simply pocketed a thumb drive and walked
out.

But other files obtained by the Shadow Brokers bore no relation to the ops disks
and seem to have been grabbed at different times. Some were designed for a
compromise by the N.S.A. of Swift, a global financial messaging system, allowing
the agency to track bank transfers. There was a manual for an old system
code-named UNITEDRAKE, used to attack Windows. There were PowerPoint
presentations and other files not used in hacking, making it unlikely that the
Shadow Brokers had simply grabbed tools left on the internet by sloppy N.S.A.
hackers.

Some officials doubt that the Shadow Brokers got it all by hacking the most
secure of American government agencies -- hence the search for insiders. But
some T.A.O. hackers think that skilled, persistent attackers might have been
able to get through the N.S.A.'s defenses -- because, as one put it, "I know
we've done it to other countries."

The Shadow Brokers have verbally attacked certain experts, including Mr.
Williams. When he concluded from their Twitter hints that they knew about some
of his hacks while at the N.S.A., he canceled a business trip to Singapore. The
United States had named and criminally charged hackers from the intelligence
agencies of China, Iran and Russia. He feared he could be similarly charged by a
country he had targeted and arrested on an international warrant.

He has since resumed traveling abroad. But he says no one from the N.S.A. has
contacted him about being singled out publicly by the Shadow Brokers.

"That feels like a betrayal," he said. "I was targeted by the Shadow Brokers
because of that work. I do not feel the government has my back."

The Hunt for an Insider

For decades after its creation in 1952, the N.S.A. -- No Such Agency, in the old
joke -- was seen as all but leakproof. But since Mr. Snowden flew away with
hundreds of thousands of documents in 2013, that notion has been shattered.

The Snowden trauma led to the investment of millions of dollars in new
technology and tougher rules to counter what the government calls the insider
threat. But N.S.A. employees say that with thousands of employees pouring in and
out of the gates, and the ability to store a library's worth of data in a device
that can fit on a key ring, it is impossible to prevent people from walking out
with secrets.

The agency has active investigations into at least three former N.S.A. employees
or contractors. Two had worked for T.A.O.: a still publicly unidentified
software developer secretly arrested after taking hacking tools home in 2015,
only to have Russian hackers lift them from his home computer; and Harold T.
Martin III, a contractor arrested last year when F.B.I. agents found his home,
garden shed and car stuffed with sensitive agency documents and storage devices
he had taken over many years when a work-at-home habit got out of control, his
lawyers say. The third is Reality Winner, a young N.S.A. linguist arrested in
June, who is charged with leaking to the news site The Intercept a single
classified report on a Russian breach of an American election systems vendor.

Mr. Martin's gargantuan collection of stolen files included much of what the
Shadow Brokers have, and he has been scrutinized by investigators as a possible
source for them. Officials say they do not believe he deliberately supplied the
material, though they have examined whether he might have been targeted by
thieves or hackers.

But according to former N.S.A. employees who are still in touch with active
workers, investigators of the Shadow Brokers thefts are clearly worried that one
or more leakers may still be inside the agency. Some T.A.O. employees have been
asked to turn over their passports, take time off their jobs and submit to
questioning. The small number of specialists who have worked both at T.A.O. and
at the C.I.A. have come in for particular attention, out of concern that a
single leaker might be responsible for both the Shadow Brokers and the C.I.A.'s
Vault7 breaches.

Then there are the Shadow Brokers' writings, which betray a seeming immersion in
American culture. Last April, about the time Mr. Williams was discovering their
inside knowledge of T.A.O. operations, the Shadow Brokers posted an appeal to
President Trump: "Don't Forget Your Base." With the ease of a seasoned pundit,
they tossed around details about Stephen K. Bannon, the president's now departed
adviser; the Freedom Caucus in Congress; the "deep state"; the Alien and
Sedition Acts; and white privilege.

"TheShadowBrokers is wanting to see you succeed," the post said, addressing Mr.
Trump. "TheShadowBrokers is wanting America to be great again."

The mole hunt is inevitably creating an atmosphere of suspicion and anxiety,
former employees say. While the attraction of the N.S.A. for skilled operators
is unique -- nowhere else can they hack without getting into legal trouble --
the boom in cybersecurity hiring by private companies gives T.A.O. veterans
lucrative exit options.

Young T.A.O. hackers are lucky to make $80,000 a year, while those who leave
routinely find jobs paying well over $100,000, security specialists say. For
many workers, the appeal of the N.S.A's mission has been more than enough to
make up the difference. But over the past year, former T.A.O. employees say an
increasing number of former colleagues have called them looking for
private-sector work, including "graybeards" they thought would be N.S.A. lifers.

"Snowden killed morale," another T.A.O. analyst said. "But at least we knew who
he was. Now you have a situation where the agency is questioning people who have
been 100 percent mission-oriented, telling them they're liars."

Because the N.S.A. hacking unit has grown so rapidly over the past decade, the
pool of potential leakers has expanded into the hundreds. Trust has eroded as
anyone who had access to the leaked code is regarded as the potential culprit.

Some agency veterans have seen projects they worked on for a decade shut down
because implants they relied on were dumped online by the Shadow Brokers. The
number of new operations has declined because the malware tools must be rebuilt.
And no end is in sight.

"How much longer are the releases going to come?" a former T.A.O. employee
asked. "The agency doesn't know how to stop it -- or even what 'it' is."

One N.S.A. official who almost saw his career ended by the Shadow Brokers is at
the very top of the organization: Adm. Michael S. Rogers, director of the N.S.A.
and commander of its sister military organization, United States Cyber Command.
President Barack Obama's director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper
Jr., and defense secretary, Ashton B. Carter, recommended removing Admiral
Rogers from his post to create accountability for the breaches.

But Mr. Obama did not act on the advice, in part because Admiral Rogers's agency
was at the center of the investigation into Russia's interference in the 2016
election. Mr. Trump, who again on Saturday disputed his intelligence agencies'
findings on Russia and the election, extended the admiral's time in office. Some
former intelligence officials say they are flabbergasted that he has been able
to hold on to his job.

A Shadow War With Russia?

Lurking in the background of the Shadow Brokers investigation is American
officials' strong belief that it is a Russian operation. The pattern of
dribbling out stolen documents over many months, they say, echoes the slow
release of Democratic emails purloined by Russian hackers last year.

But there is a more specific back story to the United States-Russia rivalry.

Starting in 2014, American security researchers who had been tracking Russia's
state-sponsored hacking groups for years began to expose them in a series of
research reports. American firms, including Symantec, CrowdStrike and FireEye,
reported that Moscow was behind certain attacks and identified
government-sponsored Russian hacking groups.

In the meantime, Russia's most prominent cybersecurity firm, Kaspersky Lab, had
started work on a report that would turn the tables on the United States.
Kaspersky hunted for the spying malware planted by N.S.A. hackers, guided in
part by the keywords and code names in the files taken by Mr. Snowden and
published by journalists, officials said.

Kaspersky was, in a sense, simply doing to the N.S.A. what the American
companies had just done to Russian intelligence: expose their operations. And
American officials believe Russian intelligence was piggybacking on Kaspersky's
efforts to find and retrieve the N.S.A.'s secrets wherever they could be found.
The T.A.O. hackers knew that when Kaspersky updated its popular antivirus
software to find and block the N.S.A. malware, it could thwart spying operations
around the world.

So T.A.O. personnel rushed to replace implants in many countries with new
malware they did not believe the Russian company could detect.

In February 2015, Kaspersky published its report on the Equation Group -- the
company's name for T.A.O. hackers -- and updated its antivirus software to
uproot the N.S.A. malware wherever it had not been replaced. The agency
temporarily lost access to a considerable flow of intelligence. By some
accounts, however, N.S.A. officials were relieved that the Kaspersky report did
not include certain tools they feared the Russian company had found.

As it would turn out, any celebration was premature.

On Aug. 13 last year, a new Twitter account using the Shadow Brokers' name
announced with fanfare an online auction of stolen N.S.A. hacking tools.

"We hack Equation Group," the Shadow Brokers wrote. "We find many many Equation
Group cyber weapons."

Inside the N.S.A., the declaration was like a bomb exploding. A zip file posted
online contained the first free sample of the agency's hacking tools. It was
immediately evident that the Shadow Brokers were not hoaxsters, and that the
agency was in trouble.

The leaks have renewed a debate over whether the N.S.A. should be permitted to
stockpile vulnerabilities it discovers in commercial software to use for spying
-- rather than immediately alert software makers so the holes can be plugged.
The agency claims it has shared with the industry more than 90 percent of flaws
it has found, reserving only the most valuable for its own hackers. But if it
can't keep those from leaking, as the last year has demonstrated, the resulting
damage to businesses and ordinary computer users around the world can be
colossal. The Trump administration says it will soon announce revisions to the
system, making it more transparent.

Mr. Williams said it may be years before the "full fallout" of the Shadow
Brokers breach is understood. Even the arrest of whoever is responsible for the
leaks may not end them, he said -- because the sophisticated perpetrators may
have built a "dead man's switch" to release all remaining files automatically
upon their arrest.

"We're obviously dealing with people who have operational security knowledge,"
he said. "They have the whole law enforcement system and intelligence system
after them. And they haven't been caught."

PHOTOS: Jake Williams, an ex-N.S.A. hacker. A hacking group targeted him after
he wrote about it. "I felt like I'd been kicked in the gut," he said. "Whoever
wrote this either was a well-placed insider or had stolen a lot of operational
data." (PHOTOGRAPH BY DUSTIN CHAMBERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); Harold T.
Mar- tin III, an N.S.A. contractor, was arrested last year when sensi- tive
documents were found on his property.; The Moscow headquarters of Kaspersky Lab,
a Russian cybersecurity firm that hunted for N.S.A. malware. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
KIRILL KUDRYAVTSEV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A14); The N.S.A.'s
headquarters at Fort Meade in Maryland. The Shadow Brokers, a mysterious hacking
group, has mocked the N.S.A. in regular online posts, left, and released the
N.S.A.'s stolen hacking tools in a "monthly dump service." (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO
SCALZO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A14-A15)

Related Articles


     ·    Malware Case Is Major Blow for the N.S.A.
     ·    A Cyberattack 'the World Isn't Ready For'
     ·    'Shadow Brokers' Leak Raises Alarming Question: Was the N.S.A. Hacked?


LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 12, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Welcome to Dubai. Now, Please, Stop Holding Hands.

BYLINE: By ROD NORDLAND.

Follow Rod Nordland on Twitter: @rodnordland

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1414 words


DUBAI, United Arab Emirates -- A Scottish electrician named Jamie Harron,
visiting Dubai as a tourist, was sentenced to three months in jail for touching
a man in a bar.

The British head of a professional soccer team, David Haigh, was ordered jailed
for seven months for a tweet that he says could not have been from him -- since
he was already in jail without a phone.

An Australian aid worker living in Dubai, Scott Richards, was locked up for
trying to raise money to buy blankets for freezing Afghan children, because he
was not part of a recognized charity.

Dubai, one of the seven United Arab Emirates, portrays itself as welcoming to
foreigners. Its boosters claim it is the fourth most-visited tourism destination
in the world, and it has at least 12 times as many foreign residents as
citizens.

But a legal system based on a hard-line interpretation of Shariah law often
lands foreigners in jail for offenses that few Westerners would dream were even
crimes.

Recent examples cited by lawyers include holding hands in public; posting praise
on Facebook for a charity opposed to fox hunting; drinking alcohol without a
license; and sharing a hotel room with a person of the opposite sex (other than
one's spouse).

[Video: An official video promoting tourism in Dubai.  Watch on YouTube.]

Mostly, the Dubai authorities look the other way when it comes to such behavior
by foreigners -- until they don't. Hotels do not ask couples for their marriage
licenses. Dubai has a lively night life, with numerous gay bars and nightclubs
where East European prostitutes openly solicit customers.

Yet cohabitation is a crime, homosexuality is subject to the death penalty
(though it is rarely imposed) and prostitution can be punished with lashes and
even worse.

Even victims of violent crimes can be accused of morality offenses: Gay people
who report assaults have been jailed along with their attackers, and women who
report being raped can be imprisoned for adultery if they do not have four male
witnesses to support their story.

Radha Stirling, a British lawyer, says she has represented hundreds of
Westerners who have been jailed in Dubai for behavior that is usually permitted
there.

''You go there and its facade is that all of this is legal, everyone is doing
it, you think it's O.K.,'' said Ms. Stirling, who runs a British-based group,
Detained in Dubai, that publicizes such cases. ''But you offend someone and
you're the one who gets it.''

Two recent cases, both handled by Ms. Stirling, have aroused widespread ire in
Britain, which has more nationals living in Dubai than any other Western
country.

Mr. Harron, 27, the Scottish electrician visiting Dubai, was arrested and
sentenced to three months in jail for public indecency for allegedly touching a
man's hip as he brushed past him in a crowded bar. And a British man from
Leicester, Jamil Ahmed Mukadam, 23, is facing trial for giving the middle finger
to a Dubai driver who he said was tailgating him.

Mr. Mukadam, a computer consultant, had been in a rental car, so it took the
police a while to trace him. But six months later, in September, he was arrested
at the airport upon returning to Dubai. He is now free on bail, without his
passport, awaiting trial.

He could face six months in jail if convicted of making the ''obscene gesture.''
Mr. Mukadam said he had often visited Dubai with his wife and that he liked the
city, particularly its variety of halal food, but does not plan to return.

''No chance I'm coming back here again,'' he said. ''I wouldn't set foot here
again, not the way I've been treated.''

Emiratis are mostly unapologetic about their country's contradictions.

''Westerners' culture differs from Arab culture,'' Judge Ahmad Saif, head of the
Dubai civil court, said in a recent interview with The National, a newspaper
based in Abu Dhabi. ''In their countries, flashing your middle finger or
insulting another is not acceptable but it is not punishable by the law. The
culture for people living in the U.A.E. is much different. At the end of the
day, we are Muslims and committing such acts is not acceptable.''

Most cases that ensnare unwary foreigners involve morality offenses. It is
against the law to drink without a license, for instance, but foreigners can
only get one if they are residents. So any tourist who is drinking is doing so
illegally, even in a licensed bar. Couples cannot share a room together if they
are not married, even in their homes.

When Emlyn Culverwell, a 29-year-old South African, took his fiancée, Iryna
Nohal, a Ukrainian, to a doctor in Dubai, complaining of stomach pain, the
diagnosis was pregnancy -- and the treatment was a phone call to the police. The
couple were arrested and jailed when they could not produce a marriage license.

Some Emiratis acknowledge that their laws have not kept pace with a rapidly
changing society.

''It is unreasonable to expect a country to warn each and every visitor about
its complete set of rules and regulations in place,'' Essam Tamimi, a Dubai
lawyer, said in an email. ''In a short period of time, Dubai has greatly
developed and has become one of the world's most diverse melting pots. That
being said, laws in general are made to accommodate the society's needs and the
U.A.E., like most other countries, still has some changes to make.''

Dubai officials did not respond to requests for comment for this article.

Critics complain that the Emirates' legal system is stacked against foreigners,
and both Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have accused the country
of arbitrary detention and abuse of prisoners.

Mr. Haigh, a former managing director of Leeds United Football Club and a
partner in Ms. Stirling's law firm, said he was jailed for 22 months and
tortured repeatedly in an attempt to force him to sign a confession, but never
managed to see a copy of the charges to which he was supposed to confess.

Mr. Haigh had gotten into a business dispute with a Dubai bank, GFH Capital,
that owned a stake in the team. He said he was tricked into coming to Dubai to
resolve their differences, then jailed on arrival for breach of trust and held
for several months without being allowed to see a lawyer.

While in jail, he was charged with posting an offensive Twitter message, though
he says he had no phone or internet access. For that, his sentence was increased
by seven months. He was eventually acquitted of the Twitter charge, but not
until he had served another seven months on top of his original 15 month
sentence.

''Ninety percent of the population are breaking the law 90 percent of the time
and no one does anything against them until they upset the wrong person and they
get arrested,'' Mr. Haigh said of Dubai.

In recent years, the United Arab Emirates has cracked down on social media,
making it a crime to criticize the country, its citizens or businesses on
Facebook or Twitter. The law has mainly been used to punish domestic critics,
but it also swept up Ryan Pate, a helicopter mechanic from Florida, who was
jailed after he unleashed a Facebook rant over a sick leave dispute with his
employer, Global Aerospace Logistics, a U.A.E. company.

[Video: Ryan Pate, who was accused of cyber slander by Abu Dhabi authorities, is
back home in Tampa Bay Watch on YouTube.]

Foreign residents and tourists encounter similar problems throughout the
Emirates -- Mr. Pate's company was based in Abu Dhabi -- but they are more
common in Dubai because more Westerners live and visit there.

Other offenses that few foreigners realize can lead to jail time include passing
a bad check, even accidentally; failing to pay a credit-card bill on time;
taking a photograph of someone without his or her permission; and touching
someone.

That was the accusation against Mr. Harron: that he had touched a man intimately
in a public place, the Rock Bottom Cafe, a club frequented by gay men. He says
he was just pushing through a crowd and put a hand on the man's hip to avoid
spilling his drink.

He was sentenced to three months in jail, although he was allowed to leave the
country after the ruler of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum,
nullified the court's ruling. Heavy publicity has often helped resolve such
cases, even when legally they looked hopeless.

''The U.A.E. government is just a huge public relations entity,'' Ms. Stirling
said. ''If they think a case is going to harm them, the government will speak to
the police and get the charges dropped.''




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/11/world/middleeast/dubai-crimes-united-arab-emi
rates-jail.html

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A restaurant in the Marina neighborhood in Dubai. A legal
system based on a hard-line interpretation of Shariah law can mean jail
sentences for offenses like making an obscene gesture. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAMRAN
JEBREILI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Jamie Harron of Scotland, top, was jailed for touching a man in a Dubai bar.
Jamil Mukadam, above, a Briton, is accused of making an obscene gesture.
 The fountain at Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest building, in Dubai. As the
emirate has grown into a top tourism destination, some in Dubai admit that its
laws have not kept pace with a changing society.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 13, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

Foiling Cyberspies on Business Trips

BYLINE: JULIE WEED

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1130 words



HIGHLIGHT: Intellectual property theft is not new, but it's more widespread,
experts say, thanks to tiny cameras and microphones or compromised Wi-Fi
networks.


The admonitions to business travelers headed to other countries should be
familiar by now: Keep your laptop with you at all times. Stay off public Wi-Fi
networks. Don't send unencrypted files over the internet.

But not all travelers are heeding them, and many are unaware of the foreign
hackers and state-sponsored spies who are taking advantage of their lax security
practices.

"There's a difficult intersection between convenience and security," said
Samantha Ravich, who studies cyber-enabled economic warfare at the Foundation
for Defense of Democracies, a policy institute focusing on national security. It
takes more time to work abroad in the most secure way, and she said she would
"often see executives hanging their head somewhat sheepishly when I ask who in
the room follows all the security protocols."

The theft of technical product specifications, investment plans, research on
mergers and acquisitions, marketing plans and other information can have
consequences beyond loss of revenue and market position, Ms. Ravich told the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee this year. She described potential
large-scale effects of state-sponsored economic warfare, which, she said, could
disrupt the delivery of items crucial for manufacturing, malware incidents that
could disrupt travel and cyberattacks that could force companies to shut down
their websites.

The problem of intellectual property theft is not new, but it is now much more
widespread. "Placing listening devices in conference rooms, hotels and
restaurants is traditional Espionage 101," Ms. Ravich said. But with tools like
tiny inexpensive cameras and microphones or compromised Wi-Fi networks,
corporate or state-sponsored industrial espionage "can be done cheaply and at
scale," she said.

Multiple microphones in a conference center, for instance, can be recording
constantly, and those recordings can be fed into natural language processing
software trained to flag certain words and report those conversations. "It's not
just a guy with headphones listening in the next room anymore," Ms. Ravich said.

Communicating over the internet while overseas can be especially fraught, said
Nicole Miller, an independent consultant in San Francisco who helps companies
communicate with employees and customers on cybersecurity issues. "Assume any
data, any information you transmit can be taken by a hacker, nation-state or
another business," she said. "These are not pedestrian tools they are using.
They are extremely sophisticated."

Physical security of phones, tablets and laptops is as important as
cyberprotection, Ms. Miller said. "Don't leave your laptop or papers in your
hotel room when you go out," she said. A hotel room safe should not even be
considered secure.

Ms. Miller said she advised travelers to create complex passwords for their
devices and all of their online accounts, to use two-factor authentication
whenever possible and to avoid plugging other people's USB drives or other
external hardware into their computers.

Laptops should also be wiped clean of any data and software at the end of the
trip, she said. "Your device could have been altered, your data could have been
altered," without your realizing it, Ms. Miller said.

Sometimes circumstances beyond travelers' control expose their information, as
when customs officers in another country seize a person's device and copy its
contents, she said. "That's why any information not absolutely required for a
trip should remain at the office," Ms. Miller said.

"And don't tell your colleague about your great meeting while you are in the
back of a taxi or in a restaurant," she said, because you never know who is
listening. Some businesspeople at a foreign conference go so far as to wear
buttons telling people not to speak out loud about their intellectual property.

Stanford University and Microsoft are among educational institutions and
companies that supply comprehensive precaution and instruction lists to their
employees who travel abroad.

Maureen Sharma travels regularly to Asia as part of her work for Mullally
International, a small product development company in Seattle. Some unsettling
incidents, she said, have made her more cautious when she travels abroad.

"I often get more spam and strange emails that look like they are from me with
attachments," when returning from her business trips. Once, Ms. Sharma said, she
received an email that looked as if it were from a Chinese factory she was
working with, asking her to send the next payment to a new bank account.
"Luckily, I called to confirm, because the factory had not sent that email," she
said.

Ms. Sharma said she makes sure never to bring sensitive information on her
laptop and changes all her passwords every time she returns home from any trip
abroad.

The same risks may apply to businesspeople staying in hotels in the United
States. When the Chinese company Anbang purchased the Waldorf Astoria in New
York, President Barack Obama stopped having meetings there over cybersecurity
concerns. Business, military and government information is being targeted for
industrial espionage, said Evan Anderson, chief executive of Invnt/IP, a group
dedicated to combating nation-sponsored intellectual property theft, who writes
about intellectual property security for the Strategic News Service website. "So
shouldn't we take the same precautions at home as we would abroad?"

Mr. Anderson said he created a map of Chinese-owned hotels around the world in
2016 and was surprised by how many they were, including some in Silicon Valley
where technology companies hold meetings. "Most people don't realize that an
individual Four Seasons hotel, Ritz-Carlton, or many other brands can be owned
by a Chinese company with close ties to the Chinese government," he said.

Of course, listening, spying and hacking can happen no matter who owns a hotel
or where a meeting is. "The internet has no borders," Ms. Miller said. "You
could be hacked in another country or the U.S., and you have no idea where that
person is."

Ms. Ravich agreed. "There is a glaring disconnect between how critical this is,
and how seriously people take it," she said. One reason is that the theft of
information, data or plans may go unnoticed, unlike the theft of a physical
laptop. It is also hard to connect a cyberattack on a company to a specific trip
taken by a specific employee.

Companies need to place better controls on the hardware they issue, like laptops
and cellphones, Ms. Ravich said, so the devices automatically send only
encrypted data, require strong passwords and use cellular connections rather
than the local Wi-Fi. To really improve or "harden" cybersecurity for business
travelers, she said, companies need to take human behavior out of the equation.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL WARAKSA)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 13, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deep Security Breach Cripples N.S.A.

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE, NICOLE PERLROTH and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3710 words


WASHINGTON -- Jake Williams awoke last April in an Orlando, Fla., hotel where he
was leading a training session. Checking Twitter, Mr. Williams, a cybersecurity
expert, was dismayed to discover that he had been thrust into the middle of one
of the worst security debacles ever to befall American intelligence.

Mr. Williams had written on his company blog about the Shadow Brokers, a
mysterious group that had somehow obtained many of the hacking tools the United
States used to spy on other countries. Now the group had replied in an angry
screed on Twitter. It identified him -- correctly -- as a former member of the
National Security Agency's hacking group, Tailored Access Operations, or T.A.O.,
a job he had not publicly disclosed. Then the Shadow Brokers astonished him by
dropping technical details that made clear they knew about highly classified
hacking operations that he had conducted.

America's largest and most secretive intelligence agency had been deeply
infiltrated.

''They had operational insight that even most of my fellow operators at T.A.O.
did not have,'' said Mr. Williams, now with Rendition Infosec, a cybersecurity
firm he founded. ''I felt like I'd been kicked in the gut. Whoever wrote this
either was a well-placed insider or had stolen a lot of operational data.''

The jolt to Mr. Williams from the Shadow Brokers' riposte was part of a much
broader earthquake that has shaken the N.S.A. to its core. Current and former
agency officials say the Shadow Brokers disclosures, which began in August 2016,
have been catastrophic for the N.S.A., calling into question its ability to
protect potent cyberweapons and its very value to national security. The agency
regarded as the world's leader in breaking into adversaries' computer networks
failed to protect its own.

''These leaks have been incredibly damaging to our intelligence and cyber
capabilities,'' said Leon E. Panetta, the former defense secretary and director
of the Central Intelligence Agency. ''The fundamental purpose of intelligence is
to be able to effectively penetrate our adversaries in order to gather vital
intelligence. By its very nature, that only works if secrecy is maintained and
our codes are protected.''

With a leak of intelligence methods like the N.S.A. tools, Mr. Panetta said,
''Every time it happens, you essentially have to start over.''

Fifteen months into a wide-ranging investigation by the agency's
counterintelligence arm, known as Q Group, and the F.B.I., officials still do
not know whether the N.S.A. is the victim of a brilliantly executed hack, with
Russia as the most likely perpetrator, an insider's leak, or both. Three
employees have been arrested since 2015 for taking classified files, but there
is fear that one or more leakers may still be in place. And there is broad
agreement that the damage from the Shadow Brokers already far exceeds the harm
to American intelligence done by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor
who fled with four laptops of classified material in 2013.

Mr. Snowden's cascade of disclosures to journalists and his defiant public
stance drew far more media coverage than this new breach. But Mr. Snowden
released code words, while the Shadow Brokers have released the actual code; if
he shared what might be described as battle plans, they have loosed the weapons
themselves. Created at huge expense to American taxpayers, those cyberweapons
have now been picked up by hackers from North Korea to Russia and shot back at
the United States and its allies.

Millions of people saw their computers shut down by ransomware, with demands for
payments in digital currency to have their access restored. Tens of thousands of
employees at Mondelez International, the maker of Oreo cookies, had their data
completely wiped. FedEx reported that an attack on a European subsidiary had
halted deliveries and cost $300 million. Hospitals in Pennsylvania, Britain and
Indonesia had to turn away patients. The attacks disrupted production at a car
plant in France, an oil company in Brazil and a chocolate factory in Tasmania,
among thousands of enterprises affected worldwide.

American officials had to explain to close allies -- and to business leaders in
the United States -- how cyberweapons developed at Fort Meade in Maryland came
to be used against them. Experts believe more attacks using the stolen N.S.A.
tools are all but certain.

Inside the agency's Maryland headquarters and its campuses around the country,
N.S.A. employees have been subjected to polygraphs and suspended from their jobs
in a hunt for turncoats allied with the Shadow Brokers. Much of the agency's
arsenal is still being replaced, curtailing operations. Morale has plunged, and
experienced specialists are leaving the agency for better-paying jobs --
including with firms defending computer networks from intrusions that use the
N.S.A.'s leaked tools.

''It's a disaster on multiple levels,'' Mr. Williams said. ''It's embarrassing
that the people responsible for this have not been brought to justice.''

In response to detailed questions, an N.S.A. spokesman, Michael T. Halbig, said
the agency ''cannot comment on Shadow Brokers.'' He denied that the episode had
hurt morale. ''N.S.A. continues to be viewed as a great place to work; we
receive more than 140,000 applications each year for our hiring program,'' he
said.

Compounding the pain for the N.S.A. is the attackers' regular online public
taunts, written in ersatz broken English. Their posts are a peculiar mash-up of
immaturity and sophistication, laced with profane jokes but also savvy cultural
and political references. They suggest that their author -- if not an American
-- knows the United States well.

''Is NSA chasing shadowses?'' the Shadow Brokers asked in a post on Oct. 16,
mocking the agency's inability to understand the leaks and announcing a price
cut for subscriptions to its ''monthly dump service'' of stolen N.S.A. tools. It
was a typically wide-ranging screed, touching on George Orwell's ''1984''; the
end of the federal government's fiscal year on Sept. 30; Russia's creation of
bogus accounts on Facebook and Twitter; and the phenomenon of American
intelligence officers going to work for contractors who pay higher salaries.

One passage, possibly hinting at the Shadow Brokers' identity, underscored the
close relationship of Russian intelligence to criminal hackers. ''Russian
security peoples,'' it said, ''is becoming Russian hackeres at nights, but only
full moons.''

Russia is the prime suspect in a parallel hemorrhage of hacking tools and secret
documents from the C.I.A.'s Center for Cyber Intelligence, posted week after
week since March to the WikiLeaks website under the names Vault7 and Vault8.
That breach, too, is unsolved. Together, the flood of digital secrets from
agencies that invest huge resources in preventing such breaches is raising
profound questions.

Have hackers and leakers made secrecy obsolete? Has Russian intelligence simply
outplayed the United States, penetrating the most closely guarded corners of its
government? Can a work force of thousands of young, tech-savvy spies ever be
immune to leaks?

Some veteran intelligence officials believe a lopsided focus on offensive
weapons and hacking tools has, for years, left American cyberdefense dangerously
porous.

''We have had a train wreck coming,'' said Mike McConnell, the former N.S.A.
director and national intelligence director. ''We should have ratcheted up the
defense parts significantly.''

America's Cyber Special Forces

At the heart of the N.S.A. crisis is Tailored Access Operations, the group where
Mr. Williams worked, which was absorbed last year into the agency's new
Directorate of Operations.

T.A.O. -- the outdated name is still used informally -- began years ago as a
side project at the agency's research and engineering building at Fort Meade. It
was a cyber Skunk Works, akin to the special units that once built stealth
aircraft and drones. As Washington's need for hacking capabilities grew, T.A.O.
expanded into a separate office park in Laurel, Md., with additional teams at
facilities in Colorado, Georgia, Hawaii and Texas.

The hacking unit attracts many of the agency's young stars, who like the thrill
of internet break-ins in the name of national security, according to a dozen
former government officials who agreed to describe its work on the condition of
anonymity. T.A.O. analysts start with a shopping list of desired information and
likely sources -- say, a Chinese official's home computer or a Russian oil
company's network. Much of T.A.O.'s work is labeled E.C.I., for ''exceptionally
controlled information,'' material so sensitive it was initially stored only in
safes. When the cumulative weight of the safes threatened the integrity of
N.S.A.'s engineering building a few years ago, one agency veteran said, the
rules were changed to allow locked file cabinets.

The more experienced T.A.O. operators devise ways to break into foreign
networks; junior operators take over to extract information. Mr. Williams, 40, a
former paramedic who served in military intelligence in the Army before joining
the N.S.A., worked in T.A.O. from 2008 to 2013, which he described as an
especially long tenure. He called the work ''challenging and sometimes
exciting.''

T.A.O. operators must constantly renew their arsenal to stay abreast of changing
software and hardware, examining every Windows update and new iPhone for
vulnerabilities. ''The nature of the business is to move with the technology,''
a former T.A.O. hacker said.

Long known mainly as an eavesdropping agency, the N.S.A. has embraced hacking as
an especially productive way to spy on foreign targets. The intelligence
collection is often automated, with malware implants -- computer code designed
to find material of interest -- left sitting on the targeted system for months
or even years, sending files back to the N.S.A.

The same implant can be used for many purposes: to steal documents, tap into
email, subtly change data or become the launching pad for an attack. T.A.O.'s
most public success was an operation against Iran called Olympic Games, in which
implants in the network of the Natanz nuclear plant caused centrifuges enriching
uranium to self-destruct. The T.A.O. was also critical to attacks on the Islamic
State and North Korea.

It was this arsenal that the Shadow Brokers got hold of, and then began to
release.

Like cops studying a burglar's operating style and stash of stolen goods, N.S.A.
analysts have tried to figure out what the Shadow Brokers took. None of the
leaked files date from later than 2013 -- a relief to agency officials assessing
the damage. But they include a large share of T.A.O.'s collection, including
three so-called ops disks -- T.A.O.'s term for tool kits -- containing the
software to bypass computer firewalls, penetrate Windows and break into the
Linux systems most commonly used on Android phones.

Evidence shows that the Shadow Brokers obtained the entire tool kits intact,
suggesting that an insider might have simply pocketed a thumb drive and walked
out.

But other files obtained by the Shadow Brokers bore no relation to the ops disks
and seem to have been grabbed at different times. Some were designed for a
compromise by the N.S.A. of Swift, a global financial messaging system, allowing
the agency to track bank transfers. There was a manual for an old system
code-named UNITEDRAKE, used to attack Windows. There were PowerPoint
presentations and other files not used in hacking, making it unlikely that the
Shadow Brokers had simply grabbed tools left on the internet by sloppy N.S.A.
hackers.

Some officials doubt that the Shadow Brokers got it all by hacking the most
secure of American government agencies -- hence the search for insiders. But
some T.A.O. hackers think that skilled, persistent attackers might have been
able to get through the N.S.A.'s defenses -- because, as one put it, ''I know
we've done it to other countries.''

The Shadow Brokers have verbally attacked certain experts, including Mr.
Williams. When he concluded from their Twitter hints that they knew about some
of his hacks while at the N.S.A., he canceled a business trip to Singapore. The
United States had named and criminally charged hackers from the intelligence
agencies of China, Iran and Russia. He feared he could be similarly charged by a
country he had targeted and arrested on an international warrant.

He has since resumed traveling abroad. But he says no one from the N.S.A. has
contacted him about being singled out publicly by the Shadow Brokers.

''That feels like a betrayal,'' he said. ''I was targeted by the Shadow Brokers
because of that work. I do not feel the government has my back.''

The Hunt for an Insider

For decades after its creation in 1952, the N.S.A. -- No Such Agency, in the old
joke -- was seen as all but leakproof. But since Mr. Snowden flew away with
hundreds of thousands of documents in 2013, that notion has been shattered.

The Snowden trauma led to the investment of millions of dollars in new
technology and tougher rules to counter what the government calls the insider
threat. But N.S.A. employees say that with thousands of employees pouring in and
out of the gates, and the ability to store a library's worth of data in a device
that can fit on a key ring, it is impossible to prevent people from walking out
with secrets.

The agency has active investigations into at least three former N.S.A. employees
or contractors. Two had worked for T.A.O.: a still publicly unidentified
software developer secretly arrested after taking hacking tools home in 2015,
only to have Russian hackers lift them from his home computer; and Harold T.
Martin III, a contractor arrested last year when F.B.I. agents found his home,
garden shed and car stuffed with sensitive agency documents and storage devices
he had taken over many years when a work-at-home habit got out of control, his
lawyers say. The third is Reality Winner, a young N.S.A. linguist arrested in
June, who is charged with leaking to the news site The Intercept a single
classified report on a Russian breach of an American election systems vendor.

Mr. Martin's gargantuan collection of stolen files included much of what the
Shadow Brokers have, and he has been scrutinized by investigators as a possible
source for them. Officials say they do not believe he deliberately supplied the
material, though they have examined whether he might have been targeted by
thieves or hackers.

But according to former N.S.A. employees who are still in touch with active
workers, investigators of the Shadow Brokers thefts are clearly worried that one
or more leakers may still be inside the agency. Some T.A.O. employees have been
asked to turn over their passports, take time off their jobs and submit to
questioning. The small number of specialists who have worked both at T.A.O. and
at the C.I.A. have come in for particular attention, out of concern that a
single leaker might be responsible for both the Shadow Brokers and the C.I.A.'s
Vault7 breaches.

Then there are the Shadow Brokers' writings, which betray a seeming immersion in
American culture. Last April, about the time Mr. Williams was discovering their
inside knowledge of T.A.O. operations, the Shadow Brokers posted an appeal to
President Trump: ''Don't Forget Your Base.'' With the ease of a seasoned pundit,
they tossed around details about Stephen K. Bannon, the president's now departed
adviser; the Freedom Caucus in Congress; the ''deep state''; the Alien and
Sedition Acts; and white privilege.

''TheShadowBrokers is wanting to see you succeed,'' the post said, addressing
Mr. Trump. ''TheShadowBrokers is wanting America to be great again.''

The mole hunt is inevitably creating an atmosphere of suspicion and anxiety,
former employees say. While the attraction of the N.S.A. for skilled operators
is unique -- nowhere else can they hack without getting into legal trouble --
the boom in cybersecurity hiring by private companies gives T.A.O. veterans
lucrative exit options.

Young T.A.O. hackers are lucky to make $80,000 a year, while those who leave
routinely find jobs paying well over $100,000, security specialists say. For
many workers, the appeal of the N.S.A's mission has been more than enough to
make up the difference. But over the past year, former T.A.O. employees say an
increasing number of former colleagues have called them looking for
private-sector work, including ''graybeards'' they thought would be N.S.A.
lifers.

''Snowden killed morale,'' another T.A.O. analyst said. ''But at least we knew
who he was. Now you have a situation where the agency is questioning people who
have been 100 percent mission-oriented, telling them they're liars.''

Because the N.S.A. hacking unit has grown so rapidly over the past decade, the
pool of potential leakers has expanded into the hundreds. Trust has eroded as
anyone who had access to the leaked code is regarded as the potential culprit.

Some agency veterans have seen projects they worked on for a decade shut down
because implants they relied on were dumped online by the Shadow Brokers. The
number of new operations has declined because the malware tools must be rebuilt.
And no end is in sight.

''How much longer are the releases going to come?'' a former T.A.O. employee
asked. ''The agency doesn't know how to stop it -- or even what 'it' is.''

One N.S.A. official who almost saw his career ended by the Shadow Brokers is at
the very top of the organization: Adm. Michael S. Rogers, director of the N.S.A.
and commander of its sister military organization, United States Cyber Command.
President Barack Obama's director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper
Jr., and defense secretary, Ashton B. Carter, recommended removing Admiral
Rogers from his post to create accountability for the breaches.

But Mr. Obama did not act on the advice, in part because Admiral Rogers's agency
was at the center of the investigation into Russia's interference in the 2016
election. Mr. Trump, who again on Saturday disputed his intelligence agencies'
findings on Russia and the election, extended the admiral's time in office. Some
former intelligence officials say they are flabbergasted that he has been able
to hold on to his job.

A Shadow War With Russia?

Lurking in the background of the Shadow Brokers investigation is American
officials' strong belief that it is a Russian operation. The pattern of
dribbling out stolen documents over many months, they say, echoes the slow
release of Democratic emails purloined by Russian hackers last year.

But there is a more specific back story to the United States-Russia rivalry.

Starting in 2014, American security researchers who had been tracking Russia's
state-sponsored hacking groups for years began to expose them in a series of
research reports. American firms, including Symantec, CrowdStrike and FireEye,
reported that Moscow was behind certain attacks and identified
government-sponsored Russian hacking groups.

In the meantime, Russia's most prominent cybersecurity firm, Kaspersky Lab, had
started work on a report that would turn the tables on the United States.
Kaspersky hunted for the spying malware planted by N.S.A. hackers, guided in
part by the keywords and code names in the files taken by Mr. Snowden and
published by journalists, officials said.

Kaspersky was, in a sense, simply doing to the N.S.A. what the American
companies had just done to Russian intelligence: expose their operations. And
American officials believe Russian intelligence was piggybacking on Kaspersky's
efforts to find and retrieve the N.S.A.'s secrets wherever they could be found.
The T.A.O. hackers knew that when Kaspersky updated its popular antivirus
software to find and block the N.S.A. malware, it could thwart spying operations
around the world.

So T.A.O. personnel rushed to replace implants in many countries with new
malware they did not believe the Russian company could detect.

In February 2015, Kaspersky published its report on the Equation Group -- the
company's name for T.A.O. hackers -- and updated its antivirus software to
uproot the N.S.A. malware wherever it had not been replaced. The agency
temporarily lost access to a considerable flow of intelligence. By some
accounts, however, N.S.A. officials were relieved that the Kaspersky report did
not include certain tools they feared the Russian company had found.

As it would turn out, any celebration was premature.

On Aug. 13 last year, a new Twitter account using the Shadow Brokers' name
announced with fanfare an online auction of stolen N.S.A. hacking tools.

''We hack Equation Group,'' the Shadow Brokers wrote. ''We find many many
Equation Group cyber weapons.''

Inside the N.S.A., the declaration was like a bomb exploding. A zip file posted
online contained the first free sample of the agency's hacking tools. It was
immediately evident that the Shadow Brokers were not hoaxsters, and that the
agency was in trouble.

The leaks have renewed a debate over whether the N.S.A. should be permitted to
stockpile vulnerabilities it discovers in commercial software to use for spying
-- rather than immediately alert software makers so the holes can be plugged.
The agency claims it has shared with the industry more than 90 percent of flaws
it has found, reserving only the most valuable for its own hackers. But if it
can't keep those from leaking, as the last year has demonstrated, the resulting
damage to businesses and ordinary computer users around the world can be
colossal. The Trump administration says it will soon announce revisions to the
system, making it more transparent.

Mr. Williams said it may be years before the ''full fallout'' of the Shadow
Brokers breach is understood. Even the arrest of whoever is responsible for the
leaks may not end them, he said -- because the sophisticated perpetrators may
have built a ''dead man's switch'' to release all remaining files automatically
upon their arrest.

''We're obviously dealing with people who have operational security knowledge,''
he said. ''They have the whole law enforcement system and intelligence system
after them. And they haven't been caught.''




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/12/us/nsa-shadow-brokers.html

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jake Williams, an ex-N.S.A. hacker. A hacking group targeted
him after he wrote about it. ''I felt like I'd been kicked in the gut,'' he
said. ''Whoever wrote this either was a well-placed insider or had stolen a lot
of operational data." (PHOTOGRAPH BY DUSTIN CHAMBERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A1)
Harold T. Mar- tin III, an N.S.A. contractor, was arrested last year when sensi-
tive documents were found on his property.
The Moscow headquarters of Kaspersky Lab, a Russian cybersecurity firm that
hunted for N.S.A. malware. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRILL KUDRYAVTSEV/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A14)
 The N.S.A.'s headquarters at Fort Meade in Maryland. The Shadow Brokers, a
mysterious hacking group, has mocked the N.S.A. in regular online posts, left,
and released the N.S.A.'s stolen hacking tools in a ''monthly dump service.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A14-A15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 14, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

British Cybersecurity Chief Warns of Russian Hacking

BYLINE: DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 700 words



HIGHLIGHT: The chief of the National Cyber Security Center said Russia recently
tried to hack into Britain's energy, media and telecommunications industries.


LONDON -- Russian hackers over the past 12 months have tried to attack the
British energy, telecommunications and media industries, the government's top
cybersecurity official said Tuesday in a summary of a speech to be delivered on
Wednesday.

The warning, by Ciaran Martin, chief of the National Cyber Security Center, is
the strongest indication yet that Russian cyberattacks on Western governments
and industries may be far more persistent than United States or British
officials have previously acknowledged.

The speech also appeared to fit into a coordinated effort by the British
government to publicly warn Russia that its efforts have been noticed. In a
speech on Monday night, Prime Minister Theresa May addressed Russia directly.
"We know what you are doing," Mrs. May said. "And you will not succeed." She
accused the Kremlin of "threatening the international order on which we all
depend."

Taken together, the two speeches are a sharp escalation in the public
accusations around a conflict that has so far remained mostly in the shadows.
Recent high-profile cyberattacks, however, have put new pressure on politicians
to defend against the dangers.

The most spectacular example is the break into the computer systems of the
American Democratic Party during the 2016 presidential campaign, an attack
American intelligence agencies have attributed to Russian hackers.

But Britain this year was hit by the so-called WannaCry cyberattack, carried out
by North Korea. It temporarily disabled the computer systems at several British
hospitals, forcing the diversion of ambulances and the rescheduling of
operations, before it was stopped by the lucky break of a lone amateur who
successfully defused it.

American government officials also reportedly concluded over the summer that
Russia had penetratedthe computer networks of companies that operate nuclear
power stations and other energy facilities, evidently gathering information and
probing for vulnerabilities. No operations were disrupted.

The Russians also reportedly tried to break into the Irish electrical grid last
summer, and British officials warned at the time that they appeared to be
singling out British power companies as well. Russian hackers have successfully
shut down power for a time in parts ofUkraine, which the Russians appear to
treat as laboratory for testing such tactics.

British and American intelligence officials say the Kremlin has deliberately
cultivated a cottage industry of criminal hackers loosely affiliated with
Russian intelligence agencies. Russian intelligence officials sometimes
personally profit from the revenue from cybercrimes, and at other times they
direct the hackers toward sabotage, espionage or other less lucrative
objectives.

Among other victories, the Russians appear to have collaborated with a group
calling itself Shadow Brokers to release a trove of cyberespionage tactics
stolen from the computers of the National Security Agency, including some
incorporated in the WannaCry virus that have now been used against Western
industries and governments.

The summary released Tuesday of Mr. Martin's speech provided no details of the
specific Russian attacks over the last year on British energy,
telecommunications or media companies. Nor did the statement discuss any
possible Russian efforts to use social media or cyberespionage to influence
elections in Britain, as the Kremlin has recently sought to do in the United
States and France.

But Mr. Martin said that fears of Russian election meddling have grown
increasingly widespread throughout Europe. At a conference organized last month
by the National Cyber Security Center, he said, two-thirds of the member states
of the European Union were concerned about potential Russian interference in
their internal elections.

Related Articles


     ·    Security Breach and Spilled Secrets Have Shaken the N.S.A. to Its Core
     ·    Russian Election Hacking Efforts, Wider Than Previously Known, Draw
          Little Scrutiny
     ·    Russian Hackers Acted to Aid Trump in Election, U.S. Says
     ·    Britain Says North Korea Was Behind Cyberattack on Health Service
     ·    Hackers Are Targeting Nuclear Facilities, Homeland Security Dept. and
          F.B.I. Say
     ·    Hacks Raise Fear Over N.S.A.'s Hold on Cyberweapons


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 14, 2017 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Taking a Business Trip Without Giving Foreign Snoops Free Rein

BYLINE: By JULIE WEED

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1136 words


The admonitions to business travelers headed to other countries should be
familiar by now: Keep your laptop with you at all times. Stay off public Wi-Fi
networks. Don't send unencrypted files over the internet.

But not all travelers are heeding them, and many are unaware of the foreign
hackers and state-sponsored spies who are taking advantage of their lax security
practices.

''There's a difficult intersection between convenience and security,'' said
Samantha Ravich, who studies cyber-enabled economic warfare at the Foundation
for Defense of Democracies, a policy institute focusing on national security. It
takes more time to work abroad in the most secure way, and she said she would
''often see executives hanging their head somewhat sheepishly when I ask who in
the room follows all the security protocols.''

The theft of technical product specifications, investment plans, research on
mergers and acquisitions, marketing plans and other information can have
consequences beyond loss of revenue and market position, Ms. Ravich told the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee this year. She described potential
large-scale effects of state-sponsored economic warfare, which, she said, could
disrupt the delivery of items crucial for manufacturing, malware incidents that
could disrupt travel and cyberattacks that could force companies to shut down
their websites.

The problem of intellectual property theft is not new, but it is now much more
widespread. ''Placing listening devices in conference rooms, hotels and
restaurants is traditional Espionage 101,'' Ms. Ravich said. But with tools like
tiny inexpensive cameras and microphones or compromised Wi-Fi networks,
corporate or state-sponsored industrial espionage ''can be done cheaply and at
scale,'' she said.

Multiple microphones in a conference center, for instance, can be recording
constantly, and those recordings can be fed into natural language processing
software trained to flag certain words and report those conversations. ''It's
not just a guy with headphones listening in the next room anymore,'' Ms. Ravich
said.

Communicating over the internet while overseas can be especially fraught, said
Nicole Miller, an independent consultant in San Francisco who helps companies
communicate with employees and customers on cybersecurity issues. ''Assume any
data, any information you transmit can be taken by a hacker, nation-state or
another business,'' she said. ''These are not pedestrian tools they are using.
They are extremely sophisticated.''

Physical security of phones, tablets and laptops is as important as
cyberprotection, Ms. Miller said. ''Don't leave your laptop or papers in your
hotel room when you go out,'' she said. A hotel room safe should not even be
considered secure.

Ms. Miller said she advised travelers to create complex passwords for their
devices and all of their online accounts, to use two-factor authentication
whenever possible and to avoid plugging other people's USB drives or other
external hardware into their computers.

Laptops should also be wiped clean of any data and software at the end of the
trip, she said. ''Your device could have been altered, your data could have been
altered,'' without your realizing it, Ms. Miller said.

Sometimes circumstances beyond travelers' control expose their information, as
when customs officers in another country seize a person's device and copy its
contents, she said. ''That's why any information not absolutely required for a
trip should remain at the office,'' Ms. Miller said.

''And don't tell your colleague about your great meeting while you are in the
back of a taxi or in a restaurant,'' she said, because you never know who is
listening. Some businesspeople at a foreign conference go so far as to wear
buttons telling people not to speak out loud about their intellectual property.

Stanford University and Microsoft are among educational institutions and
companies that supply comprehensive precaution and instruction lists to their
employees who travel abroad.

Maureen Sharma travels regularly to Asia as part of her work for Mullally
International, a small product development company in Seattle. Some unsettling
incidents, she said, have made her more cautious when she travels abroad.

''I often get more spam and strange emails that look like they are from me with
attachments,'' when returning from her business trips. Once, Ms. Sharma said,
she received an email that looked as if it were from a Chinese factory she was
working with, asking her to send the next payment to a new bank account.
''Luckily, I called to confirm, because the factory had not sent that email,''
she said.

Ms. Sharma said she makes sure never to bring sensitive information on her
laptop and changes all her passwords every time she returns home from any trip
abroad.

The same risks may apply to businesspeople staying in hotels in the United
States. When the Chinese company Anbang purchased the Waldorf Astoria in New
York, President Barack Obama stopped having meetings there over cybersecurity
concerns. Business, military and government information is being targeted for
industrial espionage, said Evan Anderson, chief executive of Invnt/IP, a group
dedicated to combating nation-sponsored intellectual property theft, who writes
about intellectual property security for the Strategic News Service website.
''So shouldn't we take the same precautions at home as we would abroad?''

Mr. Anderson said he created a map of Chinese-owned hotels around the world in
2016 and was surprised by how many they were, including some in Silicon Valley
where technology companies hold meetings. ''Most people don't realize that an
individual Four Seasons hotel, Ritz-Carlton, or many other brands can be owned
by a Chinese company with close ties to the Chinese government,'' he said.

Of course, listening, spying and hacking can happen no matter who owns a hotel
or where a meeting is. ''The internet has no borders,'' Ms. Miller said. ''You
could be hacked in another country or the U.S., and you have no idea where that
person is.''

Ms. Ravich agreed. ''There is a glaring disconnect between how critical this is,
and how seriously people take it,'' she said. One reason is that the theft of
information, data or plans may go unnoticed, unlike the theft of a physical
laptop. It is also hard to connect a cyberattack on a company to a specific trip
taken by a specific employee.

Companies need to place better controls on the hardware they issue, like laptops
and cellphones, Ms. Ravich said, so the devices automatically send only
encrypted data, require strong passwords and use cellular connections rather
than the local Wi-Fi. To really improve or ''harden'' cybersecurity for business
travelers, she said, companies need to take human behavior out of the equation.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/13/business/foiling-cyber
-spies-on-business-trips.html

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL WARAKSA)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 15, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Signs of Russian Meddling in Brexit Referendum

BYLINE: DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 1239 words



HIGHLIGHT: Researchers have found evidence that Russian-language or
Kremlin-linked Twitter accounts pushed divisive messages in British politics,
too.


LONDON -- More than 150,000 Russian-language Twitter accounts posted tens of
thousands of messages in English urging Britain to leave the European Union in
the days before last year's referendum on the issue, a team of researchers
disclosed on Wednesday.

More than 400 of the accounts that Twitter has already identified to
congressional investigators as tools of the Kremlin, other researchers said,
also posted divisive messages about Britain's decision on withdrawing from the
bloc, or Brexit, both before and after the vote.

Most of the messages sought to inflame fears about Muslims and immigrants to
help drive the vote, suggesting parallels to the strategy that Russian
propagandists employed in the United States in the 2016 election to try to
intensify the polarization of the electorate.

The separate findings amount to the strongest evidence yet of a Russian attempt
to use social media to manipulate British politics in the same way the Kremlin
has done in the United States, France and elsewhere.

The disclosures came just two days after Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain
delivered a speech accusing Russia of using cyberattacksand online propaganda to
"undermine free societies" and "sow discord in the West."

On Tuesday, the chief of the National Cyber Security Center released a summary
of a prepared speech asserting that in the past 12 months, Russian hackers had
unleashed cyberattacks on the British energy grid and the telecommunications and
media industries.

Taken together, the flurry of reports and accusations adds to growing pressure
on Twitter, Facebook and other social media companies to disclose more of their
internal records about advertising payments and account registrations,
information essential to illuminating the extent of Russian meddling in the
referendum on Brexit.

Any evidence that Moscow did, however, may also complicate the already vexed
politics surrounding the issue.

Social media companies disclosed Russia's rolein the American election only
after prodding by Congress. Facebook, for example, disclosed this year that,
over 32 months, the Kremlin-linked Internet Research Agency had paid more than
$100,000 for online advertising, posted 80,000 pieces of divisive content and
reached more than 126 million Americans.

The Kremlin has long sought to weaken or divide the European Union, perceiving
it as a rival for influence in countries from the former Soviet bloc. And
Russia's main propaganda outlets like Sputnik and Russia Today pushed hard for
Brexit.

But the British government, consumed by the negotiations for an exit from the
European Union, has not yet obtained similar disclosures. Although a
parliamentary committee recently asked the social media companies for
information, many critics have argued that the government has little appetite
for an inquiry that could muddy its mandate.

The social media companies, including Facebook, Twitter and Google, have had
little incentive to volunteer information about the exploitation of their own
platforms. And the predominantly right-wing, pro-Brexit British press,
particularly the powerful tabloids, have little enthusiasm for undermining the
validity of the referendum.

That dynamic may now be changing. The Times of Londonreported on Wednesdaythat a
team of researchers working on an unrelated and still-unpublished study had
identified 156,252 Twitter accounts that listed Russian as their language but
posted messages in English to argue against the European Union.

The researchers, Oleksandr Talavera and Tho Pham, of Swansea University in
Wales, said in interviews on Wednesday that the Russian accounts, which had
posted very little about Brexit in the month before the referendum, became quite
active at the last minute: from about 1,000 a day two weeks before the vote to
45,000 in the last 48 hours and 39,000 on the day the results were announced,
June 24, 2016.

"It is very strange that someone whose language is Russian tweets in English,"
Ms. Pham said -- describing it as an anomaly that had prompted the researchers
to look more closely at 10 of the most active accounts under suspicion.

Nine had been deleted, and the last, Sveta1972, appeared to emanate from a
Russian resort town. On the eve of the referendum, Sveta1972 urged Britain to
"make June the 23rd our Independence Day."

Related findings by a separate team of researchers were reported this week by
The Guardian, a strong opponent of Brexit. Those researchers had collected a
sample of more than 60 million Twitter posts using hashtags related to Brexit.

They found that 419 of the 2,752 accounts already identified by Twitter to
congressional committees as being linked to the Kremlin had posted 3,500 times
using Brexit hashtags.

More than 70 percent of those posts were after the vote, but 38 of the accounts
tweeted a total of 400 times on the day of the vote, said Laura Cram, a
professor at the University of Edinburgh, who conducted the study with her
colleague, Clare Llewellyn.

Researchers study Twitter for indications of broader patterns in social media,
because information about its users and contents is more accessible than in the
larger but less-open platforms like Facebook. But without the disclosure of more
information from the companies, social scientists said, neither of the findings
disclosed this week will provide conclusive evidence of a deliberate Kremlin
campaign to influence the Brexit vote or other British elections.

Ms. Cram, for example, noted that Russian propagandists might have used hashtags
related to Brexit only because they fit with protectionist, nativist or
anti-Muslim themes that resonated in the context of the American election, as
well.

"These accounts were definitely using Brexit hashtags," she said, "but we cannot
say whether they were primarily trying to influence Brexit or whether it was a
side effect of them trying to wreak discord generally."

President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has denied trying to influence the Brexit
vote. But concerns about Russia's use of social media to meddle in elections
have become so commonplace that the Spanish government recently
accusedRussiansof playing a significant role in the push for Catalan
independence.

A third, smaller survey, reported last week by Wired magazine, found that 29 of
the Russian-linked Twitter accounts identified to Congress had also tweeted 139
times about Britain or Europe. Blaming terrorist attacks on Islam or railing
against immigrants were favorite themes, said Jonathon Morgan, chief executive
of New Knowledge, a digital security firm based in Austin, Tex., that conducted
the survey.

"Many of these accounts strongly pushed the narrative that all Muslims should be
equated with terrorists and made the case that Muslims should be banned from
Europe," he said. "That is very consistent with the Russian strategy on U.S.
issues, and the fact that they were using the same tactics to target Europeans
is extremely telling."

Raphael Minder contributed reporting from Madrid.

PHOTO: A "Vote Leave" rally in London last year before the referendum on whether
Britain should withdraw from the European Union. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM FERGUSON
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    British Cybersecurity Chief Warns of Russian Hacking
     ·    U.K. Parliament to Get a Brexit Vote
     ·    Parliament Asks Twitter About Russian Meddling in Brexit Vote
     ·    Tech Giants, Once Seen as Saviors, Are Now Viewed as Threats
     ·    Russian Influence Reached 126 Million Through Facebook Alone


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 15, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

How to Shop Smart on Black Friday (and Cyber Monday)

BYLINE: ALAN HENRY

SECTION: SMARTER-LIVING

LENGTH: 1467 words



HIGHLIGHT: Whether you plan to get in line or shop from home, here are ways to
beat the marketing madness.


Long before your Thanksgiving dinner has settled, retailers start to lure you in
on Black Friday and Cyber Monday with doorbuster sales and in-store discounts.

Online stores have already begun "leaking" their big -- and now weeklong --
Cyber Monday sales.

Whether you plan to get in line or shop from home, here are some ways to beat
the marketing madness and be a smart shopper.

Do your homework now

It's hard not to get caught up in the retail frenzy, even if you don't want to.
The ads are everywhere, everyone is talking about deals and it seems like
everyone has something on sale.

On the surface, it seems appealing: You get an early start on holiday shopping
and you save some money, too. If that refrain sounds familiar -- like you fell
for it last year -- do a little homework now to save yourself both temptation
and money later.

Adam Burakowski, the deals editor for Wirecutter, The New York Times' product
review site, suggested keeping an eye out early for deals coming before the big
shopping days. "Last year, we saw a decent amount of products drop to their
Black Friday prices a couple weeks ahead of time, so you can save yourself a lot
of hassle if you start watching deals early," he said.

Wirecutter collects Black Friday deals from retailers around the web here.

"Figure out your holiday shopping list before Black Friday, and come up with
some gift ideas for as many people as you can. Most people, myself included,
tend to procrastinate on this, but if you have a good sense of the things you
want to buy for the holidays, Black Friday is a great chance to knock them out
early while saving money," said Shep McAllister, editor of Kinja Deals, a site
that also tracks deals around the web.

If you want a specific item, check its price today at multiple stores. Add those
items to a wishlist or your shopping cart (and then abandon the cart) so you can
see how much the prices change between now and Cyber Monday. This helps reveal
exactly how big a discount that sale price really is.

Retailers often offer deep discounts on limited quantities or specific product
models in order to lure in buyers. Making a list in advance avoids the old "this
is close enough" rationalization, and it'll keep you from buying something you
didn't really want just because it was on sale.

"Make sure you note the correct model number, since sometimes during the
holidays, retailers will feature products that look almost identical but might
have completely different features than you're expecting," Mr. Burakowski said.

But do retailers mark up items just to slash their prices on Black Friday?

Mr. Burakowski explained that yes, that happens, but things have changed
compared to years past, when the problem was bigger, and the deals less
attractive. "You'll see a lot of house brands on sale and definitely see the
street price of items bounce up before the holiday, but there's enough great
deals that it's worth the hassle. As long as you do a bit of research ahead of
time, you'll be able to score some serious discounts."

Be tech savvy, and don't rush

Aside from using wish lists to track prices, there are tools for your smartphone
or computer that can help make sure you're actually getting a bargain.

CamelCamelCamel, available for Google's Chrome and Mozilla's Firefox web
browsers, can track price fluctuations on Amazon to make sure you're not leaping
at a discount that's actually small margin off a previously marked up price.

Invisible Hand, also available for Chrome, Firefox, and Apple's Safari browser,
shows you a discreet notification while you shop online that will alert you to a
lower price at another online retailer.

Honey, another browser extension, tries a different approach, and automatically
searches the web for coupon codes applicable to your purchases at online
retailers before you check out. If it finds one, it'll automatically apply it to
your cart to save you money. While it doesn't find discounts for you or make
sure you're getting the best price, it does go that extra mile to save you a
little cash before you click "purchase."

The downside to tools like these is that they require extensive information
about where you're shopping and what you're buying in order to work. Similarly,
many of them get a cut of your total when you place an order with an online
retailer. Neither approach is insidious, but you should be aware of both before
you use them.

Mr. Burakowski also noted that sometimes your best bet is to just wait a little
bit. Fill a cart and abandon it, and many online retailers will email you a
coupon code or free shipping asking you to complete the transaction. Sometimes
you can even ask for a coupon code via the retailer's live chat before you check
out.

When asked if you should jump on deals as soon as you see them, Mr. Burakowski
said there's no need to. "Last year, we saw a tremendous growth in retailers
starting their deals Thursday -- as in, we posted almost as many deals Thursday
as we did Friday, and a similar amount on Monday," he said. "Many of the Monday
ones were repeats of the ones featured across Thursday and Friday, so you may
get another chance to score some of those deals you missed out on."

Mr. McAllister agreed. "Some Black Friday deals are already going live, and
almost all of them will be available on or before Thanksgiving day," he said. A
lot of those will remain available through the weekend, and bleed into the deals
advertised as part of Cyber Monday, which will mostly go live on Sunday, because
these terms are effectively meaningless at this point. Internally, we just refer
to the whole thing as Deals Week."

Just keep an eye on stock levels. Only jump if you're worried something will be
so popular it'll sell out.

Don't bother lining up

Shopping online in your pajamas is certainly more comfortable than sitting in
the cold waiting for a store to open. Mr. Burakowski said that if your impulse
is to stay home, follow it.

"I've never liked lining up overnight and don't think it's worth it in 99
percent of cases, unless you've got a very specific product in mind that has
extremely limited quantities," he said. "While everything you see offline will
be available online, it can be a lot more difficult to get one of the truly rare
deals online than if you're first in line and guaranteed to get it."

"The only place you should line up on Thanksgiving afternoon is on the line of
scrimmage for a family football game," Mr. McAllister said. "Basically every
deal you can get in stores will be available online, and usually matched by
multiple other retailers. There are still a handful of doorbusters that are
really and truly brick-and-mortar only, but they're typically low-quality
products that you should probably avoid anyway."

For some, lining up for Black Friday deals is tradition, or a way to spend the
day after Thanksgiving getting into the holiday shopping spirit. If getting the
best deals and saving money is your goal, it's not worth it.

For others, shopping at home -- or not at all, as in the Buy Nothing Day
campaign -- is a pleasant alternative to encouraging stores to force retail
workers to work on Black Friday or even as early as Thanksgiving afternoon. In
fact, many retailers have opted to close on Thanksgiving entirely, in contrast
to those opening ever-earlier.

Watch out for scams and protect your identity

Finally, whether you shop in-person or online anytime during the holiday season,
it's important to protect your personal information. We offer some tips to keep
your personal data safe here and some ways to watch out for identity theft here.

Keep an eye on your credit and bank statements for fraudulent charges, avoid
signing up for high-interest store cards or giving out too much personal
information, and use strong passwords when shopping and banking online.

Similarly, take steps to protect yourself from online shopping scams and
bait-and-switch listings.

Shop from reputable sellers and retailers -- and that includes on sites like
Amazon, which allow third-parties to list products for sale.

Mr. Burakowski noted: "I'd advise shoppers to be extra careful about third party
listings on some of the major sites like Amazon. We've been seeing a fair few
more scam listings, dramatically below the street price of the item from sellers
with zero feedback that somehow can become the featured seller." This rule also
applies to sites like eBay, Jet, Shopify and eBid.

The best thing you can do is just be patient. Sometimes the best deals are yet
to come, and you'll find them later in the season, on your own schedule, from a
retailer you trust. Do your homework and keep a cool head, and you'll be happier
for it.

PHOTO: Black Friday at Macy's in New York City in 2015. More and more, many sale
prices are not limited to just a day or two. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DINA LITOVSKY FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 15, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

British Warn Of Hacking By Russians

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 650 words


LONDON -- Russian hackers over the past 12 months have tried to attack the
British energy, telecommunications and media industries, the government's top
cybersecurity official said Tuesday in a summary of a speech to be delivered on
Wednesday.

The warning, by Ciaran Martin, chief of the National Cyber Security Center, is
the strongest indication yet that Russian cyberattacks on Western governments
and industries may be far more persistent than United States or British
officials have previously acknowledged.

The speech also appeared to fit into a coordinated effort by the British
government to publicly warn Russia that its efforts have been noticed. In a
speech on Monday night, Prime Minister Theresa May addressed Russia directly.
''We know what you are doing,'' Mrs. May said. ''And you will not succeed.'' She
accused the Kremlin of ''threatening the international order on which we all
depend.''

Taken together, the two speeches are a sharp escalation in the public
accusations around a conflict that has so far remained mostly in the shadows.
Recent high-profile cyberattacks, however, have put new pressure on politicians
to defend against the dangers.

The most spectacular example is the break into the computer systems of the
American Democratic Party during the 2016 presidential campaign, an attack
American intelligence agencies have attributed to Russian hackers.

But Britain this year was hit by the so-called WannaCry cyberattack, carried out
by North Korea. It temporarily disabled the computer systems at several British
hospitals, forcing the diversion of ambulances and the rescheduling of
operations, before it was stopped by the lucky break of a lone amateur who
successfully defused it.

American government officials also reportedly concluded over the summer that
Russia had penetrated the computer networks of companies that operate nuclear
power stations and other energy facilities, evidently gathering information and
probing for vulnerabilities. No operations were disrupted.

The Russians also reportedly tried to break into the Irish electrical grid last
summer, and British officials warned at the time that they appeared to be
singling out British power companies as well. Russian hackers have successfully
shut down power for a time in parts of  Ukraine, which the Russians appear to
treat as laboratory for testing such tactics.

British and American intelligence officials say the Kremlin has deliberately
cultivated a cottage industry of criminal hackers loosely affiliated with
Russian intelligence agencies. Russian intelligence officials sometimes
personally profit from the revenue from cybercrimes, and at other times they
direct the hackers toward sabotage, espionage or other less lucrative
objectives.

Among other victories, the Russians appear to have collaborated with a group
calling itself Shadow Brokers to release a trove of cyberespionage tactics
stolen from the computers of the National Security Agency, including some
incorporated in the WannaCry virus that have now been used against Western
industries and governments.

The summary released Tuesday of Mr. Martin's speech provided no details of the
specific Russian attacks over the last year on British energy,
telecommunications or media companies. Nor did the statement discuss any
possible Russian efforts to use social media or cyberespionage to influence
elections in Britain, as the Kremlin has recently sought to do in the United
States and France.

But Mr. Martin said that fears of Russian election meddling have grown
increasingly widespread throughout Europe. At a conference organized last month
by the National Cyber Security Center, he said, two-thirds of the member states
of the European Union were concerned about potential Russian interference in
their internal elections.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/14/world/europe/britain-russia-cybersecurity-hac
king.html

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 16, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Downing North Korean Missiles Is Hard. So the U.S. Is Experimenting.

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1611 words



HIGHLIGHT: Buried in an emergency funding request to Congress lie hints of new
ways to confront Pyongyang, like cyberweapons and armed drones.


WASHINGTON -- Concerned that the missile defense system designed to protect
American cities is insufficient by itself to deter a North Korean attack, the
Trump administration is expanding its strategy to also try to stop Pyongyang's
missiles before they get far from Korean airspace.

The new approach, hinted at in an emergency request to Congress last week for $4
billion to deal with North Korea, envisions the stepped-up use of cyberweapons
to interfere with the North's control systems before missiles are launched, as
well as drones and fighter jets to shoot them down moments after liftoff. The
missile defense network on the West Coast would be expanded for use if
everything else fails.

In interviews, defense officials, along with top scientists and senior members
of Congress, described the accelerated effort as a response to the unexpected
progress that North Korea has made in developing intercontinental ballistic
missiles capable of delivering a nuclear bomb to the continental United States.

"It is an all-out effort," said Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, the top
Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee, who returned from a lengthy
visit to South Korea last month convinced that the United States needed to do
far more to counter North Korea. "There is a fast-emerging threat, a diminishing
window, and a recognition that we can't be reliant on one solution."

For years, that single solution has been the missile batteries in Alaska and
California that would target any long-range warheads fired toward the American
mainland, trying to shoot them down as they re-enter the atmosphere. Such an
approach, known as "hitting a bullet with a bullet," remains of dubious
effectiveness, even after more than $100 billion has been spent on the effort.
Antimissile batteries on ships off the Korean coast and in South Korea protect
against medium-range missiles, but not those aimed at American cities.

So the administration plans to pour hundreds of millions of dollars into the two
other approaches, both of which are still in the experimental stage. The first
involves stepped-up cyberattacks and other sabotage that would interfere with
missile launches before they occur -- what the Pentagon calls "left of launch."
The second is a new approach to blowing up the missiles in the "boost phase,"
when they are slow-moving, highly visible targets.

President Trump has praised the existing missile defense system, insisting last
month that it "can knock out a missile in the air 97 percent of the time," a
claim that arms control experts call patently false. In trial runs, conducted
under ideal conditions, the interceptors in Alaska and California have failed
half of the time. And the Pentagon has warned administration officials that the
North will soon have enough long-range missiles to launch volleys of them,
including decoys, making the problem far more complex.

That helps explain the rush for new protections.

"They're looking at everything," said Thomas Karako, a senior fellow at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, who recently led
two antimissile studies and closely monitors the administration's planning.
"What you're seeing is a lot more options on the table."

The $4 billion emergency budget sought by the White House is on top of the $8
billion that the Missile Defense Agency has already been granted for this fiscal
year, as well as what other military services and agencies are putting into
missile defense. Another $440 million was moved from existing programs to
antimissile work two months ago, as the North Korea threat became more serious.

In the emergency request to Congress, and in documents made public by its
committees, the precise use of the funds is cloaked in deliberately vague
language.

Hundreds of millions of dollars, for example, are allotted for what the
documents called "disruption/defeat" efforts. Several officials confirmed that
the "disruption" efforts include another, more sophisticated attempt at the kind
of cyber and electronic strikes that President Barack Obama ordered in 2014 when
he intensified his efforts to cripple North Korea's missile testing.

Using cyberweapons to disrupt launches is a radical innovation in missile
defense in the past three decades. But in the case of North Korea, it is also
the most difficult. It requires getting into the missile manufacturing, launch
control and guidance systems of a country that makes very limited use of the
internet and has few connections to the outside world -- most of them through
China, and to a lesser degree Russia.

In the operation that began in 2014, a range of cyber and
electronic-interference operations were used against the North's Musudan
intermediate-range missiles, in an effort to slow its testing. But that secret
effort had mixed results.

The failure rate for the Musudan missile soared to 88 percent, but it was never
clear how much of that was due to the cyberattacks and how much to sabotage of
the North's supply chain and its own manufacturing errors. Then Kim Jong-un, the
country's president, ordered a change in design, and the test-launches have been
far more successful.

The experience has raised difficult questions about the effectiveness of
cyberweapons, despite billions of dollars in investment. "We can dream of a lot
of targets to hack," said Michael Sulmeyer, director of the Cyber Security
Project at Harvard and formerly the director for cyberpolicy planning and
operations in the office of the defense secretary. "But it can be hard to
achieve the effects we want, when we want them."

Congressional documents also talk of making "additional investments" in
"boost-phase missile defense." The goal of that approach is to hit long-range
missiles at their point of greatest vulnerability -- while their engines are
firing and the vehicles are stressed to the breaking point, and before their
warheads are deployed.

Defense Secretary Jim Mattis is also weighing, among other boost-phase plans,
formulas that draw on existing technologies and could be deployed quickly.

One idea is having stealth fighters such as the F-22 or the F-35 scramble from
nearby bases in South Korea and Japan at the first sign of North Korean launch
preparations. The jets would carry conventional air-to-air missiles, which are
12 feet long, and fire them at the North Korean long-range missiles after they
are launched. But they would have to fly relatively close to North Korea to do
that, increasing the chances of being shot down.

A drawback of boost-phase defense is the short window to use it. Long-range
missiles fire their engines for just five minutes or so, in contrast to warheads
that zip through space for about 20 minutes before plunging back to earth. And
there is the risk of inviting retaliation from North Korea.

"You have to make a decision to fire a weapon into somebody's territory," Gen.
John E. Hyten of the Air Force, commander of the United States Strategic
Command, which controls the American nuclear missile fleet, recently told a
Washington group. "And if you're wrong, or if you miss?"

A boost-phase idea getting much notice would be to have drones patrol high over
the Sea of Japan, awaiting a North Korean launch. Remote operators would fire
heat-sensing rockets that lock onto the rising missiles.

"It's a huge advance," Gerold Yonas, chief scientist for President Ronald
Reagan's "Star Wars" program, said of the drone plan. "It's one of those things
where you hit yourself on the forehead and say, 'Why didn't I think of that?'"

Leonard H. Caveny, a main planner of the rocket-firing drones and a former Navy
officer who directed science and technology at the Pentagon's antimissile
program from 1985 to 1997, said an accelerated program could produce the weapons
in a year or less.

Dr. Caveny's team is considering use of the Avenger, a drone made by General
Atomics that has a wingspan of 76 feet. "This is going to be a game changer,"
said Arthur L. Herman, a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington,
who collaborates with Dr. Caveny.

The Pentagon's Missile Defense Agency is also developing a drone that would fire
potent laser beams at rising missiles. But recent plans would have it make its
debut no sooner than 2025 -- too late to play a role in the current crisis or
the Trump presidency.

Even so, the effort has influential backers. In the recent talk, General Hyten
of Strategic Command called lasers much better than interceptor rockets because
they avoided questions over firing weapons into sovereign territories,
especially to knock out missile test-flights.

A potent beam of highly concentrated light, he said, "goes out into space,"
avoiding the trespassing issue.

In recent months, Congress has urged Pentagon officials to develop both
varieties of drones.

Theodore A. Postol, a professor emeritus of science and national security policy
at M.I.T. who has drawn up plans for a missile-firing drone, argued that fleets
of such weapons patrolling near the North, threatening to undo its strategic
forces, would be extremely intimidating and create new diplomatic leverage.

"We need it now," he said. "My concern is that we get something out there
quickly that will pressure North Korea to negotiate."

GRAPHIC: Three Layers of Defense Against North Korean Missiles: Washington is
responding to the North Korean nuclear threat with a rush of money to strengthen
old antimissile systems and establish new ones. The diagram shows a mix of
current and proposed options for defeating the North's long-range missiles.
(Sources: Missile Defense Agency; Raytheon; White House budget office; House
Armed Services Committee) (GRAPHIC BY ANJALI SINGHVI/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 16, 2017 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Signs That Russia Used Social Media to Sway Brexit Vote

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Raphael Minder contributed reporting from
Madrid.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1165 words


LONDON -- More than 150,000 Russian-language Twitter accounts posted tens of
thousands of messages in English urging Britain to leave the European Union in
the days before last year's referendum on the issue, a team of researchers
disclosed on Wednesday.

More than 400 of the accounts that Twitter has already identified to
congressional investigators as tools of the Kremlin, other researchers said,
also posted divisive messages about Britain's decision on withdrawing from the
bloc, or Brexit, both before and after the vote.

Most of the messages sought to inflame fears about Muslims and immigrants to
help drive the vote, suggesting parallels to the strategy that Russian
propagandists employed in the United States in the 2016 election to try to
intensify the polarization of the electorate.

The separate findings amount to the strongest evidence yet of a Russian attempt
to use social media to manipulate British politics in the same way the Kremlin
has done in the United States, France and elsewhere.

The disclosures came just two days after Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain
delivered a speech accusing Russia of using cyberattacks and online propaganda
to ''undermine free societies'' and ''sow discord in the West.''

On Tuesday, the chief of the National Cyber Security Center released a summary
of a prepared speech asserting that in the past 12 months, Russian hackers had
unleashed cyberattacks on the British energy grid and the telecommunications and
media industries.

Taken together, the flurry of reports and accusations adds to growing pressure
on Twitter, Facebook and other social media companies to disclose more of their
internal records about advertising payments and account registrations,
information essential to illuminating the extent of Russian meddling in the
referendum on Brexit.

Any evidence that Moscow did, however, may also complicate the already vexed
politics surrounding the issue.

Social media companies disclosed Russia's role in the American election only
after prodding by Congress. Facebook, for example, disclosed this year that,
over 32 months, the Kremlin-linked Internet Research Agency had paid more than
$100,000 for online advertising, posted 80,000 pieces of divisive content and
reached more than 126 million Americans.

The Kremlin has long sought to weaken or divide the European Union, perceiving
it as a rival for influence in countries from the former Soviet bloc. And
Russia's main propaganda outlets like Sputnik and Russia Today pushed hard for
Brexit.

But the British government, consumed by the negotiations for an exit from the
European Union, has not yet obtained similar disclosures. Although a
parliamentary committee recently asked the social media companies for
information, many critics have argued that the government has little appetite
for an inquiry that could muddy its mandate.

The social media companies, including Facebook, Twitter and Google, have had
little incentive to volunteer information about the exploitation of their own
platforms. And the predominantly right-wing, pro-Brexit British press,
particularly the powerful tabloids, have little enthusiasm for undermining the
validity of the referendum.

That dynamic may now be changing. The Times of London  reported on Wednesday
that a team of researchers working on an unrelated and still-unpublished study
had identified 156,252 Twitter accounts that listed Russian as their language
but posted messages in English to argue against the European Union.

The researchers, Oleksandr Talavera and Tho Pham, of Swansea University in
Wales, said in interviews on Wednesday that the Russian accounts, which had
posted very little about Brexit in the month before the referendum, became quite
active at the last minute: from about 1,000 a day two weeks before the vote to
45,000 in the last 48 hours and 39,000 on the day the results were announced,
June 24, 2016.

''It is very strange that someone whose language is Russian tweets in English,''
Ms. Pham said -- describing it as an anomaly that had prompted the researchers
to look more closely at 10 of the most active accounts under suspicion.

Nine had been deleted, and the last, Sveta1972, appeared to emanate from a
Russian resort town. On the eve of the referendum, Sveta1972 urged Britain to
''make June the 23rd our Independence Day.''

Related findings by a separate team of researchers were reported this week by
The Guardian, a strong opponent of Brexit. Those researchers had collected a
sample of more than 60 million Twitter posts using hashtags related to Brexit.

They found that 419 of the 2,752 accounts already identified by Twitter to
congressional committees as being linked to the Kremlin had posted 3,500 times
using Brexit hashtags.

More than 70 percent of those posts were after the vote, but 38 of the accounts
tweeted a total of 400 times on the day of the vote, said Laura Cram, a
professor at the University of Edinburgh, who conducted the study with her
colleague, Clare Llewellyn.

Researchers study Twitter for indications of broader patterns in social media,
because information about its users and contents is more accessible than in the
larger but less-open platforms like Facebook. But without the disclosure of more
information from the companies, social scientists said, neither of the findings
disclosed this week will provide conclusive evidence of a deliberate Kremlin
campaign to influence the Brexit vote or other British elections.

Ms. Cram, for example, noted that Russian propagandists might have used hashtags
related to Brexit only because they fit with protectionist, nativist or
anti-Muslim themes that resonated in the context of the American election, as
well.

''These accounts were definitely using Brexit hashtags,'' she said, ''but we
cannot say whether they were primarily trying to influence Brexit or whether it
was a side effect of them trying to wreak discord generally.''

President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has denied trying to influence the Brexit
vote. But concerns about Russia's use of social media to meddle in elections
have become so commonplace that the Spanish government recently accused Russians
of playing a significant role in the push for Catalan independence.

A third, smaller survey, reported last week by Wired magazine, found that 29 of
the Russian-linked Twitter accounts identified to Congress had also tweeted 139
times about Britain or Europe. Blaming terrorist attacks on Islam or railing
against immigrants were favorite themes, said Jonathon Morgan, chief executive
of New Knowledge, a digital security firm based in Austin, Tex., that conducted
the survey.

''Many of these accounts strongly pushed the narrative that all Muslims should
be equated with terrorists and made the case that Muslims should be banned from
Europe,'' he said. ''That is very consistent with the Russian strategy on U.S.
issues, and the fact that they were using the same tactics to target Europeans
is extremely telling.''




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/15/world/europe/russia-brexit-twitter-facebook.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A ''Vote Leave'' rally in London last year before the referendum
on whether Britain should withdraw from the European Union. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM
FERGUSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              321 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 17, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

To Counter North Korea Missiles, U.S. Is Racing for Plans B and C

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1552 words


WASHINGTON -- Concerned that the missile defense system designed to protect
American cities is insufficient by itself to deter a North Korean attack, the
Trump administration is expanding its strategy to also try to stop Pyongyang's
missiles before they get far from Korean airspace.

The new approach, hinted at in an emergency request to Congress last week for $4
billion to deal with North Korea, envisions the stepped-up use of cyberweapons
to interfere with the North's control systems before missiles are launched, as
well as drones and fighter jets to shoot them down moments after liftoff. The
missile defense network on the West Coast would be expanded for use if
everything else fails.

In interviews, defense officials, along with top scientists and senior members
of Congress, described the accelerated effort as a response to the unexpected
progress that North Korea has made in developing intercontinental ballistic
missiles capable of delivering a nuclear bomb to the continental United States.

''It is an all-out effort,'' said Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, the top
Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee, who returned from a lengthy
visit to South Korea last month convinced that the United States needed to do
far more to counter North Korea. ''There is a fast-emerging threat, a
diminishing window, and a recognition that we can't be reliant on one
solution.''

For years, that single solution has been the missile batteries in Alaska and
California that would target any long-range warheads fired toward the American
mainland, trying to shoot them down as they re-enter the atmosphere. Such an
approach, known as ''hitting a bullet with a bullet,'' remains of dubious
effectiveness, even after more than $100 billion has been spent on the effort.
Antimissile batteries on ships off the Korean coast and in South Korea protect
against medium-range missiles, but not those aimed at American cities.

So the administration plans to pour hundreds of millions of dollars into the two
other approaches, both of which are still in the experimental stage. The first
involves stepped-up cyberattacks and other sabotage that would interfere with
missile launches before they occur -- what the Pentagon calls ''left of
launch.'' The second is a new approach to blowing up the missiles in the ''boost
phase,'' when they are slow-moving, highly visible targets.

President Trump has praised the existing missile defense system, insisting last
month that it ''can knock out a missile in the air 97 percent of the time,'' a
claim that arms control experts call patently false. In trial runs, conducted
under ideal conditions, the interceptors in Alaska and California have failed
half of the time. And the Pentagon has warned administration officials that the
North will soon have enough long-range missiles to launch volleys of them,
including decoys, making the problem far more complex.

That helps explain the rush for new protections.

''They're looking at everything,'' said Thomas Karako, a senior fellow at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, who recently led
two antimissile studies and closely monitors the administration's planning.
''What you're seeing is a lot more options on the table.''

The $4 billion emergency budget sought by the White House is on top of the $8
billion that the Missile Defense Agency has already been granted for this fiscal
year, as well as what other military services and agencies are putting into
missile defense. Another $440 million was moved from existing programs to
antimissile work two months ago, as the North Korea threat became more serious.

In the emergency request to Congress, and in documents made public by its
committees, the precise use of the funds is cloaked in deliberately vague
language.

Hundreds of millions of dollars, for example, are allotted for what the
documents called ''disruption/defeat'' efforts. Several officials confirmed that
the ''disruption'' efforts include another, more sophisticated attempt at the
kind of cyber and electronic strikes that President Barack Obama ordered in 2014
when he intensified his efforts to cripple North Korea's missile testing.

Using cyberweapons to disrupt launches is a radical innovation in missile
defense in the past three decades. But in the case of North Korea, it is also
the most difficult. It requires getting into the missile manufacturing, launch
control and guidance systems of a country that makes very limited use of the
internet and has few connections to the outside world -- most of them through
China, and to a lesser degree Russia.

In the operation that began in 2014, a range of cyber and
electronic-interference operations were used against the North's Musudan
intermediate-range missiles, in an effort to slow its testing. But that secret
effort had mixed results.

The failure rate for the Musudan missile soared to 88 percent, but it was never
clear how much of that was due to the cyberattacks and how much to sabotage of
the North's supply chain and its own manufacturing errors. Then Kim Jong-un, the
country's president, ordered a change in design, and the test-launches have been
far more successful.

The experience has raised difficult questions about the effectiveness of
cyberweapons, despite billions of dollars in investment. ''We can dream of a lot
of targets to hack,'' said Michael Sulmeyer, director of the Cyber Security
Project at Harvard and formerly the director for cyberpolicy planning and
operations in the office of the defense secretary. ''But it can be hard to
achieve the effects we want, when we want them.''

Congressional documents also talk of making ''additional investments'' in
''boost-phase missile defense.'' The goal of that approach is to hit long-range
missiles at their point of greatest vulnerability -- while their engines are
firing and the vehicles are stressed to the breaking point, and before their
warheads are deployed.

Defense Secretary Jim Mattis is also weighing, among other boost-phase plans,
formulas that draw on existing technologies and could be deployed quickly.

One idea is having stealth fighters such as the F-22 or the F-35 scramble from
nearby bases in South Korea and Japan at the first sign of North Korean launch
preparations. The jets would carry conventional air-to-air missiles, which are
12 feet long, and fire them at the North Korean long-range missiles after they
are launched. But they would have to fly relatively close to North Korea to do
that, increasing the chances of being shot down.

A drawback of boost-phase defense is the short window to use it. Long-range
missiles fire their engines for just five minutes or so, in contrast to warheads
that zip through space for about 20 minutes before plunging back to earth. And
there is the risk of inviting retaliation from North Korea.

''You have to make a decision to fire a weapon into somebody's territory,'' Gen.
John E. Hyten of the Air Force, commander of the United States Strategic
Command, which controls the American nuclear missile fleet, recently told a
Washington group. ''And if you're wrong, or if you miss?''

A boost-phase idea getting much notice would be to have drones patrol high over
the Sea of Japan, awaiting a North Korean launch. Remote operators would fire
heat-sensing rockets that lock onto the rising missiles.

''It's a huge advance,'' Gerold Yonas, chief scientist for President Ronald
Reagan's ''Star Wars'' program, said of the drone plan. ''It's one of those
things where you hit yourself on the forehead and say, 'Why didn't I think of
that?'''

Leonard H. Caveny, a main planner of the rocket-firing drones and a former Navy
officer who directed science and technology at the Pentagon's antimissile
program from 1985 to 1997, said an accelerated program could produce the weapons
in a year or less.

Dr. Caveny's team is considering use of the Avenger, a drone made by General
Atomics that has a wingspan of 76 feet. ''This is going to be a game changer,''
said Arthur L. Herman, a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington,
who collaborates with Dr. Caveny.

The Pentagon's Missile Defense Agency is also developing a drone that would fire
potent laser beams at rising missiles. But recent plans would have it make its
debut no sooner than 2025 -- too late to play a role in the current crisis or
the Trump presidency.

Even so, the effort has influential backers. In the recent talk, General Hyten
of Strategic Command called lasers much better than interceptor rockets because
they avoided questions over firing weapons into sovereign territories,
especially to knock out missile test-flights.

A potent beam of highly concentrated light, he said, ''goes out into space,''
avoiding the trespassing issue.

In recent months, Congress has urged Pentagon officials to develop both
varieties of drones.

Theodore A. Postol, a professor emeritus of science and national security policy
at M.I.T. who has drawn up plans for a missile-firing drone, argued that fleets
of such weapons patrolling near the North, threatening to undo its strategic
forces, would be extremely intimidating and create new diplomatic leverage.

''We need it now,'' he said. ''My concern is that we get something out there
quickly that will pressure North Korea to negotiate.''




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/16/us/politics/north-korea-missile-defense-
cyber-drones.html

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: Three Layers of Defense Against North Korean Missiles:
Washington is responding to the North Korean nuclear threat with a rush of money
to strengthen old antimissile systems and establish new ones. The diagram shows
a mix of current and proposed options for defeating the North's long-range
missiles. (Sources: Missile Defense Agency
Raytheon
White House budget office
 House Armed Services Committee) (GRAPHIC BY ANJALI SINGHVI/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              322 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 19, 2017 Sunday 00:00 EST

A Decision on the Keystone XL Pipeline and Black Friday Sales;
The Week Ahead

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 985 words



HIGHLIGHT: A ruling in Nebraska could resuscitate a pipeline linking Canada and
the Gulf Coast. The Fed releases minutes of its last meeting. And Black Friday
is coming.


Here's what to expect in the week ahead:

OIL INDUSTRY

Crucial moment for an oil pipeline.

Nebraska's Public Service Commission is scheduled to decide on Monday whether to
grant a permit for the building of a section of the Keystone XL pipeline that
would connect Canadian oil with refineries on the Gulf Coast. It is a crucial
moment for a project that has been delayed for years and was stopped by the
administration of President Barack Obama, only to be resuscitated by President
Trump. A leak in the existing Keystone pipeline last week, which spilled 5,000
barrels of oil on a farm field, was an embarrassment for the Canadian pipeline
company TransCanada, which owns both pipelines. Clifford Krauss

ECONOMY

Draghi to report on eurozone financial risks.

Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, will report to the
European Parliament in Brussels on Monday about the risks facing the eurozone
financial system. The topic is timely; some economists worry that financial
minefields could come into view as the European Central Bank and the Federal
Reserve slowly withdraw the stimulus they have been providing for the past
decade. Mr. Draghi is also chairman of the European Systemic Risk Board, which
has expressed concern that a spike in interest rates could put stress on
countries that have a lot of debt. Jack Ewing

A chance for Yellen to lay out her policy views.

The people who run the world's largest central banks are a small and intimate
group. They share similar challenges and meet regularly to trade notes. And on
Tuesday evening, two members of that group will do it in public. Janet Yellen,
now in her final months as chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, will be
interviewed by Mervyn King, former governor of the Bank of England, at New York
University. Ms. Yellen in recent speeches has sought to provide a clear record
of her views on the major issues confronting the Fed in the realms of monetary
and regulatory policy. She has only a few more opportunities to do so before her
four-year term ends in early February. Binyamin Appelbaum

Consumers seem optimistic ahead of the holidays.

Millions of Americans will head to the mall at the end of this week for the
Black Friday deals that mark the unofficial start of the holiday shopping
season. For a sign of how freely American shoppers will be spending this holiday
season, look to the University of Michigan's monthly survey of consumer
sentiment, which will be released on Wednesday. A preliminary reading showed
that consumer confidence edged down in early November but remains strong. Other
measures also suggest that consumers are feeling good about the economy,
although there remains a large partisan divide. Ben Casselman

Fed minutes may offer details on inflation views.

The Federal Reserve's most recent policymaking meeting, on the last day of
October and the first day of November, was a bloodless affair. The Fed gave
every indication before the meeting that it planned to wait until its final
meeting of the year, in mid-December, to raise its benchmark interest rate for
the third time this year. There were no surprises in the post-meeting statement,
and there is little drama in the release on Wednesday of an account of the
October-November meeting. It will most likely provide more details about the
Fed's ongoing struggle to understand the slow pace of inflation -- but it
probably won't shake the conviction of investors that the Fed will raise rates
in December. Binyamin Appelbaum

A Thanksgiving respite for trading.

Markets in the United States will be closed on Thursday as traders and other
Americans observe Thanksgiving. The University of Illinois Extension estimates
that people will eat a total of 46 million turkeys for the holiday, though
official numbers on stuffing and mashed potato consumption are less readily
available. And, according to AAA, more than 50 million people will travel at
least 50 miles to their feast, paying lower airfares but higher gas prices than
in recent years. Zach Wichter

RETAIL

Get ready for Black Friday lines outside stores.

Retailers, as they do every year, will trot out some of their deepest holiday
discounts during the annual Black Friday shopping extravaganza. Lines outside
stores will probably start forming early and stretch far, even as more companies
stay closed or at least cut back their hours on Thanksgiving. Many brands have
shifted their focus from doorbuster deals in their brick-and-mortar locations
and are instead advertising online bargains, even as they also compete in a
brutal retail market by refreshing their physical spaces. Analysts are expecting
e-commerce sales to set fresh records, as they did earlier this month on Singles
Day in China. Tiffany Hsu

BANKING

Taking the temperature of European banks.

The European Banking Authority is expected to unveil the results of its latest
transparency exercise for more than 130 banks in the region on Friday. The
regulator is not conducting a stress test this year, but instead examining a
variety of data that has been provided to local bank supervisors, including the
Bank of England and the European Central Bank. The exercise will cover a period
from December 2016 to June 2017 and provide information about capital, leverage
ratio, profit and losses and other data points. The information from the Italian
and Spanish banks may prove interesting following the bailout efforts for
Italian banks and sales brokered by the Spanish government. Chad Bray

PHOTO: Janet Yellen will be at New York University on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DANIEL ROLAND/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

Related Articles


     ·    Some Big Retailers Are Still Betting On Brick and Mortar
     ·    With Big Spill to Clean, Pipeline Owner Seeks Keystone XL Approval
     ·    Boom or Bust: Stark Partisan Divide on How Consumers View Economy
     ·    Fed Lets Interest Rate Stand Ahead of Powell Nomination as Chairman
     ·    More Retailers Are Choosing to Close on Thanksgiving Day


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 19, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Previewing Cyber Monday

BYLINE: By SHIVANI VORA

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; CHASING THE DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 527 words


Cyber Monday, on Nov. 27 this year, isn't just a day to score discounts on
retail goods -- in the world of travel, it means attractive deals on hotel
stays, safaris, group tours and more.

But buy with caution, said the travel industry analyst Henry Harteveldt, the
founder of Atmosphere Research Group. ''Travel brands discount throughout the
year so make sure that the sale you're considering really is a good one,'' he
said.

Here are seven offers which may just entice you to book your next vacation.

Guests at the Cloister at Sea Island, in Sea Island, Ga., who book two or more
nights between Jan. 2 and Feb. 28, get 90 percent off the third night, breakfast
and a 10 percent discount on all activities. Nightly rates start at $395. Book
at seaisland.com.

The home rental company Oasis is offering $200 off a stay and $50 of drinks and
snacks (and free housekeeping) at one of its properties in more than 22
destinations, including Paris, Miami and Cartagena. Stays must be between Nov.
27, 2017 and Nov. 27, 2019. Book at oasiscollections.com, and use the code
DIGITALGETDOWN.

From Nov. 27 to Dec. 4, the 12 properties that make up Viceroy Hotel Group will
offer nightly rates at a discount of between 30 and 40 percent for travel
between Nov. 27, 2017 and December 2018 (the exact date ranges vary by
property). The Viceroy Central Park, in New York, for example, is offering 40
percent off nightly rates; usual rates start at $275, but with the Cyber Week
discount, they begin at $195. Book at viceroyhotelsandresorts.com.

The safari outfitter AndBeyond is offering 30 percent off one of its four small
group journeys in 2018 (each journey has multiple departure dates), including a
mobile camping trip to Botswana and a photography safari in Kenya. Itineraries
range from five nights to two weeks. Rates before the discount begin at $4,030 a
person, but with the discount, the starting rate is $2,821 a person. Book at
andbeyond.com.

Grace Bay Club, in Turks and Caicos, is offering 35 percent off nightly rates. A
junior suite, for example, usually begins at $720, but after the discount, it
drops to $468. A stay includes breakfast, nonmotorized watersports and afternoon
tea with wine. Travel must be between Nov. 27, 2017 and Dec. 19, 2018. Book at
gracebayresorts.com.

The tour operator Friendly Planet Travel is offering up to $1,100 off per person
on 68 tours in 2018 to over 40 countries, including Portugal, China, South
Africa and Peru. The sale lasts through Nov. 28. The 14-day Best of Kenya and
Tanzania tour, for example, is $4,599 a person -- a savings of $900. All trips
include airfare, accommodations, most meals and guided tours. Book at
friendlyplanet.com.

Expedia has several Cyber Monday deals: From noon to 7 p.m. E.S.T., nightly
rates at select hotels are 90 percent off on Expedia's app while select hotels
on the site are offering 50 percent off nightly rates (around 2,000 hotels in
total are participating, but the exact number will change every hour). Also, all
day, Expedia.com is offering $100 off on $1,000 travel packages and is giving
$100 credit for a hotel stay to travelers who book a cruise through the site.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/11/travel/cyber-monday-travel-deals.html

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Grace Bay Club in Turks and Caicos. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRACE BAY
CLUB)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              324 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 20, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

Trump Returns North Korea to List of State Sponsors of Terrorism

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1500 words



HIGHLIGHT: North Korea had been removed from the list under the George W. Bush
administration in an attempt to salvage negotiations for a nuclear deal.


WASHINGTON -- President Trump on Monday officially designated North Korea as a
state sponsor of terrorism, a provocative diplomatic move that he said was aimed
at drastically increasing pressure on the rogue nation to abandon its pursuit of
nuclear weapons.

North Korea will join Sudan, Syria and Iran as countries that the State
Department identifies as those that have "repeatedly provided support for acts
of international terrorism."

"Should have happened a long time ago," Mr. Trump told reporters at the start of
a cabinet meeting at the White House. The president said the designation would
be followed on Tuesday by the "highest level of sanctions" against Pyongyang to
force the end of the development of its nuclear and ballistic missiles.

Mr. Trump has vowed to seek "complete denuclearization" in North Korea and has
threatened "fire and fury" aimed at the country if it endangers the United
States. This year, the president ordered an end to the policy of "strategic
patience" that was pursued by President Barack Obama, in the hopes that North
Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un, would eventually agree to negotiate.

"This just continues to tighten the pressure on the Kim regime," Secretary of
State Rex W. Tillerson said after Mr. Trump's announcement, "all with an
intention to have him understand that this is only going to get worse until you
are ready to come and talk."

Still, it is unclear whether the terrorism designation will give the president
and the secretary of state new and powerful leverage to force nuclear
negotiations -- or simply deepen the war of words between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim.

Long a pariah in the international community, North Korea was put on
Washington's list of state sponsors of terrorism in 1988 after Pyongyang's
agents planted a bombon a South Korean passenger jet, killing all 115 people
aboard, in 1987.

That attack was instructed by Kim Jong-il, the father of Kim Jong-un, according
to one of the agents, who was caught alive.

North Korea was removed from the official State Department terrorism list nearly
20 years later by President George W. Bush, who in 2008 saw it as an opportunity
to salvage a fragile nuclear deal in which North Korea would agree to halt its
nuclear program.

Mr. Bush's decision to take the country off the list was part of a package deal
-- one that was opposed vociferously by Vice President Dick Cheney -- in which
Pyongyang agreed to move toward denuclearization in return for coming off the
list and receiving some limited international aid. North Korea blew up a giant
cooling tower at its main nuclear reactor at Yongbyon, and invited CNN in to
record the event, appearing to declare that it had reversed course and was
willing to give up the nuclear path.

It was not. The cooling tower was a decrepit part of a falling-apart facility.
And the next steps proved far harder for Kim Jong-il, who was the country's
leader at the time. His government refused to own up to its past, and would
neither declare to nuclear inspectors how much nuclear fuel Pyongyang had
produced, nor say what it had done with uranium enrichment equipment.

John R. Bolton, a former State Department official and United Nations ambassador
under Mr. Bush, praised Mr. Trump for taking an aggressive stance against North
Korea's government. "It's exactly the right thing to do," he said.

Mr. Bolton, who argued against removing North Korea from the terrorism list in
2008, said he does not believe restoring the designation will bring Kim Jong-un
to the negotiating table. But he said it was "important to say what the truth is
about the regime."

Christopher R. Hill, who negotiated the 2008 deal and helped persuade Mr. Bush
to drop the terrorism designation against North Korea, said on Monday that he
was "surprised that it took this long" to re-list the country.

"I had thought that maybe the Obama administration would do it," Mr. Hill said
in an interview. "What I always told everyone in 2008 was that if the North
doesn't do what it's supposed to do, we can put them back on the terrorism
list."

Certainly, the Obama administration had some cause to consider doing so. During
Mr. Obama's time in office, North Korea was suspected of killing dozens of
sailors aboard a South Korean naval vessel that sank, and it shelled a South
Korean island. North Korea also conducted a cyberattack against Sony Pictures
Entertainment, in retaliation for a comedic movie about an assassination plot
against Kim Jong-un.

But Mr. Hill, who also served as ambassador to Iraq during the Obama
administration, added that the State Department list was "largely symbolic." For
example, a country listed on it cannot receive American military equipment. That
has not been an issue with North Korea for more than seven decades.

Demands to return North Korea to the state-sponsored terrorism list have grown
since Mr. Kim's half brother, Kim Jong-nam, was assassinated in February at
Kuala Lumpur International Airport. North Korean agents were blamed for plotting
his death, which involved the use of a rare nerve agent that is banned by
international treaty.

Mr. Trump and Mr. Tillerson both cited the assassination as evidence that North
Korea sponsors international terrorism and deserves to be on the State
Department list. In recent weeks, administration officials had hinted that the
president was considering adding North Korea back to the terrorism list in light
of the assassination and the country's nuclear ambitions.

But some veterans of North Korean diplomacy questioned whether the killing of a
family member qualifies as international terrorism.

"It seems to me counterproductive, nutty and maybe tragically miscalculating,"
said Robert Gallucci, who was the lead negotiator for the United States during
nuclear talks with North Korea under President Bill Clinton.

Mr. Gallucci said the killing of a member of the ruling family -- despite its
brutality -- does not amount to evidence that the country has recently engaged
in international terrorism: "I don't see a current policy reason for doing
this."

North Korea has not conducted any missile tests since Sept. 15, raising cautious
optimism for a possible de-escalation in the region. However, experts note that
the country has conducted few or no significant missile tests during some past
autumns, and it is unclear whether the current hiatus is political or technical.

Regardless, Mr. Trump's decision to blacklist North Korea, which reflects his
policy of applying "maximum pressure" on Pyongyang, will probably invite angry
reaction from Mr. Kim's government and dim chances for easing tensions on the
Korean Peninsula. Mr. Gallucci said he worried that Monday's designation would
make it harder, not easier, to persuade the North Koreans to negotiate.

"Does the United States actually want these guys to come to the table, or do we
not?" he said.

Mr. Kim has a history of resorting to extreme measures against his enemies.

Since taking power after the death of his father in 2011, he has executed dozens
of senior officials deemed not loyal enough, often killing them with
antiaircraft machine guns, in what South Korean officials called a "reign of
terror." They said Mr. Kim probably considered Kim Jong-nam, his father's
firstborn, as his potential replacement should his government lose control.

In recent days, Mr. Kim has moved to discipline the leadership of his country's
most powerful military organization, the latest sign of his efforts to tighten
his grip on party elites and the armed forces, according to South Korea's main
intelligence agency.

Analysts and experts pay close attention to any rumblings within the secretive
government, looking for possible implications for the stability of Mr. Kim's
rule and for his nuclear and missile programs. They have said that Mr. Kim
appeared to be using his tactic of instilling fear in the elites to strengthen
his control as North Korea braced for the pain that is most likely to result
from recently imposed United Nations sanctions.

During a closed-door parliamentary briefing on Monday, South Korea's National
Intelligence Service told lawmakers that North Korea's General Political Bureau
was being "audited" by the government for the first time in 20 years. The
military organization's director, Vice Marshal Hwang Pyong-so, and his deputies
were "punished," according to lawmakers who briefed reporters after the session.

Choe Sang-Hun contributed reporting from Seoul, South Korea.

PHOTOS: President Trump, above, had previously ended the policy of "strategic
patience" that was pursued by previous administrations in hope of pushing Kim
Jong-un, left, to negotiate. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM BRENNER/THE NEW YORK TIMES;
WONG MAYE-E/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A10)

Related Articles


     ·    Kim Jong-un Disciplines North Korea's Top Military Organization
     ·    How Trump's Predecessors Dealt With the North Korean Threat
     ·    U.S. Declares North Korea Off Terror List
     ·    China Will Send Envoy to North Korea, Likely to Urge Nuclear Talks
     ·    China Envoy Discusses 'Situation of the Korean Peninsula' With North


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 20, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

Fanatics, Maker of Sports Apparel, Thrives by Seizing the Moment

BYLINE: ZACH SCHONBRUN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1600 words



HIGHLIGHT: The company has carved out a lucrative niche by securing valuable
licensing rights and moving quickly to capitalize on surges in fan demand.


Corrections Appended

CONSHOHOCKEN, Pa. -- This fall, as some of the N.F.L.'s corporate partners
fretted about the league's handling of its players kneeling during the national
anthem, the sports merchandise company Fanatics pounced.

When Alejandro Villanueva, a Pittsburgh Steelers offensive lineman, stood for
the anthem and the rest of the team stayed in the locker room, his name began
trending on Twitter. Fanatics quickly posted a rendering of his No. 78 jersey on
its website and on the N.F.L.'s online shop, which it also operates.

Sales skyrocketed. Manufacturing facilities in Kentucky and Florida went to work
pressing Mr. Villanueva's name and number onto thousands of blank Pittsburgh
jerseys for next-day shipping. Overnight, a player who had never caught a pass
or scored a touchdown had the N.F.L.'s best-selling jersey.

"That moment happened, people wanted to immediately buy that jersey," Michael
Rubin, the company's chairman and principal owner said. "A week later, that
moment is mostly over."

These micro-moments, as Mr. Rubin calls them, happen all the time in sports: A
player reaches a milestone, has a breakout performance or is traded to a new
team. Apparel companies have traditionally been poorly positioned to meet the
accompanying fan demand as it surges. Fanatics is changing that and, in the
process, carving out a lucrative niche in a fiercely competitive online-retail
industry largely dominated by Amazon.

Fanatics has licensing rights with the North America's four major sports
leagues, more than 500 colleges, Nascar, Major League Soccer and the
Professional Golf Association. The company is similar to fast-fashion retailers
like H&M, Uniqlo and Zara, integrating design and manufacturing with
distribution to fulfill orders within hours. After the Chicago Cubs won the
World Series last year, Fanatics used Uber to deliver championship gear to some
fans within minutes.

As a result, Fanatics has more than doubled its revenue in just a few years. It
expects to take in $2 billion in 2017, and to ship more than 10 million items
from Nov. 27, Cyber Monday, to Christmas, at a rate of 40,000 packages an hour,
its busiest holiday retail season to date.

The strategy has attracted a $1 billion investment from the Japanese
conglomerate SoftBank. The Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba has also taken a
stake.

"If you're selling the same merchandise that's commonly available, and you've
got no point of differentiation, you're dead," Mr. Rubin said. "It's just a
question of when you die."

Mr. Rubin said that his company's licensing deals, which run from 13 to 17 years
long with each of the four major professional sports leagues, are exclusive
enough that "somebody can't be a significant player without the rights that we
possess."

Amazon sells and ships team-branded products from some licensed vendors and
through its third-party marketplace. For now at least, Mr. Rubin sounds like he
does not see that as much of a threat.

"Amazon is an incredible company," he said, "but we have 5,000 full-time
employees that go to bed and wake up thinking about the licensed sports
business."

Mr. Rubin, 45, got into the industry as a 12-year-old selling ski equipment out
of his parents' basement in nearby Lafayette Hill.

He attended Villanova University for one semester before dropping out to start a
business that handled online sales and fulfillment for big-box retailers just as
the e-commerce wave was beginning. He sold the company, G.S.I. Commerce, to eBay
for $2.4 billion in 2011, not long after he became a part-owner of the
Philadelphia 76ers. (He also owns a stake in the New Jersey Devils.)

Among G.S.I.'s properties was Fanatics, which had started in 1995 as a single
brick-and-mortar store in a mall in Jacksonville, Fla. Mr. Rubin liked the
business so much that he bought it and two other consumer-oriented properties
back from eBay, combining them into a company called Kynetic.

"We sold the company on a Friday and we were at work again on Monday morning,"
Saj Cherian, Mr. Rubin's chief of staff, said during an interview at the
company's offices in this Philadelphia suburb on a recent afternoon.

"Well," Mr. Rubin interjected, "I was at work Saturday morning."

The industry that fuels Mr. Rubin's enthusiasm is substantial. According to the
International Licensing Industry Merchandisers Association, global retail sales
of licensed sports merchandise reached $25 billion in 2016. The largest portion
of that, 28.1 percent, was apparel.

But after a jersey and T-shirt craze in the 1990s, demand flattened. Leagues
parceled out their most precious licenses to brands like Nike and Adidas, which
mostly seemed concerned with using on-field uniforms as marketing tools, rather
than with producing gear for fans.

At that point, Mr. Rubin said, the licensed sports merchandise market was "a
very sleepy business" without a robust online presence. The leagues were doing
more to reach fans directly in areas like ticketing and social media, he said,
but lagging when it came to selling goods.

Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, agreed.

"The industry needed to be disrupted," Mr. Kraft said. Referring to Mr. Rubin,
he said: "He's brought tech, innovation and a vertical on-demand model that's
brought agility to an industry that hadn't changed much in decades."

Among the micro-moments that highlighted the new need for speed was Jeremy Lin's
emergence as a sudden star for the New York Knicks in 2012 amid the so-called
Linsanity phenomenon.

"When Linsanity happened, within 12 hours to 24 hours, there were no jerseys to
get," Mr. Rubin said. "So you had this huge demand, and there's no jerseys
available. Then you order them like crazy, and by the time they get in, the
moment's over."

Sal LaRocca, the N.B.A.'s president of global partnerships, said the episode
"was a large catalyst in moving to where we ultimately moved to with Fanatics."
The N.B.A. entered an initial partnership with the company in 2015 to run the
N.B.A. store; Fanatics acquired the rights to sell replica jerseys beginning
this season.

In 2013, Mr. Rubin moved most of Fanatics' executive team to Silicon Valley from
Florida and started a team dedicated to mobile platforms. "We couldn't get the
type of talent we needed in the speed we needed in Jacksonville," he said.

This year, the company will spend $120 million to improve the customer
experience, its data acquisition efforts, its communications with manufacturers
and the Fanatics app.

The investment is critical, Mr. Rubin said, given that 90 percent of the
company's business is online, and more than 50 percent comes through mobile
devices. Fanatics declined to disclose sales figures, but said that about a
quarter of its sales have traditionally come in December. This year, it expects
70 million unique visitors to its websites, including more than 300 online team
stores, for the month.

Major League Baseball said sales of Fanatics products on MLBShop.com were up 67
percent this year, thanks in part to the company's ability to capitalize on
hot-market items.

"It's an untapped market that we've all been missing," said Noah Garden,
M.L.B.'s executive vice president of business.

Fanatics' only ties to brick-and-mortar retailing are the roughly 30 team or
league outlets operates in arenas and stadiums. Mr. Rubin envisions the arena
stores complementing the online operation, with fans at games using their phones
to order goods, and then having the items delivered directly to their seats.

Sports is particularly well suited to online retail, with many fans living far
from their favorite teams' hometowns. But Fanatics' success depends in part on
its deals with the leagues, which could create competition by entering
agreements with rivals.

"While I have a lot of admiration for what Fanatics has done, what they're doing
is replicable," said Matt Powell, a sports industry analyst at the market
research firm NPD Group.

The company is not waiting for that to happen. Doug Mack, the Fanatics' chief
executive, said it wanted to expand globally, and had already acquired rights to
sell merchandise from nearly a dozen English Premier League teams, including
Manchester United and Everton.

Mr. Rubin said he thought Fanatics could be a $10 billion company in 10 years,
with half of its business coming from beyond North America.

At that size, it would surpass Dick's Sporting Goods, Foot Locker and Under
Armour, even if sports fans might not realize who was responsible for that
must-have Tom Brady jersey.

"They probably don't know it now," Mr. Kraft, the Patriots owner, said. "But
they will."


Correction: November 20, 2017, Monday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article misidentified one of the English Premier League teams
that has a licensing deal with Fanatics, the sports merchandise company. It is
Everton, not Chelsea.


Correction: November 22, 2017, Wednesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article misidentified the operator of the Pittsburgh Steelers'
website. It is the team itself, not the sports apparel maker Fanatics.

PHOTOS: A worker put the final touches on a Jose Altuve jersey. He was named the
American League's most valuable player last week. (B1); A Fanatics factory in
Pennsylvania. The retailer, which caters to surges in demand by fans, expects to
earn $2 billion this year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN COLLERD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES);
Women's T-shirts and tank tops made by Fanatics on sale at the N.B.A. store in
Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HILARY SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 20, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

It's Almost Thanksgiving! Let Us Be Your Guide

BYLINE: TIM HERRERA

SECTION: SMARTER-LIVING

LENGTH: 1001 words



HIGHLIGHT: Welcome to the latest edition of the Smarter Living newsletter.


Welcome to the Smarter Living newsletter. The Smarter Living team emails readers
once a week with tips and advice for living a better, more fulfilling life. Sign
up here to get it in your inbox every Monday morning.

In just a few short days we'll all be gathered around a table, stuffing our
mouths with enormous amounts of food then promptly falling asleep for a long,
solid nap.

Whether you're hosting, attending or just along for the ride, here is some our
best advice for making sure this year's meal is a good one.

The most important thing to remember? The holidays should be fun! Who cares if
the pie is burned or the turkey is overcooked? Just enjoy yourself and try to
make some great memories. (And feel free to take as many photos as you want.)

The Prep

If you're hosting, you've hopefully at least sketched out what you're going to
cook and, in a perfect world, you've finished a lot of your shopping. But this
is an imperfect world, and we are imperfect people. So let's start from the top.

How to Host a Dinner Party Before we even get to the cooking, let's go over how
to be a gracious and attentive host (or guest), because really, what is
Thanksgiving but a dinner party turned all the way up?

Get the Right Gear If you're still doing last-minute shopping to get all the
right hardware in your kitchen, look no further. Here we have five cheap(ish)
things that will make your cooking  much easier.

How to Deep Clean Your Fridge In order to make room for all your ingredients,
give your fridge that once-every-so-often deep clean. It deserves it. (And so do
you.)

Time to Cook

How to Plan and CookThanksgiving Here it is, the master guide on everything
you'll need to know to make your holiday a success. From planning your menu and
going shopping, to setting the table and serving the perfect pie for dessert,
this sum of all Thanksgiving knowledge will get you through the week.

The 400-Degree Thanksgiving Can you do all of your Thanksgiving cooking in one
day, using one oven and four burners? Absolutely -- and here is exactly how to
do it. The whole thing should take only about eight hours (including lunch
breaks), and it's the perfect way to minimize time and maximize food.

The Classics Here we are, this is the good stuff. These 12 classic Thanksgiving
recipes are the bread and butter of any successful dinner, so use this as a
guide to build on.

Wine, Anyone? Just as important as the turkey is the wine selection, so read
this cheat sheet for what to buy. (But remember: There are no wrong Thanksgiving
wines.) And just for good measure, don't forget the four rules of Thanksgiving
wine. Rule No. 3: "If the food is good and the company convivial, you cannot go
wrong with the wine. If the food is bad and the company annoying, wine can only
help."

Don't Forget the Sides These 10 dishes are The Times's most popular Thanksgiving
side dish recipes, including our classic mashed potatoes, creamy macaroni and
cheese, biscuits, cornbread and brussels sprouts.

For Your Vegetarian Guests If you have friends or family who aren't indulging in
turkey, here are enough recipes to keep them well-fed, including mushroom
lasagna; turnip gratin; beet, greens and cheddar crumble; pumpkin ravioli and
much, much more.

If You're a Guest Nothing beats a great potluck Thanksgiving (hello,
Friendsgiving!), so if that's on your agenda this year, here are dozens of
recipes to choose from so you can bring the dish everyone is craving.

If you're still looking for more, here is everything Cooking has to offer for
Thanksgiving this year.

After the Meal

Success! You've put on a great Thanksgiving (or have eaten your way through
one), so now it's time to relax and space out. Here are a few ideas for your
post-turkey haze.

And Now the Best Part: Leftovers What would Thanksgiving be without a week's
worth of leftovers? Here are our most popular recipes for Thanksgiving
leftovers. If you're heavy on the turkey, here are 20 ideas to make some great
meals out of it. And for all of that leftover bread, try making some pudding
this year, use this recipe for panade, or go the traditional route of French
onion soup or panzanella.

Get Shopping Yes, Thanksgiving also means Black Friday. It's never too early to
start doing your homework, so whether you'll be shopping from the comfort of
your couch or braving the lines at stores, here's what you need to know.

Just Laze Around and Watch TV If your speed is more "sit on the couch and do
absolutely nothing," here are the best TV shows and movies that are new to
Netflix, Hulu, Amazon and more this month. Need more? Here's where to stream
some of the best movies of 2017.

Happy Thanksgiving!

--Tim

Best of Smarter Living

Your Guide to Shopping Smart on Black Friday (and Cyber Monday) Whether you plan
to get in line or shop from home, here are ways to beat the marketing madness.

How to Use Social Media in Your Career Here are some tips on using social media
to further your career, whether you are looking to expand your network, build a
business or find a new gig.

How to Prepare for Cold and Flu Season This season spares few between now and
spring. Here's how to build a survival kit to get you through unscathed.

Before Thanksgiving, Give Your Fridge a Deep Clean Nov. 15 was National Clean
Out Your Refrigerator Day. Here's how to make the most of the process.

Want to Help? Do Your Research Before You Donate Experts on giving say it's
important to find a charity with a clear mission, treat your donations like an
investment and follow your passion.

If You're Sick, Stay Away From Work. If You Can't, Here Is What Doctors Advise.
Those who have paid sick time should use it but often don't, despite doctors'
warnings that it risks infecting other people.

What We're Reading

Everything you've wanted to know about the cost of furniture.

Five things I've never regretted splurging on despite my super-strict budget.

Do you use Gmail Labs? You should, and here's how to get started.

The eight friends you need in life to be happy.

How to solve problems like an astronaut.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 20, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

On Black Friday, Get Help And Skip the Doorbusters

BYLINE: By ALAN HENRY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1469 words


Long before your Thanksgiving dinner has settled, retailers start to lure you in
on Black Friday and Cyber Monday with doorbuster sales and in-store discounts.

Online stores have already begun ''leaking'' their big -- and now weeklong --
Cyber Monday sales.

Whether you plan to get in line or shop from home, here are some ways to beat
the marketing madness and be a smart shopper.

Do your homework now

It's hard not to get caught up in the retail frenzy, even if you don't want to.
The ads are everywhere, everyone is talking about deals and it seems like
everyone has something on sale.

On the surface, it seems appealing: You get an early start on holiday shopping
and you save some money, too. If that refrain sounds familiar -- like you fell
for it last year -- do a little homework now to save yourself both temptation
and money later.

Adam Burakowski, the deals editor for Wirecutter, The New York Times' product
review site, suggested keeping an eye out early for deals coming before the big
shopping days. ''Last year, we saw a decent amount of products drop to their
Black Friday prices a couple weeks ahead of time, so you can save yourself a lot
of hassle if you start watching deals early,'' he said.

Wirecutter collects Black Friday deals from retailers around the web here.

''Figure out your holiday shopping list before Black Friday, and come up with
some gift ideas for as many people as you can. Most people, myself included,
tend to procrastinate on this, but if you have a good sense of the things you
want to buy for the holidays, Black Friday is a great chance to knock them out
early while saving money,'' said Shep McAllister, editor of Kinja Deals, a site
that also tracks deals around the web.

If you want a specific item, check its price today at multiple stores. Add those
items to a wishlist or your shopping cart (and then abandon the cart) so you can
see how much the prices change between now and Cyber Monday. This helps reveal
exactly how big a discount that sale price really is.

Retailers often offer deep discounts on limited quantities or specific product
models in order to lure in buyers. Making a list in advance avoids the old
''this is close enough'' rationalization, and it'll keep you from buying
something you didn't really want just because it was on sale.

''Make sure you note the correct model number, since sometimes during the
holidays, retailers will feature products that look almost identical but might
have completely different features than you're expecting,'' Mr. Burakowski said.

But do retailers mark up items just to slash their prices on Black Friday?

Mr. Burakowski explained that yes, that happens, but things have changed
compared to years past, when the problem was bigger, and the deals less
attractive. ''You'll see a lot of house brands on sale and definitely see the
street price of items bounce up before the holiday, but there's enough great
deals that it's worth the hassle. As long as you do a bit of research ahead of
time, you'll be able to score some serious discounts.''

Be tech savvy, and don't rush

Aside from using wish lists to track prices, there are tools for your smartphone
or computer that can help make sure you're actually getting a bargain.

CamelCamelCamel, available for Google's Chrome and Mozilla's Firefox web
browsers, can track price fluctuations on Amazon to make sure you're not leaping
at a discount that's actually small margin off a previously marked up price.

Invisible Hand, also available for Chrome, Firefox, and Apple's Safari browser,
shows you a discreet notification while you shop online that will alert you to a
lower price at another online retailer. It even has an iPhone app so you can
take its price-matching tech on the go.

Honey, another browser extension, tries a different approach, and automatically
searches the web for coupon codes applicable to your purchases at online
retailers before you check out. If it finds one, it'll automatically apply it to
your cart to save you money. While it doesn't find discounts for you or make
sure you're getting the best price, it does go that extra mile to save you a
little cash before you click ''purchase.''

The downside to tools like these is that they require extensive information
about where you're shopping and what you're buying in order to work. Similarly,
many of them get a cut of your total when you place an order with an online
retailer. Neither approach is insidious, but you should be aware of both before
you use them.

Mr. Burakowski also noted that sometimes your best bet is to just wait a little
bit. Fill a cart and abandon it, and many online retailers will email you a
coupon code or free shipping asking you to complete the transaction. Sometimes
you can even ask for a coupon code via the retailer's live chat before you check
out.

When asked if you should jump on deals as soon as you see them, Mr. Burakowski
said there's no need to. ''Last year, we saw a tremendous growth in retailers
starting their deals Thursday -- as in, we posted almost as many deals Thursday
as we did Friday, and a similar amount on Monday,'' he said. ''Many of the
Monday ones were repeats of the ones featured across Thursday and Friday, so you
may get another chance to score some of those deals you missed out on.''

Mr. McAllister agreed. ''Some Black Friday deals are already going live, and
almost all of them will be available on or before Thanksgiving day,'' he said. A
lot of those will remain available through the weekend, and bleed into the deals
advertised as part of Cyber Monday, which will mostly go live on Sunday, because
these terms are effectively meaningless at this point. Internally, we just refer
to the whole thing as Deals Week.''

Just keep an eye on stock levels. Only jump if you're worried something will be
so popular it'll sell out.

Don't bother lining up

Shopping online in your pajamas is certainly more comfortable than sitting in
the cold waiting for a store to open. Mr. Burakowski said that if your impulse
is to stay home, follow it.

''I've never liked lining up overnight and don't think it's worth it in 99
percent of cases, unless you've got a very specific product in mind that has
extremely limited quantities,'' he said. ''While everything you see offline will
be available online, it can be a lot more difficult to get one of the truly rare
deals online than if you're first in line and guaranteed to get it.''

''The only place you should line up on Thanksgiving afternoon is on the line of
scrimmage for a family football game,'' Mr. McAllister said. ''Basically every
deal you can get in stores will be available online, and usually matched by
multiple other retailers. There are still a handful of doorbusters that are
really and truly brick-and-mortar only, but they're typically low-quality
products that you should probably avoid anyway.''

For some, lining up for Black Friday deals is tradition, or a way to spend the
day after Thanksgiving getting into the holiday shopping spirit. If getting the
best deals and saving money is your goal, it's not worth it.

For others, shopping at home -- or not at all, as in the Buy Nothing Day
campaign -- is a pleasant alternative to encouraging stores to force retail
workers to work on Black Friday or even  as early as Thanksgiving afternoon. In
fact, many retailers have opted to close on Thanksgiving entirely, in contrast
to those opening ever-earlier.

Watch out for scams and protect your identity

Finally, whether you shop in-person or online anytime during the holiday season,
it's important to protect your personal information. We offer some tips to keep
your personal data safe here and some ways to watch out for identity theft here.

Keep an eye on your credit and bank statements for fraudulent charges, avoid
signing up for high-interest store cards or giving out too much personal
information, and use strong passwords when shopping and banking online.

Similarly, take steps to protect yourself from online shopping scams and
bait-and-switch listings.

Shop from reputable sellers and retailers -- and that includes on sites like
Amazon, which allow third-parties to list products for sale.

Mr. Burakowski noted: ''I'd advise shoppers to be extra careful about third
party listings on some of the major sites like Amazon. We've been seeing a fair
few more scam listings, dramatically below the street price of the item from
sellers with zero feedback that somehow can become the featured seller.'' This
rule also applies to sites like eBay, Jet, Shopify and eBid.

The best thing you can do is just be patient. Sometimes the best deals are yet
to come, and you'll find them later in the season, on your own schedule, from a
retailer you trust. Do your homework and keep a cool head, and you'll be happier
for it.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/15/smarter-living/black-friday-cyber
-monday-shopping.html

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Black Friday at Macy's in New York City in 2015. More and more,
many sale prices are not limited to just a day or two. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DINA
LITOVSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              328 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 21, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

What Turns Black Friday Shoppers Into Raging Hordes?

BYLINE: EMILIE LE BEAU LUCCHESI

SECTION: WELL; mind

LENGTH: 1109 words



HIGHLIGHT: Social scientists and psychologists are trying to figure out why
Black Friday shoppers behave so badly.


For the Black Friday faithful, the excitement begins on Thanksgiving, when eager
shoppers line up outside big box and department stores for the chance to grab
"doorbuster" sales and "prices slashed" merchandise when the doors open. Black
Friday videos posted in recent years show shoppers shoving and shouting, with
one temporary worker even trampled to death in 2008.

What turns ordinary shoppers into dangerous mobs?

Social scientists and psychologists are trying to find out.

Sharron Lennon, a professor in the merchandising program at Indiana University,
became interested in studying consumer misbehavior after seeing news reports a
few years back about fights breaking out at her local mall. "Customers were
physically fighting with each other," she said. "People were taking things from
other shoppers' carts. It was chaos."

For a study published in The Clothing and Textiles Research Journal, she and her
colleagues asked 189 Black Friday shoppers about their antics. Had they ever
taken an item from another shopper's cart, yelled at store workers, gotten into
skirmishes with other customers or overturned racks of merchandise? Many of the
participants, who were primarily female, white and well-educated, admitted to
behaviors like trashing displays or yelling at employees.

Dr. Lennon speculates that feelings of unfairness drove many of these shoppers
to behave the way they did. Shopping and the retail-consumer relationship, she
said, is expected to be an equitable exchange of a good for payment. Any
violation of the exchange can evoke strong feelings of inequality.

When a store failed to properly stock advertised "doorbusters," when sale prices
weren't honored, such as being denied an early bird discount at checkout even
though they were in line before the sale expired, or when they failed to obtain
an advertised item or failed to receive the discounts they anticipated, Black
Friday shoppers were most likely to misbehave.

In a follow-up study, Dr. Lennon surveyed 267 Black Friday shoppers and found
that those who felt other customers were being "unpleasant" were more likely to
feel the store was being unfair -- and were more likely to become uncivil
themselves. Examples of "unpleasant" behavior among fellow shoppers included
line cutting, arguing with police or security officers, or acting rudely toward
others.

"The more they perceived the retailer situation to be inequitable, the more
consumer misbehavior they displayed," Dr. Lennon said.

Perceptions of scarcity are also a driving factor in consumer misbehavior, said
Bridget Nichols, an associate professor of marketing and sports business at
Northern Kentucky University. When consumers feel a product is scarce, they
value it more. And Black Friday is designed to offer limited amounts of products
for a limited amount of time, thus heightening the sense of urgency, she said.

In her research, Dr. Nichols has found that scarcity sparks "consumer
competitive arousal," the belief that a consumer situation is a competition in
which there are potential "winners" and "losers." Similar feelings arise at
auctions, she said. "People want to feel they got a good deal," she said.

Competitive arousal can be ignited by a perception that a specific good, such as
a popular toy or flat-screen television, is in limited supply and available for
only a short period of time. Dr. Nichols found in her research, for example,
that video game consumers had a heightened competitive arousal after viewing
advertisements that described a new game as scarce or in limited supply.

"With Black Friday, those stampedes are driven by the emotions that are drawn
from scarcity and competition," Dr. Nichols said.

Competitive arousal can bring about another emotional driver: bonding. Dr.
Nichols has extensively studied the former "running of the brides" at Filene's
Basement stores in Atlanta, Chicago and Washington, in which designer bridal
gowns were drastically reduced in price. At the event, brides-to-be, joined by
friends or family members, teamed up to grab as many dresses as possible for the
bride to consider.

"In the beginning, they expressed the mind-set that they wanted to 'win,' by
finding a $5,000 dress for $300," Dr. Nichols said. "But in the end, the dress
became ancillary. The experience was about competing and bonding together."

Sharing the Black Friday ritual with friends and family can create a similar
sense of tribal bonding, Dr. Nichols said, and reinforce bad behavior. In one of
her 'running of the brides' studies, the shoppers revealed how they hoarded as
many dresses as possible, and negotiated trades with other shopping teams in
which they misrepresented the value of the gown they gave away.

"Some admitted, 'I was walking by a group of girls and they weren't looking, so
I took three of their dresses,'" Dr. Nichols said. "They felt like it was part
of the game and it was acceptable to do these things. They thought, 'I competed
well.'"

Black Friday shoppers too, Dr. Nichols said, may exhibit a similarly heightened
sense of competition that can lead to such behaviors as shoving other shoppers
or taking goods from another customer's cart. Such behavior is similarly
perceived as a way to "win."

A study in The Journal of Global Fashion Marketing found that Black Friday
shoppers, perhaps not surprisingly, reported great pleasure in shopping. They
were more attracted to the "hedonistic" atmosphere than those who opted to stay
away from stores on that day.

Indeed, Dr. Nichols, who was not involved in that study, noted that many Black
Friday spectators are attracted to the excitement of the scene.

With both spectators and shoppers descending on stores, Dr. Nichols said that
stores need to have a plan for handling crowds and reducing violence. "Stores
want people to come and get excited," she said. Unfortunately, all too often,
many "don't consider what might happen."

For shoppers who are planning to join the Black Friday crowds, she advises being
mindful of competitive emotions that can build when an item is perceived to be
in short supply.

"Whatever the 'scarce' thing is, it will likely be in abundance come January,"
Dr. Nichols said, noting that Hatchimals, the must-have toy of 2016, were in
short supply before the holidays but became widely available just a few weeks
later.

"Just remind yourself that no special deal is worth getting hurt over or hurting
someone else," she said.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY JULIETTE BORDA)

Related Articles


     ·    How to Shop Smart on Black Friday (and Cyber Monday)
     ·    How Not to Overpay on Black Friday? Let the Web Be Your Guide
     ·    Video of Black Friday Brawl in California Goes Viral
     ·    Black Friday Shopping: Tales From the Front Lines


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 21, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Iranian Hacker Charged in HBO Hacking That Included 'Game of Thrones' Script

BYLINE: DANIEL VICTOR and SHEERA FRENKEL

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 616 words



HIGHLIGHT: A hacker stole 1.5 terabytes of data and leaked several episodes of
HBO's shows while demanding $6 million in Bitcoin, according to U.S.
authorities.


United States officials are charging an Iranian hacker in the theft of 1.5
terabytes of data from HBO in May, an attack that tormented network executives
and included the release of several unaired programs and scripts.

Behzad Mesri, who went by the pseudonym "Skote Vahshat," was charged with
computer fraud, wire fraud, extortion and identity theft, according to an
indictment unsealed Tuesday in United States District Court in Manhattan. But he
remains in Iran, and officials acknowledged that it would be difficult to detain
him.

"He will forever be looking over his shoulder, and if he isn't, he should be,"
Joon H. Kim, acting United States attorney for the Southern District of New
York, said at a news conference.

He was accused of trying to extort $6 million worth of Bitcoin from HBO in July,
the indictment said.

From May to August, the data theft proved a nightmare for HBO. The hacker
gradually released stolen materials on the internet, including unaired episodes
of "Ballers," "Barry," "Room 104," "Curb Your Enthusiasm" and "The Deuce." The
hacker also released the script of an episode of "Game of Thrones" that had not
yet been broadcast.

The data cache also included financial documents, cast and crew contact lists,
emails belonging to at least one HBO employee and credentials for social media
accounts, according to the indictment.

Though Mr. Kim said it was "not likely" the authorities would be able to arrest
Mr. Mesri, being wanted by the F.B.I. will make it difficult for Mr. Mesri to
travel internationally, he said.

"The memory of American law enforcement is very long," he said.

The indictment stops short of formally accusing Mr. Mesri, 29, of working on
behalf of the Iranian government, though it notes that he previously "had worked
on behalf of the Iranian military to conduct computer network attacks that
targeted military systems, nuclear software systems, and Israeli
infrastructure."

Collin Anderson, an independent cybersecurity researcher who focuses on Iran,
said that Mr. Mesri appeared to have ties to individuals who had carried out
cyberespionage campaigns on behalf of the Iranian government, though his
decision to attack HBO may have been a singular act he carried out by himself.

"Iran's offensive cyberoperations are complex because the membership in hacking
groups and the lines between groups are messy and shift over time," Mr. Anderson
said.

He said the indictment was most likely just the tip of the iceberg when it came
to Iran's offensive online activities.

"This is a limited window into the vast activities Iran is engaged in, and it's
a limited window into what the U.S. government knows about these actors," Mr.
Anderson said. "It's possible that the U.S. government could indict more Iranian
hackers, depending on how they want to place pressure on Iran in the coming
months."

In a statement, HBO said: "HBO has confirmed in the past that we were working
with law enforcement from the early stages of the cyber incident. As far as the
criminal case is concerned, we prefer to leave any comments to the US Attorney's
Office."

Mr. Mesri was not accused of participating in two other HBO security breaches
over the summer. The network's Twitter account was hacked in August, and two
episodes of "Game of Thrones" were leaked online before they were broadcast, but
neither was linked to the larger data theft.

"Game of Thrones" didn't appear to suffer from the leaks. It set a ratings
record with 12.1 million viewers for its finale, or 16.5 million when including
numbers from its streaming services.

Kitty Bennett contributed research.

Related Articles


     ·    HBO Assesses Damage From Cyberattack
     ·    Hackers Threaten 'Game of Thrones,' as HBO Confirms Cyberattack


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 21, 2017 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Official Gear Of Fickle Fans

BYLINE: By ZACH SCHONBRUN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1448 words


CONSHOHOCKEN, Pa. -- This fall, as some of the N.F.L.'s corporate partners
fretted about the league's handling of its players kneeling during the national
anthem, the sports merchandise company Fanatics pounced.

When Alejandro Villanueva, a Pittsburgh Steelers offensive lineman, stood for
the anthem and the rest of the team stayed in the locker room, his name began
trending on Twitter. Fanatics quickly posted a rendering of his No. 78 jersey on
its website, and did the same on the Steelers' website and the N.F.L.'s online
shop, both of which it also operates.

Sales skyrocketed. Manufacturing facilities in Kentucky and Florida went to work
pressing Mr. Villanueva's name and number onto thousands of blank Pittsburgh
jerseys for next-day shipping. Overnight, a player who had never caught a pass
or scored a touchdown had the N.F.L.'s best-selling jersey.

''That moment happened, people wanted to immediately buy that jersey,'' Michael
Rubin, the company's chairman and principal owner said. ''A week later, that
moment is mostly over.''

These micro-moments, as Mr. Rubin calls them, happen all the time in sports: A
player reaches a milestone, has a breakout performance or is traded to a new
team. Apparel companies have traditionally been poorly positioned to meet the
accompanying fan demand as it surges. Fanatics is changing that and, in the
process, carving out a lucrative niche in a fiercely competitive online-retail
industry largely dominated by Amazon.

Fanatics has licensing rights with the North America's four major sports
leagues, more than 500 colleges, Nascar, Major League Soccer and the
Professional Golf Association. The company is similar to fast-fashion retailers
like H&M, Uniqlo and Zara, integrating design and manufacturing with
distribution to fulfill orders within hours. After the Chicago Cubs won the
World Series last year, Fanatics used Uber to deliver championship gear to some
fans within minutes.

As a result, Fanatics has more than doubled its revenue in just a few years. It
expects to take in $2 billion in 2017, and to ship more than 10 million items
from Nov. 27, Cyber Monday, to Christmas, at a rate of 40,000 packages an hour,
its busiest holiday retail season to date.

The strategy has attracted a $1 billion investment from the Japanese
conglomerate SoftBank. The Chinese e-commerce Alibaba has also taken a stake.

''If you're selling the same merchandise that's commonly available, and you've
got no point of differentiation, you're dead,'' Mr. Rubin said. ''It's just a
question of when you die.''

Mr. Rubin said that his company's licensing deals, which run from 13 to 17 years
long with each of the four major professional sports leagues, are exclusive
enough that ''somebody can't be a significant player without the rights that we
possess.''

Amazon sells and ships team-branded products from vendors through its
third-party marketplace. For now at least, Mr. Rubin sounds like he does not see
that as much of a threat.

''Amazon is an incredible company,'' he said, ''but we have 5,000 full-time
employees that go to bed and wake up thinking about the licensed sports
business.''

Mr. Rubin, 45, got into the industry as a 12-year-old selling ski equipment out
of his parents' basement in nearby Lafayette Hill.

He attended Villanova University for one semester before dropping out to start a
business that handled online sales and fulfillment for big-box retailers just as
the e-commerce wave was beginning. He sold the company, G.S.I. Commerce, to eBay
for $2.4 billion in 2011, not long after he became a part-owner of the
Philadelphia 76ers. (He also owns a stake in the New Jersey Devils.)

Among G.S.I.'s properties was Fanatics, which had started in 1995 as a single
brick-and-mortar store in a mall in Jacksonville, Fla. Mr. Rubin liked the
business so much that he bought it and two other consumer-oriented properties
back from eBay, combining them into a company called Kynetic.

''We sold the company on a Friday and we were at work again on Monday morning,''
Saj Cherian, Mr. Rubin's chief of staff, said during an interview at the
company's offices in this Philadelphia suburb on a recent afternoon.

''Well,'' Mr. Rubin interjected, ''I was at work Saturday morning.''

The industry that fuels Mr. Rubin's enthusiasm is substantial. According to the
International Licensing Industry Merchandisers Association, global retail sales
of licensed sports merchandise reached $25 billion in 2016. The largest portion
of that, 28.1 percent, was apparel.

But after a jersey and T-shirt craze in the 1990s, demand flattened. Leagues
parceled out their most precious licenses to brands like Nike and Adidas, which
mostly seemed concerned with using on-field uniforms as marketing tools, rather
than with producing gear for fans.

At that point, Mr. Rubin said, the licensed sports merchandise market was ''a
very sleepy business'' without a robust online presence. The leagues were doing
more to reach fans directly in areas like ticketing and social media, he said,
but lagging when it came to selling goods.

Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, agreed.

''The industry needed to be disrupted,'' Mr. Kraft said. Referring to Mr. Rubin,
he said: ''He's brought tech, innovation and a vertical on-demand model that's
brought agility to an industry that hadn't changed much in decades.''

Among the micro-moments that highlighted the new need for speed was Jeremy Lin's
emergence as a sudden star for the New York Knicks in 2012 amid the so-called
Linsanity phenomenon.

''When Linsanity happened, within 12 hours to 24 hours, there were no jerseys to
get,'' Mr. Rubin said. ''So you had this huge demand, and there's no jerseys
available. Then you order them like crazy, and by the time they get in, the
moment's over.''

Sal LaRocca, the N.B.A.'s president of global partnerships, said the episode
''was a large catalyst in moving to where we ultimately moved to with
Fanatics.'' The N.B.A. entered an initial partnership with the company in 2015
to run the N.B.A. store; Fanatics acquired the rights to sell replica jerseys
beginning this season.

In 2013, Mr. Rubin moved most of Fanatics' executive team to Silicon Valley from
Florida and started a team dedicated to mobile platforms. ''We couldn't get the
type of talent we needed in the speed we needed in Jacksonville,'' he said.

This year, the company will spend $120 million to improve the customer
experience, its data acquisition efforts, its communications with manufacturers
and the Fanatics app.

The investment is critical, Mr. Rubin said, given that 90 percent of the
company's business is online, and more than 50 percent comes through mobile
devices. Fanatics declined to disclose sales figures, but said that about a
quarter of its sales have traditionally come in December. This year, it expects
70 million unique visitors to its websites, including more than 300 online team
stores, for the month.

Major League Baseball said sales of Fanatics products on MLBShop.com were up 67
percent this year, thanks in part to the company's ability to capitalize on
hot-market items.

''It's an untapped market that we've all been missing,'' said Noah Garden,
M.L.B.'s executive vice president of business.

Fanatics' only ties to brick-and-mortar retailing are the roughly 30 team or
league outlets operates in arenas and stadiums. Mr. Rubin envisions the arena
stores complementing the online operation, with fans at games using their phones
to order goods, and then having the items delivered directly to their seats.

Sports is particularly well suited to online retail, with many fans living far
from their favorite teams' hometowns. But Fanatics' success depends in part on
its deals with the leagues, which could create competition by entering
agreements with rivals.

''While I have a lot of admiration for what Fanatics has done, what they're
doing is replicable,'' said Matt Powell, a sports industry analyst at the market
research firm NPD Group.

The company is not waiting for that to happen. Doug Mack, the Fanatics' chief
executive, said it wanted to expand globally, and had already acquired rights to
sell merchandise from nearly a dozen English Premier League teams, including
Manchester United and Everton.

Mr. Rubin said he thought Fanatics could be a $10 billion company in 10 years,
with half of its business coming from beyond North America.

At that size, it would surpass Dick's Sporting Goods, Foot Locker and Under
Armour, even if sports fans might not realize who was responsible for that
must-have Tom Brady jersey.

''They probably don't know it now,'' Mr. Kraft, the Patriots owner, said. ''But
they will.''




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/20/business/fanatics-apparel.html

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A worker put the final touches on a Jose Altuve jersey. He was
named the American League's most valuable player last week. (B1)
A Fanatics factory in Pennsylvania. The retailer, which caters to surges in
demand by fans, expects to earn $2 billion this year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN
COLLERD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Women's T-shirts and tank tops made by Fanatics on sale at the N.B.A. store in
Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HILARY SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              331 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 22, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Net Neutrality, Pixar, David Cassidy: Your Wednesday Briefing

BYLINE: CHRIS STANFORD

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 1254 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know to start your day.


Correction Appended

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the sign-up.)

Good morning.

Here's what you need to know:

A mixed message from Washington.

"Most Americans now get their internet and phone services from one of a few
providers, and most TV shows and movies are produced by a handful of big
companies. But there is so far no clear view about how Washington will navigate
this constantly shifting terrain."

One of our business reporters, David Gelles, examined the differing stances that
the Trump administration has taken this week on one of the central issues
shaping business and society.

On Tuesday, the F.C.C. announced plans to dismantle rules that prevent internet
service providers from charging higher fees and blocking access to some
websites. (This video explains how net neutrality works.)

That followed Monday's lawsuit by the Justice Department to block AT&T's
proposed takeover of Time Warner.

"You've got one agency saying that marrying content and distribution results in
too much market power, and another agency saying there's no problem with a
distributor favoring their content over someone else's," one analyst said.

Trump defends Moore: "He totally denies it."

President Trump broke with leading Republicans on Tuesday and supported Roy
Moore, the Senate candidate in Alabama who has been accused of molesting a
14-year-old girl.

The president also praised women for speaking out: "I think it's a very special
time because a lot of things are coming out, and I think that's good for our
society, and I think it's very, very good for women."

Separately, Representative John Conyers Jr., a Democrat, is under investigation
by the House Ethics Committee for sexual harassment charges. His party's
leaders, including Nancy Pelosi, offered little support.

CBS fired Charlie Rose on Tuesday, a day after multiple women accused him of
sexual misconduct.

And John Lasseter, co-founder of the animated-film studio Pixar, said he would
take a leave of absence after unspecified "missteps" that made some staff
members feel "disrespected or uncomfortable."

The "Butcher of Bosnia" is convicted.

A U.N. war crimes tribunal convicted Ratko Mladic today of war crimes, genocide
and crimes against humanity in the slaughter of Bosnian Muslims during the
breakup of Yugoslavia in the 1990s.

Mr. Mladic, a Bosnian Serb former general, was found to have orchestrated a
campaign of ethnic cleansing that made Bosnia and Herzegovina the site of some
of the worst atrocities of Europe's bloody 20th century.

The deadliest year of the campaign was 1992, when 45,000 people died, often in
their homes, on the streets or in a string of concentration camps.

Another Navy accident in Asia.

A search is underway after an aircraft carrying 11 people crashed off Japan
today. It's the fifth accident this year for the U.S. Navy's Seventh Fleet, its
largest overseas.

Japan's public broadcaster reported that at least eight people had been rescued.

The Navy relieved Vice Adm. Joseph Aucoin, the head of the Seventh Fleet, of his
command in August.

"The Daily": A strongman's rise and fall.

Listen on a computer, an iOS device or an Android device.

Business

Uber disclosed that hackers had stolen 57 million driver and rider accounts. The
company kept the data breach secret for more than a year after paying a $100,000
ransom.

Meg Whitman is stepping down as chief executive of Hewlett Packard Enterprise
six years after joining its corporate predecessor and leading a turnaround
effort that split the Silicon Valley corporate icon in two.

She will be succeeded by Antonio Neri, the company's president.

An Iranian hacker has been charged in the theft of 1.5 terabytes of data from
HBO in May, an attack that included the release of several unaired programs and
scripts.

U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here's a snapshot of global markets.

Smarter Living

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

Avoid bad bargains on Black Friday and Cyber Monday.

Five lessons from a diplomat on bridging the parent-teacher divide.

Have Thanksgiving anxiety? We have you covered with guides, tips and recipes.

Noteworthy

Inside a psychedelic dream home.

In today's 360 video, listen to the Bolivian architect Freddy Mamani describe
his elaborate, electric style, which he says embraces local culture and
traditions.

It's not just the track that's broken.

Andrew Byford, the transit chief in Toronto, was named on Tuesday to take over
the management of New York City's ailing subways and buses.

Our columnist Jim Dwyer has some advice: "The New York transit system has smart
people who can fix just about anything that moves. But as much as it needs new
parts, it needs a culture where honesty matters."

In memoriam.

David Cassidy was an actor, singer and teenage heartthrob best known for his
role on the 1970s TV sitcom "The Partridge Family." He was 67.

Best of late-night TV.

Noting that CBS had fired Charlie Rose, Jimmy Fallon said, "Yeah, they told him
to clear out his desk, put on his pants and leave."

Quotation of the day.

"I just want to say to His Excellency: 'Go and rest now, our father. We still
love you. But we're happy today. We're hoping now for a better future.' "

-- David Mushakwe, a car electrician in Harare, Zimbabwe, referring to Robert
Mugabe's resignation.

Back Story

Last week, President Trump reversed the government's decision to start allowing
hunters to import trophies of elephants that were killed in two African
countries.

More than a century ago, another president took the opposite approach.

Shortly after leaving office in 1909, Theodore Roosevelt led a safari to Africa,
organized by the Smithsonian Institution and partly financed by Andrew Carnegie,
the industrialist and philanthropist. The group gathered specimens for what is
now the National Museum of Natural History in Washington.

Then, as now, hunting split opinion.

When Roosevelt wrote to the Smithsonian in 1908, outlining his safari plans, he
insisted he was "not in the least a game butcher" but rather "a faunal
naturalist."

The expedition lasted nearly a year -- stretching from what is now Kenya to
Sudan -- and included Roosevelt's son Kermit and several naturalists from the
Smithsonian.

The group ultimately collected more than 11,000 specimens, many of them bugs,
plants and small mammals. But about 500 were big game animals shot by Roosevelt
or his son.

The former president later wrote about the trip in a book, "African Game
Trails." He was highly sensitive to charges of cruelty but noted "to protest
against all hunting of game is a sign of softness of head, not of soundness of
heart."

_____

There will be no Morning Briefing on Thursday because of the holiday. Happy
Thanksgiving!

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated all
morning. Browse past briefings here.

If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times
app from iTunes or Google Play.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Sunday through Friday. We have
four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an
Evening Briefing on weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters
here.

Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc.


Correction: November 22, 2017, Wednesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of a picture caption with this briefing, using information from Getty
Images, misidentified the city where David Cassidy was in 1974. It is Paris, not
London.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 22, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

How to Buy a Great TV This Black Friday;
Tech Fix

BYLINE: BRIAN X. CHEN

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; personaltech

LENGTH: 1159 words



HIGHLIGHT: Black Friday tends to be when prices for great TVs drop to their
lowest. But there are pitfalls, so we put together a playbook for how to snag
the best TV for you.


You know how it is: Every Black Friday, you are bombarded with lousy shopping
deals that do not offer as much of a discount on an item as you think. But there
is a bright spot: If you are shopping for a television, it really is the best
time to buy one.

To stoke sales, electronics manufacturers typically slash prices of popular TV
sets during Black Friday to the lowest all year. This week, you will be able to
buy high-quality televisions for $500 to $1,500 after discounts of 15 percent to
30 percent. That's a deal considering that typically, many TVs in the $500 range
are just O.K. and high-end sets cost upward of $2,000.

But as always, there will be duds to watch out for. Many TV brands take this
opportunity to sell sets with exaggerated features that have subpar picture
quality. And inside stores, TVs often look different from the way they would at
home, because you probably don't have gigantic lights in your ceilings like the
showrooms at Best Buy.

"A lot of Black Friday marketing is designed to get the consumer interested in
something, sometimes with not a lot of facts but a gut feeling of 'I need to buy
this,' " said Raymond Soneira, president of DisplayMate, a consulting firm that
studies TV and smartphone screens.

So we did some research ahead of time. To help you scout for great TV deals, I
interviewed experts on TV technologies and teamed up with Wirecutter, a New York
Times company that reviews products. Here is our guide to picking out a TV you
will be happy with this Black Friday, advice that may also come in handy if you
are shopping for TVs over the rest of the holiday season.

Viewing Conditions

To narrow down your search, the first rule of thumb is to assess the ambient
light in your living room.

If your living room gets lots of sunlight, you will want a very bright TV with
vivid colors that can overcome some of that ambient light that washes out your
TV, Mr. Soneira said. In this situation, you would probably go for an LCD TV,
which can produce very bright and sharp images.

If your living room has lower ambient light or if you have a dark theater room,
go for a TV with more lifelike colors. In this case, you could go for
televisions with so-called OLED screens, which can be made thinner and lighter
with more accurate colors and contrast. In general, OLED TVs look better than
LCD sets, but OLED TVs are not as bright, so their colors and shadow details can
be washed out by bright sunlight.

And then there is content to consider. If you watch a lot of movies, you would
benefit from an OLED television to get a picture that more closely resembles
what the director intended you to see. But if you mostly watch sports or
broadcast television, a good LCD television would be sufficient to get a clear,
bright picture of the ballgame or your local news coverage.

In the end, your budget may drive your decision. Good LCD televisions cost as
little as $500. A nice OLED television tends to cost $2,000 and up.

A Few Important Features

After you have decided on a type of TV, there are two important features to look
for: local dimming and high dynamic range, said Chris Heinonen, a writer and TV
tester for Wirecutter.

Local dimming is a technology that uses a backlight embedded inside the TV to
make bright parts of the screen look brighter without washing out shadow detail.
It also helps improve contrast and produce a more vibrant image.

High dynamic range, or HDR, is a software feature that enhances the contrast and
color profile of a picture. In bright colors, you will see brighter highlights;
in dark colors, you will see more details.

Most television sets today come with 4K high-definition resolution, also known
as ultrahigh definition. But 4K videos won't look very good if the TV lacks
local dimming. In addition, the expanded color gamut from high dynamic range
makes a big difference when watching videos in 4K, Mr. Heinonen said.

Buyer, Beware

Here's the tricky part: On Black Friday, many companies exaggerate the features
on their TV sets to make them look more attractive. Here are some things to look
out for.

[#x25a0] Fake contrast ratio numbers. Contrast ratio is the difference between a
TV's peak brightness and lowest darkness. All you need to know is that a high
contrast ratio helps make a picture look good. Manufacturers enjoy pumping up
the contrast ratio of their TVs by listing results in unrealistic test settings,
Mr. Heinonen said.

[#x25a0] Unknown TV models. On Black Friday, TV brands also enjoy releasing
obscure television sets with model names that are similar to popular sets but
with inferior features. "They all do it," Mr. Heinonen said.

For example, Samsung could hypothetically sell a TV set called MU8020, which
sounds similar to the Samsung MU8000, a well-reviewed television. But the
unknown TV might lack important features like local dimming.

[#x25a0] Misleading display technologies. TV makers use confusing terms that may
mislead you. LED televisions, for example, sound similar to fancy OLED
televisions -- but they are just LCD televisions with an LED backlight, Mr.
Soneira said. In addition, companies advertise TVs with high dynamic range, but
some sets are not even powerful enough to display HDR properly, Mr. Heinonen
said.

Do Your Homework

The best way to avoid falling into any traps is to figure out what TV you want
and keep track of its price leading up to Black Friday. Here's a good place to
start: Wirecutter put together a chart of the best TVs based on dozens of hours
of testing. It highlighted sets from Sony, TCL, Vizio and LG.

Some TV makers have already announced Black Friday prices for a number of
top-rated TVs. LG, for example, is selling an OLED TV, called B7A, for about
$1,500 for the 55-inch set and about $2,300 for the 65-inch model. Originally,
they cost $2,200 and $2,700. The $1,500 price is remarkably low for a high-end
TV of this caliber and size.

In addition, Amazon is selling a great 55-inch Sony LCD TV with HDR for about
$1,000, down from about $1,300. And Walmart is selling Vizio's M50-E1, a
well-reviewed 50-inch budget TV, for about $500, down from $600.

Whatever you do, try not to overspend. Mr. Heinonen said to steer clear of TVs
that cost more than $3,000 because TV technologies were rapidly maturing and
prices plummet every year.

"Paying a ton right now for the top of the line is really paying a premium when
things are improving so fast," he said.

Email: brian.chen@nytimes.com; Twitter: @bxchen.

PHOTOS: A Best Buy store in Franklin, Tenn. Consumers should keep in mind that
lighting in a showroom will probably differ from conditions at home. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY MARK HUMPHREY/THE ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1); Experts say that most of the Black
Friday bargains to be found in stores are also available online, but advise
consumers to do their homework. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS) (B4)

Related Articles


     ·    How to Shop Smart on Black Friday (and Cyber Monday)
     ·    Black Friday Deal or Dud? How to Shop Smart This Holiday Season
     ·    What to Know About CES 2017


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 22, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

100 Notable Books of 2017

SECTION: BOOKS; review

LENGTH: 3816 words



HIGHLIGHT: The year's notable fiction, poetry and nonfiction, selected by the
editors of The New York Times Book Review.


The year's notable fiction, poetry and nonfiction, selected by the editors of
The New York Times Book Review. This list represents books reviewed since Dec.
4, 2016, when we published our previous Notables list.

Fiction & Poetry

AMERICAN WAR. By Omar El Akkad. (Knopf, $26.95.) This haunting debut novel
imagines the events that lead up to and follow the Second American Civil War at
the turn of the 22nd century.

ANYTHING IS POSSIBLE. By Elizabeth Strout. (Random House, $27.) This audacious
novel is about small-town characters struggling to make sense of past family
traumas.

AUTUMN. By Ali Smith. (Pantheon, $24.95.) Smith's ingenious novel is about the
friendship between a 101-year-old man and a 32-year-old woman in Britain after
the Brexit vote.

BAD DREAMS AND OTHER STORIES. By Tessa Hadley. (Harper/HarperCollins, $26.99.)
Hadley serves up the bitter along with the delicious in these 10 stories.

BEAUTIFUL ANIMALS. By Lawrence Osborne. (Hogarth, $25.) On a Greek island, two
wealthy young women encounter a handsome Syrian refugee, whom they endeavor to
help, with disastrous results.

THE BOOK OF JOAN. By Lidia Yuknavitch. (Harper/HarperCollins, $26.99.) In this
brilliant novel, Earth, circa 2049, has been devastated by global warming and
war.

A BOY IN WINTER. By Rachel Seiffert. (Pantheon, $25.95.) Seiffert's intricate
novel probes the bonds and betrayals in a Ukrainian town as it succumbs to
Hitler.

THE CHANGELING. By Victor LaValle. (Spiegel & Grau, $28.) LaValle's novel, about
Apollo Kagwa, a used-book dealer, blends social criticism with horror, while
remaining steadfastly literary.

CHRISTMAS DAYS: 12 Stories and 12 Feasts for 12 Days. By Jeanette Winterson.
(Grove, $24.) A gift book from the British novelist, containing otherworldly and
wickedly funny stories.

DANCE OF THE JAKARANDA. By Peter Kimani. (Akashic, paper, $15.95.) This funny,
perceptive and ambitious work of historical fiction by a Kenyan poet and
novelist explores his country's colonial past.

THE DARK FLOOD RISES. By Margaret Drabble. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) This
masterly novel follows its 70-something heroine on a road trip through England.

THE DINNER PARTY: And Other Stories. By Joshua Ferris. (Little, Brown, $26.)
Anxiety, self-consciousness and humiliation are the default inner states of the
characters in these 11 stories.

THE ESSEX SERPENT. By Sarah Perry. (Custom House/Morrow, $26.99.) This novel's
densely woven plot involves an independent-minded widow and the possible
haunting presence of a giant serpent.

EXIT WEST. By Mohsin Hamid. (Riverhead, $26.) The new novel by the author of
"The Reluctant Fundamentalist" and "How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia" mixes
global unrest with a bit of the fantastic.

FAST. By Jorie Graham. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $25.99.) Graham created these poems
against a backdrop of personal and political trauma -- her parents are dying,
she is undergoing cancer treatment, the nation is mired in war and ecological
crisis.

FIVE-CARAT SOUL. By James McBride. (Riverhead, $27.) In his delightful first
story collection, the author of the National Book Award-winning novel "The Good
Lord Bird" continues to explore race, masculinity, music and history.

FOREST DARK. By Nicole Krauss. (Harper/HarperCollins, $27.99.) Tracing the lives
of two Americans in Israel, this restless novel explores the mysteries of
disconnection and the divided self.

4 3 2 1. By Paul Auster. (Holt, $32.50.) Auster's book is an epic bildungsroman
that presents the reader with four versions of the formative years of a Jewish
boy born in Newark in 1947.

FRESH COMPLAINT: Stories. By Jeffrey Eugenides. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.)
Eugenides's expert debut collection of short stories is his first book since
"The Marriage Plot" in 2011.

FUTURE HOME OF THE LIVING GOD. By Louise Erdrich. (HarperCollins, $28.99.) What
if human beings are neither inevitable nor ultimate? That's the premise of
Erdrich's fascinating new novel.

GIVING GODHEAD. By Dylan Krieger. (Delete, paper, $17.99.) Seamlessly mixing the
religious with the obscene, Krieger's poetry is inventive and powerful.

HISTORY OF WOLVES. By Emily Fridlund. (Atlantic Monthly, $25.) A slow-motion
tragedy unfolds in Minnesota's north woods in Fridlund's disturbing debut.

HOME FIRE. By Kamila Shamsie. (Riverhead, $26.) A bold retelling of Sophocles'
"Antigone" that follows the lives of three British siblings of Pakistani
descent.

HOMESICK FOR ANOTHER WORLD. By Ottessa Moshfegh. (Penguin Press, $26.) The
insightful stories in this dark debut collection are about "loneliness, desire,
hope and self-awareness."

A HORSE WALKS INTO A BAR. By David Grossman. Translated by Jessica Cohen.
(Knopf, $29.95.) Grossman's magnificently funny, sucker-punch-tragic novel about
a tormented stand-up comedian combines comic dexterity with Portnoyish detail.

THE IDIOT. By Elif Batuman. (Penguin Press, $27.) An innocent,
language-intoxicated teenager, the daughter of Turkish immigrants, arrives at
Harvard in the '90s to pursue love and (especially) literature in Batuman's
hefty, gorgeous digressive slab of a novel.

ILL WILL. By Dan Chaon. (Ballantine, $28.) Chaon's dark, disturbing literary
thriller encompasses drug addiction, accusations of satanic abuse and a
self-deluding Midwestern psychologist.

A KIND OF FREEDOM. By Margaret Wilkerson Sexton. (Counterpoint, $26.) This
assured first novel shines an unflinching, compassionate light on three
generations of a black family in New Orleans.

LESS. By Andrew Sean Greer. (Lee Boudreaux/Little, Brown, $26.) On the eve of
his 50th birthday and a former lover's wedding, a mediocre novelist takes refuge
in literary invitations that enable him to travel around the world.

LINCOLN IN THE BARDO. By George Saunders. (Random House, $28.) In this Man
Booker Prize-winning first novel by a master of the short story, Abraham Lincoln
visits the grave of his son Willie in 1862, and is surrounded by ghosts in
purgatory.

MANHATTAN BEACH. By Jennifer Egan. (Scribner, $28.) Egan's engaging novel tells
overlapping stories, but is most fundamentally about a young woman who works at
the Brooklyn Naval Yard during World War II.

MRS. OSMOND. By John Banville. (Knopf, $27.95.) Banville's sequel to Henry
James's "Portrait of a Lady" follows Isabel Archer back to Rome and the possible
end of her marriage.

MY ABSOLUTE DARLING. By Gabriel Tallent. (Riverhead, $27.) The heroine of this
debut novel is Turtle, a 14-year-old who grows up feral in the forests and hills
of Northern California.

NEW PEOPLE. By Danzy Senna. (Riverhead, $26.) Senna's sinister and charming
novel, about a married couple who are both biracial, riffs on themes she's made
her own -- about what happens when races and cultures mingle in the home, and
under the skin.

THE NINTH HOUR. By Alice McDermott. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) In
McDermott's novel, the cause of a young Irish widow and her daughter is taken up
by the nuns of a Brooklyn convent.

PACHINKO. By Min Jin Lee. (Grand Central, $27.) This stunning novel chronicling
four generations of an ethnic Korean family in Japan is about outsiders and much
more.

THE POWER. By Naomi Alderman. (Little, Brown, $26.) In this fierce and
unsettling novel, the ability to generate a dangerous electrical force from
their bodies lets women take control, resulting in a vast, systemic upheaval of
gender dynamics across the globe.

THE REFUGEES. By Viet Thanh Nguyen. (Grove, $25.) This superb collection of
stories concerns men and women displaced from wartime Saigon and (mostly)
settled in California.

SELECTION DAY. By Aravind Adiga. (Scribner, $26.) Adiga's third novel (he won
the Booker Prize in 2008 for "The White Tiger") is a sharp look at modern India.
It revolves around two teenage brothers groomed by their father to be cricket
stars.

A SEPARATION. By Katie Kitamura. (Riverhead, $25.) Deceptions pile on deceptions
in this coolly unsettling postmodern mystery, in which a British woman travels
to a Greek fishing village to search for her estranged husband, who has
disappeared.

SING, UNBURIED, SING. By Jesmyn Ward. (Scribner, $26.) Ward's novel, which won
the National Book Award, combines aspects of the American road novel and the
ghost story with an exploration of the long aftershocks of a hurricane.

SIX FOUR. By Hideo Yokoyama. Translated by Jonathan Lloyd-Davies. (Farrar,
Straus & Giroux, $28.) A former criminal investigator, now working in police
media relations, faces angry reporters, the nagging 14-year-old case of a
kidnapped girl, and his own teenage daughter's disappearance.

STAY WITH ME. By Ayobami Adebayo. (Knopf, $25.95.) This debut novel is a
portrait of a marriage in Nigeria beginning in the politically tumultous 1980s.

THE STONE SKY: The Broken Earth: Book Three. By N.K. Jemisin. (Orbit, paper,
$16.99.) Jemisin won a Hugo Award for each of the first two novels in her Broken
Earth trilogy. In the extraordinary conclusion, a mother and daughter do
geologic battle for the fate of the earth.

TIES. By Domenico Starnone. Translated by Jhumpa Lahiri. (Europa, paper, $16.)
The husband of the woman who has been identified as Elena Ferrante offers a
powerful novel about a fraying marriage.

TRANSIT. By Rachel Cusk. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) In the second novel of
a planned trilogy, Cusk continues the story of Faye, a writer and teacher who is
recently divorced and semi-broke.

WAKING LIONS. By Ayelet Gundar-Goshen. Translated by Sondra Silverston. (Little,
Brown, $26.) An Israeli doctor in the Negev accidentally hits an Eritrean
immigrant, then drives off. The consequences are explored with insight and a
thriller's twists and turns.

WHEREAS. By Layli Long Soldier. (Graywolf, paper, $16.) Long Soldier, a member
of the Oglala Sioux tribe, troubles our consideration of the language we use to
carry our personal and national narratives in this moving debut poetry
collection.

WHITE TEARS. By Hari Kunzru. (Knopf, $26.95.) This complex ghost story about
racial privilege, cultural appropriation and the blues is written with Kunzru's
customary eloquence and skill.

WHO IS RICH? By Matthew Klam. Illustrated by John Cuneo. (Random House, $27.)
The protagonist of this novel, a middle-aged illustrator, is a conflicted
adulterer. Klam agilely balances an existentially tragic story line with morbid
humor and self-assured prose.

Nonfiction

AGE OF ANGER: A History of the Present. By Pankaj Mishra. (Farrar, Straus &
Giroux, $27.) Mishra argues that broad swaths of the globe are reliving the
traumas and violent dislocations that accompanied Europe's transition to
modernity in the 18th and 19th centuries.

AMERICAN FIRE: Love, Arson, and Life in a Vanishing Land. By Monica Hesse.
(Liveright, $26.95.) Hesse tells the story of 67 fires set in Virginia during a
five-month arson spree, beginning in 2012, and the mystery of why a local auto
mechanic was behind them.

ANIMALS STRIKE CURIOUS POSES: Essays. By Elena Passarello. (Sarabande, $19.95.)
Passarello presents biographies of famous animals, from an ancient mummified
mammoth to Mr. Ed and Cecil the Lion.

THE BLOOD OF EMMETT TILL. By Timothy B. Tyson. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) Tyson's
absorbing retelling of the events leading up to the horrific lynching in 1955
includes an admission from Till's accuser that some of her testimony was false.

BORN A CRIME: Stories From a South African Childhood. By Trevor Noah. (Spiegel &
Grau, $28.) The host of "The Daily Show" writes about growing up in South Africa
under apartheid, and about the country's rocky transition into the
post-apartheid era in the 1990s.

BUNK: The Rise of Hoaxes, Humbug, Plagiarists, Phonies, Post-Facts, and Fake
News. By Kevin Young. (Graywolf, $30.) Young's enthralling and essential history
is both exhaustive and unapologetically subjective -- not to mention timely.
Again and again, he plumbs the undercurrents of a hoax to discover the
fearfulness and racism that often lurk inside.

CHURCHILL AND ORWELL: The Fight for Freedom. By Thomas E. Ricks. (Penguin Press,
$28.) This enjoyable dual biography draws out the common causes of these
20th-century giants: two independent thinkers and opponents of totalitarianism
whose influence remains pervasive today.

THE COLLECTED ESSAYS OF ELIZABETH HARDWICK. Selected and with an introduction by
Darryl Pinckney. (New York Review Books, $19.95.) The landmark American critic
surveys everything from the 1968 Democratic convention to the literature of New
York City.

A COLONY IN A NATION. By Chris Hayes. (Norton, $26.95.) Hayes paints a portrait
of two "distinct regimes" in America -- one for whites, which he calls the
Nation; the other for blacks, which he calls the Colony.

THE COLOR OF LAW: A Forgotten History of How Our Government Segregated America.
By Richard Rothstein. (Liveright, $27.95.) Going back to the late 19th century,
the author uncovers a policy of de jure segregation in virtually every
presidential administration.

THE CRISIS OF THE MIDDLE-CLASS CONSTITUTION: Why Economic Inequality Threatens
Our Republic. By Ganesh Sitaraman. (Knopf, $28.) Sitaraman argues that the
Constitution is premised on the existence of a thriving middle class, and that
the current explosion of inequality will destroy it.

THE DAWN WATCH: Joseph Conrad in a Global World. By Maya Jasanoff. (Penguin
Press, $30.) Conrad explored the frontiers of a globalized world at the turn of
the last century. Jasanoff uses Conrad's novels and his biography to tell the
history of that moment, one that mirrors our own.

THE DEATH AND LIFE OF THE GREAT LAKES. By Dan Egan. (Norton, $27.95.) Climate
change, population growth and invasive species are destabilizing the Great
Lakes' wobbly ecosystem, but Egan provides a taut and cautiously hopeful
narrative.

DESTINED FOR WAR: Can America and China Escape Thucydides's Trap? By Graham
Allison. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $28.) Allison offers erudite historical
case studies that illuminate the pressure toward military confrontation when a
rising power challenges a dominant one.

DEVIL'S BARGAIN: Steve Bannon, Donald Trump, and the Storming of the Presidency.
By Joshua Green. (Penguin Press, $27.) Green's book is a deeply reported and
compulsively readable account of this fateful political partnership.

THE EVANGELICALS: The Struggle to Shape America. By Frances FitzGerald. (Simon &
Schuster, $35.) FitzGerald's fair-minded history focuses on the doctrinal and
political issues that have concerned white conservative Protestants since they
abandoned their traditional separation from the world and merged with the
Republican Party.

THE EVOLUTION OF BEAUTY: How Darwin's Forgotten Theory of Mate Choice Shapes the
Animal World -- and Us. By Richard O. Prum. (Doubleday, $30.) A mild-mannered
ornithologist and expert on the evolution of feathers makes an impassioned case
for the importance of Darwin's second theory as his most radical and feminist.

FASTING AND FEASTING: The Life of Visionary Food Writer Patience Gray. By Adam
Federman. (Chelsea Green, $25.) Federman's biography is the first of this cult
food writer.

FLÂNEUSE: Women Walk the City in Paris, New York, Tokyo, Venice, and London. By
Lauren Elkin. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.) Elkin joins memoir and biographies
of walking women like Woolf and Sand.

FRIENDS DIVIDED: John Adams and Thomas Jefferson. By Gordon S. Wood. (Penguin
Press, $35.) Wood traces the long, fraught ties between the second and third
presidents, and sides almost reluctantly with Jefferson in their philosophical
smack-down.

THE FUTURE IS HISTORY: How Totalitarianism Reclaimed Russia. By Masha Gessen.
(Riverhead, $28.) Gessen, a longtime critic of Vladimir Putin, tells the story
of modern Russia through the eyes of seven individuals who found that politics
was a force none of them could escape; winner of the National Book Award.

GENERATION REVOLUTION: On the Front Line Between Tradition and Change in the
Middle East. By Rachel Aspden. (Other Press, $24.95.) What happened to Egypt's
revolution? This excellent social history argues that despite their politics,
young Egyptians did not reject the conservative mores of family and religion.

THE GLASS UNIVERSE: How the Ladies of the Harvard Observatory Took the Measure
of the Stars. By Dava Sobel. (Viking, $30.) This book, about the women
"computers" whose calculations helped shape observational astronomy, is a highly
engaging group portrait.

GRANT. By Ron Chernow. (Penguin Press, $40.) Chernow gives us a Grant for our
time, recounting not only the victories of the general but also the challenges
of a president who fought against the K.K.K.

GREATER GOTHAM: A History of New York City From 1898 to 1919. By Mike Wallace.
(Oxford, $45.) A vibrant, detailed chronicle of the 20 years that made New York
City the place we know today.

THE GULF: The Making of an American Sea. By Jack E. Davis. (Liveright, $29.95.)
Davis's sweeping history of the Gulf of Mexico takes into account colorful
nature, idiosyncratic human characters and economic development.

HAMLET GLOBE TO GLOBE: Two Years, 190,000 Miles, 197 Countries, One Play. By
Dominic Dromgoole. (Grove, $27.) To celebrate the 450th anniversary of
Shakespeare's birth, London's Globe Theater performed "Hamlet" all around the
world. Dromgoole's witty account offers insight about the play and its enduring
appeal.

HENRY DAVID THOREAU: A Life. By Laura Dassow Walls. (University of Chicago,
$35.) This new life of Thoreau, in time for his 200th birthday, paints a moving
portrait of a brilliant, complex man.

THE HOUSE OF GOVERNMENT: A Saga of the Russian Revolution. By Yuri Slezkine.
(Princeton University, $39.95.) This history describes the lives of Bolsheviks
who were swallowed up by their own cause.

THE INVENTION OF ANGELA CARTER: A Biography. By Edmund Gordon. (Oxford
University, $35.) This terrific book is the first full-length biography of
Carter, whose novels were fantastical, feminist and sexy.

JANESVILLE: An American Story. By Amy Goldstein. (Simon & Schuster, $27.)
Goldstein writes about the impact on the small Wisconsin factory city of the
title when General Motors closes a plant there.

KILLERS OF THE FLOWER MOON: The Osage Murders and the Birth of the FBI. By David
Grann. (Doubleday, $28.95.) In the 1920s, the Osage Indians had been driven onto
land in Oklahoma that sat on top of immense oil deposits. The oil made the Osage
rich, and then members of the nation started turning up murdered.

KRAZY: George Herriman, a Life in Black and White. By Michael Tisserand.
(Harper/HarperCollins, $35.) Who was the man behind "Krazy Kat"? This
fascinating biography and guide to the work of the cartoonist, who passed for
white, tells the full story.

LENIN: The Man, the Dictator, and the Master of Terror. By Victor Sebestyen.
(Pantheon, $35.) Sebestyen has managed to produce a first-rate thriller by
detailing the cynicism and murderous ambition of the founder of the Soviet
Union.

LETTERMAN: The Last Giant of Late Night. By Jason Zinoman.
(Harper/HarperCollins, $28.99.) Zinoman's lively book does impressive triple
duty as an acute portrait of stardom, an insightful chronicle of three
rambunctious decades of pop-culture evolution, and a very brainy fan's notes.

LOCKING UP OUR OWN: Crime and Punishment in Black America. By James Forman Jr.
(Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.) A masterly account of how a generation of black
elected officials wrestled with crises of violence and drug use by unleashing
the brutal power of the criminal justice system on their constituents.

LOOKING FOR "THE STRANGER": Albert Camus and the Life of a Literary Classic. By
Alice Kaplan. (University of Chicago, $26.) Impressive research illuminates the
context and history of Camus's classic novel.

THE LOST CITY OF THE MONKEY GOD: A True Story. By Douglas Preston. (Grand
Central, $28.) The novelist joins a rugged expedition in search of pre-Columbian
ruins in the Honduran rain forest.

NOMADLAND: Surviving America in the Twenty-First Century. By Jessica Bruder.
(Norton, $26.95.) For three years, Bruder traveled and worked alongside
"workampers," older people, casualties of the Great Recession, who drive around
the United States looking for seasonal work.

NOTES ON A FOREIGN COUNTRY: An American Abroad in a Post-American World. By Suzy
Hansen. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) Hansen, who moved to Istanbul after
9/11, grapples with her country's violent role in the world.

PRAIRIE FIRES: The American Dreams of Laura Ingalls Wilder. By Caroline Fraser.
(Metropolitan/Holt, $35.) This thoroughly researched biography of the "Little
House" author perceptively captures Wilder's extraordinary life and legacy.

PRIESTDADDY: A Memoir. By Patricia Lockwood. (Riverhead, $27.) The poet's memoir
is fueled by a great character: her father, a rare married Catholic priest, a
big bear of a man fond of guns, cream liqueurs and pork rinds.

THE SONGS WE KNOW BEST: John Ashbery's Early Life. By Karin Roffman. (Farrar,
Straus & Giroux, $30.) This first full-fledged biography of the poet is full of
rich and fascinating detail.

TENEMENTS, TOWERS & TRASH: An Unconventional Illustrated History of New York
City. By Julia Wertz. (Black Dog & Leventhal, $29.99.) Wertz has become a cult
favorite for her graphic memoirs. Her new book is a departure, focusing on her
great love, New York.

TO SIRI WITH LOVE: A Mother, Her Autistic Son, and the Kindness of Machines. By
Judith Newman. (Harper/HarperCollins, $26.99.) Newman's tender, boisterous
memoir strips the usual zone of privacy to edge into the world her autistic son
occupies.

THE UNDOING PROJECT: A Friendship That Changed Our Minds. By Michael Lewis.
(Norton, $28.95.) Lewis profiles the enchanted collaboration between Amos
Tversky and Daniel Kahneman, whose groundbreaking work proved just how
unreliable our intuition could be.

WE WERE EIGHT YEARS IN POWER: An American Tragedy. By Ta-Nehisi Coates. (One
World, $28.) A selection of Coates's most influential pieces about race in
America from The Atlantic, with subjects including Barack and Michelle Obama,
Donald J. Trump, reparations and mass incarceration.

WHAT HAPPENED. By Hillary Rodham Clinton. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) Clinton tells
the story of what it was like to run for president of the United States as the
first female nominee of a major party.

WORLD WITHOUTMIND: The Existential Threat of Big Tech. By Franklin Foer.
(Penguin Press, $27.) Foer dons the heavy mantle of cyber-skeptic with this
persuasive brief against the big four tech giants who he believes pose a threat
to the individual and society.

YOU SAY TO BRICK: The Life of Louis Kahn. By Wendy Lesser. (Farrar, Straus &
Giroux, $30.) This biography covers the best-known works of the architect Louis
Kahn as well as his complicated personal life.

Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), and sign up
for our newsletter.

DRAWINGS (DRAWING BY OLIMPIA ZAGNOLI) (MM22; MM23; MM24)

Related Articles


     ·    Jesmyn Ward Wins National Book Award for 'Sing, Unburied, Sing'
     ·    George Saunders Wins the Man Booker Prize for 'Lincoln in the Bardo'


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 22, 2017 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Iranian Hacker Charged in HBO Hacking That Included 'Game of Thrones' Script

BYLINE: By DANIEL VICTOR and SHEERA FRENKEL; Kitty Bennett contributed research.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Express; Pg.

LENGTH: 601 words


United States officials are charging an Iranian hacker in the theft of 1.5
terabytes of data from HBO in May, an attack that tormented network executives
and included the release of several unaired programs and scripts.

Behzad Mesri, who went by the pseudonym ''Skote Vahshat,'' was charged with
computer fraud, wire fraud, extortion and identity theft, according to an
indictment unsealed Tuesday in United States District Court in Manhattan. But he
remains in Iran, and officials acknowledged that it would be difficult to detain
him.

''He will forever be looking over his shoulder, and if he isn't, he should be,''
Joon H. Kim, acting United States attorney for the Southern District of New
York, said at a news conference.

He was accused of trying to extort $6 million worth of Bitcoin from HBO in July,
the indictment said.

From May to August, the data theft proved a nightmare for HBO. The hacker
gradually released stolen materials on the internet, including unaired episodes
of ''Ballers,'' ''Barry,'' ''Room 104,'' ''Curb Your Enthusiasm'' and ''The
Deuce.'' The hacker also released the script of an episode of ''Game of
Thrones'' that had not yet been broadcast.

The data cache also included financial documents, cast and crew contact lists,
emails belonging to at least one HBO employee and credentials for social media
accounts, according to the indictment.

Though Mr. Kim said it was ''not likely'' the authorities would be able to
arrest Mr. Mesri, being wanted by the F.B.I. will make it difficult for Mr.
Mesri to travel internationally, he said.

''The memory of American law enforcement is very long,'' he said.

The indictment stops short of formally accusing Mr. Mesri, 29, of working on
behalf of the Iranian government, though it notes that he previously ''had
worked on behalf of the Iranian military to conduct computer network attacks
that targeted military systems, nuclear software systems, and Israeli
infrastructure.''

Collin Anderson, an independent cybersecurity researcher who focuses on Iran,
said that Mr. Mesri appeared to have ties to individuals who had carried out
cyberespionage campaigns on behalf of the Iranian government, though his
decision to attack HBO may have been a singular act he carried out by himself.

''Iran's offensive cyberoperations are complex because the membership in hacking
groups and the lines between groups are messy and shift over time,'' Mr.
Anderson said.

He said the indictment was most likely just the tip of the iceberg when it came
to Iran's offensive online activities.

''This is a limited window into the vast activities Iran is engaged in, and it's
a limited window into what the U.S. government knows about these actors,'' Mr.
Anderson said. ''It's possible that the U.S. government could indict more
Iranian hackers, depending on how they want to place pressure on Iran in the
coming months.''

In a statement, HBO said: ''HBO has confirmed in the past that we were working
with law enforcement from the early stages of the cyber incident. As far as the
criminal case is concerned, we prefer to leave any comments to the US Attorney's
Office.''

Mr. Mesri was not accused of participating in two other HBO security breaches
over the summer. The network's Twitter account was hacked in August, and two
episodes of ''Game of Thrones'' were leaked online before they were broadcast,
but neither was linked to the larger data theft.

''Game of Thrones'' didn't appear to suffer from the leaks. It set a ratings
record with 12.1 million viewers for its finale, or 16.5 million when including
numbers from its streaming services.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/21/business/hbo-hack-charges.html

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              335 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 23, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Why Stand in Line on Black Friday? The Psychology Explained

BYLINE: TIFFANY HSU

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 834 words



HIGHLIGHT: Lines on Black Friday are different from lines at the supermarket,
often causing emotional behavior and generating a carnival atmosphere.


Standing in line is a pain. At the post office. At the box office. At a
restaurant.

But on Black Friday, it's an experience.

The first spot outside some Best Buy stores is usually claimed weeks in advance,
often by a person in a tent. Shoppers at Walmart will print out maps of the
store, with circles around their primary targets. Someone, somewhere, will try
to cut in line at a Target, arousing the wrath of the cold, cranky people who
played it fair.

At stake are both bargains and bragging rights, turning what would otherwise be
a miserable experience into an adventure.

"These queues are quite different than the usual annoying ones we encounter day
to day at the A.T.M. or in the subway," said Richard Larson, a professor at
M.I.T. who has spent years studying line behavior.

Professor Larson, whose nickname in academic circles is Dr. Queue, said he would
never wait in a line on Black Friday himself. Research is sparse on the lines
that form during the post-Thanksgiving retail extravaganza, he said, but he
acknowledged that the habit "makes sense, in some weird way.''

The lines, he said, are "once a year, they're exhilarating. They're the kind you
might tell your grandchildren about."

Not that Professor Larson personally sees the appeal. "It confuses me," he said.

Lines test patience, personal space and principles of fairness and rationality,
especially on Black Friday, when the crowds can be overwhelming. Still, the
promise of a once-a-year score lures hordes of shoppers to queues that start
before sunrise -- or in some cases, the night before.

So why do people wait?

J. Jeffrey Inman, a veteran of Black Friday lines and president of the Society
for Consumer Psychology, said that many families treat the hourslong experience
as a bonding ritual and a cherished tradition.

"It's not a chore," said Mr. Inman, who is also a professor of marketing at the
University of Pittsburgh. "And there's this layer of competition to it, with
people edging forward, getting in their ready stance, because there are only so
many of those big screen TVs inside the door."

That scarcity drives many bargain hunters. Marily Lopez, 26, waited in line with
her family outside a Target in Commack, N.Y., on Thursday afternoon.

"It's kind of like, you get the scraps tomorrow, versus today you got like,
first dibs," she said.

The behavior of people in lines has inspired decades of research.

So-called queuing theory examines why lining up by yourself induces more anxiety
than being in a group, why choosing between multiple lines is more aggravating
than standing single file and even how music and scent can improve the wait.

The Black Friday shopping event generates unique circumstances for lines.
Preordained opening hours mean that the time the line should start moving is
predictable, which can sometimes cause customers to become more agitated as the
end approaches.

Sometimes, the behavior of the queue turns violent.

In 2008, a crowd of more than 2,000 shoppers waiting at Walmart store on Long
Island began pounding and pressing on the glass doors a few minutes before the
scheduled 5 a.m. opening time. The doors shattered and shoppers stampeded
through, fatally trampling a worker, Jdimytai Damour, 34.

The "gotta have it'' atmosphere resembles the one that arises when a new iPhone
or Beyoncé concert tickets go on sale, and that most likely amplifies excitement
and makes the wait seem shorter, Professor Larson said. The limited supply of
discounted merchandise can also inspire the same mentality that is common when
there is a shortage of any other supply -- people may actually gravitate toward
longer lines, so they can feel a greater sense of accomplishment once they
finally make a purchase.

"People's willingness to wait is, in some sense, proportional to the perceived
value of whatever they're waiting to acquire," Professor Larson said. "Even if
they don't know what the line is for, they reason that whatever's at the end of
it must be fantastically valuable."

Billie LeClere, 45, was first in line on Thursday at Walmart in Manchester,
Iowa. She said she was a regular Black Friday shopper, but this year, she came
with a specific purpose: to get a good deal on a new TV. She and her husband had
recently separated, and he had taken the old TV earlier that day.

"The marriage died, not the TV," she said, adding that the experience would give
her a sense of accomplishment. "It's going to be nice to have something that's
newer -- and it's mine, not his."

Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsuArielle Dollinger contributed reporting
from Commack, N.Y., and Christina Capecchi from Manchester, Iowa.

PHOTO: Richard Larson, an M.I.T. professor who studies line behavior, says
people will wait if they perceive value in what they are seeking. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
TONY LUONG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY SARAH MAZZETTI)

Related Articles


     ·    Calming the Black Friday Crowds
     ·    A Shopping Stampede, Yes, but Maybe No Economic Jolt
     ·    A Black Friday Campout
     ·    Is American Retail at a Historic Tipping Point?


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 23, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Black Friday 2017: Your Best Bargain Bet Might Be a TV

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1498 words



HIGHLIGHT: Once the forks are put down for good, Americans will begin their
holiday shopping in earnest. Televisions promise to offer some of the best
deals.


As the holiday shopping seasons begins in earnest over the Thanksgiving weekend,
we're spread out over the United States, capturing what the deal-seeking rush
looks like this year.

If you're suiting up to hit the stores, your best bet for a bargain might be a
TV. Our tech columnist Brian Chen tells you what to look for.

A humming economy does not necessarily mean consumers are planning to open their
wallets any wider than they did last year.

But that might be the best argument for bargain hunting. When will your favorite
stores be open? There's a list below you can check. Twice.

You should be shopping for a TV. Here's how.

This weekend's Black Friday deals could make it possible to buy a high-quality
TV at a big discount -- 15 percent to 30 percent, in some cases.

That could be a huge bargain considering that most TVs in the $500 range are
just O.K. while high-end models cost upward of $2,000.

What should you keep in mind while scoping out a new set? Our best tips are
right here.

The key points: Know the lighting in the room where you'll put it, look for a
couple important features, and don't get duped.

Don't want to bother with all that? There's a list of top picks there, too. --
BRIAN X. CHEN

A wait to get in, and a wait to get out.

At Walmart in Commack, N.Y., on Thursday, the route to the registers was
winding.

Jessica Polizzi, 18, a physical therapy student at New York Institute of
Technology, pushed a cart through a maze of yellow tape and black barriers. As
if trapped in a corn maze, Ms. Polizzi and her mother, Jane, and brother,
Martin, 17, hit a dead end before a War-Mart employee redirected them.

"It's like a haunted house," she said. "But I think the point of that is to
disorient you and scare you, so maybe this is the same tactic."

The Polizzis have been shopping on Thanksgiving night for the last few years.

"Thanksgiving's so low-key for us, so this is what we look forward to," Jessica
Polizzi said. "We have turkey, and then this is our evening activity."

Also in line was Mohit Mundra, 37, of Hauppauge; but for Mr. Mundra, the
shopping trip was nothing special.

"I was here for some general purchases," said Mr. Mundra, who came with his wife
and two daughters. "I just saw people outside who were in queue. Out of
curiosity, I joined the queue." -- ARIELLE DOLLINGER

People may spend less this year than last.

The millions of deal-seeking shoppers who jam malls and store aisles over the
next few days will be doing so in what is by most measures the best economy in a
decade. The unemployment rate, at 4.1 percent, is at its lowest level since the
Clinton administration.

But two questions loom over the holiday shopping season: How free will Americans
be with their spending when wage growth remains anemic? And how much of that
money will they spend in stores, given the continuing shift toward online
shopping?

Over all, Americans appear confident in their economic prospects. The University
of Michigan on Wednesday said consumer sentiment ticked down in November but
remained close to its highest level since 2004. A separate survey conducted for
The New York Times this month by the online polling firm SurveyMonkey likewise
found that confidence was high and stable -- neither survey has moved much in
response to political turmoil in Washington or crises overseas.

"This isn't something that's bouncing around a lot," said Jon Cohen, vice
president of survey research for SurveyMonkey. "People aren't rushing to save
money they way they were during the downturn."

But that confidence may not translate into booming holiday sales. Most Americans
plan to spend the same on their holiday shopping as last year, or less,
according to the survey; only 12 percent plan to spend more.

Still, two-thirds of Americans plan to shop over the long Thanksgiving weekend,
according to SurveyMonkey, and nearly a quarter plan to do all or most of their
holiday shopping in that period.

But the shift toward online retailers means that Black Friday is not the
economic indicator that it once was. Retailers -- both online and
brick-and-mortar -- are increasingly offering deals days or even weeks ahead of
Thanksgiving, and consumers have learned that the best prices on some items come
later in the holiday season.

"People have gotten so they game the system," said Diane Swonk, independent
economist in Chicago. "These are savvy consumers now. They've learned to play
the game." -- BEN CASSELMAN

Yeah, O.K. So where are the deals?

We've got you covered here.

Your local Walmart is open now (it doesn't matter where you are, this is pretty
much a given). Kmart and two big outdoors emporiums, Cabela's and Bass Pro
Shops, were open this morning before you got the turkey in the oven.

Other major retailers including Target, Best Buy and Kohl's have opted to wait
until the late afternoon.

One retailer that chose to stay closed on Thanksgiving? T-Mobile, which had
opened last year. John Legere, the mobile carrier's chief executive, said he
wanted everyone to "give thanks with family, friends and loved ones."

Don't worry. T-Mobile will be ready to help you "bright and early" on Black
Friday. -- TIFFANY HSU

Looking for something else? Check out Wirecutter.

Our colleagues over at Wirecutter, a New York Times company that reviews
products, have a running list of Black Friday deals on everything from trash
cans to cameras to artificial Christmas trees.

The best part is you don't have to get out of your chair to chase them down.

There are suggestions at every price point, so it's a good resource if you're
buying for a gift exchange at work or a loved one. After all, somebody in your
life must need a kayak.

When you can't shop online, show up in person.

Frustrations with online shopping with an slow internet connection drove some
Iowa shoppers out of their homes on Thursday to find the best deals in person.

In Eastern Iowa, broadband service is not yet ubiquitous. A 2016 report from the
Federal Communications Commission found that 37 percent of rural Iowans lacked
broadband access.

Keshia Bolsinger, 31, a store manager for U.S. Cellular, is among them. In
Garber, her tiny town in Clayton County, there is only one option for internet:
DSL. When she turned to her iPhone to peruse Black Friday deals on Walmart.com,
she ran into trouble.

"It wasn't really cooperating," Ms. Bolsinger said. "It started freezing and
kicked me out."

She enlisted her mother to babysit her four children and adjusted the time of
her Thanksgiving meal to allow her to drive to a Walmart in nearby Manchester.

For Scott Miller, 44, a pet store operator in Manchester, shopping from the
comfort of his couch is not an option: He does not have internet. He arranged to
have his Thanksgiving meal at noon so he could leave his family and nab a 43"
Vizio HDTV for $197. He waited for three hours for the sale to begin.

"It was boring," Mr. Miller said. "I just stood there, twiddling my fingers."

As broadband access here increases, that wait could vanish.

"I'd prefer not to go if we didn't have to," Ms. Bolsinger said after loading
her trunk with toys. "I did get my heels rammed by a lady. She hit me hard with
her cart."-- CHRISTINA CAPECCHI

Holding the line for bargains and bragging rights.

What on Earth possesses people to hit stores when they could be home sleeping
off a turkey dinner? The psychology is complicated.

Richard Larson, a professor at M.I.T. who has spent years studying line behavior
-- he's known as Dr. Queue in academic circles -- said that the enthusiasm for
Black Friday lines "makes sense, in some weird way."

The once-a-year lines are "exhilarating," he said. "They're the kind you might
tell your grandchildren about."

The scarcity of bargains means shoppers can enjoy a sense of accomplishment
after braving the lines.

"People's willingness to wait is, in some sense, proportional to the perceived
value of whatever they're waiting to acquire," Professor Larson said. "Even if
they don't know what the line is for, they reason that whatever's at the end of
it must be fantastically valuable."

Is that enough to lure Professor Larson into this weekend's lines? Nope. "It
confuses me," he said. -- TIFFANY HSU

Macy's is prime real estate. For real.

The Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade has been a holiday tradition for nearly a
century, an annual reminder that one of the most recognizable names in retail is
just the place to get the shopping season started.

It's also just the place for condos, Amazon and, in one case, a homeless
shelter.

Macy's real estate holdings, from mall storefronts to grand buildings -- most
notably the Herald Square location that serves as the backdrop for the parade on
TV -- are worth more than the company's market value.

The Herald Square store is worth an estimated $3.3 billion alone. That's more
than half the company's market value of $6.4 billion. -- MICHAEL CORKERY

Related Articles


     ·    Retailers' Recipe for the Holidays: Big Sales; Fewer Seasonal Workers
     ·    What Turns Black Friday Shoppers Into Raging Hordes?
     ·    How to Shop Smart on Black Friday (and Cyber Monday)


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 23, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Why Do We Call It 'Black Friday'?

BYLINE: HILARY STOUT

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 449 words



HIGHLIGHT: The term has come to denote joyous commercial excess, stupendous
deals and big profits. But it wasn't always this way.


The word "black" in front of a day of the week has almost never meant anything
good.

Black Monday was the sell-off the day before the stock market crash of 1929,
Black Tuesday, as well as the day of an even bigger crash in 1987. Black
Wednesday was used to refer to a day of widespread air traffic snarls in 1954,
as well as the day the British government was forced to withdraw a battered
pound from the European Exchange Rate Mechanism in 1992. Black Thursday has
variously been used to describe days of devastating brush fires, bombings and
athletic defeats, among other unpleasantness.

So how is it that the term Black Friday has come almost universally to denote
joyous commercial excess, stupendous deals and big profits on the day when
people head out to shop for the holidays after Thanksgiving?

It wasn't always this way. The New York Times first used the term Black Friday
in an article in 1870 to refer to the day the gold market collapsed the year
before.

Ben Zimmer, executive producer of Vocabulary.com, who has researched and written
about the term, says its association with shopping the day after Thanksgiving
began in Philadelphia in the 1960s -- and even then, the reference wasn't
positive.

The local police took to calling the day Black Friday because they had to deal
with bad traffic and other miseries connected to the throngs of shoppers heading
for the stores.

Needless to say, that usage didn't sit well with local retailers. They tried,
according to Mr. Zimmer, to give the day a more positive name: Big Friday.

That did not take, but eventually retailers -- in Philadelphia and beyond --
managed to spin a new connotation: The day the books went from red ink to black.

Most consumers probably don't know -- and don't care -- about any of this. They
want deals.

The rebranding of Black Friday has been so successful that others have tried to
spread the wealth across multiple days of the week as the holiday shopping
season has grown ever more competitive.

In 2005, Cyber Monday was introduced as the day online retailers offered big
savings to holiday shoppers. In 2010, American Express came up with "Small
Business Saturday" to encourage people to shop (presumably with their Amex
cards) at independent local businesses the day after Black Friday.

And as retailers begin their holiday promotions earlier and earlier, there have
even been efforts to change the name of the day before Black Friday to Gray,
Brown or Black Thursday.

But for most Americans, it will forever be Thanksgiving.

Related Articles


     ·    How to Shop Smart on Black Friday (and Cyber Monday)
     ·    Most Everything You Learned About Thanksgiving Is Wrong
     ·    The Mishaps and Milestones of the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade
          Balloons


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 23, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Can Zimbabwe Cure Its Hangover From Mr. Mugabe?;
Editorial

BYLINE: THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 482 words



HIGHLIGHT: The people celebrated the ouster of Robert Mugabe, but his allies are
still in power.


When a leader dominates a country as long and as disastrously as Robert Mugabe
dominated Zimbabwe, his departure is bound to be both exhilarating and
traumatic. For 37 years his was the face, staring down the walls of every
office, store and bank, of a regime that suppressed and dragged down one of
Africa's most promising nations. Now, at last, he is gone. But the Zimbabweans
who danced in the streets of Harare and Bulawayo on Tuesday also knew that the
tyrannical system he had created was still alive.

For now, the military leaders who isolated President Mugabe last week and the
leaders of ZANU-PF, the party that dominated Zimbabwean politics and pushed him
out, were hailed as heroes. But by all indications the soldiers intervened not
so much because Mr. Mugabe's rule had become intolerable -- it has been that for
a long time -- but because his corrupt and unpopular wife, Grace, (whose
whereabouts remain unknown) was maneuvering to succeed her failing, 93-year-old
husband.

Gen. Constantino Chiwenga, the armed forces chief, took action only after Mr.
Mugabe fired Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa, the successor preferred by the
military. Now Mr. Mnangagwa is at the helm of the party and about to be
installed as president.

That the transition had at least the semblance of legitimacy is to be welcomed.
But it is a stretch to presume that Mr. Mnangagwa, or ZANU-PF, or the military
-- all of whom colluded in Mr. Mugabe's rapacious rule -- will change stripes
once in charge. Mr. Mnangagwa was the security head when a North Korean-trained
force massacred thousands of civilians in a campaign against the rival Ndebele
ethnic group. General Chiwenga was involved in the brutal crackdown after Mr.
Mugabe's loss in the first round of elections in 2008. And ZANU-PF harbors the
benefactors of the spoils of misrule.

Arrayed against that is the obvious longing of the Zimbabweans who celebrated on
Tuesday for a better day, and the fact that for all the economic and political
damage done by Mr. Mugabe, Zimbabwe is still one of the best endowed, best
educated and most attractive countries in Africa.

Mr. Mnangagwa could make a new start by lifting some of the more onerous
repressive measures, like eliminating the new Ministry of Cyber Security, Threat
Detection and Mitigation, which was supposed to monitor online criticism of the
government. He could also bring the opposition leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, into
the government and could prepare for free and fair elections next year.

To improve the low odds of that happening, the United States, Britain, other
Western governments and Zimbabwe's African neighbors must offer Zimbabwe a
financial lifeline, along with an unequivocal demand that the government hold
internationally supervised elections next year.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              339 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 24, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

They Haven't Missed a Black Friday in 19 Years

BYLINE: TIFFANY HSU and CARLOS GONZALEZ

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1036 words



HIGHLIGHT: Jennifer Gammell has turned the holiday shopping event into a
tradition, with lines at Target and Toys 'R' Us and a Thanksgiving buffet at
King's Hawaiian.


Jennifer Gammell has not sat out Black Friday for 19 years -- not when she was
traveling over the holiday weekend, or living paycheck to paycheck as a young
single mother, or even when some of the bargains online began to look more
enticing than the doorbuster deals being offered in stores.

The experience has changed over the years. Early on, it was just her and her son
Kyle, now 23, waiting in line for discounts (and, sometimes, free toy penguins)
at the local Mervyn's. Now, it has become a family tradition, and her three
other sons and her husband, Dave Gammell, sometimes tag along.

The holiday weekend is the busiest shopping period of the year, with an
estimated 164 million people -- 69 percent of Americans -- expected to hunt for
deals, according to the National Retail Federation trade group.

This week, the Gammells, who live in Southern California, began visiting stores
on Thanksgiving as more businesses stayed open to generate more sales. Here's a
chronicle of their journey through two big holiday shopping days.

6:04 to 6:13 p.m. Thursday

At home in Torrance, the family prepares for its annual Thanksgiving dinner at
King's Hawaiian Bakery & Restaurant. Jennifer gathers Black Friday ads from
retailers, checks the lists the family has compiled, and packs a change of
clothes and a pair of sneakers for the shopping trip after dinner.

6:32 to 7:31 p.m.

The Gammells, lightly dressed for the balmy weather, arrive at the restaurant.
They load up on turkey, vegetables, rice and sweets at the buffet.

8:12 to 8:44 p.m.

Their first shopping destination is Target. The store opened earlier in the
afternoon, and the post-dinner crowd checks out the merchandise at a leisurely
pace. Kurt Gammell, 8, bounds through the aisles looking for Nerf guns and
Legos.

Waiting in line, bleary-eyed and bored, can be "torturous," said Jennifer, who
works as an administrative assistant. So the family no longer bides its time
outside stores for three or four hours, instead arriving an hour before the
doors open or half an hour after, once the crowds have cleared.

8:55 p.m.

Jennifer and her son Bryce, 16, compare the prices of items in Target to similar
products online.

Over the holiday shopping season, 80 percent of sales will be made in stores,
according to a recent report from the Bain consulting firm. But e-commerce is
putting brick-and-mortar retailers on the defensive, with many companies
offering discounts on their websites days before Thanksgiving in an attempt to
compete with online rivals.

Amazon is expected to account for up to 8 percent of holiday retail sales,
according to Bain.

As a result, Mrs. Gammell's Black Friday timeline has shifted.

"I've actually already started shopping online," she said, days before
Thanksgiving. "The tradition is changing."

9:01 to 9:26 p.m.

The expedition to Target was a mild success. The Gammells scored some good deals
on toys and games but missed other discounts they had been considering.

They loaded their purchases into the family van and maneuvered out of the busy
parking lot.

9:36 to 10:46 p.m.

Next up: Toys "R" Us. Kurt is on the hunt for board games and "Paw Patrol" play
sets. The family is hoping to get some gifts for the extended family. Dave, a
lifelong collector of Hot Wheels toy cars, is temporarily sidetracked, admiring
a new model based on a vehicle from the film "The Godfather."

The Gammells buy the toy car. And a Lego set. And some Lego Dimensions video
game packs. And some doll clothes and science fiction figurines.

11:07 to 11:20 p.m.

Best Buy is the family's last stop for the night. They enter hoping to find a
new refrigerator, but decide to hold off on the purchase. At times, it feels
like they have the store to themselves.

12:03 to 12:04 a.m. Friday

The Gammells stumble home, unload their purchases and then head to bed.

6:34 to 6:43 a.m.

Dave and Jennifer haul themselves out of bed for their second go at holiday
shopping. Bryce resists the early wake-up call, telling himself that he will
look for deals online later. Kurt has to be coaxed out of his slumber.

6:50 to 6:57 a.m.

On the way to Kohl's, Jennifer checks the store's ad for discounts on a new
refrigerator. The family has wanted an upgrade on their old, inefficient
appliance for a while now. Seeing nothing appealing in the circular, the family
decides instead to purchase a Samsung refrigerator online from homedepot.com,
where they spend $998 instead of the full $1,774 price.

7:02 to 8:07 a.m.

Expecting packed aisles at Kohl's, the Gammells arrive to find a sparsely
populated store. Kurt persuades his parents to buy him yet another Nerf gun for
$19.99.

8:32 a.m.

The family is almost ready to call it a day. First, they stop at the Starbucks
cafe inside a Barnes & Noble bookstore, which is offering free coffee as a Black
Friday perk.

8:58 to 9:13 a.m.

Satisfied with their shopping, the Gammells arrive home, where their living room
is lined with bags of toys, clothing and electronics. They head out to a party
for one of Kurt's friends. In total, over Thanksgiving and Black Friday, the
family spent $1,750.

Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu. Follow Carlos Gonzalez on Instagram:
@the1point8

PHOTOS: The Gammell family, preparing for a night of shopping on Thursday,
gathered fliers and ads before heading to King's Hawaiian Bakery & Restaurant in
Torrance, Calif., for Thanksgiving dinner.; Kurt Gammell, 8, bounded through
Target, collecting toys. The family made two more stops, at Toys "R" Us and Best
Buy. Back home after midnight, Kurt's mother, Jennifer, scanned the purchases.;
After a few hours of sleep, Dave and Jennifer Gammell rose before 7 a.m. Friday
and got ready for more shopping. Kurt had to be coaxed out of his slumber.;
Jennifer Gammell scanned ads for discounts on a new refrigerator. At Kohl's,
Kurt found a Nerf gun. Afterward, the family went to Starbucks, which was
offering free coffee as a Black Friday perk.; Finally done, the family had a
living room lined with bags of toys, clothing and electronics. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
CARLOS GONZALEZ)

Related Articles


     ·    A Black Friday Campout
     ·    Calming the Black Friday Crowds
     ·    From 'Zombie Malls' to Bonobos: What America's Retail Transformation
          Looks Like
     ·    A Shopping Stampede, Yes, but Maybe No Economic Jolt


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 24, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Open Thread: This Week in Style News;
Open Thread

BYLINE: VANESSA FRIEDMAN

SECTION: FASHION

LENGTH: 760 words



HIGHLIGHT: The psychology of the Black Friday mob, remembering Azzedine Alaïa --
and more.


Each week, the Open Thread newsletter will offer a look from across The New York
Times at the forces that shape the dress codes we share, with Vanessa Friedman
as your personal shopper. The latest newsletter appears here. To receive it in
your inbox, register here.

Hello, and happy Black Friday. Hope you had a wonderful Thanksgiving, and were
fueled up for today. Though if you went shopping, you are a stronger person than
I.

Crowded department stores give me option anxiety at the best of times (yes,
Macy's, I mean you), and at this particular time of year, I find them especially
overwhelming. As far as I am concerned, the world can be divided into those with
the fortitude to see such sale opportunities as an invigorating challenge, and
those, like me, who quail in the face of competitive consumption.

Which category are you in?

Meanwhile, the alternative for us store-a-phobes, Cyber Monday, has morphed into
a four-day "Cyber Weekend," at least according to the folks at Yoox
Net-a-Porter, which suggests to me that I am not alone in opting out of the
in-person experience. Yoox says they are expecting the shopping frenzy to peak
at one order every two seconds in the next few days.

Let's just take some time to think about that.

Also let's take some time in honor of Azzedine Alaïa, one of the greatest and
most unique designers in fashion, who died unexpectedly last weekend, a fact
that marks this as a true black week in fashion.

You might not have known who he was, or much about him -- he was a designer's
designer, and his clothes were beyond trend and impossible to copy, so they
never filtered down through the high street -- but he was, for me, a
never-ending source of education about exactly what it meant to transform fabric
into something that could make women feel invincible.

As the designer has become the creative director has become the chief creative
officer in the modern fashion world, Alaïa was one of the few who still did
everything himself. He'll be part of the history books, and I am thankful that I
knew him.

So you could pass the weekend reading all about him. Or explore the current
state of shopping. Or learn about a new exhibit in London that lifts the lid on
that bizarre modeling-industry practice known as the go-see.

Have a good weekend.

Your Style Questions, Answered

Every week on Open Thread, Vanessa will answer a reader's fashion-related
question, which you can send to her anytime via email or Twitter. Questions are
edited and condensed.

Q: I love big chunky knits -- sweaters, cardigans, fair isles, etc. -- but find
the need for an outer layer/shell to act as a proper coat. Most great outerwear
is either too fitted or too heavy to make sense as an additional layer over a
sweater, and doesn't accommodate a bulky underlayer. Cloaks might be the answer,
but seem impractical for a city commuter with bags to carry and subway poles to
grab. What are some warm, well-designed options for an outer layer over bulky
knits for the next few months? -- Lena, Queens

A: I love a cape myself, but you are correct in saying they don't really work
for those who tote big shoulder bags, unless you carry said bag under the cape,
in which case you look like you are on your way to play Quasimodo at the local
theater. (Also, it's easy for the wind to sneak underneath a cape and blow it
open, and that sort of defeats the purpose.)

Some of the army-inspired duffles that have become ubiquitous thanks to the
still-potent influence of Hedi Slimane during his YSL years are roomy enough to
work without being bulky yet still have a no-nonsense chic -- check out the
Canadian brand Soia & Kyo. Meghan Markle is a fan and, though I don't normally
think of her as my style guru, so am I.

For more recommendations, Malina Joseph Gilchrist, T's women's style director,
suggests you can go one of two ways: "A sophisticated option is a unlined thin
wool or cashmere wool blend coat. The best brand for this is Harris Wharf
London; the coats are classic, cut simply and thin enough, but warm as a
layering jacket. A more sporty option is a longer down jacket. Go for the
thinner down from either Moncler or Uniqlo." -- VANESSA FRIEDMAN

Like what you see here? Submit any feedback to openthread@nytimes.com

Related Articles


     ·    Remembering Azzedine Alaïa: The Designer Who Took Time
     ·    What Turns Black Friday Shoppers Into Raging Hordes?
     ·    Why Is New York Full of Empty Stores?
     ·    A Modeling Rite of Passage, Unmasked
     ·    Subtly Sheer Clothes -- for Fall
     ·    His, Hers and Theirs: Jewelry Crosses the Gender Barrier
     ·    The 'Good Time' Stylist Has Some Tips for Style on a Budget


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 24, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Black Friday 2017: Seeking New TVs to Watch, and Sneakers to Resell

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1480 words



HIGHLIGHT: Americans who were driven to shop for Christmas deals -- and turn a
profit -- were in line early and on their devices in droves.


The unofficial start of the holiday shopping season was this week, when many
national retailers opened their doors and offered major sales. Black Friday is
traditionally the big day, and we captured what it looked and felt like at
American shopping malls, retailers and discount stores.

Here, you'll also find:

Sneaker sales in Los Angeles, sparse crowds in Dallas, and a dogsitter on Long
Island.

Online outages threw a glitch into a big ecommerce day.

Shopping deals from The Wirecutter, a product review and recommendation site
owned by The New York Times.

Sneakers worth waiting for.

In front of Cool Kicks, a sneaker boutique on Melrose Avenue in Los Angeles,
Jonathan Lindsey reclined in a lawn chair, hoodie drawn snug over a custom
fitted cap. About 100 people waited in a line behind him Thursday night,
stretching around the corner.

Mr. Lindsey, 28, said there were around 15 people ahead of him when he arrived
at 9 p.m. on Thanksgiving night -- 12 hours before the store would open. But he
paid $60 dollars to move up to second. Like most of the people near the front of
the line, he was here not for personal shopping, but for business.

So the Gray Zebra Yeezy Boosts he was there to buy would never grace Mr.
Lindsey's feet. Instead, he had sold the pair in advance to a woman who had
driven by earlier in a Mercedes, offering him $550 dollars for a pair that would
cost him $320.

"She had her son on FaceTime," Mr. Lindsey recalled. "She's like, 'His birthday
is tomorrow, and he wants the shoes.' They're sold. Baby boy's birthday. They're
sold."

Though patrons would be limited to buying just one pair each -- with some pairs
marked down to just a dollar, only one of the first 15 people in line at Cool
Kicks was planning on keeping his purchase. The rest -- mostly teenagers, and
all male but one -- would be immediately relisting their new rare sneakers on
the secondary market, where some pairs fetch more than $1,000. -- LOUIS KEENE

Not a good day for 'Our Website Is Down.'

Friday is expected to become one of the busiest daysin history for online
shopping in the United States, according to salesforce.com, an enterprise
software maker, making it a spectacularly bad time for a retailer's website to
go on the fritz.

But as shoppers pour into e-commerce, pushing online revenue to what Adobe's
digital marketing research arm described as a record for Thanksgiving Day of
$2.87 billion, many companies are struggling to accommodate the surge in
traffic.

Many customers trying to access the online Black Friday deals offered by Lowe's
-- up to 40 percent off certain appliances, half-priced power tools and more --
instead encountered glitches that caused the site to fail mid-purchase or
struggle to load at all.

A spokeswoman for the home improvement chain said the increase in site visits
was "causing some intermittent outages" and said that the company was "working
diligently" to restore full functionality.

Last year, both Macy's and Express had to soothe Black Friday customers enraged
by technical difficulties with the brands' websites.

The global reach of e-commerce has inspired many international companies to
participate in the post-Thanksgiving shopping event. Several of them also
experienced website crashes on Friday.

Takealot.com, a general goods e-commerce retailer based in South Africa,
apologized to shoppers for site-wide problems, saying in a Twitter post that " a
fundamental service within our platform has failed."

Hudson's Bay, a Canadian department store chain, spent much of the morning on
Twitter responding to customer complaints of website problems.

-- TIFFANY HSU

They've been shopping for a dog's age.

Scooter the Puggle and Freckle the Bichon mix, their heads protected by red hats
with ear flaps, waited patiently in a stroller across from Nathan's at the
Tanger outlets in Deer Park, N.Y. Manning the stroller was Leonard Heide, 63, of
Merrick, who also sat patiently in wait.

"My wife and son are shopping in the Christmas Tree shop," Mr. Heide said. "And
all around."

They're shopping for "anything and everything," laughed Mr. Heide; and their
store tour started early. The family stopped by Home Depot in Freeport at 8 a.m.
before heading to the outlet center.

"We do it every year," Mr. Heide said.

Mr. Heide's wife and son shopped Thanksgiving night, too, from 8 until midnight.

"Me and the boys stayed home," he said. -- ARIELLE DOLLINGER

What crowds? Empty stretches in Dallas.

In a clear sign that online sales and Thanksgiving Day openings have taken a
bite out of Black Friday, many Dallas stores had no morning crowds at all.
Numerous retailers on the city's busy Highway 75 opened early only to find 10,
five or even just one customer waiting outside.

Luiza Behs, 15, of Tulsa, Okla., went to the Apple Store an hour before it
opened to beat the line, but there was no line. She, her mother, her friend and
one other customer were the only people waiting.

"There's no lines so that's good for me," Ms. Behs said with a smile.

Trina, a 46-year-old Dallas woman who did not want to give her last name, went
to Target with her son before it opened and found no one there.

"We laughed about it because we said, 'We could just wait in the car,'" she
said, waiting for the door to be unlocked.

Perhaps people were just sleeping later this year. Rather than rise hours before
dawn, some Americans, on average, slept in longer on Friday than they did a week
earlier, according to data from the Sleep Cycle snooze-tracking app. And when
they eventually woke up, residents of most states were in a better mood than
when they got out of bed last Friday.

Ryan Marlar, 26, of Garland, was the only person sitting outside Dick's Sporting
Goods waiting for the store to open at 5 a.m. With plans to buy ammunition on
sale, Mr. Marlar sat on the tailgate of his truck and said he expected to see at
least a few other people waiting to get in.

"It's my favorite holiday of the year. You know exactly what you want," he said.
"I'm only saving like 10 bucks, but it's the spirit of the thing. I always go
and do it." -- PATRICK MCGEE

The Wirecutter will help you navigate the day.

Our colleagues over at Wirecutter, a New York Times company that reviews
products, have a running list of Black Friday deals on everything from trash
cans to cameras to artificial Christmas trees.

The best part is you don't have to get out of your chair to chase them down.

There are suggestions at every price point, so it's a good resource if you're
buying for a gift exchange at work or a loved one. After all, somebody in your
life must need a kayak.

What Brings You Out?

We asked shoppers around the country what drew them to stores over the long
Thanksgiving weekend.

NAME: John Kaikis Jr.

AGE: 58

LOCATION: Louisville, Ky.

WHY DO YOU COME TO A STORE INSTEAD OF SHOPPING ONLINE?

"We like to look at things and hold them in our hands. That way we know exactly
what we're buying."

DO YOU COME FOR PRACTICAL REASONS, OR FOR THE EXPERIENCE

"We just kind of do it to have fun. Because I was way hung over this morning,
and I sure didn't need to be up this early. But it's fun. It's a tradition we've
been doing now for 14 years. And afterwards, we'll go out for mimosas, so that's
a bonus."

WHAT'S THE PRODUCT YOU'LL RUN TO FIRST?

TV and laptop.

-- SARAH KELLEY

NAME: Scott Miller

AGE: 44

LOCATION: Manchester, Iowa

WHY DO YOU COME TO A STORE INSTEAD OF SHOPPING ONLINE?

"I don't have internet."

DO YOU COME FOR PRACTICAL REASONS, OR FOR THE EXPERIENCE

"For the deals."

WHAT'S THE PRODUCT YOU'LL RUN TO FIRST?

43-inch Vizio Class 1080p TV for $198

-- CHRISTINA CAPECCHI

TVs here, bathroom there.

"Is this the line for TVs?"

"Do you have any more Toshibas?"

"Where's the bathroom?"

Those are the three questions Austin Reed is prepared to answer hundreds of
times on Friday. "I'm the TV guy and the bathroom guy," joked Mr. Reed, 24, who
is stationed in the home electronics section of a Best Buy in East Louisville,
Ky. -- right next to the restroom.

This is his third day on the job. "It's been a little overwhelming," he said.
"Imagine like a siege of a castle. It's like that."

Mr. Reed was hired as part of Best Buy's Geek Squad computer tech support team,
but televisions are today's hot sale item, hence his temporary post.

Black Friday shoppers began lining up outside the store at 11:30 p.m. on
Thanksgiving. Minutes before the store opened at 8 a.m., an employee distributed
tickets to those planning to purchase the most promoted deal of the day: a
Toshiba 55-inch LED television, on sale for $279.99 -- $220 less than its usual
list price.

A white-haired man wearing a flannel hunting cap with ear flaps approached Mr.
Reed and asked where he could find a set as he pointed to an ad on a store
circular. The sales associate broke the news that all the Toshibas had been
claimed. "Well, I guess I'm a day late and a dollar short," the man said.

On cue, Mr. Reed responded, "But we have lots more deals." -- SARAH KELLEY

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 24, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Scenes From Sears: 2 Locations Tell a Story of Struggle in a Tight Retail Market

BYLINE: MICHAEL CORKERY

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1276 words



HIGHLIGHT: An iconic American company is closing stores and cutting costs as
part of a turnaround it hopes will retain loyal customers and attract new ones.


Correction Appended

PHILLIPSBURG, N.J. -- Every year on Black Friday, Angela Buzatto has come to
Sears to buy two new vacuum cleaners, at steep discounts, for her house cleaning
business. This year she was going to buy four of them.

Ms. Buzatto couldn't resist. The Sears in the Phillipsburg Mall is closing its
doors for good and everything has to go. Along with vacuums on sale at even
bigger discounts, she bought her 8-year-old daughter a shimmering white dress
for $24 and a $10 pair of fuzzy blue shoes.

"It's sad," said Ms. Buzatto, who has shopped at the Sears in this town on the
Pennsylvania border for 16 years. "The business is not there."

Black Friday is the most celebrated shopping day of the year, when parking lots
fill up early with bargain hunters and online frenzy crashes the websites of
even the most established retailers. In Los Angeles, a line formed overnight at
a sneaker boutique on Melrose Avenue, and a throng of shoppers stood behind
fences in the early morning darkness waiting to get into the Mall of America
near Minneapolis.

But for Ms. Buzatto, standing in a dim hallway in the Phillipsburg Mall, it was
a different scene. Next to Sears were rows of empty storefronts for retailers
like Payless Shoes and Radio Shack, both of which have gone through bankruptcy.

The bleak scene was emblematic of the difficult challenges confronting many
brick and mortar retailers, which are struggling to figure out how to survive
Amazon's seemingly unstoppable march to dominate the American wallet.

Analysts say retailers are expected to close more stores this year than at any
time since the 2008 recession. The pressure from e-commerce, coupled with many
retailers loading up on debt during better days, has led to a string of
bankruptcies this year. Thousands of retail workers have lost their jobs.
Overall employment in the retail industry has been declining since July -- which
economists say is highly unusual given that the economy is relatively strong.

All the ingredients are in place for a strong shopping season -- low
unemployment, a soaring stock market, and high consumer confidence. Holiday
sales are projected to increase by as much as 4 percent from a year ago, to $682
billion, according to the National Retail Federation.

And yet these positive conditions come at a vulnerable time for many retailers,
as they try to adjust their business model from a legacy of operating hundreds
of stores in suburban malls to a more adept online operation.

Sears is determined to survive the turmoil, despite falling sales and a stock
price that now trades for less than $4.

The retailer has closed more than 150 Sears stores and Kmarts, which the company
also owns. A Sears spokesman said stores that are in the process of being
closed, like the one in Phillipsburg, are not a "fair representation of a
current Sears shopping experience."

Even as Sears is closing stores, the company is opening some new ones and
renovating others to make them smaller and more attractive. The company has a
deal with Uber in which drivers receive significant discounts at Sears.

One of the company's remodeled stores, in Wayne, N.J., was bustling on Friday
morning. An employee in a red vest greeted shoppers at the door, handing out a
circular showcasing the biggest deals. By noon, the checkout line was wrapped
around racks of one-piece fleece pajamas and winter coats.

As it works on a turnaround, Sears is paying down its debt, cutting costs and
integrating its online and bricks and mortar operations to give customers more
choices in how they shop.

"We are fighting like hell," the Sears chairman, Edward Lampert, said in a
statement earlier this year.

One cost-cutting measure is closing stores. Sears announced earlier this month
that it was closing the Phillipsburg store. When that store opened at 7 a.m. for
its last Black Friday, the parking lot out front was empty -- except for a
minivan and a white pickup truck.

A man in a hooded sweatshirt stood next to the truck, then hurried inside.

Red and yellow banners reading "Store Closing Sale" and "Nothing Held Back" hung
from the ceiling.

Throughout the store, tables of shirts, pants and sweaters were neatly arranged
and most of them fully stocked. A display of patriotic-themed shirts featuring
wolves and eagles were selling for 40 percent off. Snowmen scarves, originally
$5.99, were selling for about $3.

The scarves caught the eye of Elaine Freeman, who was browsing for Christmas
gifts with her sister Faith, while their car was being serviced at the Sears
automotive center.

The sisters grew up coming to the Sears with their parents, and they wanted to
show their loyalty by shopping there one last Black Friday.

Ms. Freeman, who works at a medical billing firm, said she has always been able
to buy things at Sears that she cannot find at other large retailers. Just this
week, she said, her niece needed a roasting pan large enough for the turkey she
was planning to cook for Thanksgiving.

"It's Black Friday, people are shopping elsewhere, but we are choosing to be
here,'' Ms. Freeman said.

At around 7:45 a.m., Tyler Kwiecinski, 21, and Zoe Vallese, 19, wandered into
the store and headed toward the appliance section. For decades, Sears has built
a loyal customer base attracted to its Kenmore brands of stoves, microwaves and
air-conditioners.

But these young friends had never been inside a Sears -- at least not that they
could remember. They had gotten up early that morning to hit GameStop, a video
game store at the other end of the mall, and were curious when they saw the big
yellow "Store Closing'' sign outside Sears.

"My dad explained to me that Sears was like Walmart before Walmart arrived,''
said Mr. Kwiecinski, who left without buying anything.

Not far from the appliances was a stand of artificial Christmas trees of
different varieties like the "Westchester Slim Cashmere Pine." One of the trees
was spinning, as its white lights blinked. They were all on sale for 30 percent
off.

Nancy Hartman and her daughter Jennifer Verdicchio have shopped at Sears on
Black Friday for as long as they can remember. On Friday, Ms. Hartman peered
into one of the empty, darkened storefronts next to the Sears.

"I took my grandson to this mall recently and he asked me 'Nana, why are the
stores closing?'" Ms. Hartman said. "It's depressing."

About 65 miles away from the Phillipsburg Mall, the Sears in Wayne was in a
different world. The store has new merchandising displays, checkout counters and
sleek lighting. The building exterior has fresh white and blue signage.

Victoria Setzer shopped for boys' clothing in the Wayne store on Friday around
noon. Her parents met at a Sears in the 1960s, while her mother was working for
the catalog.

"There is so much history and tradition, it's a piece of Americana,'' Ms. Setzer
said.

But her loyalty to Sears has been tested after her recently purchased Kenmore
refrigerator needed repairs twice.

"I hope it survives," she said. "But I don't know if they can."


Correction: November 27, 2017, Monday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article gave an incorrect name for a video game store at the
Phillipsburg Mall in New Jersey. It is GameStop, not Game Stopper.

PHOTOS: Clockwise from top: a Sears store in Paramus, N.J., that is scheduled to
close; Angela Buzatto, center rear, shopping at the Sears at the Phillipsburg
Mall in New Jersey on Black Friday with her son Marcos, daughter Ana and a
friend, Valnide Yasuda, left; a remodeled Sears in Wayne, N.J., was bustling on
Friday morning. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SENG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4)

Related Articles


     ·    The Incredible Shrinking Sears


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 24, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Black Friday, or How to Lift Retailers Out of the Red

BYLINE: By HILARY STOUT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 422 words


The word ''black'' in front of a day of the week has almost never meant anything
good.

Black Monday was the sell-off the day before the stock market crash of 1929,
Black Tuesday, as well as the day of an even bigger crash in 1987. Black
Wednesday was used to refer to a day of widespread air traffic snarls in 1954,
as well as the day the British government was forced to withdraw a battered
pound from the European Exchange Rate Mechanism in 1992. Black Thursday has
variously been used to describe days of devastating brush fires, bombings and
athletic defeats, among other unpleasantness.

So how is it that the term Black Friday has come almost universally to denote
joyous commercial excess, stupendous deals and big profits on the day when
people head out to shop for the holidays after Thanksgiving?

It wasn't always this way. The New York Times first used the term Black Friday
in an article in 1870 to refer to the day the gold market collapsed the year
before.

Ben Zimmer, executive producer of Vocabulary.com, who has researched and written
about the term, says its association with shopping the day after Thanksgiving
began in Philadelphia in the 1960s -- and even then, the reference wasn't
positive.

The local police took to calling the day Black Friday because they had to deal
with bad traffic and other miseries connected to the throngs of shoppers heading
for the stores.

Needless to say, that usage didn't sit well with local retailers. They tried,
according to Mr. Zimmer, to give the day a more positive name: Big Friday.

That did not take, but eventually retailers -- in Philadelphia and beyond --
managed to spin a new connotation: The day the books went from red ink to black.

Most consumers probably don't know -- and don't care -- about any of this. They
want deals.

The rebranding of Black Friday has been so successful that others have tried to
spread the wealth across multiple days of the week as the holiday shopping
season has grown ever more competitive.

In 2005, Cyber Monday was introduced as the day online retailers offered big
savings to holiday shoppers. In 2010, American Express came up with ''Small
Business Saturday'' to encourage people to shop (presumably with their Amex
cards) at independent local businesses the day after Black Friday.

And as retailers begin their holiday promotions earlier and earlier, there have
even been efforts to change the name of the day before Black Friday to Gray,
Brown or Black Thursday.

But for most Americans, it will forever be Thanksgiving.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/23/business/black-friday-meaning-definition.html

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              344 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 24, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Charges Iranian Hacker In Breach of HBO Database

BYLINE: By DANIEL VICTOR and SHEERA FRENKEL; Kitty Bennett contributed research.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 617 words


United States officials are charging an Iranian hacker in the theft of 1.5
terabytes of data from HBO in May, an attack that tormented network executives
and included the release of several unaired programs and scripts.

Behzad Mesri, who went by the pseudonym ''Skote Vahshat,'' was charged with
computer fraud, wire fraud, extortion and identity theft, according to an
indictment unsealed Tuesday in United States District Court in Manhattan. But he
remains in Iran, and officials acknowledged that it would be difficult to detain
him.

''He will forever be looking over his shoulder, and if he isn't, he should be,''
Joon H. Kim, acting United States attorney for the Southern District of New
York, said at a news conference.

He was accused of trying to extort $6 million worth of Bitcoin from HBO in July,
the indictment said.

From May to August, the data theft proved a nightmare for HBO. The hacker
gradually released stolen materials on the internet, including unaired episodes
of ''Ballers,'' ''Barry,'' ''Room 104,'' ''Curb Your Enthusiasm'' and ''The
Deuce.'' The hacker also released the script of an episode of ''Game of
Thrones'' that had not yet been broadcast.

The data cache also included financial documents, cast and crew contact lists,
emails belonging to at least one HBO employee and credentials for social media
accounts, according to the indictment.

Though Mr. Kim said it was ''not likely'' the authorities would be able to
arrest Mr. Mesri, being wanted by the F.B.I. will make it difficult for Mr.
Mesri to travel internationally, he said.

''The memory of American law enforcement is very long,'' he said.

The indictment stops short of formally accusing Mr. Mesri, 29, of working on
behalf of the Iranian government, though it notes that he previously ''had
worked on behalf of the Iranian military to conduct computer network attacks
that targeted military systems, nuclear software systems, and Israeli
infrastructure.''

Collin Anderson, an independent cybersecurity researcher who focuses on Iran,
said that Mr. Mesri appeared to have ties to individuals who had carried out
cyberespionage campaigns on behalf of the Iranian government, though his
decision to attack HBO may have been a singular act he carried out by himself.

''Iran's offensive cyberoperations are complex because the membership in hacking
groups and the lines between groups are messy and shift over time,'' Mr.
Anderson said.

He said the indictment was most likely just the tip of the iceberg when it came
to Iran's offensive online activities.

''This is a limited window into the vast activities Iran is engaged in, and it's
a limited window into what the U.S. government knows about these actors,'' Mr.
Anderson said. ''It's possible that the U.S. government could indict more
Iranian hackers, depending on how they want to place pressure on Iran in the
coming months.''

In a statement, HBO said: ''HBO has confirmed in the past that we were working
with law enforcement from the early stages of the cyber incident. As far as the
criminal case is concerned, we prefer to leave any comments to the US Attorney's
Office.''

Mr. Mesri was not accused of participating in two other HBO security breaches
over the summer. The network's Twitter account was hacked in August, and two
episodes of ''Game of Thrones'' were leaked online before they were broadcast,
but neither was linked to the larger data theft.

''Game of Thrones'' didn't appear to suffer from the leaks. It set a ratings
record with 12.1 million viewers for its finale, or 16.5 million when including
numbers from its streaming services.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/21/business/hbo-hack-charges.html

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              345 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 24, 2017 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Can Zimbabwe Cure Its Hangover?

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; EDITORIAL; Pg.

LENGTH: 485 words


When a leader dominates a country as long and as disastrously as Robert Mugabe
dominated Zimbabwe, his departure is bound to be both exhilarating and
traumatic. For 37 years his was the face, staring down the walls of every
office, store and bank, of a regime that suppressed and dragged down one of
Africa's most promising nations. Now, at last, he is gone. But the Zimbabweans
who danced in the streets of Harare and Bulawayo on Tuesday also knew that the
tyrannical system he had created was still alive.

For now, the military leaders who isolated President Mugabe last week and the
leaders of ZANU-PF, the party that dominated Zimbabwean politics and pushed him
out, were hailed as heroes. But by all indications the soldiers intervened not
so much because Mr. Mugabe's rule had become intolerable -- it has been that for
a long time -- but because his corrupt and unpopular wife, Grace, (whose
whereabouts remain unknown) was maneuvering to succeed her failing, 93-year-old
husband.

Gen. Constantino Chiwenga, the armed forces chief, took action only after Mr.
Mugabe fired Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa, the successor preferred by the
military. Now Mr. Mnangagwa is at the helm of the party and about to be
installed as president.

That the transition had at least the semblance of legitimacy is to be welcomed.
But it is a stretch to presume that Mr. Mnangagwa, or ZANU-PF, or the military
-- all of whom colluded in Mr. Mugabe's rapacious rule -- will change stripes
once in charge. Mr. Mnangagwa was the security head when a North Korean-trained
force massacred thousands of civilians in a campaign against the rival Ndebele
ethnic group. General Chiwenga was involved in the brutal crackdown after Mr.
Mugabe's loss in the first round of elections in 2008. And ZANU-PF harbors the
benefactors of the spoils of misrule.

Arrayed against that is the obvious longing of the Zimbabweans who celebrated on
Tuesday for a better day, and the fact that for all the economic and political
damage done by Mr. Mugabe, Zimbabwe is still one of the best endowed, best
educated and most attractive countries in Africa.

Mr. Mnangagwa could make a new start by lifting some of the more onerous
repressive measures, like eliminating the new Ministry of Cyber Security, Threat
Detection and Mitigation, which was supposed to monitor online criticism of the
government. He could also bring the opposition leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, into
the government and could prepare for free and fair elections next year.

To improve the low odds of that happening, the United States, Britain, other
Western governments and Zimbabwe's African neighbors must offer Zimbabwe a
financial lifeline, along with an unequivocal demand that the government hold
internationally supervised elections next year.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/23/opinion/zimbabwe-mugabe-mnangagwa.html

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              346 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 26, 2017 Sunday 00:00 EST

Amazon, in Hunt for Lower Prices, Recruits Indian Merchants

BYLINE: VINDU GOEL

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1374 words



HIGHLIGHT: Thousands of Indian sellers have shipped bedding, jewelry,
kitchenware and clothing to Amazon warehouses to serve bargain-hunting
Americans.


Correction Appended

MUMBAI, India -- Americans shopping on Amazon.com this holiday season may find
that the best deals for popular gifts like leather shoes and luxury bedding are
coming from an unexpected source: Indian merchants.

Amazon, always on the lookout for ways to lower prices, has been aggressively
recruiting Indian vendors to sell their goods directly on the e-commerce giant's
American site. At least 27,000 Indian sellers have signed up since Amazon began
the outreach two years ago. They range from giants like the Tata Group, a
conglomerate that hawks its Titan watch line on the site, to smaller firms like
The Boho Street, a peddler of vegan tapestries, incense and handcrafted copper
mugs.

The result is lower prices for consumers because selling foreign goods through
the e-commerce giant cuts out some of the usual costs of a traditional importer.
But it is also beneficial to Amazon, which gets to add to its enormous product
lineup and charge sellers hefty fees.

For Indian merchants like Abhishek Middha, founder of The Boho Street, Amazon
provides almost turnkey access to the American market.

"Amazon handles everything in the U.S., from shipping to customer handling, so
we can focus on making the best quality products and adding more products to our
catalog," he said.

Although Mr. Middha used to sell on other marketplaces like Etsy, he switched
almost entirely to Amazon two years ago because of its vast scale and suite of
services. Last year, his sales on Cyber Monday spiked to four times the usual
level, helping to propel his annual revenue to $1.9 million. On Black Friday
this year, his sales tripled compared with the previous day.

"Amazon taught us how to create a brand," he said.

The growth of Amazon's Indian global seller program shows how sophisticated the
Seattle retailer's strategy has become. The company operates India's
second-largest e-commerce site, Amazon.in, which caters to the country's growing
base of online consumers. But Amazon also sees India as a source of cheap and
high-quality products that can be sold on its American site, especially in
crucial categories like apparel, to help it take market share from competitors
like Walmart.

Abhijit Kamra, who heads Amazon's global selling program in India, said that
Americans already buy many products that are made in India, such as cotton
towels.

"What we are trying to do is compress the global supply chain and bring sellers
and customers closer," he said in a phone interview. Some of the 75 million
Indian products on the main Amazon.com site, such as saris, tend to attract
customers of Indian heritage. But other categories, like jewelry and health
products, have wider appeal, Mr. Kamra said.

Amazon has listed many of its Indian products on a special page,
Amazon.com/India, to help customers in the United States find them. For the
holiday selling season that kicked off with Black Friday, the company spent
months helping sellers prepare by stockpiling goods in the United States and
programming special "lightning deals" to generate shopper interest. In some
cases, the company even lent sellers money for inventory.

The India program is quite lucrative for Amazon's bottom line. A merchant who
chooses the full array of Amazon services, including buying advertising and
contracting with the company to store and deliver the products from Amazon's
American warehouses, typically hands over about one-third of the item's sale
price in fees and commissions.

These third-party sellers are crucial to Amazon's business, said Aaron Cheris,
head of the Americas retail practice at Bain, a global management consulting
firm. "They make more money on their third-party stuff than on the stuff they
sell themselves," he said in a phone interview. Amazon says that more than half
of the units sold on its shopping sites come from such outside sellers.

To attract customers on a crowded site like Amazon.com, it helps to have a
niche. For Krishna Murari, the founder of Rajlinen, that niche is luxury cotton
bedsheets for the odd-size beds in recreational vehicles.

"I have never seen an R.V.," said Mr. Murari, a former electronics engineer. But
he learned about the specialty sheets from an American company that sells custom
mattresses, and then studied images of camper mattresses. Now his factory in
Indore, in central India, sells more than 10,000 R.V. bed sets per year in the
United States, many of them custom sewn.

Mr. Murari said buyers have little interest in camper sheets until June or July,
so for the holidays, he is focusing on high thread-count percale sheets for
regular beds. Mr. Murari often imitates designs sold by big American retailers,
but tried to undercut them on price, selling his versions for about $30 a set,
slightly below Target's prices and less than half of Bed Bath & Beyond's prices
for similar items.

At the start of the holiday shopping season, Rajlinen had about 42,000 sheet
sets sitting in Amazon warehouses across the United States, waiting for orders
to come in. Mr. Murari said his profit margin was low and he did not intend to
offer big discounts over the weekend or on Cyber Monday, unlike many American
retailers. His primary goal was to bring in enough revenue to keep his 115
workers employed.

While Amazon.com has sellers hailing from many countries, Mr. Cheris said that
India and China are the two most important places for Amazon to recruit new
merchants, since both nations are sources of cheap manufactured goods.

Unlike China, where local companies dominate e-commerce, India is also a huge
domestic market for Amazon. Although most of India's commerce is conducted
offline, Indians are coming onto the internet at a rapid clip through their
smartphones. Amazon's chief executive, Jeff Bezos, views India and its 1.3
billion residents as vital to his company's future, and he has vowed to spend at
least $5 billion building up his India operations.

Flipkart, the top e-commerce site in India by volume, has pushed the central
government to pass policies to protect local internet companies from unfair
competition by foreign companies willing to lose lots of money. By promoting
Indian exports, a top priority of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Amazon is
positioning itself as a good corporate citizen.

The Indian merchants selling on Amazon.com find their local site, Amazon.in, to
be a less appealing marketplace. With a per-capita income of $1,600 a year, most
Indians are unwilling to pay anything close to the prices that sellers can
command in the United States.

Raja Rajan, head of Boston Creative Company in Coimbatore in south India, has
done well selling $13 engraved spoons and $60 folded book art on Amazon.com. He
recently began selling the spoons on Amazon's Indian site, too. In the first six
days, Mr. Rajan said in a phone interview, he did not have even one sale.

Perhaps that was because Indians know how cheap such spoons are to produce. Mr.
Rajan said his profit margin is about $8 a spoon -- rich enough to allow him to
slash prices on Black Friday and Cyber Monday and see what happens.

"We are going to cut the price in half," he said. "I just want to try it."

Follow Vindu Goel on Twitter: @vindugoel.


Correction: November 26, 2017, Sunday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article misidentified the company that sells Titan watches on
Amazon. It is the Tata Group, not Reliance Industries. It also misstated the
number of Indian products on Amazon.com. It is 75 million, not 17 million.

PHOTOS: Dyed fabric hung to dry at a Jaipur factory that makes bedsheets for The
Boho Street. Its Amazon sales tripled on Black Friday compared with the previous
day. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA CONWAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1); Clockwise from
top: laborers at the market in Khari Baoli, Old Delhi; screen-printed Boho
Street bedsheets are stacked after being ironed and packed; a Boho Street worker
wraps mugs destined for Amazon warehouses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PORAS CHAUDHARY FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES; REBECCA CONWAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4-B5)

Related Articles


     ·    Amazon May Violate India's New Rules on Foreign E-Commerce
     ·    Amid Brick-and-Mortar Travails, a Tipping Point for Amazon in Apparel
     ·    How to Shop Smart on Black Friday (and Cyber Monday)


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 27, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Amazon Woos India's Merchants

BYLINE: By VINDU GOEL

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words


MUMBAI, India -- Americans shopping on Amazon.com this holiday season may find
that the best deals for popular gifts like leather shoes and luxury bedding are
coming from an unexpected source: Indian merchants.

Amazon, always on the lookout for ways to lower prices, has been aggressively
recruiting Indian vendors to sell their goods directly on the e-commerce giant's
American site. At least 27,000 Indian sellers have signed up since Amazon began
the outreach two years ago. They range from giants like the Tata Group, a
conglomerate that hawks its Titan watch line on the site, to smaller firms like
The Boho Street, a peddler of vegan tapestries, incense and handcrafted copper
mugs.

The result is lower prices for consumers because selling foreign goods through
the e-commerce giant cuts out some of the usual costs of a traditional importer.
But it is also beneficial to Amazon, which gets to add to its enormous product
lineup and charge sellers hefty fees.

For Indian merchants like Abhishek Middha, founder of The Boho Street, Amazon
provides almost turnkey access to the American market.

''Amazon handles everything in the U.S., from shipping to customer handling, so
we can focus on making the best quality products and adding more products to our
catalog,'' he said.

Although Mr. Middha used to sell on other marketplaces like Etsy, he switched
almost entirely to Amazon two years ago because of its vast scale and suite of
services. Last year, his sales on Cyber Monday spiked to four times the usual
level, helping to propel his annual revenue to $1.9 million. On Black Friday
this year, his sales tripled compared with the previous day.

''Amazon taught us how to create a brand,'' he said.

The growth of Amazon's Indian global seller program shows how sophisticated the
Seattle retailer's strategy has become. The company operates India's
second-largest e-commerce site, Amazon.in, which caters to the country's growing
base of online consumers. But Amazon also sees India as a source of cheap and
high-quality products that can be sold on its American site, especially in
crucial categories like apparel, to help it take market share from competitors
like Walmart.

Abhijit Kamra, who heads Amazon's global selling program in India, said that
Americans already buy many products that are made in India, such as cotton
towels.

''What we are trying to do is compress the global supply chain and bring sellers
and customers closer,'' he said in a phone interview. Some of the 75 million
Indian products on the main Amazon.com site, such as saris, tend to attract
customers of Indian heritage. But other categories, like jewelry and health
products, have wider appeal, Mr. Kamra said.

Amazon has listed many of its Indian products on a special page,
Amazon.com/India, to help customers in the United States find them. For the
holiday selling season that kicked off with Black Friday, the company spent
months helping sellers prepare by stockpiling goods in the United States and
programming special ''lightning deals'' to generate shopper interest. In some
cases, the company even lent sellers money for inventory.

The India program is quite lucrative for Amazon's bottom line. A merchant who
chooses the full array of Amazon services, including buying advertising and
contracting with the company to store and deliver the products from Amazon's
American warehouses, typically hands over about one-third of the item's sale
price in fees and commissions.

These third-party sellers are crucial to Amazon's business, said Aaron Cheris,
head of the Americas retail practice at Bain, a global management consulting
firm. ''They make more money on their third-party stuff than on the stuff they
sell themselves,'' he said in a phone interview. Amazon says that more than half
of the units sold on its shopping sites come from such outside sellers.

To attract customers on a crowded site like Amazon.com, it helps to have a
niche. For Krishna Murari, the founder of Rajlinen, that niche is luxury cotton
bedsheets for the odd-size beds in recreational vehicles.

''I have never seen an R.V.,'' said Mr. Murari, a former electronics engineer.
But he learned about the specialty sheets from an American company that sells
custom mattresses, and then studied images of camper mattresses. Now his factory
in Indore, in central India, sells more than 10,000 R.V. bed sets per year in
the United States, many of them custom sewn.

Mr. Murari said buyers have little interest in camper sheets until June or July,
so for the holidays, he is focusing on high thread-count percale sheets for
regular beds. Mr. Murari often imitates designs sold by big American retailers,
but tried to undercut them on price, selling his versions for about $30 a set,
slightly below Target's prices and less than half of Bed Bath & Beyond's prices
for similar items.

At the start of the holiday shopping season, Rajlinen had about 42,000 sheet
sets sitting in Amazon warehouses across the United States, waiting for orders
to come in. Mr. Murari said his profit margin was low and he did not intend to
offer big discounts over the weekend or on Cyber Monday, unlike many American
retailers. His primary goal was to bring in enough revenue to keep his 115
workers employed.

While Amazon.com has sellers hailing from many countries, Mr. Cheris said that
India and China are the two most important places for Amazon to recruit new
merchants, since both nations are sources of cheap manufactured goods.

Unlike China, where local companies dominate e-commerce, India is also a huge
domestic market for Amazon. Although most of India's commerce is conducted
offline, Indians are coming onto the internet at a rapid clip through their
smartphones. Amazon's chief executive, Jeff Bezos, views India and its 1.3
billion residents as vital to his company's future, and he has vowed to spend at
least $5 billion building up his India operations.

Flipkart, the top e-commerce site in India by volume, has pushed the central
government to pass policies to protect local internet companies from unfair
competition by foreign companies willing to lose lots of money. By promoting
Indian exports, a top priority of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Amazon is
positioning itself as a good corporate citizen.

The Indian merchants selling on Amazon.com find their local site, Amazon.in, to
be a less appealing marketplace. With a per-capita income of $1,600 a year, most
Indians are unwilling to pay anything close to the prices that sellers can
command in the United States.

Raja Rajan, head of Boston Creative Company in Coimbatore in south India, has
done well selling $13 engraved spoons and $60 folded book art on Amazon.com. He
recently began selling the spoons on Amazon's Indian site, too. In the first six
days, Mr. Rajan said in a phone interview, he did not have even one sale.

Perhaps that was because Indians know how cheap such spoons are to produce. Mr.
Rajan said his profit margin is about $8 a spoon -- rich enough to allow him to
slash prices on Black Friday and Cyber Monday and see what happens.

''We are going to cut the price in half,'' he said. ''I just want to try it.''

Follow Vindu Goel on Twitter: @vindugoel.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/26/technology/amazon-india-merchants.html

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dyed fabric hung to dry at a Jaipur factory that makes
bedsheets for The Boho Street. Its Amazon sales tripled on Black Friday compared
with the previous day. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA CONWAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(B1)
Clockwise from top: laborers at the market in Khari Baoli, Old Delhi
screen-printed Boho Street bedsheets are stacked after being ironed and packed
a Boho Street worker wraps mugs destined for Amazon warehouses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
PORAS CHAUDHARY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 REBECCA CONWAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4-B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              348 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 28, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

California Today: Transgender Surgery Comes to Major Southern California
Hospital;
California Today

BYLINE: JENNIFER MEDINA

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1034 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tuesday: Transgender surgery at Cedars-Sinai, an assemblyman accused
of sexual harassment resigns and the rebel state of Jefferson.


Good morning.

(Want to get California Today by email? Here's the sign-up.)

For years, transgender men and women looking for genital surgery have primarily
relied on doctors in private practice, sometimes paying tens of thousands of
dollars out of pocket. Recent studies estimate that roughly 1.4 million adults,
including 218,000 in California, identify as transgender. While not all of them
want genital surgery, it can be prohibitively expensive for those who do.

As a urologist at the University of California San Francisco Medical Center,
Maurice Garcia had several transgender patients. He began looking for a place to
receive training for genital surgery for transgender adults and adolescents, but
with no academic medical centers in the United States that could offer such
training, he traveled to England for a yearlong fellowship at University College
London. When he returned to U.C.S.F. in 2014 he created the system's first
transgender genital gender-confirming surgery program.

Earlier this year, he began something similar at Cedars-Sinai in Los Angeles --
the Transgender Surgery and Health Program -- making the hospital one of just
two academic medical centers in the West to offer gender reassignment surgery.

Over the last several years, California has passed laws requiring insurance
companies to cover the procedure, as well as Medicare and Medi-Cal plans. Still,
Dr. Garcia said, many of the doctors in private practice would not accept public
insurance.

"People in leadership at Cedars had either close friends or family members who
were transgender and were attuned to the needs of this population," he said. "My
feeling was that if I was going to be the only public provider here, we had to
offer it to all parts of society."

He has now done more than 100 surgeries at Cedars since he began performing them
in March, including several through Medicare and Medi-Cal, such as Liz Youngs, a
50-year-old office worker who lives in Tustin. Ms Youngs waited for years for
surgery that would help her live as a woman. This April, on her 50th birthday
and less than five months after initially meeting Dr. Garcia, she got her wish.

"I had really been hopeless," she said. "A friend told me he would accept
Medi-Cal and I wanted to be the first one on his operating table. It was a huge
relief."

California Online

(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited
access for nonsubscribers.)

Guns that can be made at home, often referred to as "ghost guns," are facing
renewed scrutiny after a shooting in Northern California earlier this month.
[The New York Times]

Assemblyman Raul Bocanegra said Monday that he would step down "immediately,"
rather than next fall, as he originally said last week when six women accused
him making unwanted sexual advances. He is the first lawmaker to resign amid
charges of widespread sexual harassment and assault in the state capitol. [The
Los Angeles Times]

Democratic State Senator Tony Mendoza was stripped of his leadership positions,
while an investigation into sexual harassment charges from three women
continues. [The Los Angeles Times]

The price of a single Bitcoin exceeded $10,000 on some exchanges for the first
time Monday, despite loud voices of skepticism from some about the currency's
rapid rise. [The New York Times]

Despite the long odds, California business leaders are planning a massive push
to get Congress to renew protection from deportation for young undocumented
immigrants brought here as children. [Sacramento Bee]

Farmers in California may have a labor contract imposed on them if negotiations
with a union fail to produce an agreement, the state's highest court ruled on
Monday. [The Los Angeles Times]

The Silicon Valley billionaire Peter Thiel created the Stanford Review, a
student publication known for its conservative and libertarian bent. With Mr.
Thiel's continued close ties to The Review, the network has extended further
across the country. [Stanford Politics]

The mayor of the Japanese city of Osaka has said he is cutting ties with San
Francisco because of a new statue of so-called comfort women. [The New York
Times]

Had a cyber-shopping spree yesterday? Your free two-day deliveries may be making
parking, traffic and the environment much worse. [Southern California Public
Radio]

Thanks to the weather, California kids are more likely to grow up to be
friendlier, more outgoing and more eager to explore new things than their
counterparts from chillier climates, a new study suggests. [The Washington Post]

One of the country's most racially diverse ZIP codes is in Vallejo, Calif. It is
the rare place in the United States where black, white, Asian and Hispanic
people not only coexist in nearly equal numbers, but actually connect. [The New
York Times]

Meet "Voices of Reason," the only avowedly atheist choir in Los Angeles. [L.A.
Weekly]

And Finally ...

The rumblings had begun the month before, when a mayor in Oregon suggested that
several counties in the state should join with the most northern counties of
California to form a new state. It was, in some ways less of a secession and
more of a publicity effort to bring attention to the terrible conditions of
roads along the states' borders.

But there was enthusiasm for the idea and supporters deemed the would-be state
Jefferson, in honor of the country's third president.

On Nov. 27, 1941, a group of young men held hunting rifles and stopped traffic
on Route 99 south of the town of Yreka. They passed out copies of a Proclamation
of Independence, which said that the state of Jefferson was in "patriotic
rebellion" against California and Oregon. A vote in favor of secession passed on
Dec. 4. But before the movement could make the national news, the attack on
Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7 forced the secessionists to focus their attention on the
war effort, abandoning their passionate cause.

Still, the mythic State of Jefferson remains firmly rooted in the minds of some
residents in the most northern part of California.

California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you
want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.

California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and
graduated from U.C. Berkeley.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              349 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 28, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Shoppers Hit the Mall, but More Often Tapped Their Phones

BYLINE: MICHAEL CORKERY and TIFFANY HSU

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 908 words



HIGHLIGHT: Crowds still filled stores in search of Thanksgiving holiday deals,
but online sales over the five days were up about 15 percent.


E-commerce's unrelenting march toward domination of the retail industry
accelerated during the Thanksgiving holiday, as Americans spent billions more
shopping online than they did last year.

Crowds still flocked to stores to scoop up deals on televisions, toys and
clothing. But the big driver of America's five-day shopping spree that starts on
Thanksgiving was the mobile phone, not the mall.

Americans spent $19.62 billion shopping online over the five days, about $2.6
billion more than they spent during the same period last year, according to
Adobe Analytics, which has tracked online shopping for years. .

While the shift away from stores has been happening for years, the evolution
continues to accelerate. About 81 million people shopped online on Monday, a day
of big internet sales known as Cyber Monday, according to the National Retail
Federation.

Brick-and-mortar retailers were aided over the five days by good weather across
much of the country and strength in the economy, including low unemployment and
a rising stock market.

The federation said an estimated 174 million people went shopping over the
Thanksgiving holiday, about 10 million more than it had forecast. The trade
group said Tuesday that the shopping data reaffirmed its earlier prediction that
total sales this holiday season would increase by as much as 4 percent over last
year.

"We are certainly encouraged that we are starting off from a period of
strength," Matthew Shay, the president of the National Retail Federation, said
in a call with reporters. "It bodes well for the rest of the year."

Older millennials (ages 25 to 34) were the biggest spenders, with an average
output of $419.52, the federation said.

The retail federation said about 58 million consumers shopped online only, while
51 million shopped only in stores. Roughly 64 million shopped in both stores and
online.

Because the federation changed the way it analyzed holiday shopping data this
year, the group was unable to say how shopping in stores compared with last
year. It was also unable to provide the amount of total sales generated, saying
that it would be difficult to extrapolate a figure from its sampling of
consumers.

The gap in the trade group's data only seemed to accentuate the strength of this
year's online sales, which totaled $6.59 billion on Cyber Monday alone,
according to Adobe.

Analysis from other research firms showed traffic to stores falling over the
holiday, though the decline was not as steep as some predicted.

"It may not have been as bad as feared for brick-and-mortar stores," said Joel
Bines, a managing director focused on retail at AlixPartners, an advisory firm.
"But there is no question that physical shopping is losing to online shopping."

Shopping With a Swipe

The kickoff to the holiday shopping season is a now a five-day affair of
discounts and perks -- and nicknames, stretching through Black Friday into Small
Business Saturday and finishing on Cyber Monday. Black Friday was second to
Cyber Monday for online shoppers, with 66 million, according to the retail
federation.

"There is money moving from one day to another," said Tamara Gaffney, strategic
insights engagement group director at Adobe.

The top-selling items on Cyber Monday, according to Adobe, included the Nintendo
Switch game system and Hatchimals Colleggtibles figurines, which are popular
again this year with children.

Televisions were the most discounted items, with markdowns averaging about 20
percent.

And nearly a third of Cyber Monday purchases were made on a mobile device,
according to Adobe.

Walk-In Sales Hold Steady

Brick-and-mortar retailers entered the Thanksgiving under a cloud of gloom. But
after suffering big drops in store traffic on Black Friday in previous years,
this year's decline was slight.

Store traffic fell 1.6 percent from last year, according to ShopperTrak, an
analytics firm, with many big retailers offering deals starting on Thanksgiving.

"Black Friday itself is not dead yet, but it is not what it used to be," said
Craig Johnson, president of Customer Growth Partners, a retail research and
consulting firm.

The top shopping destination were department stores, according to the National
Retail Federation, while the most popular gifts purchased included clothing and
toys.

Popular Black Friday Item: Guns

On Black Friday, the F.B.I. was flooded with 203,086 requests by federally
licensed firearms dealers to conduct background checks on prospective gun
buyers. The volume, a single-day record, was 9 percent over the previous high,
set on Black Friday last year, according to USA Today, which first reported the
gun sales.

The checks are used to approximate gun sales, although the number, reported by
the F.B.I.'s National Instant Criminal Background Check System, almost certainly
understates the actual total. Transactions between private parties do not
require background checks, and customers who have been cleared can buy multiple
weapons.

Firearms merchants dangled Cyber Monday deals on guns and accessories, with
discounts on ammunition from Cabela's, scopes from Dick's Sporting Goods and,
from Bass Pro Shops, an Armalite M-15 Defensive Sporting Semi-Auto Rifle for
$649.97, marked down from $799.99.

PHOTO: Crowds still lined up at stores for Thanksgiving holiday deals, but
online sales over the five days were up about 15 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE
RIEDEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

Related Articles


     ·    Why Stand in Line on Black Friday? The Psychology Explained


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              350 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 28, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Lin-Manuel Miranda and Mariska Hargitay and Other Well-Known New Yorkers Give.
Here's Why.;
The Neediest Cases Fund

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1418 words



HIGHLIGHT: Amid the holiday giving season, we talked to Josh Groban, Audra
McDonald and others about a charity they support and what motivates them to
donate.


After the post-Thanksgiving shopping days of Black Friday and Cyber Monday comes
Giving Tuesday, which kicks off the season of charitable giving.

As The New York Times continues its Neediest Cases Fund campaign, we reached out
to some prominent New Yorkers to ask them to name an organization to which they
devote their resources.

Lin-Manuel Miranda, composer and performer, and his family

Where we live: Inwood and Washington Heights, Manhattan

Where we give: Hispanic Federation

"As a family, we have all been involved with the Hispanic Federation at various
points in our lives to continue the organization's mission to strengthen Latino
nonprofits, both locally and nationally. Founded in 1990 by Luis A. Miranda Jr.
and leaders in New York City, the Hispanic Federation is an umbrella
organization of institutions dedicated to strengthening Latino communities
throughout the country.

"From working with 'Dreamers' to secure an avenue to legal status to
spearheading relief efforts in Puerto Rico post-Hurricane Maria in conjunction
with local institutions on the island, the Hispanic Federation has a
longstanding, tested and trusted history of creating resources to fight the good
fight. We are proud to support the hundreds of social service and cultural
institutions as well as the many community programs that are made possible
through Hispanic Federation grants, technical assistance and advocacy."

Mariska Hargitay, actress

Where I live: Manhattan

Where I give: Joyful Heart Foundation

"I founded the Joyful Heart Foundation in 2004 with the mission to transform
society's response to sexual assault, domestic violence and child abuse; support
survivors' healing; and end this violence forever. With our healing, education
and advocacy programs, we are paving the way for innovative approaches to trauma
and legislative reforms to ensure justice for survivors. Our current advocacy
priority is eliminating the nationwide backlog of untested rape kits, a
dismaying reflection of how victims of sexual assault have been regarded.
Survivors' voices are bringing unprecedented change in the landscape around
sexual violence. All survivors need our support now more than ever."

Laurence D. Fink, chief executive of BlackRock

Where I live: Greenwich Village, Manhattan

Where I give: International Rescue Committee

"We are in the midst of the largest refugee crisis since World War II. Conflict,
poverty and disaster have driven more than 65 million people from their homes in
places including Syria, Sudan and Myanmar, and we have a shared responsibility
to help. The International Rescue Committee is on the front lines. It's an
incredible organization -- it works swiftly, in dangerous places, and it helps
people rebuild their lives. That's maybe what I admire most about the I.R.C. Its
approach is built on the idea that displaced persons cannot be consigned to
hopelessness -- that, like anyone else, they are families trying to work, send
their kids to school and build futures. That kind of empathy is what's needed to
solve this crisis, and I'm proud to support the I.R.C."

Rabbi Angela W. Buchdahl

Where I live:  Manhattan

Where I give: Avodah

"Imagine taking some of the brightest, most idealistic Jewish leaders graduating
from college and placing them for a year of service in anti-poverty and justice
nonprofits in four urban centers. Imagine them living together in communal
housing so they could celebrate, network and support each other in the everyday
challenges of working to alleviate poverty and social injustice. This is the
Avodah Jewish Service Corps, and it is building the next generation of Jewish
leaders with a commitment to bedrock Jewish values such as tikkun olam --
repairing the world. By supporting Avodah, I am investing in leadership for a
more just world."

Josh Groban, performer

Where I live: TriBeCa, Manhattan

Where I give: Find Your Light Foundation

"Throughout my life and career, giving back has been a constant joy for me. I
started the Find Your Light Foundation because I know from personal experience
that arts education drastically improves the student experience in every aspect
of the classroom and life as a whole. There is nothing like a strong arts
education program to turn around failing schools, increase attendance and
graduation rates, and successfully send kids off to college and beyond. I have
seen these opportunities change lives firsthand, and it is my honor and
privilege to be able to give back in this way."

Katie Smith, head coach of the New York Liberty

Where I live: White Plains, N.Y.

Where I give: Ali Forney Center

"I support the Ali Forney Center because children from all walks of life, no
matter their race, gender or sexual orientation, should have a safe space and
feel empowered. I have seen firsthand the center's amazing work and met with
some of the youth who have been impacted by their programs. Their services and
support are vital for protecting so many LGBTQ youth in New York City, while
also providing them with the tools necessary to lead independent lives."

John Rzeznik, singer

Where I live: Union County, N.J.

Where I give: Music Gives to St. Jude Kids

"I support St. Jude's because every parent should be able to get their child the
absolute best treatment with dignity and compassion irrespective of their
financial situation."

Audra McDonald, performer

Where I live: Inwood, Manhattan

Where I give: Covenant House International

"In 2014, while preparing to open 'Lady Day at Emerson's Bar and Grill' on
Broadway, I was looking for an opening-night gift that honored my colleagues and
my character, Billie Holiday. Given that Billie was homeless for some of her
childhood, abused, and forced to turn to prostitution as a teenager as a means
of survival, I decided to make a donation to Covenant House, an agency for
homeless and at-risk youth. I walked from the Circle in the Square Theater to
the shelter to make a donation and was greeted by the guards. When a homeless
boy arrived in need, they leapt into action, comforting him and making him feel
safe. I was so moved that I became involved and joined the board a year later."

Richie Jackson, producer, and Jordan Roth, president of Jujamcyn Theaters

Where we live: West Village, Manhattan

Where we give: The Trevor Project

"We support the Trevor Project, the largest suicide prevention organization for
LGBTQ youth, because it literally saves children's lives, one call or text at a
time. This lifeline has always been vital, and now it's more urgent than ever.
We know all our children are listening and internalizing, and we will not let
hate be the only voice they hear. The message of the Trevor Project is clear:
Every LGBTQ young person needs to know that they are loved for who they are and
that they are never alone."

Jeremy Lin, Brooklyn Nets player

Where I live: Gowanus, Brooklyn

Where I give: Center for Family Life

"When I first moved to Brooklyn, I wanted to get involved with an organization
that was doing great work with youth in my neighborhood. I turned to Robin Hood
Foundation for guidance, since it goes to great lengths to identify the most
effective organizations at fighting poverty in New York City. Center for Family
Life offers much-needed social services to families in and around Sunset Park,
many of whom are first-generation immigrants. I love that it addresses the
unique needs of this diverse neighborhood. While visiting its after-school
program, I witnessed firsthand the thoughtfulness and passion the leaders put
into the programs."

Morena Baccarin, actress

Where I live: Manhattan

Where I give: International Rescue Committee

"I came to the United States when I was 7, and although I wasn't fleeing
conflict or persecution, it gave me a small sense of what it is like to arrive
in a new country when you don't speak the language, don't know anyone and have
to learn a new culture. Looking back now and realizing what my mom must have
gone through -- assimilating to a new country without any help -- I have a whole
new appreciation and respect for anyone brave enough to try a new life
elsewhere.

"I visited the I.R.C.'s resettlement programs in both New York and Baltimore,
where I met with new arrivals who were being assisted with language, employment,
enrolling their kids in school. It showed me how vital it is to offer help when
families are trying to shed past trauma and move forward with their lives. I saw
that a little help went a long way. It inspired me to do my part."

Donations to the Neediest Cases may also be made with a check or over the phone.

PHOTOS

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              351 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 28, 2017 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Decline in Oil Prices Hurts Energy Shares

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 378 words


In a sluggish trading on Wall Street, stocks edged mostly lower on Monday as
investors came back from the Thanksgiving holiday.

Energy stocks declined the most following a slide in crude oil prices. Materials
companies also declined, partly offsetting gains among utilities and industrial
stocks.

Retailers posted solid gains on reports that the holiday shopping season was off
to a strong start.

Investors also cheered some corporate deals and looked ahead to several economic
reports and potentially market-moving news out of Washington this week.

Bill Northey, a senior vice president of U.S. Bank Wealth Management, said, ''As
you look at the context of this entire week, Monday is a little bit light on
market-moving events, but as we proceed through the balance of this week, we
have a busy economic calendar.''

The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 1 point to 2,601.42. The Dow Jones
industrial average edged up 22.79 points, or 0.1 percent, to 23,580.78. The
Nasdaq composite index fell 10.64 points, or 0.2 percent, to 6,878.52. The
Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks lost 5.85 points, or 0.4 percent,
to 1,513.31.

More stocks fell than rose on the New York Stock Exchange.

Bond prices rose. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.33 from 2.34
percent.

Losses among energy stocks weighed on the market Monday as oil prices declined.

Marathon Oil lost 65 cents, or 4.3 percent, to $14.48, while Newfield
Exploration gave up $1.05, or 3.4 percent, to $29.69.

Benchmark United States crude fell 84 cents, or 1.4 percent, to settle at $58.11
per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price
international oils, declined 2 cents to close at $63.84 in London.

Several retailers closed higher as the holiday shopping season moved into high
gear. Shoppers are expected to spend $6.6 billion on Cyber Monday, up more than
16 percent from a year ago, according to Adobe Analytics, the research arm of
Adobe.

Gold rose $7.10 to $1,293.80 an ounce. Silver added 3 cents to $17.02 an ounce.
Copper slid 4 cents to $3.13 a pound.

The dollar weakened to 111.01 yen from 111.58 yen. The euro fell to $1.1899 from
$1.1927.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: The S. & P. 500 Index: Position of the S. & P. 500 index at
1-minute intervals on Monday. (Source: Reuters )

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              352 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 29, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Over Thanksgiving, Shoppers Hit the Mall but More Often Used Their Phones

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CORKERY and TIFFANY HSU

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 876 words


E-commerce's unrelenting march toward domination of the retail industry
accelerated during the Thanksgiving holiday, as Americans spent billions more
shopping online than they did last year.

Crowds still flocked to stores to scoop up deals on televisions, toys and
clothing. But the big driver of America's five-day shopping spree that starts on
Thanksgiving was the mobile phone, not the mall.

Americans spent $19.62 billion shopping online over the five days, about $2.6
billion more than they spent during the same period last year, according to
Adobe Analytics, which has tracked online shopping for years. .

While the shift away from stores has been happening for years, the evolution
continues to accelerate. About 81 million people shopped online on Monday, a day
of big internet sales known as Cyber Monday, according to the National Retail
Federation.

Brick-and-mortar retailers were aided over the five days by good weather across
much of the country and strength in the economy, including low unemployment and
a rising stock market.

The federation said an estimated 174 million people went shopping over the
Thanksgiving holiday, about 10 million more than it had forecast. The trade
group said Tuesday that the shopping data reaffirmed its earlier prediction that
total sales this holiday season would increase by as much as 4 percent over last
year.

''We are certainly encouraged that we are starting off from a period of
strength,'' Matthew Shay, the president of the National Retail Federation, said
in a call with reporters. ''It bodes well for the rest of the year.''

Older millennials (ages 25 to 34) were the biggest spenders, with an average
output of $419.52, the federation said.

The retail federation said about 58 million consumers shopped online only, while
51 million shopped only in stores. Roughly 64 million shopped in both stores and
online.

Because the federation changed the way it analyzed holiday shopping data this
year, the group was unable to say how shopping in stores compared with last
year. It was also unable to provide the amount of total sales generated, saying
that it would be difficult to extrapolate a figure from its sampling of
consumers.

The gap in the trade group's data only seemed to accentuate the strength of this
year's online sales, which totaled $6.59 billion on Cyber Monday alone,
according to Adobe.

Analysis from other research firms showed traffic to stores falling over the
holiday, though the decline was not as steep as some predicted.

''It may not have been as bad as feared for brick-and-mortar stores,'' said Joel
Bines, a managing director focused on retail at AlixPartners, an advisory firm.
''But there is no question that physical shopping is losing to online
shopping.''

Shopping With a Swipe

The kickoff to the holiday shopping season is a now a five-day affair of
discounts and perks -- and nicknames, stretching through Black Friday into Small
Business Saturday and finishing on Cyber Monday. Black Friday was second to
Cyber Monday for online shoppers, with 66 million, according to the retail
federation.

''There is money moving from one day to another,'' said Tamara Gaffney,
strategic insights engagement group director at Adobe.

The top-selling items on Cyber Monday, according to Adobe, included the Nintendo
Switch game system and Hatchimals Colleggtibles figurines, which are popular
again this year with children.

Televisions were the most discounted items, with markdowns averaging about 20
percent.

And nearly a third of Cyber Monday purchases were made on a mobile device,
according to Adobe.

Walk-In Sales Hold Steady

Brick-and-mortar retailers entered the Thanksgiving under a cloud of gloom. But
after suffering big drops in store traffic on Black Friday in previous years,
this year's decline was slight.

Store traffic fell 1.6 percent from last year, according to ShopperTrak, an
analytics firm, with many big retailers offering deals starting on Thanksgiving.

''Black Friday itself is not dead yet, but it is not what it used to be,'' said
Craig Johnson, president of Customer Growth Partners, a retail research and
consulting firm.

The top shopping destination were department stores, according to the National
Retail Federation, while the most popular gifts purchased included clothing and
toys.

Popular Black Friday Item: Guns

On Black Friday, the F.B.I. was flooded with 203,086 requests by federally
licensed firearms dealers to conduct background checks on prospective gun
buyers. The volume, a single-day record, was 9 percent over the previous high,
set on Black Friday last year, according to USA Today, which first reported the
gun sales.

The checks are used to approximate gun sales, although the number, reported by
the F.B.I.'s National Instant Criminal Background Check System, almost certainly
understates the actual total. Transactions between private parties do not
require background checks, and customers who have been cleared can buy multiple
weapons.

Firearms merchants dangled Cyber Monday deals on guns and accessories, with
discounts on ammunition from Cabela's, scopes from Dick's Sporting Goods and,
from Bass Pro Shops, an Armalite M-15 Defensive Sporting Semi-Auto Rifle for
$649.97, marked down from $799.99.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/28/business/holiday-spending-surpasses-forecast-
as-millennials-lead-the-way.html

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Crowds still lined up at stores for Thanksgiving holiday deals,
but online sales over the five days were up about 15 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
CHARLIE RIEDEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              353 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 30, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

#MeToo, Black Friday, Fraternities and Fiona the Hippo: Our Favorite Student
Comments of the Week;
Current Events Conversation

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK

SECTION: LEARNING

LENGTH: 7862 words



HIGHLIGHT: Our favorite student comments from last week, and an invitation to
join the conversation this week.


We're starting to get to know some of the locations of schools, titles of
programs, and names of individual students who comment week after week, and we
want you to know how much we appreciate your contributions. Wilmington, N.C.,
Locust Grove, Ga., Asheville, N.C., King of Prussia, Pa., and the many students
from New York City: We love hearing from you!

This week we want to shout out about the students from Oakland, Calif., who
wrote especially thoughtfully and eloquently on the question of "What
Stereotypical Characters Make You Cringe?" We also want to recognize two
individuals who contributed to many prompts this week, and whose thoughts we
enjoyed: Thank you K, Kendrick Parker from Bentonville and Xander Kruvczuk, who
lists his location as simply "United States of America."

What are you reading, watching or listening to in The Times right now? Add a
comment on this post or tag us on Twitter and let us know, or choose one of our
recent writing prompts and weigh in.

Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but
otherwise appear just as they were originally submitted.

Our most popular writing prompt this week was "What Is Your Reaction to the
#MeToo Movement?"

Lola Byers-Ogle from Wilmington was stunned at how widespread the problem is:

I was honestly shocked when I saw the #MeToo campaign spread across multiple
platforms of social media. Because of my own experiences, I have always though
that sexual abuse was something you should keep quiet, because it was something
to be ashamed of.

... The #MeToo movement has helped me realize that I was not alone and made me
feel more comfortable about talking about these sensitive topics. I think that
because of how influential social media is in our society, this movement has
spurred changes because it has allowed people to feel empowered by hearing about
other's experiences and come forward and share their own.

Jessica Reed from Freehold, N.J., was angry:

There is one huge and disturbing fact about the #MeToo movement that often goes
undetected, lacking the attention that it deserves.

The #MeToo movement should not have to happen.

Do not get me wrong; I am glad that it is happening, and that victims of sexual
harassment or abuse get to speak up and perpetrators are beginning to feel the
consequences, but the fact that women have to create a trending hashtag to get
the attention of the world is disgusting. People refuse to believe women until
suddenly it is trendy to do so.

And Grace Leete from Massachusetts felt personally affected by the campaign:

Even though I myself have not been a victim of this kind of harassment, it had
made me more aware and comfortable with the idea of talking about it, if it were
to ever happen to me. ...Before, I knew it to be disabling and crippling. A
reason to be ashamed. A reason to be embarrassed. But now, now everything has
changed. Women are now coming together like never before to express that this
happens to a lot of women. Too many women. This now gives women different
reasons. A reason to be proud. A reason to be free. A reason to be a woman.

Kate Silver from Wilmington, N.C., believes this is a watershed moment in our
culture:

A single tweet from Alyssa Miliano has garnered thousands of responses and has
sparked an international exposition of sexual misconduct within days. The
article states that even celebrities such as Lady Gaga and Anna Paquin
contributed to the movement. The power of social media has brought women of
every race, age, social status, and nationality together and has enabled them to
relate to each other in what is essentially an enormous support group. As a
young woman living in today's society, I find it empowering to know that my
voice matters and that what I say CAN make a difference. 140 characters is all
that it takes.

Reagan O'Shea from Boston agreed:

Hearing the stories of people who have been silenced for so long is deeply
saddening, but it is something that I feel our nation needs to realize in order
to progress and move forward. The #MeToo movement has united sexual assault
victims, and has brought awareness to the fact that they are truly not alone.
Victims no longer have to suffer in silence, which is incredibly powerful.

Anna Cross from Wilmington, N.C., believes the online movement needs to be
followed by concrete action:

Drawing attention to social issues such as this one is the only way to make a
change, as correcting the overall mindset/viewpoint of a population cannot
simply be fixed with laws. This can take time however, which is why the #MeToo,
#YesAllWomen and #EverydaySexism movements aren't generally turning-points,
though things don't necessarily "go back to normal" either. Enough people have
to change their opinions and stances on the issue to make an obvious difference.
This can be helped along with social media, with its ability to spread positive
messages and movements such as #MeToo; along with hate and prejudice however,
which gather behind the screens of the same networks.

This is why we shouldn't limit ourselves to action online; we need to go out and
make a physical change in the world. Without something to remember the movement
by, whether it be marches, campaigns to make donations to women's shelters, or
simply giving speeches to assemblies of people, the message won't inspire as
much change as what is so gravely required.

Others, like Ava Lanning from Danvers, Mass., were less optimistic:

In my opinion, these "me too" videos will not prevent or change the way women
are treated in society or in their given work force because many protests and
cases have been untreated and unsuccessful. I have not participated in the
#MeToo movement for many reasons.

... Major companies with powerful men who dramatically impact the business will
not be fired because of their importance. This is a scary fact. I find it mind
blowing how men are getting away with such actions just because of their
importance. I began to question why the importance of someone in a business is
more important than the safety of female workers. After time passes, things will
be the same.

And Voltron Thunderstorm from Wilmington cautioned against criticizing all men
for the actions of a few:

The most disturbing part of all this, perhaps, is the number of bystanders in
these instances; people who knew about the things these women were going through
and swept it under the carpet, even going as far as encouraging them to be quiet
about it.

I do, however, think that there has been some fault with the #MeToo movement. On
several occasions, women are unfairly generalizing and stereotyping all men into
these categories. ...In general, I think that we are going to see a lot of
changes following this movement, in the ways that we treat women and how we go
about dealing with sexual assault.

And while many commenters focused on women's role in the #MeToo movement, one
reader, Phillip, noted that men had a part to play, too:

I am not surprised at the pervasiveness of abuses of power by men in industries
ruled and fueled by them. However, the quantification of it through the flooding
of my news feed at the hashtag's peak reinforced a more profound truth: every
woman lives in a culture in which she can experience harassment and assault and
is expected to remain silent on it to preserve the feelings and power of men.

I believe that this movement will inspire men, the perpetrators of this
violence, to recognize the ways in which they reinforce these power structures.
I have seen a number of women on my feed ask men to comment on her post with
specific things they will do to combat assault and harassment; I was touched to
see men explain that they will call out their friends when they enact these
problematic behaviors, own up to their own previous instances of harassment, and
speak to other men about how they must change to minimize and hopefully
eradicate its presence.

_________

Our second most commented-on post was about Fiona the hippo and your favorite
social media stars.

Readers told us about favorites like the fashion bloggers theanayaleter and
blazendary; the musical artists Justin Bieber, Lil Uzi Vert, Omeretta and Shawn
Mendes; the ncomedians iamzoie and the Dolan twins; the animals (?) Jiff Pom the
dog and April the giraffe; and the motivational speakers Boonk, Summer Mckeen
and Haleigh Johnson. Some even mentioned President Trump.

After reading the related article, several readers clearly also caught
Fionamania.

Marcus McConnell from Locust Grove, Ga., wrote:

I can understand why Fiona the baby hippo has created a wave of media coverage
on herself. She has gone through a lot and I'm sure that it resonated with a lot
of viewers. To see that she is so lively now is especially inspiring considering
even professionals expected her to die at any second. Despite the constant
expectancy of death, Fiona pushed through it and lived. I would've expected her
to be limited considering she went through so much, but she seems much more
lively than any animal. Truly astonishing.

Emily from Georgia was equally enamored:

Now that I have seen Fionamania she is a playful hippo that loves to play. She
is a little lovable hippo. Who doesn't want to see a baby hippo play and swims
all around with some twist and hops and splashes. I know I would.

But Jordan G. from Georgia has been a longtime fan:

My favorite social media star happens to be this cute little hippo in this news
article. I have been keeping up with her on Twitter and Fiona is awesome, I can
understand why she is such a "Social media star." When an adorable hippo like
her is born it's most likely going to be the new craze.

_________

We received a range of notably insightful responses to our question "What
Stereotypical Characters Make You Cringe?" Not all students saw clichéd
characters as problematic, arguing that these stereotypes are meant to make
people laugh, not offend.

Others, though, noted that the fact that these characters were a joke was part
of the problem. Erica Sue from Oakland, Calif., used her personal experience to
illustrate this point:

The portrayal of South Asian characters in Hollywood is problematic because it
reinforces stereotypes and fails to bring positive diversity. As an Asian
American woman, I am very disturbed when I see how other Asian characters are
portrayed in mainstream media. Many are cast as the nerdy, weird, uncivilized,
outsider mainly for comedic relief. By promoting such stereotypes, Hollywood is
normalizing it and telling viewers that not only is it okay to label people and
cultures, but it is also okay to laugh because they are all just a big joke.

When I see such characters, I question and wonder if this is what everyone else
sees my culture as. Do they really only see Asians as all the same accented,
frugal, geeks? I become ashamed knowing these rich cultures are reduced to mere
offensive one-dimension mockeries.

Polaris Hall from Danvers, Mass., also lamented the inadequate portrayals of
South Asian characters:

Hollywood's portrayal of South Asian characters in the media is, and always has
been, harmful. Looking around at mainstream media, very few South Asian
characters are fully developed. They're housekeepers, janitors, or geniuses --
socially inept or fundamentally stupid. Unlike their white counterparts, these
characters are reduced to harmful stereotypes about Southern Asians,
perpetuating common misconceptions and encouraging them.

To me, one such notable character is Raj from the Big Bang Theory. During the
show's prime, many audience members praised his character as being (finally!) a
positive portrayal of an Indian man, but this is not true. Sure, Raj had friends
and was a genius, sure he had a great job and hobbies, but fundamentally, Raj is
a hollow echo of a racist caricature. Misogynistic, inconsiderate, and socially
inept, Raj was still a perpetuation of racism in Hollywood, albeit a more subtle
example than those like Apu of the Simpsons and Mr. Kim from South Park.

Drew Scott from Asheville, N.C., pointed out another cringeworthy character
perpetuating harmful stereotypes:

The character that absolutely made me cringe when I first learned about it was
Le Fou, from the newer, live action version of Beauty and the Beast. He is
supposed to be gay, and while gay representation is very much needed, it was
executed incredibly poorly. This proves that not all representation is good
representation, especially when the first openly gay character in an entire
franchise is a villain and a general idiot.

Disney has been known to write their villains to resemble a stereotypical gay
man (Jafar from Aladdin and Scar from The Lion King are two common examples) and
this just makes it worse. Ursula, the villain from The Little Mermaid, was based
on the drag queen Divine, and if you look up pictures of Divine, the resemblance
is clear. Another villain character who is supposed to resemble a gay man (yes,
Divine was a female character, but was played by a gay man).

I would rather there be no gay characters than there being a gay character that
enforces stereotypes to children. Kids learn to associate "female" behavior in
men as gay before they even know what gay really means. No matter how many
characters in Disney are gay, if they are never shown positively with love and
care, children will internalize the message that girly=gay=villain.

As did Hannah Baker from Oakland, Calif.:

I do not like watching movies or television shows that portray women as dumb,
sexual objects. The movie "white chicks" portrays white women as unintelligent
and primarily focused on the superficial parts of life, like shopping and
makeup. It also portrays women in general as objects that are willing to please
men at all costs. It would be hard for me to watch movies that use this
stereotype.

I do think calling attention to these situations is important and most
definitely worthwhile. It calls upon the people of society to realize their role
in discrimination and prejudice. I believe that filmmakers should make a
substantial effort to accurately represent people of different backgrounds.
Instead of using their own opinions, consult with one of that specific ethnicity
on how they want to be portrayed.

Several students explained the impact that harmful stereotypes can have in the
real world. Devon Meyer from Oakland, Calif., showed how dangerous negative
representations can be:

South Asia is a huge combination of different people and cultures and in many
shows, like the Simpsons, they are blended into one stereotype to fit the whole
area. Aside from the fact that South Asian characters are commonly stereotyped,
there are other cultures like the African American and Latino cultures who are
commonly used as thugs, gang members, rapists, etc. in many Hollywood films and
TV shows. This portrayal of certain races makes viewers more likely to associate
these negative connotations with these races and cultures and create a divide
between human beings.

Charlotte Low from Oakland, Calif., argued that stereotypes strengthen implicit
biases:

Although I am an Asian woman, growing up, I was blind to the many stereotypes
put in front of me because they constantly bombarded me in my everyday life. I
became numb to the stereotypes and failed to notice how they were
misrepresenting Asians and grouping them all together into one stereotype. In
short, not only are these portrayals bad to the general audience but
specifically, this can play a role leading to internalized racism within the
South Asian community.

Additionally, these stereotypes leave Asians with less representation in the
media in general. Asian men are never the roles of the attractive, male
protagonist. They are always the shy, passive, nerds. As a result, this idea of
Asian men is ingrained into our minds about what an Asian man is.

Commenters applauded the filmmaker Hari Kondabolu's effort to draw attention to
negative depictions of minority characters. Many also had their own suggestions
for writers to create more positive representations of people from different
backgrounds.

Some, like Jessica von Seeburg from San Leandro, Calif., recommend consulting
with people who share the characters' background:

Writers and filmmakers should make an effort to more accurately represent
different ethnicities and cultures not only to add authenticity but to show them
that they are valued by taking the time to represent them correctly. A great way
to start is research and if that hits a wall, then finding someone available to
chat about their culture. I think there's value in diversity and I don't
understand why that is not reflected in television or in books. Not only does
the misrepresentation confuse those struggling to find their own identity, but
also younger children who are trying to understand the world.

Aidan Forth from Oakland, Calif., thought that the media should take more
responsibility to represent people of all backgrounds accurately and
thoughtfully:

Studies have found that individuals who are told a lie will believe it more the
more they are told it. The lie, in this case, is the negative portrayal of
minorities. Evidence of this can be seen in the movie a birth of a nation that
portrayed black men as unintelligent and wanting to rape white women. While also
glorifying the KKK as a group that could stop these black men. After the year
1915 (when the movie was released) the amount of KKK members rose dramatically.
The question isn't whether or not these characters are problematic, but why do
we still have them?

Finally, I think calling attention to these stereotypes does not help. The
reasoning is because exposing a problem and not fixing it helps no one. After
Hari Kondabolu made the documentary on Apu it might have helped some people see
the negative effects, but many more people still watch the Simpsons and are
experiencing these stereotypes. Instead, we should create media that purposely
portrays minorities in a positive light.

_________

Students had wise advice in answers to our prompt "Over Your Head."

Rushtri Chatterjea from Bloomington, Ind., suggests we transcend fear:

For me, what immediately came to my mind was a popular quote by Erin Hanson:-
"What if I fall? - Oh but my darling, what if you fly?"

Human beings are tremendous, complex, twisted and fascinating creatures that are
capable of doing so much. We've sent people to the moon, we've completely
eradicated a virus, split up atoms and dug up unimaginable sea monsters. There's
no way we could have done any of these things if we stuck to narrow confines of
"what you think you can do." ... Often the thing I avoided doing for weeks
because of anxiety, turned out to be easier to do than I thought. The only thing
holding you back from exploring greater things is your own fear. Once you've
transcended that, the sky is the limit.

Mary Wells from Wilmington, N.C., cautions against negativity:

The best way to a good performance is preventing any negativity from crossing
the brain and putting one foot in front of the other, preparing for greatness.
... Mr. Richards wants us to get in over our heads and push forward with
positivity. Negativity will only prevent greatness, so believe in yourself.

Vi from New York City knows a thing or two about preparation:

If you think you can run only 500 meters, then your preparation and performance
would be limited to achieving only that goal. If you set a goal higher than what
you think you can do, e.g. run 1 km, then your preparation and performance will
adapt to achieving that. The phrase 'get in over your head' probably means put
yourself in situations which require more skill than you think you have.

Kasey Kiser from Wilmington, N.C., referenced great writers:

In my opinion, the most appealing component of the picture is its presentation.
The elementary bar graph jotted down on a napkin, labeled hurriedly, yet
purposefully, conveys a sense of urgency. Instead of opting for a deep,
underlying moral, Richards reaches for his megaphone and bellows the lesson,
calling us to apply it to future obstacles.

And, although this theme has been uttered by many, ranging from T.S. Eliot to
William Shakespeare, not enough people cash in on the rewards this message
provides in real life. As shown in the sketch, a monstrous gap separates our
capabilities and perceived limits. ...Overall, this condensed motivational
speech is crucial to our innovation as individuals and as the human race.

And Nicole Lieberman from Midwest said simply:

Take a chance and you might surprise yourself!

_________

Nostalgia and love for family and friends were the dominant sentiments in
answers to our prompt "What Has Been Your Most Memorable Thanksgiving?"

Like so many, Kaley Nesselroade from Wilmington, N.C.,  treasures family:

Thanksgiving to me is more than a break from school, or an opportunity to eat as
much food as I want and not feel guilty about it. While these are perks of the
holiday, it means much more to me. Every year, my family goes to the mountains
and we spend our Thanksgiving in a cabin with a beautiful view. ... My family
has many traditions for Thanksgiving and all of them together make the holiday
so special. From picking out our own live Christmas tree, hiking in the
mountains, watching our favorite Christmas movies, and eating the best meal of
the year, Thanksgiving is by far my favorite holiday.

Emily C. from Kent remembers a wonderful day:

My most memorable Thanksgiving was a couple of years ago at my Grandma's house.
We ate a huge feast and ate dessert. While sitting around talking about what we
were grateful about, the snow began to fall outside. It was beautiful. All us
kids then stayed the night at Grandma's, with late night seconds on pie and ice
cream. The rest of the weekend we spent putting up the Christmas decorations
around the house and having fun with the family.

Kate Silver from Wilmington, N.C., shared an unusual family tradition involving
a bike pump:

The Silver household celebrates Thanksgiving a little differently than the
typical family. We spend our holiday roasting ducks instead of turkey, and
steaming dumplings rather than sweet potatoes.

I'll never forget the first time my family decided to try something a little
different for dinner. My dad had no idea what he was doing and couldn't figure
out how to separate the skin of the duck from the meat. My mom then had the
crazy idea to use a bike pump to solve our problem. Since everyone else in my
family was disgusted by the idea of pumping a dead duck full of air, I ended up
having to do it. That was definitely one of the weirdest half hours of my life.
Despite it being an unpleasant chore, my family has continued to use a bike pump
every year since.

Sydney Pfeuffer from Pittsburgh had some family stories to tell:

My family fed my old dog all a piece of scraps. Keep in mind that there were 40
people in my house at this time. ... So my dog got really sick and cost my
parents a massive bill to take him to the vet. Now my nana is the only one to
give my dog scraps.

I was surprised and about to cry last year because my cousin, who was gone most
of my life due to drugs, showed up to Thanksgiving unexpected and it shocked me.
The last time i saw her was at my other cousin's graduation which was 4 years
ago.

Gracie Wyckoff from Kent, Ohio, defines "family" a little more broadly than
blood relatives:

When I say family I know what you're thinking, Aunts, Uncles, Grandmas and
Grandpas, Cousins and siblings and although yes that is true, our family doesn't
stop there. Family to us doesn't only mean the ones who your blood lines
classify as related. People we classify as family are the ones you love so much
it hurts, who are there when you need them, who know how to lift you up when you
are down.

And mc lg looks to the future:

Every Thanksgiving is memorable to me. As I have gotten older, I tend to really
appreciate Thanksgiving more than I used to as a kid. I love being around my
family all day, and especially eating good food. It is probably one of the most
meaningful holidays. We should always give thanks.

_________

Our prompt "Black Friday" was a popular one, with thoughtful comments like this
one from Brooke Wilmington, N.C., who wrote about why people are wrong to
consider the day "pointless":

Black Friday used to just be another day during Thanksgiving Break. But as I
have gotten older I've begun to understand why Black Friday is such a big deal
to an abundance of people. I am at the age of using my own money to pay for the
gifts that I get for my family and friends. It's hard to get gifts for all of
the important people in your life when everything is full priced. "Hate to break
it to ya, but things aren't cheap", my mom's favorite line around the holidays.
Black Friday offers deals around the holidays that allow people to get gifts for
others, or themselves, that they wouldn't have been able to get had there not
been these deals.

To those who believe that Black Friday is a pointless day of the year where mobs
of people fight over cheap goods, you're wrong. Black Friday isn't the angry
mobs and pushy shoppers that the movies make it out to be. It's just dedicated
people trying to get what they came for.

Meghan Miraglia from Massachusetts entertained us with images:

I do not feel the need to paw through toppling mounds of sweatshirts, trying to
find the last size small. I do not feel the need to push, shove, and elbow my
way through a swarm of equally as irritated shoppers for a video game. I don't
even open my laptop. I do not feel the need to lose myself in a frenzy of open
tabs, watching the little number in the online shopping cart tick higher and
higher and higher. For me, Black Friday shopping feels a lot like drowning in a
sea of numbers and percentages -- it is the thanksgiving of mathematics.

Thanksgiving is a day where America dresses up all fancy, sits down at a table,
and says grace. Thanksgiving is a day where America beams cheesily and says into
a camera, "I'm just so thankful for everything!" And then, America waits until
midnight, after the turkey is tucked into the fridge and the plates are scraped
off, and bolts into Walmart for a 65% off sale on the latest this or that. I
don't shop on Black Friday.

Please, please don't attack me. Put down your pitchforks. I just like to simmer
in the thankfulness a little longer. I just like to sit on my couch, in my
sweats, with my mom and my dad and my sister, and genuinely say, "I'm just so
thankful for everything."

Xander Kruvczuk from United States of America shops online:

I have never been shopping on Black Friday, and I never plan to. Not in person
anyway. I prefer to buy things online for cheaper prices on Cyber Monday, or
whatever day it is this year. I think that people usually get over excited that
things are so cheap. Most of the time they don't even really need what they are
buying, they just buy it because they can. Any advice I would give is save your
time, and yourself. Shop online instead this year.

Anna Cross from Wilmington, N.C.,  feels businesses are to blame:

Associated with the term "Black Friday" is the mental image of pushy crowds and
angry shoppers. In part, this is the fault of the advertisements of big
businesses that promote their products as being in limited supply and/or only
available for a short period of time. While this encourages customers to be
competitive against each other, Black Friday chaos is mainly the fault of the
individuals that first spark the violence and disrespect. In the end, no one
forced them to behave as they did, and there's no reason to go "Mad Max" on each
other for a cheaper toy/electronic.

There are far better ways to spend this holiday than leaving grandma at the
house to purchase a TV at Best Buy.

_________

Our question on the thorny topic "Should Fraternities Be Abolished?" brought in
a range of opinions, with many suggested solutions.

Polaris Hall from Danvers, Mass., would like to see tighter regulations:

Fraternities can represent the best of university life -- friendship, fun, and
solidarity -- but they can also provide a space for the worst of humanity to
fester. Racism, homophobia, and rape culture are given a place to thrive and
become ingrained in young minds, and the ideal of a strong sense of masculinity
can become toxic and result in distress, isolation, pain, and even death.

... Rather than end fraternities and sororities, universities would do well to
enforce stricter regulations on and greater support systems for them in order to
prevent tragedies such as the deaths of pledges that will shape their friends
and families' lives forever.

Noah Berg from Wilmington, N.C., argues for the good that fraternities often do:

One would be a fool to not take into account the good works done by
fraternities. Fraternities often have their members take place in charitable
events, and many fraternities raise large amounts of money for charities.
Fraternities also are not inherently bad. They can be a way to become
assimilated at a new school, and a way to find friends for life. Fraternities
promote a life of brotherhood and charitableness.

However, it goes without saying that some practices of certain fraternities are
in desperate need of reform. Whenever a fraternity puts a member or potential
member in the way of harm, they should be held criminally liable.

Xander Kruvczuk of United States of America wants closer monitoring:

I have found the case to be that fraternities have been getting more and more
out of hand in recent years. I don't think we should abolish them, but they
should definitely be monitored more closely. Fraternities are a way for young
people coming into a scary new world to connect with each other and feel safe.
They shouldn't be places where newbies are hazed to the point of dying.

... My dad has told me about all of the friends he made in his fraternity, many
of which he is still friends with now. Fraternities are a good way to connect,
but they can be hostile environments if not led correctly.

Hannah from Hope, Pa., has ideas for reasonable enforcements:

I think that fraternities and sororities are part of the reason that many kids
want to go to college, so in no way is there a part of me saying they should be
abolished, but the universities should maybe keep a tighter leash on them.

For starters, they should have rules put in place and enforced more strictly
about underage drinking and drinking in general. They could be put on probation
if they disobey these rules, or they could kick out people that individually
break some of the rules. That way, people who are following the rules aren't
being impacted as much by people who aren't.

_________

Three especially good comments came in for "What Famous Figure From the Past
Fascinates You Most?"

Athena Brenner from Wilmington, N.C., discovered her pick thanks to an English
class assignment:

Ever since my English class one year where i was assigned to read the well-known
book "In Cold Blood" by Truman Capote, Perry Edward Smith has always fascinated
me. In the murder, he was accompanied by another man named Richard Hickock, but
the reason why Smith is so interesting is because of his personality and
reasoning behind the murder.

Even more so, while Capote was interviewing Perry Smith so that he could finish
writing this book, he found Perry so sweet and helpless that Capote ended up
falling in love with Perry Smith, and it's a mind-blowing turn of events.

Luka FSI from Asheville, N.C., gives credit to a lesser-known figure:

One of the people from the past that has fascinated me the most would be Wally
Byam. Wally Byam was the creator of Airstream, one of the world's most iconic
travel trailer/motorhome companies. Before Wally Byam, camping in RVs, trailers,
and motor homes were unheard of. Byam created many different designs that
allowed comfort, and affordability to be with you when you travel. Due to this
new boom of affordable, mobile living, and traveling, more innovations, and
companies started promoting the RV lifestyle.

Wally Byam, while an avid innovator, was also a peaceful diplomat, who gained
admiration from countries, and powerful leaders for his extensive traveling.
Byam's foreign Airstream Caravans promoted fun, but also diplomatic relations
during the 1950s, and 60s. Wally Byam, while not too famous, is most remembered
for creating the concept of RVs, camping, and vacationing all with the comforts
of home. The next time you see a shiny, silver travel trailer, or go camping in
an RV, you can thank Wally Byam for creating that experience.

And Hadley Todd from Wilmington, N.C., wrote a passionate four-part response.
Here is Part 1:

Last week the world lost the one musician alive that meant the most to me.
Gustav Ahr (Lil Peep) was too good for the world. I did read the obituary that
the New York Times wrote for him, but as a fan I can say that it was not all
that should have been written about him.

While I did not learn anything new from reading the article I do want to show
the New York Times who he really was. Lil Peep was always creative, from his
childhood, everybody copied him. He always had to change to be his own person,
until he truly found himself. He was depressed, but he made everybody happy.
When he moved to LA he only had one friend, but despite his anxiety he found a
group that understood him.

Some of his earliest creations are my favorites because he didn't even know how
to record. He used a 200$ mic, pushed buttons until he found his sound. His
first album was lil peep pt 1 in 2015 and he released a mixtape with boy froot
"Mall Musicc" earlier the same year as well as the live forever mixtape. He was
an incredible artist that deserved more recognition when he was here. At barely
21 years old he has created or been featured in over 150 songs that I know of
right now. In addition to being talented Gus was a very caring person. He talked
to his fans and never charged them to meet him. He and his friends in his group
GBC put on shows for prices lower than most charge for t shirts. They all love
what they do and truly love their fans. Peep made me smile every day since I
discovered him.

_________

Our Picture Prompt "Starbucks Holiday Cups" reignited an annual debate. Many
commenters said they liked the new cups.

Payton James from Massachusetts thinks people should be spending time on more
important matters:

Personally, I think the controversy over the Starbucks cup is comical. We could
be doing so many better things, it is unnecessary for us to put all of our focus
on something as insignificant as a small design that will be gone by the time
that the holidays are over.

Currently, Puerto Rico is having a crisis that has yet to be addressed, big
celebrities and politicians have been convicted of sexual assault, and mass
shootings are common. Despite these problems, people are putting their valuable
time and energy into criticizing a mere design. The image on the cup simply
shows two people holding hands. Controversy has blown up about this because
people are interpreting the image as two men holding hands. Even though the
gender of the people is unclear, if it was two men, who cares? Minority groups
are so underrepresented in the media and although this isn't screaming
representation, it can show that love is universal no matter the people it is
between.

Sam from Massachusetts agrees:

I personally like the Starbucks cup. I think the controversy over the design is
overblown. I believe it is wrong to dislike a cup because there may be gay
people on it. People are very passionate about what the cup looks like on the
outside when it has no effect on the actual product. The possibility of gay
characters on the cup does not affect the drink on the inside. People do not buy
Starbucks for the cups they buy it for the coffee and other drinks that
Starbucks has to offer.

Sarah Welford Danvers, Mass., is frustrated by what she sees as a clear
Christmas message:

Starbucks has stated that they "intentionally designed the cup so our customers
can interpret it in their own way..." (Gould). In some ways, Starbucks has
succeeded in reaching this goal, but in other ways, the company has missed the
mark. Starbucks fosters creativity with their new cup with a design akin to a
page from a coloring book. The lack of color (besides the occasional bursts of
red) and graphic black lines entice customers to color in the design, supporting
unique interpretations of the cup. However, one of the cute little doodles on
the cup restricts the ability of the customer to "interpret it in their own
way": the Christmas tree. Yes, anyone can decorate a tree, and yes, the
Christmas tree is traditionally pagan, but we all know that the Christmas tree
is symbol for the Christian faith's celebration of Christ's birth. With this
tree, it is clear that the Starbucks "holiday cup" is really a Christmas cup.

... As Jewish girl in a predominantly Christian country, I can't help but notice
that Christmas gets far more recognition than Hanukkah or Kwanza during the
holiday season. It's frustrating that Americans often forget that not all us are
Christian, and it's frustrating that I have had to learn to accept it.

erica blanch from Danvers, Mass., said the holidays are about love:

First people got offended when they put a Christmas tree on it and now this. Who
cares if the hands are between two girls, father and daughter, brother and
sister or mother and father it is a symbol for love, which is what the holidays
are all about.

Brooke Myers from King of Prussia wrote about the cup she would design:

If I had to design a seasonal Starbuck's cup, I would make it colorful to not
make it bleak and depressing and would add important ideas. These ideas would be
things that would make people happy and remember fond memories such as baking
cookies for Santa or drinking eggnog while Christmas caroling. Good cups are
good advertising and if there are things people like on the cups, they would
sell more drinks.

_________

Among others, Ava Lanning from Danvers, Mass., commented on our prompt "If You
Had a Column in The New York Times, What Would You Write About?" by saying she'd
focus on things like music that her generation values:

If I had a column in the New York Times, I would write about the little things
in life that are unrecognized. I feel as if many people do not take time to
recognize the things in life that are heavily valued. For example, music, art,
nature, sports, and many more. These items are in our everyday life, and people,
including me, don't appreciate it.

The impact of music in my generation is insane. I guarantee when our parents
were our age, they did not roam the halls with every other student having
headphones in. In classes, music is played to calm or help focus students, and
music is played to amp up teams and crowds of all sorts.

Grace Leete from Massachusetts said teenagers are well-suited to give advice:

I strongly believe that there are certain topics that teenagers would be much
better at giving advice rather than adults. The thing about today's generation
is that everything goes by so fast. And so does society. Therefore there are
some things that make it hard for adults to stay up on.

For example, hazing in sports teams, when a majority of high schoolers' parents
were in high school, was very different than it is now. There was issues that
involved forcing kids to do stuff that they do not want to do in a very public
matter. Some of this has stayed the same, in the sense of kids being forced to
do something that they do not want to do. But, it usually does not happen in a
public setting anymore, it is usually online.

Landon from HHHS would focus on one thing:

I would talk about high school athletics. I think that there's a lot of great
moments from high school sports that never get covered. I know our cross country
team never gets the recognition we deserve. It was really unfortunate that we
won the state finals and no one seemed to care at our school. I think that if
high school sports of all kinds could get recognized in a national newspaper,
people would show more respect towards theses accomplishments.

Jose from Mexico agreed:

I would talk about high school soccer. I think soccer is the best sport in the
world. Talk about ejections and how Mexican soccer is the best.

_________

We loved reading your reactions to Barbie's latest doll modeled after the
Olympic fencer Ibtihaj Muhammad.

Olivia Warren from Kent, Ohio, was excited to see a move toward more diverse
dolls:

Growing up in a community where I was the minority with hair so thick that it
broke combs, skin so brown that I stood out tremendously, barettes and twists
and bantu knots all in my hair, I compared myself to the dolls I would get which
were of course completely different. This new trend I hope is bound to let young
girls and boys understand that they are beautiful/handsome just the way they are
and the preconceived notion of "beauty" has no limits and begin to develop the
idea that everyone is beautiful and can do or be anything.

A few years from now I want to see dolls that are a combination of different
things. A Barbie/American Girl/Ken doll in military uniform with Vitiligo and
different body, skin, and hair types. I want to see dolls with feeding tubes in
their stomachs with different everything, I want to see dolls with everything
for every child in the world.

Maggie Yang from King of Prussia had another idea for doll diversity:

If I could choose what the next Barbie looks like, I would make a doll with a
chromosomal disease (e.g. Down syndrome). This would help many kids across the
world feel like they can relate to something as simple as their own toys.

Addison Liney from King of Prussia, Pa., believes diverse dolls can help
redefine what young people see as "beautiful":

To make dolls in all kinds of shapes and sizes is a game changer. For kids
growing up, it doesn't mean that pretty is being skinny and perfect it means
that pretty is what's on the inside.

And Magda Dajani from New York City points out there may be an economic
advantage for making diverse dolls:

An inclusionary, diversified approach to doll range should reflect people across
ethnicities, cultures, genders, and physical state (wheelchair user, amputee,
dwarf, etc).

Ultimately, I'd wager it would be lucrative for the doll companies, if the
principle of diversity and inclusion alone doesn't sufficiently inspire them.
Diversity in the doll range is likely to engage new markets, and inspire
purchases from parents and people who might otherwise take a pass at buying a
doll, if their choices are potentially unappealing or inappropriate for the
child.

_________

With the barrage of natural disasters, shootings, terrorist attacks and sexual
harassment scandals, it seems we're not the only ones experiencing disaster
fatigue. Readers responded to our Student Opinion prompt "Do You Ever Get the
'Bad News Blues'?" with their own experiences and recommendations for coping
with an inundation of bad news.

Many commenters felt like Hal Warren from Massachusetts -- overwhelmed by the
seemingly endless stream of disheartening stories:

The news, especially lately, has been so difficult to hear that I sometimes have
to shut the television off or put my phone down and just take a breather.

Just the other night my father and I were watching the news during dinner I was
so solemn the whole time. Not a single news story was happy or light in any way.
There has recently been an outbreak of people coming forward with their sexual
assault stories and though one feels happy for them that they finally found the
courage to come out, it's so upsetting seeing how people treat each other.

There have also been several shootings, deranged people killing others and
making me too scared to leave my home. There have been issues and Puerto Rico
and it's always upsetting to see people suffer, I feel like we could be doing
something more. There are issues in government regarding our new president and
his ideas, which never cease to anger me.

There are so many bad things happening and they seem to be happening all at
once. It makes me feel like I'm being flooded with sadness and anger and fright,
like the world is falling apart.

To help offset these negative feelings, Desire' from Locust Grove, Ga.,
suggested paying attention to the positive news stories:

I believe that the best way to remedy this is to realize that while the
unfortunate events always seem to take the headlines, there are happy things
happening all around us. If people notice the positive events happening in
communities, as well as the sad, we may be able to combat the "bad news blues".

Similarly, Isabelle Silva from Massachusetts recommended practicing gratitude:

I have experienced "the bad news blues" scaring myself by creating ridiculous
scenarios in my head. As a community, we can't continue to damage our inner
psyches or our physical beings. We have to remind ourselves that we're still
here unlike those Las Vegas victims and unlike the victims in the Texas
shooting. We need to step out of "disaster fatigue" and be grateful. Being
grateful for your life can push you to strive for better or help you be thankful
for what you already have.

What about babies being born? What about the new discoveries in disease and
medicine? What about the increasing pride of the LGBTQ community? What about
developments in education? There are so many good things happening in the world,
why not focus on those rather than the negatives?

Amid a torrent of bad news, Ann Nguyen from Massachusetts immerses herself in
activities that bring her happiness:

My first major experience with "disaster fatigue" happened earlier this year in
May, when reports of the Manchester incident were flooding the news. I was in
complete shock that innocent concertgoers could be targeted in a horrific act of
violence. After I read every article, filled with death statistics and suspect
motives, I felt helpless and empty.

There are many ways to combat "bad news blues". I listen to music that I enjoy,
or music that calms me down. Music doesn't make me forget what I read, but it
temporarily keeps the bad thoughts away. In addition to listening to music,
sitting down for dinner with my family and talking about our day places me back
into my reality, where I have so many people, places, and things to appreciate.

Shah 4D from YC-CLIP proposed avoiding the news altogether:

In order to combat bad news, I watch YouTube, listen to music what I enjoy. Also
I chat with my cousins, do something that keeps me busy to forget those things.
"Bad news blues" can make anyone depressed and make their day worse. Sometimes
forgetting bad news is hard and it causes people not to concentrate on what they
are doing, so I think that avoiding these things is better.

But Vi from NYC disagreed with this strategy, arguing instead:

The article offers pretty good advice on fighting the blues. Uplifter helps and
so do websites like Upworthy and Sunny Skyz. I find talking to friends or family
helpful, about something much lighthearted and uplifting, of course. But I don't
think we should stop reading such news for the sake of avoiding the blues. It's
always better to be informed than be oblivious, even at the expense of our
happiness.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 1, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

The Best TV Shows and Movies New to Netflix, Amazon and More in December

BYLINE: MONICA CASTILLO

SECTION: WATCHING

LENGTH: 2565 words



HIGHLIGHT: New movies and TV shows are added to streaming platforms all the
time. Here are the ones we think are most interesting in the coming month.


Watching is The New York Times's TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for
our thrice-weekly newsletter here.

Every month, subscription streaming services add a new batch of movies and TV
shows to their libraries. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for
December, broken down by service and release date. Streaming services
occasionally change schedules without giving notice.

New to Netflix

'8 Mile'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

Everything from the '90s is cool again. Apparently. That includes the rapper
Eminem, who's back on the airwaves with a new single. His Oscar-winning movie
from 2002 is back, too, available to stream on Netflix. Loosely based on
Eminem's origin story, "8 Mile" was his "Purple Rain" for the early 2000s: Like
that '80s film starring Prince, this semi-autobiographical movie played in
theaters around the world and won an Academy Award for its chart-topping
original music (in Eminem's case, for the song "Lose Yourself"). Pretty cool for
a guy who rapped about his mom's spaghetti.
--

'Hitch'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

"Hitch" is probably the funniest movie I've seen featuring Kevin James. And he's
not even the star. That would be Will Smith, who was riding high at the time
this was made with hit after hit after ... we don't need to talk about "Wild
Wild West." In "Hitch" (2005), Smith plays an impossibly charming if slightly
annoying pickup artist, who teaches men to woo women. His relationship with a
journalist complicates things for one of his most challenging clients (James).
It's like a time capsule from the days before dating apps.
--

'V for Vendetta'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

Couldn't Netflix have secured this movie in time for the Fiftth of November? If
you'd ever wondered over the past decade or so why so many people wear goateed
Guy Fawkes masks for Halloween (or for computer hacking), this is one reason
why. Hugo Weaving stars in this dystopian tale as a masked avenger fighting
against an Orwellian British government. "Vendetta" is one of the better gritty
superhero movies released before the current Marvel/D.C. wave. Supporting actors
John Hurt, Stephen Fry and Stephen Rea are all very good, and Natalie Portman
does her best with an English accent.
--

'The Young Victoria'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

I had no idea people were still so obsessed with the British royal family until
I woke up to find my newsfeed had exploded over Prince Harry's engagement. Well,
since you're so interested, check out this period costume drama, one of the many
about Harry's great-great-great-great-grandmother, Queen Victoria. Emily Blunt
gives an exquisite performance as Victoria in her early years, before the queen
went into mourning and killed everyone's buzz.
--

'Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2'
Starts streaming: Dec. 5
Add it to your Watchlist

I'm not the biggest fan of Marvel's merry band of space misfits, but I can't
deny that this sequel delivers plenty of fan service. There are cute baby Groot
(Vin Diesel) moments, comedic Star-Lord (Chris Pratt) scenes and a handful of
fight sequences for Gamora (Zoe Saldana) to show off her battle skills. But this
movie let me down in how it misused Kurt Russell. Too many daddy issues, not
enough of Russell being an interstellar Lothario.
--

Also of interest: "Easy" Season 2 (Dec. 1), "Full Metal Jacket" (Dec. 1), "The
Magicians" Season 2 (Dec. 11), "Halt and Catch Fire" Season 4 (Dec. 14), "Peaky
Blinders" Season 4 (Dec. 21) and "Planet Earth II" (Dec. 25).
--

Netflix Original TV Series

'Dark' Season 1
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

This German-language TV production, Netflix's first, is a twisty criminal
procedural crossed with a sensitive domestic melodrama, exploring how a
missing-persons case exposes the long-held secrets of four families -- and their
small town's troubled history. Created by Baran bo Odar and Jantje Friese (who
together made the acclaimed big-screen cyber thriller "Who Am I"), this series
promises to be as moody and spooky as it is shocking.
--

'The Crown' Season 2
Starts streaming: Dec. 8
Add it to your Watchlist

A recent surge of interest in all things royal should provide a boost to this
pricey prestige bio-drama from Netflix. After a first season that covered Queen
Elizabeth II's ascension to the throne and the last days of her governing
partnership with Winston Churchill, "The Crown" returns with 10 more episodes,
stretching from the mid-1950s to the mid-60s. Claire Foy is back as the Queen,
striving to hold her empire together in an era when youthful revolution and
anticolonial fervor hung heavy in the air.
--

'Trollhunters' Part 2
Starts streaming: Dec. 15
Add it to your Watchlist

Before he died last year, the actor Anton Yelchin recorded enough material for
this animated fantasy series that his voice work as its monster-fighting
protagonist, Jim Lake, will still be heard in Season 2. Created by Guillermo del
Toro, the series is an adaptation of del Toro's own young adult novel (written
with Daniel Kraus) about a human who allies himself with good trolls against
evil trolls, investigating the truth about a supernatural conflict that's been
waged underground for generations.
--

'Wormwood'
Starts streaming: Dec. 15
Add it to your Watchlist

The award-winning documentarian Errol Morris tries something new with this
six-part, four-hour docuseries, casting the accomplished actors Peter Sarsgaard,
Bob Balaban and Molly Parker for extensive re-enactments of anecdotes taken from
its central interview. The series is a deep dive into the personal experiences
and wild conspiracy theories of a man who's spent the past 60 years trying to
find out who killed his C.I.A.-affiliated father. Morris and Netflix are already
positioning "Wormwood" for an Oscar run, making this a major event for both
television and cinema.
--

Netflix Original Films

'My Happy Family'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

Don't make a "Best Movies of 2017" list without first checking out this rich
Georgian drama, which drew raves at the Sundance and Berlin film festivals at
the start of the year. Ia Shughliashvili stars as an exhausted middle-aged wife
and mother who one day decides to move out of her family's cramped, noisy
apartment and try living alone for a while -- despite the scandal it causes in
her conservative community. "My Happy Family" is a well-observed salute to the
courage it takes to pursue a path that nurtures the soul, regardless of whom
that offends.
--

'Voyeur'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

The venerable journalist Gay Talese has generated a lot of controversy over the
past few years, including when his book "The Voyeur's Motel" was said by critics
to contain factual inaccuracies and sympathy for its subject: a motel-owner who
claimed he illegally videotaped his guests. This documentary by Myles Kane and
Josh Koury revisits the original story and its aftermath, in a layered
consideration of how in-depth reporting can sometimes border on the perverse.
--

'Bright'
Starts streaming: Dec. 22
Add it to your Watchlist

David Ayer, who wrote and directed "Suicide Squad," and Max Landis, who wrote
"American Ultra," collaborate on this, Netflix's biggest attempt yet at a
blockbuster movie, which stars Will Smith as a gruff cop whose new partner is an
Orc. Yes, an Orc -- the folkloric beastie popularized in "The Lord of the
Rings." Joel Edgerton plays the well-meaning monster in a star-studded
production that mixes a tough urban crime story with wild fantasy.
--

New to Amazon

'Gremlins 2: The New Batch'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

Joe Dante's follow-up to his 1984 horror movie, "Gremlins," reunites that film's
heroes (Zach Galligan and Phoebe Cates) with their fluffy high-maintenance pet,
Gizmo. As strange as he looks (like a Furby with limbs), at least he's not one
of the bigger, meaner, greener gremlins, who in this outing act more like Looney
Tunes than killer monsters. They dress up in ridiculous costumes and terrorize
everyone in a TV-network high rise.
--

'Moonstruck'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

If you don't mind a little schmaltz in your romantic drama (and why would you?),
"Moonstruck" is a delight. Cher plays a gorgeous widow on the way to marrying a
new man when she falls in love with the guy's one-handed brother (Nicolas Cage).
I loved Cher in "Silkwood," and she's wonderful to watch in this performance,
for which she won an Oscar.
--

'Silence'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

It saddens me that so few people saw Martin Scorsese's most recent film. In
fairness, "Silence" was released during the holiday season, and it wasn't really
the kind of movie you could take the whole family to. Andrew Garfield and Adam
Driver play two 17th-century Jesuit priests in search of a lost mentor in Japan,
where Western evangelists are not welcome. The movie is a slow burning,
soul-searching meditation on faith, religion and forgiveness.
--

'Titanic'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

Some time ago, a friend joked that James Cameron doesn't know how to use
pronouns in his scripts. Since then, I haven't watched this movie without
noticing Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet saying their characters' lovers'
names way too often to sound natural. Jack! Rose! Jack! Rose!
--

'It Comes at Night'
Starts streaming: Dec. 9
Add it to your Watchlist

Some critics say that this horror movie from this summer is too slow or too
predictable, but "It Comes at Night" kept me in suspense until the very end.
That could also stem from the fact that I'm terribly afraid of any story
involving a remote cabin in the woods. Here, that cabin is meant to be a refuge
against a deadly viral menace. Later, it turns into a trap, pitting one family
against another in a desperate standoff for survival.
--

'Nightcrawler'
Starts streaming: Dec. 10
Add it to your Watchlist

Jake Gyllenhaal plays a freelance videographer who becomes obsessed with finding
the next big story for the "if it bleeds, it leads" market. Like "Network" and
"Ace in the Hole," "Nightcrawler" casts a cynical eye on the media and its
obsession with sensational crime stories. The movie's main character is
practically a sociopath. Are we just as unhinged as that guy for wanting to
watch those kinds of stories?
--

Also of Interest (all from Dec. 1): "Apocalypse Now," "Rocky" and "The Silence
of the Lambs."
--

New to Hulu

'The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

In this 1949 movie, Disney combined two stories -- "The Wind in the Willows" and
"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" -- into one colorful animated movie. Today, "The
Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad" is perhaps best known for one of the
scariest versions of the Headless Horseman and for inspiring the Disneyland
ride, "Mr. Toad's Wild Ride."
--

'The French Lieutenant's Woman'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

No Meryl Streep retrospective would be complete without this passionate romantic
drama. There are two love stories that play out in this movie, each
heartbreaking in its own way. In one, Streep plays an actress carrying on an
on-set affair with her co-star (a young and dashing Jeremy Irons). The other
story line is the movie within this movie. In that version, Irons is a gentleman
from polite society who becomes enamored with Streep's ostracized "fallen
woman."
--

'Heaven's Gate'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

Don't let this movie's infamous reputation as a box-office flop scare you away.
At over three hours long with goodness knows how many extras, this epic western
from Michael Cimino, about rich cattle barons who subvert the law and terrorize
poor immigrants, was made on a scale that's rarely seen today. In the middle of
all this frontier madness is an emotional love story between an ambitious
sheriff (Kris Kristofferson), a local madam (Isabelle Huppert) and a violent
mercenary (Christopher Walken) who's desperate for the madam's attention.
--

'The Crow'
Starts streaming: Dec. 15
Add it to your Watchlist

This dark and brooding comic-book adaptation may have been a small footnote in
the history of superhero movies were it not for the on-set accident that killed
its star, Brandon Lee. Which is only more affecting in light of the movie's
story, about a murdered rock musician who returns from the dead for revenge. If
you're curious to learn more about the dual tragedies in the Lee family
(Brandon's father, Bruce Lee, also died young), the film critic Karina Longworth
has an excellent podcast episode for you.
--

'Kate and Leopold'
Starts streaming: Dec. 15
Add it to your Watchlist

I don't care if this makes you lose respect for me. I love cheesy rom-com
fantasies that feature tailcoats. There aren't nearly enough movies that pair
single people from different eras through a rip through the space-time
continuum. And there's something to be said for the way endless cable reruns
force you to fall in love with these movies whether they're actually very good
or not, like a cinematic version of Stockholm syndrome.
--

Also of interest (from Dec. 1 unless stated): "Apocalypse Now," "Chicago,"
"Dirty Rotten Scoundrels," "Evita," "Mississippi Burning," "Moonstruck," "One
from the Heart," "RoboCop," "Rocky," "Searching for Sugar Man," "Serpico,"
"Silence," "The Silence of the Lambs," "Space Jam," "Total Recall," "Superbad,"
(Dec. 4), "Legion" Season 1 (Dec. 8), "Younger" Season 4 (Dec. 12) and
"Bunheads" Season 1 (Dec. 14).
--

New to HBO

'Midnight Cowboy'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

It's the movie that gave us something to yell at New York City cabs. ("I'm
walking here!") It's also a tragic, cynical look at hard-knock city life from
the perspective of a naïve Texan (Jon Voight) who thinks he hustle New York City
as a prostitute. Instead, the city ends up hustling him out of his money. On the
bright side, he befriends a guy who calls himself Ratso (Dustin Hoffman).
--

'Something's Gotta Give'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

This movie is about a love triangle of sorts between a flustered playwright
(Diane Keaton), her daughter (Amanda Peet) and her daughter's cradle-robbing
boyfriend (Jack Nicholson), who begins to fall in love with his more
age-appropriate counterpart. While Nancy Meyers deserves credit for this lovable
script with flawed characters, the real M.V.P. is Diane Keaton, whose earnest
performance is on par with (if not better than) her role in "Annie Hall."
--

'Logan'
Starts streaming: Dec. 9
Add it to your Watchlist

This wasn't the Wolverine movie I was expecting. I came prepared to watch
another terrible X-Men spinoff starring an increasingly muscular Hugh Jackman.
Those earlier sequels have all been forgettable, but this one had a far better
story and style. "Logan" mixes cartoonishly grotesque violence, a story about
heroic sacrifice and a subplot about undocumented mutants for a movie that's
very different from the average superhero release. Another welcome change is the
overhaul of Jackman's character from a broody, beclawed jerk with an attitude to
the grizzled, reluctant caretaker of Professor Xavier (Patrick Stewart) and
Laura, a young mutant cloned from Logan's D.N.A. (the scene-stealing Dafne
Keen).
--

Also of interest (all from Dec. 1): "All the President's Men," "The Cotton
Club," "The Exorcist," "Hoosiers" and "The War of the Roses."
--

Noel Murray contributed reporting.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 3, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

100 Notable Books of 2017

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 3822 words


The year's notable fiction, poetry and nonfiction, selected by the editors of
The New York Times Book Review. This list represents books reviewed since Dec.
4, 2016, when we published our previous Notables list.

Fiction & Poetry

AMERICAN WAR. By Omar El Akkad. (Knopf, $26.95.) This haunting debut novel
imagines the events that lead up to and follow the Second American Civil War at
the turn of the 22nd century.

ANYTHING IS POSSIBLE. By Elizabeth Strout. (Random House, $27.) This audacious
novel is about small-town characters struggling to make sense of past family
traumas.

AUTUMN. By Ali Smith. (Pantheon, $24.95.) Smith's ingenious novel is about the
friendship between a 101-year-old man and a 32-year-old woman in Britain after
the Brexit vote.

BAD DREAMS AND OTHER STORIES. By Tessa Hadley. (Harper/HarperCollins, $26.99.)
Hadley serves up the bitter along with the delicious in these 10 stories.

BEAUTIFUL ANIMALS. By Lawrence Osborne. (Hogarth, $25.) On a Greek island, two
wealthy young women encounter a handsome Syrian refugee, whom they endeavor to
help, with disastrous results.

THE BOOK OF JOAN. By Lidia Yuknavitch. (Harper/HarperCollins, $26.99.) In this
brilliant novel, Earth, circa 2049, has been devastated by global warming and
war.

A BOY IN WINTER. By Rachel Seiffert. (Pantheon, $25.95.) Seiffert's intricate
novel probes the bonds and betrayals in a Ukrainian town as it succumbs to
Hitler.

THE CHANGELING. By Victor LaValle. (Spiegel & Grau, $28.) LaValle's novel, about
Apollo Kagwa, a used-book dealer, blends social criticism with horror, while
remaining steadfastly literary.

CHRISTMAS DAYS: 12 Stories and 12 Feasts for 12 Days. By Jeanette Winterson.
(Grove, $24.) A gift book from the British novelist, containing otherworldly and
wickedly funny stories.

DANCE OF THE JAKARANDA. By Peter Kimani. (Akashic, paper, $15.95.) This funny,
perceptive and ambitious work of historical fiction by a Kenyan poet and
novelist explores his country's colonial past.

THE DARK FLOOD RISES. By Margaret Drabble. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) This
masterly novel follows its 70-something heroine on a road trip through England.

THE DINNER PARTY: And Other Stories. By Joshua Ferris. (Little, Brown, $26.)
Anxiety, self-consciousness and humiliation are the default inner states of the
characters in these 11 stories.

THE ESSEX SERPENT. By Sarah Perry. (Custom House/Morrow, $26.99.) This novel's
densely woven plot involves an independent-minded widow and the possible
haunting presence of a giant serpent.

EXIT WEST. By Mohsin Hamid. (Riverhead, $26.) The new novel by the author of
''The Reluctant Fundamentalist'' and ''How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia''
mixes global unrest with a bit of the fantastic.

FAST. By Jorie Graham. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $25.99.) Graham created these poems
against a backdrop of personal and political trauma -- her parents are dying,
she is undergoing cancer treatment, the nation is mired in war and ecological
crisis.

FIVE-CARAT SOUL. By James McBride. (Riverhead, $27.) In his delightful first
story collection, the author of the National Book Award-winning novel ''The Good
Lord Bird'' continues to explore race, masculinity, music and history.

FOREST DARK. By Nicole Krauss. (Harper/HarperCollins, $27.99.) Tracing the lives
of two Americans in Israel, this restless novel explores the mysteries of
disconnection and the divided self.

4 3 2 1. By Paul Auster. (Holt, $32.50.) Auster's book is an epic bildungsroman
that presents the reader with four versions of the formative years of a Jewish
boy born in Newark in 1947.

FRESH COMPLAINT: Stories. By Jeffrey Eugenides. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.)
Eugenides's expert debut collection of short stories is his first book since
''The Marriage Plot'' in 2011.

FUTURE HOME OF THE LIVING GOD. By Louise Erdrich. (HarperCollins, $28.99.) What
if human beings are neither inevitable nor ultimate? That's the premise of
Erdrich's fascinating new novel.

GIVING GODHEAD. By Dylan Krieger. (Delete, paper, $17.99.) Seamlessly mixing the
religious with the obscene, Krieger's poetry is inventive and powerful.

HISTORY OF WOLVES. By Emily Fridlund. (Atlantic Monthly, $25.) A slow-motion
tragedy unfolds in Minnesota's north woods in Fridlund's disturbing debut.

HOME FIRE. By Kamila Shamsie. (Riverhead, $26.) A bold retelling of Sophocles'
''Antigone'' that follows the lives of three British siblings of Pakistani
descent.

HOMESICK FOR ANOTHER WORLD. By Ottessa Moshfegh. (Penguin Press, $26.) The
insightful stories in this dark debut collection are about ''loneliness, desire,
hope and self-awareness.''

A HORSE WALKS INTO A BAR. By David Grossman. Translated by Jessica Cohen.
(Knopf, $29.95.) Grossman's magnificently funny, sucker-punch-tragic novel about
a tormented stand-up comedian combines comic dexterity with Portnoyish detail.

THE IDIOT. By Elif Batuman. (Penguin Press, $27.) An innocent,
language-intoxicated teenager, the daughter of Turkish immigrants, arrives at
Harvard in the '90s to pursue love and (especially) literature in Batuman's
hefty, gorgeous digressive slab of a novel.

ILL WILL. By Dan Chaon. (Ballantine, $28.) Chaon's dark, disturbing literary
thriller encompasses drug addiction, accusations of satanic abuse and a
self-deluding Midwestern psychologist.

A KIND OF FREEDOM. By Margaret Wilkerson Sexton. (Counterpoint, $26.) This
assured first novel shines an unflinching, compassionate light on three
generations of a black family in New Orleans.

LESS. By Andrew Sean Greer. (Lee Boudreaux/Little, Brown, $26.) On the eve of
his 50th birthday and a former lover's wedding, a mediocre novelist takes refuge
in literary invitations that enable him to travel around the world.

LINCOLN IN THE BARDO. By George Saunders. (Random House, $28.) In this Man
Booker Prize-winning first novel by a master of the short story, Abraham Lincoln
visits the grave of his son Willie in 1862, and is surrounded by ghosts in
purgatory.

MANHATTAN BEACH. By Jennifer Egan. (Scribner, $28.) Egan's engaging novel tells
overlapping stories, but is most fundamentally about a young woman who works at
the Brooklyn Naval Yard during World War II.

MRS. OSMOND. By John Banville. (Knopf, $27.95.) Banville's sequel to Henry
James's ''Portrait of a Lady'' follows Isabel Archer back to Rome and the
possible end of her marriage.

MY ABSOLUTE DARLING. By Gabriel Tallent. (Riverhead, $27.) The heroine of this
debut novel is Turtle, a 14-year-old who grows up feral in the forests and hills
of Northern California.

NEW PEOPLE. By Danzy Senna. (Riverhead, $26.) Senna's sinister and charming
novel, about a married couple who are both biracial, riffs on themes she's made
her own -- about what happens when races and cultures mingle in the home, and
under the skin.

THE NINTH HOUR. By Alice McDermott. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) In
McDermott's novel, the cause of a young Irish widow and her daughter is taken up
by the nuns of a Brooklyn convent.

PACHINKO. By Min Jin Lee. (Grand Central, $27.) This stunning novel chronicling
four generations of an ethnic Korean family in Japan is about outsiders and much
more.

THE POWER. By Naomi Alderman. (Little, Brown, $26.) In this fierce and
unsettling novel, the ability to generate a dangerous electrical force from
their bodies lets women take control, resulting in a vast, systemic upheaval of
gender dynamics across the globe.

THE REFUGEES. By Viet Thanh Nguyen. (Grove, $25.) This superb collection of
stories concerns men and women displaced from wartime Saigon and (mostly)
settled in California.

SELECTION DAY. By Aravind Adiga. (Scribner, $26.) Adiga's third novel (he won
the Booker Prize in 2008 for ''The White Tiger'') is a sharp look at modern
India. It revolves around two teenage brothers groomed by their father to be
cricket stars.

A SEPARATION. By Katie Kitamura. (Riverhead, $25.) Deceptions pile on deceptions
in this coolly unsettling postmodern mystery, in which a British woman travels
to a Greek fishing village to search for her estranged husband, who has
disappeared.

SING, UNBURIED, SING. By Jesmyn Ward. (Scribner, $26.) Ward's novel, which won
the National Book Award, combines aspects of the American road novel and the
ghost story with an exploration of the long aftershocks of a hurricane.

SIX FOUR. By Hideo Yokoyama. Translated by Jonathan Lloyd-Davies. (Farrar,
Straus & Giroux, $28.) A former criminal investigator, now working in police
media relations, faces angry reporters, the nagging 14-year-old case of a
kidnapped girl, and his own teenage daughter's disappearance.

STAY WITH ME. By Ayobami Adebayo. (Knopf, $25.95.) This debut novel is a
portrait of a marriage in Nigeria beginning in the politically tumultous 1980s.

THE STONE SKY: The Broken Earth: Book Three. By N.K. Jemisin. (Orbit, paper,
$16.99.) Jemisin won a Hugo Award for each of the first two novels in her Broken
Earth trilogy. In the extraordinary conclusion, a mother and daughter do
geologic battle for the fate of the earth.

TIES. By Domenico Starnone. Translated by Jhumpa Lahiri. (Europa, paper, $16.)
The husband of the woman who has been identified as Elena Ferrante offers a
powerful novel about a fraying marriage.

TRANSIT. By Rachel Cusk. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) In the second novel of
a planned trilogy, Cusk continues the story of Faye, a writer and teacher who is
recently divorced and semi-broke.

WAKING LIONS. By Ayelet Gundar-Goshen. Translated by Sondra Silverston. (Little,
Brown, $26.) An Israeli doctor in the Negev accidentally hits an Eritrean
immigrant, then drives off. The consequences are explored with insight and a
thriller's twists and turns.

WHEREAS. By Layli Long Soldier. (Graywolf, paper, $16.) Long Soldier, a member
of the Oglala Sioux tribe, troubles our consideration of the language we use to
carry our personal and national narratives in this moving debut poetry
collection.

WHITE TEARS. By Hari Kunzru. (Knopf, $26.95.) This complex ghost story about
racial privilege, cultural appropriation and the blues is written with Kunzru's
customary eloquence and skill.

WHO IS RICH? By Matthew Klam. Illustrated by John Cuneo. (Random House, $27.)
The protagonist of this novel, a middle-aged illustrator, is a conflicted
adulterer. Klam agilely balances an existentially tragic story line with morbid
humor and self-assured prose.

Nonfiction

AGE OF ANGER: A History of the Present. By Pankaj Mishra. (Farrar, Straus &
Giroux, $27.) Mishra argues that broad swaths of the globe are reliving the
traumas and violent dislocations that accompanied Europe's transition to
modernity in the 18th and 19th centuries.

AMERICAN FIRE: Love, Arson, and Life in a Vanishing Land. By Monica Hesse.
(Liveright, $26.95.) Hesse tells the story of 67 fires set in Virginia during a
five-month arson spree, beginning in 2012, and the mystery of why a local auto
mechanic was behind them.

ANIMALS STRIKE CURIOUS POSES: Essays. By Elena Passarello. (Sarabande, $19.95.)
Passarello presents biographies of famous animals, from an ancient mummified
mammoth to Mr. Ed and Cecil the Lion.

THE BLOOD OF EMMETT TILL. By Timothy B. Tyson. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) Tyson's
absorbing retelling of the events leading up to the horrific lynching in 1955
includes an admission from Till's accuser that some of her testimony was false.

BORN A CRIME: Stories From a South African Childhood. By Trevor Noah. (Spiegel &
Grau, $28.) The host of ''The Daily Show'' writes about growing up in South
Africa under apartheid, and about the country's rocky transition into the
post-apartheid era in the 1990s.

BUNK: The Rise of Hoaxes, Humbug, Plagiarists, Phonies, Post-Facts, and Fake
News. By Kevin Young. (Graywolf, $30.) Young's enthralling and essential history
is both exhaustive and unapologetically subjective -- not to mention timely.
Again and again, he plumbs the undercurrents of a hoax to discover the
fearfulness and racism that often lurk inside.

CHURCHILL AND ORWELL: The Fight for Freedom. By Thomas E. Ricks. (Penguin Press,
$28.) This enjoyable dual biography draws out the common causes of these
20th-century giants: two independent thinkers and opponents of totalitarianism
whose influence remains pervasive today.

THE COLLECTED ESSAYS OF ELIZABETH HARDWICK. Selected and with an introduction by
Darryl Pinckney. (New York Review Books, $19.95.) The landmark American critic
surveys everything from the 1968 Democratic convention to the literature of New
York City.

A COLONY IN A NATION. By Chris Hayes. (Norton, $26.95.) Hayes paints a portrait
of two ''distinct regimes'' in America -- one for whites, which he calls the
Nation; the other for blacks, which he calls the Colony.

THE COLOR OF LAW: A Forgotten History of How Our Government Segregated America.
By Richard Rothstein. (Liveright, $27.95.) Going back to the late 19th century,
the author uncovers a policy of de jure segregation in virtually every
presidential administration.

THE CRISIS OF THE MIDDLE-CLASS CONSTITUTION: Why Economic Inequality Threatens
Our Republic. By Ganesh Sitaraman. (Knopf, $28.) Sitaraman argues that the
Constitution is premised on the existence of a thriving middle class, and that
the current explosion of inequality will destroy it.

THE DAWN WATCH: Joseph Conrad in a Global World. By Maya Jasanoff. (Penguin
Press, $30.) Conrad explored the frontiers of a globalized world at the turn of
the last century. Jasanoff uses Conrad's novels and his biography to tell the
history of that moment, one that mirrors our own.

THE DEATH AND LIFE OF THE GREAT LAKES. By Dan Egan. (Norton, $27.95.) Climate
change, population growth and invasive species are destabilizing the Great
Lakes' wobbly ecosystem, but Egan provides a taut and cautiously hopeful
narrative.

DESTINED FOR WAR: Can America and China Escape Thucydides's Trap? By Graham
Allison. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $28.) Allison offers erudite historical
case studies that illuminate the pressure toward military confrontation when a
rising power challenges a dominant one.

DEVIL'S BARGAIN: Steve Bannon, Donald Trump, and the Storming of the Presidency.
By Joshua Green. (Penguin Press, $27.) Green's book is a deeply reported and
compulsively readable account of this fateful political partnership.

THE EVANGELICALS: The Struggle to Shape America. By Frances FitzGerald. (Simon &
Schuster, $35.) FitzGerald's fair-minded history focuses on the doctrinal and
political issues that have concerned white conservative Protestants since they
abandoned their traditional separation from the world and merged with the
Republican Party.

THE EVOLUTION OF BEAUTY: How Darwin's Forgotten Theory of Mate Choice Shapes the
Animal World -- and Us. By Richard O. Prum. (Doubleday, $30.) A mild-mannered
ornithologist and expert on the evolution of feathers makes an impassioned case
for the importance of Darwin's second theory as his most radical and feminist.

FASTING AND FEASTING: The Life of Visionary Food Writer Patience Gray. By Adam
Federman. (Chelsea Green, $25.) Federman's biography is the first of this cult
food writer.

FLÂNEUSE: Women Walk the City in Paris, New York, Tokyo, Venice, and London. By
Lauren Elkin. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.) Elkin joins memoir and biographies
of walking women like Woolf and Sand.

FRIENDS DIVIDED: John Adams and Thomas Jefferson. By Gordon S. Wood. (Penguin
Press, $35.) Wood traces the long, fraught ties between the second and third
presidents, and sides almost reluctantly with Jefferson in their philosophical
smack-down.

THE FUTURE IS HISTORY: How Totalitarianism Reclaimed Russia. By Masha Gessen.
(Riverhead, $28.) Gessen, a longtime critic of Vladimir Putin, tells the story
of modern Russia through the eyes of seven individuals who found that politics
was a force none of them could escape; winner of the National Book Award.

GENERATION REVOLUTION: On the Front Line Between Tradition and Change in the
Middle East. By Rachel Aspden. (Other Press, $24.95.) What happened to Egypt's
revolution? This excellent social history argues that despite their politics,
young Egyptians did not reject the conservative mores of family and religion.

THE GLASS UNIVERSE: How the Ladies of the Harvard Observatory Took the Measure
of the Stars. By Dava Sobel. (Viking, $30.) This book, about the women
''computers'' whose calculations helped shape observational astronomy, is a
highly engaging group portrait.

GRANT. By Ron Chernow. (Penguin Press, $40.) Chernow gives us a Grant for our
time, recounting not only the victories of the general but also the challenges
of a president who fought against the K.K.K.

GREATER GOTHAM: A History of New York City From 1898 to 1919. By Mike Wallace.
(Oxford, $45.) A vibrant, detailed chronicle of the 20 years that made New York
City the place we know today.

THE GULF: The Making of an American Sea. By Jack E. Davis. (Liveright, $29.95.)
Davis's sweeping history of the Gulf of Mexico takes into account colorful
nature, idiosyncratic human characters and economic development.

HAMLET GLOBE TO GLOBE: Two Years, 190,000 Miles, 197 Countries, One Play. By
Dominic Dromgoole. (Grove, $27.) To celebrate the 450th anniversary of
Shakespeare's birth, London's Globe Theater performed ''Hamlet'' all around the
world. Dromgoole's witty account offers insight about the play and its enduring
appeal.

HENRY DAVID THOREAU: A Life. By Laura Dassow Walls. (University of Chicago,
$35.) This new life of Thoreau, in time for his 200th birthday, paints a moving
portrait of a brilliant, complex man.

THE HOUSE OF GOVERNMENT: A Saga of the Russian Revolution. By Yuri Slezkine.
(Princeton University, $39.95.) This history describes the lives of Bolsheviks
who were swallowed up by their own cause.

THE INVENTION OF ANGELA CARTER: A Biography. By Edmund Gordon. (Oxford
University, $35.) This terrific book is the first full-length biography of
Carter, whose novels were fantastical, feminist and sexy.

JANESVILLE: An American Story. By Amy Goldstein. (Simon & Schuster, $27.)
Goldstein writes about the impact on the small Wisconsin factory city of the
title when General Motors closes a plant there.

KILLERS OF THE FLOWER MOON: The Osage Murders and the Birth of the FBI. By David
Grann. (Doubleday, $28.95.) In the 1920s, the Osage Indians had been driven onto
land in Oklahoma that sat on top of immense oil deposits. The oil made the Osage
rich, and then members of the nation started turning up murdered.

KRAZY: George Herriman, a Life in Black and White. By Michael Tisserand.
(Harper/HarperCollins, $35.) Who was the man behind ''Krazy Kat''? This
fascinating biography and guide to the work of the cartoonist, who passed for
white, tells the full story.

LENIN: The Man, the Dictator, and the Master of Terror. By Victor Sebestyen.
(Pantheon, $35.) Sebestyen has managed to produce a first-rate thriller by
detailing the cynicism and murderous ambition of the founder of the Soviet
Union.

LETTERMAN: The Last Giant of Late Night. By Jason Zinoman.
(Harper/HarperCollins, $28.99.) Zinoman's lively book does impressive triple
duty as an acute portrait of stardom, an insightful chronicle of three
rambunctious decades of pop-culture evolution, and a very brainy fan's notes.

LOCKING UP OUR OWN: Crime and Punishment in Black America. By James Forman Jr.
(Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.) A masterly account of how a generation of black
elected officials wrestled with crises of violence and drug use by unleashing
the brutal power of the criminal justice system on their constituents.

LOOKING FOR ''THE STRANGER'': Albert Camus and the Life of a Literary Classic.
By Alice Kaplan. (University of Chicago, $26.) Impressive research illuminates
the context and history of Camus's classic novel.

THE LOST CITY OF THE MONKEY GOD: A True Story. By Douglas Preston. (Grand
Central, $28.) The novelist joins a rugged expedition in search of pre-Columbian
ruins in the Honduran rain forest.

NOMADLAND: Surviving America in the Twenty-First Century. By Jessica Bruder.
(Norton, $26.95.) For three years, Bruder traveled and worked alongside
''workampers,'' older people, casualties of the Great Recession, who drive
around the United States looking for seasonal work.

NOTES ON A FOREIGN COUNTRY: An American Abroad in a Post-American World. By Suzy
Hansen. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) Hansen, who moved to Istanbul after
9/11, grapples with her country's violent role in the world.

PRAIRIE FIRES: The American Dreams of Laura Ingalls Wilder. By Caroline Fraser.
(Metropolitan/Holt, $35.) This thoroughly researched biography of the ''Little
House'' author perceptively captures Wilder's extraordinary life and legacy.

PRIESTDADDY: A Memoir. By Patricia Lockwood. (Riverhead, $27.) The poet's memoir
is fueled by a great character: her father, a rare married Catholic priest, a
big bear of a man fond of guns, cream liqueurs and pork rinds.

THE SONGS WE KNOW BEST: John Ashbery's Early Life. By Karin Roffman. (Farrar,
Straus & Giroux, $30.) This first full-fledged biography of the poet is full of
rich and fascinating detail.

TENEMENTS, TOWERS & TRASH: An Unconventional Illustrated History of New York
City. By Julia Wertz. (Black Dog & Leventhal, $29.99.) Wertz has become a cult
favorite for her graphic memoirs. Her new book is a departure, focusing on her
great love, New York.

TO SIRI WITH LOVE: A Mother, Her Autistic Son, and the Kindness of Machines. By
Judith Newman. (Harper/HarperCollins, $26.99.) Newman's tender, boisterous
memoir strips the usual zone of privacy to edge into the world her autistic son
occupies.

THE UNDOING PROJECT: A Friendship That Changed Our Minds. By Michael Lewis.
(Norton, $28.95.) Lewis profiles the enchanted collaboration between Amos
Tversky and Daniel Kahneman, whose groundbreaking work proved just how
unreliable our intuition could be.

WE WERE EIGHT YEARS IN POWER: An American Tragedy. By Ta-Nehisi Coates. (One
World, $28.) A selection of Coates's most influential pieces about race in
America from The Atlantic, with subjects including Barack and Michelle Obama,
Donald J. Trump, reparations and mass incarceration.

WHAT HAPPENED. By Hillary Rodham Clinton. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) Clinton tells
the story of what it was like to run for president of the United States as the
first female nominee of a major party.

WORLD WITHOUT MIND: The Existential Threat of Big Tech. By Franklin Foer.
(Penguin Press, $27.) Foer dons the heavy mantle of cyber-skeptic with this
persuasive brief against the big four tech giants who he believes pose a threat
to the individual and society.

YOU SAY TO BRICK: The Life of Louis Kahn. By Wendy Lesser. (Farrar, Straus &
Giroux, $30.) This biography covers the best-known works of the architect Louis
Kahn as well as his complicated personal life.

Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), and sign up
for our newsletter.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/22/books/review/100-notable-books-2017.html

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWING BY OLIMPIA ZAGNOLI) (MM22
MM23
 MM24)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              356 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 3, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

These Well-Known New Yorkers Give Back. Here's Why.

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES FUND; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1453 words


After the post-Thanksgiving shopping days of Black Friday and Cyber Monday comes
Giving Tuesday, which kicks off the season of charitable giving.

As The New York Times continues its Neediest Cases Fund campaign, we reached out
to some prominent New Yorkers to ask them to name an organization to which they
devote their resources.

Lin-Manuel Miranda, composer and performer, and his family

Where we live: Inwood and Washington Heights, Manhattan

Where we give: Hispanic Federation

''As a family, we have all been involved with the Hispanic Federation at various
points in our lives to continue the organization's mission to strengthen Latino
nonprofits, both locally and nationally. Founded in 1990 by Luis A. Miranda Jr.
and leaders in New York City, the Hispanic Federation is an umbrella
organization of institutions dedicated to strengthening Latino communities
throughout the country.

''From working with 'Dreamers' to secure an avenue to legal status to
spearheading relief efforts in Puerto Rico post-Hurricane Maria in conjunction
with local institutions on the island, the Hispanic Federation has a
longstanding, tested and trusted history of creating resources to fight the good
fight. We are proud to support the hundreds of social service and cultural
institutions as well as the many community programs that are made possible
through Hispanic Federation grants, technical assistance and advocacy.''

Mariska Hargitay, actress

Where I live: Manhattan

Where I give: Joyful Heart Foundation

''I founded the Joyful Heart Foundation in 2004 with the mission to transform
society's response to sexual assault, domestic violence and child abuse; support
survivors' healing; and end this violence forever. With our healing, education
and advocacy programs, we are paving the way for innovative approaches to trauma
and legislative reforms to ensure justice for survivors. Our current advocacy
priority is eliminating the nationwide backlog of untested rape kits, a
dismaying reflection of how victims of sexual assault have been regarded.
Survivors' voices are bringing unprecedented change in the landscape around
sexual violence. All survivors need our support now more than ever.''

Laurence D. Fink, chief executive of BlackRock

Where I live: Greenwich Village, Manhattan

Where I give: International Rescue Committee

''We are in the midst of the largest refugee crisis since World War II.
Conflict, poverty and disaster have driven more than 65 million people from
their homes in places including Syria, Sudan and Myanmar, and we have a shared
responsibility to help. The International Rescue Committee is on the front
lines. It's an incredible organization -- it works swiftly, in dangerous places,
and it helps people rebuild their lives. That's maybe what I admire most about
the I.R.C. Its approach is built on the idea that displaced persons cannot be
consigned to hopelessness -- that, like anyone else, they are families trying to
work, send their kids to school and build futures. That kind of empathy is
what's needed to solve this crisis, and I'm proud to support the I.R.C.''

Rabbi Angela W. Buchdahl

Where I live:  Manhattan

Where I give: Avodah

''Imagine taking some of the brightest, most idealistic Jewish leaders
graduating from college and placing them for a year of service in anti-poverty
and justice nonprofits in four urban centers. Imagine them living together in
communal housing so they could celebrate, network and support each other in the
everyday challenges of working to alleviate poverty and social injustice. This
is the Avodah Jewish Service Corps, and it is building the next generation of
Jewish leaders with a commitment to bedrock Jewish values such as tikkun olam --
repairing the world. By supporting Avodah, I am investing in leadership for a
more just world.''

Josh Groban, performer

Where I live: TriBeCa, Manhattan

Where I give: Find Your Light Foundation

''Throughout my life and career, giving back has been a constant joy for me. I
started the Find Your Light Foundation because I know from personal experience
that arts education drastically improves the student experience in every aspect
of the classroom and life as a whole. There is nothing like a strong arts
education program to turn around failing schools, increase attendance and
graduation rates, and successfully send kids off to college and beyond. I have
seen these opportunities change lives firsthand, and it is my honor and
privilege to be able to give back in this way.''

Katie Smith, head coach of the New York Liberty

Where I live: White Plains, N.Y.

Where I give: Ali Forney Center

''I support the Ali Forney Center because children from all walks of life, no
matter their race, gender or sexual orientation, should have a safe space and
feel empowered. I have seen firsthand the center's amazing work and met with
some of the youth who have been impacted by their programs. Their services and
support are vital for protecting so many LGBTQ youth in New York City, while
also providing them with the tools necessary to lead independent lives.''

John Rzeznik, singer

Where I live: Union County, N.J.

Where I give: Music Gives to St. Jude Kids

''I support St. Jude's because every parent should be able to get their child
the absolute best treatment with dignity and compassion irrespective of their
financial situation.''

Audra McDonald, performer

Where I live: Inwood, Manhattan

Where I give: Covenant House International

''In 2014, while preparing to open 'Lady Day at Emerson's Bar and Grill' on
Broadway, I was looking for an opening-night gift that honored my colleagues and
my character, Billie Holiday. Given that Billie was homeless for some of her
childhood, abused, and forced to turn to prostitution as a teenager as a means
of survival, I decided to make a donation to Covenant House, an agency for
homeless and at-risk youth. I walked from the Circle in the Square Theater to
the shelter to make a donation and was greeted by the guards. When a homeless
boy arrived in need, they leapt into action, comforting him and making him feel
safe. I was so moved that I became involved and joined the board a year later.''

Richie Jackson, producer, and Jordan Roth, president of Jujamcyn Theaters

Where we live: West Village, Manhattan

Where we give: The Trevor Project

''We support the Trevor Project, the largest suicide prevention organization for
LGBTQ youth, because it literally saves children's lives, one call or text at a
time. This lifeline has always been vital, and now it's more urgent than ever.
We know all our children are listening and internalizing, and we will not let
hate be the only voice they hear. The message of the Trevor Project is clear:
Every LGBTQ young person needs to know that they are loved for who they are and
that they are never alone.''

Jeremy Lin, Brooklyn Nets player

Where I live: Gowanus, Brooklyn

Where I give: Center for Family Life

''When I first moved to Brooklyn, I wanted to get involved with an organization
that was doing great work with youth in my neighborhood. I turned to Robin Hood
Foundation for guidance, since it goes to great lengths to identify the most
effective organizations at fighting poverty in New York City. Center for Family
Life offers much-needed social services to families in and around Sunset Park,
many of whom are first-generation immigrants. I love that it addresses the
unique needs of this diverse neighborhood. While visiting its after-school
program, I witnessed firsthand the thoughtfulness and passion the leaders put
into the programs.''

Morena Baccarin, actress

Where I live: Manhattan

Where I give: International Rescue Committee

''I came to the United States when I was 7, and although I wasn't fleeing
conflict or persecution, it gave me a small sense of what it is like to arrive
in a new country when you don't speak the language, don't know anyone and have
to learn a new culture. Looking back now and realizing what my mom must have
gone through -- assimilating to a new country without any help -- I have a whole
new appreciation and respect for anyone brave enough to try a new life
elsewhere.

''I visited the I.R.C.'s resettlement programs in both New York and Baltimore,
where I met with new arrivals who were being assisted with language, employment,
enrolling their kids in school. It showed me how vital it is to offer help when
families are trying to shed past trauma and move forward with their lives. I saw
that a little help went a long way. It inspired me to do my part.''

Donations to the Neediest Cases may also be made with a check or over the phone.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/28/nyregion/these-well-known-new-yorkers-give-ba
ck-heres-why.html

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              357 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 5, 2017 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Deutsche Bank Said to Have Been Subpoenaed by Mueller: DealBook Briefing

SECTION: BUSINESS; dealbook

LENGTH: 2491 words



HIGHLIGHT: The special counsel investigating Russian interference in last year's
special election has asked for information on the bank's dealings with the Trump
family.


Good Tuesday. Here's what's happening:

Robert Mueller is said to have subpoenaed Deutsche Bank for information on its
business dealings with President Trump.

Lyft expanded the cap for its latest fund-raising round to $1.5 billion and
announced more investors.

TheSkimm is reportedly considering selling itself or taking on another
investment.

Steve Case has introduced very big backers for his new Rise of the Rest
investment fund.

Like what you see? Get the DealBook Briefing in your inbox each morning. Here's
the sign-up.

Deutsche Bank is said to be in Robert Mueller's cross hairs.

The special counsel has subpoenaed the bank for information on accounts held by
members of the Trump family, Bloomberg and Reuters reported, citing unidentified
people. The move came after Deutsche Bank rejected calls from Democratic
lawmakers to shed more light on its business dealings with President Trump.

More from Steven Arons of Bloomberg:

Trump's relationship with Deutsche Bank stretches back some two decades and the
roughly $300 million he owed to the bank represented nearly half of his
outstanding debt, according to a July 2016 analysis by Bloomberg. That figure
includes a $170-million loan Trump took out to finish a hotel in Washington. He
also has two mortgages against his Trump National Doral Miami resort and a loan
against his tower in Chicago.

The lender said in a statement, "Deutsche Bank always cooperates with
investigating authorities in all countries."

The Washington flyaround

Businesses are lobbying to neuter or kill the corporate alternative minimum tax
provision that remains in the Senate's tax bill. (WSJ)

Republicans are working on passing a two-week stopgap measure to avoid a
government shutdown. (NYT)

The Supreme Court allowed the third version of the Trump administration's travel
ban to take effect while legal challenges against the ban continued. (NYT)

Repealing the individual insurance mandate is more unpopular among the public
than initial opinion polling had suggested. (Axios)

Lyft's latest fundraising round just got bigger.

The ride-hailing company expanded the cap for its latest infusion of investor
capital to $1.5 billion, up from $1 billion.

Who's in: Alphabet's CapitalG investment arm is still leading the round. Other
investors include two new firms -- Fidelity, the mutual fund giant, and the
Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan -- and existing backers AllianceBernstein,
Baillie Gifford, KKR, Janus Henderson Investors and Rakuten.

Worth noting: The round isn't closed yet, but is near completion.

-- Michael J. de la Merced

When a popular newsletter company is exploring a sale ...

It's a big deal. TheSkimm, the daily newsletter producer that's popular among
young women, is weighing a sale of itself after receiving takeover interest, the
WSJ reported today.

TheSkimm, which counts several of my friends and celebrities like Oprah Winfrey
as aficionados -- sorry, "Skimm'bassadors" -- has won fans for its breezy and
sometimes snarky style and breakdowns of current events. Those fans also include
brands like Target, who have sponsored the newsletter.

Newsletters have become popular among media publishers who are looking for new
ways to reach audiences, particularly ways that are more measurable and
targeted. (Not that I'm biased or anything.)

The WSJ got its hands on a recent presentation by the company that includes
performance that, if accurate, would make many newsletter publishers highly
envious:

According to a recent presentation from theSkimm obtained by The Wall Street
Journal, 40% of theSkimm's audience opens all five email newsletters each week.
About 80% of its readers are female, and 45% earn more than $100,000 a year,
according to the presentation.

It's possible that TheSkimm and its founders Danielle Weisberg and Carly Zakin,
will instead decide to just take on an additional investment. Or they may decide
to do nothing.

-- Michael J. de la Merced

Putting the Aetna C.E.O.'s potentially big payday into context.

Mark Bertolini is set to receive as much as $500 million if his deal to sell the
insurer to CVS is completed, the WSJ reported today. That's a big number. But
let's point out a couple of things:

Most of that value -- some $230 million at the agreed-upon deal price of $207 a
share -- is tied to stock or appreciation rights that he had received during his
tenure and that has already vested.

Another $190 million would come from stock that he already owns.

Then $60 million to $85 million would come from a change-in-control provision
that was last amended in 2010, years before Mr. Bertolini had begun considering
whether to sell Aetna.

A significant portion of the acquisition price is in CVS stock, which has gone
down more than 5 percent since the transaction was announced.

Half a billion dollars is a huge amount of money, by any standard. And it's fair
for critics to question the practice of giving C.E.O.s huge stock payouts as
part of their compensation. But it doesn't appears as though Aetna had changed
Mr. Bertolini's compensation meaningfully before the CVS deal.

-- Michael J. de la Merced

Steve Case signs big partners for his new fund.

The former AOL chief executive, who is working with the author J.D. Vance, has
gotten some major business stars for Rise of the Rest, an investment vehicle for
pouring money into start-ups in the industrial "flyover" heart of the United
States. (Read: not in Silicon Valley).

Among the backers, who have also pledged to work with businesses that receive
money from the fund, according to Andrew's latest DealBook column:

From the tech world: Jeff Bezos of Amazon, Eric Schmidt of Alphabet and the
venture capitalist John Doerr

From the financial industry: Henry Kravis of K.K.R., David Rubenstein of the
Carlyle Group and Ray Dalio of Bridgewater Associates

From the rest of the business world: Howard Schultz of Starbucks, the fashion
mogul Tory Burch, and the sports team owners Ted Leonsis and Dan Gilbert

Andrew writes, "All told, it may be the greatest concentration of American
wealth and power in one investment fund."

The tech flyaround

Facebook has introduced a messenger app for children age 13 and younger. (NYT)

The tech giant wants to spend "a few billion dollars" on sports rights
worldwide. (Sports Business Journal via Recode)

Google couldn't establish a beachhead in China. Can it do so in India? (NYT)

Broadcom takes new risks in going hostile on Qualcomm.

In seeking to replace Qualcomm's board, Broadcom is taking a chance. The company
chose to pull one of the two levers available to try to force Qualcomm to the
negotiating table. (The other, of course, would have been to raise its bid above
$70 a share.)

Thomson Reuters reminded Michael of the odds of proxy fights and hostile bids
succeeding in some fashion:

Roughly 40 percent of hostile takeovers over the past 25 years ended in a deal.

Only about 26 percent of proxy fights that went to a shareholder vote over the
last five years led to victory for the challenger.

If one includes settlements between the company and activists, challengers have
succeeded roughly 57 percent of the time in the past five years.

Can CVS get its Aetna deal done, and make it work?

It isn't just a question of antitrust (though we'll get to that). CVS
shareholders appeared displeased at how expensive and cash-rich the takeover bid
turned out to be. Lex calculates that the net debt of the combined company would
be a hefty 4.6 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization.

Now on antitrust: Analysts and industry experts still aren't sure how the
government will assess the transaction and its effect on competition. Critics
worry about any further limiting of options for consumers, from which pharmacy
they can use, to which doctor they can see, according to the NYT.

If the deal closes: CVS would then have to worry about how to make the new
company work. From Anna Wilde Mathews and Sharon Terlep of the WSJ:

No major health care company has tried to build a vertical system around the
combination of drugstores, insurance and pharmacy-benefit management, the main
businesses of CVS and Aetna, experts said.

A fee bonanza: CVS and Aetna relied on a dozen banks and law firms to assemble
the transaction. The banks could split $120 million to $140 million in advisory
fees alone, according to estimates from Thomson Reuters.

An Irish roadblock in the Brexit talks.

Just when Prime Minister Theresa May thought that she had made substantial
progress in negotiations with European Union counterparts, her governing
coalition partner, the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland, withdrew
its support from an agreement on how to handle the border with Ireland.

A tight deadline: Britain and the E.U. are meant to reach "sufficient progress"
on key topics by the end of next week, including resolving Britain's divorce
bill from the political bloc, the rights of European citizens living in Britain,
and the Irish border.

What's next: A possible breakthrough with the D.U.P. Or the collapse of Ms.
May's governing coalition, potentially leading to Britain's third general
election in three years.

More fallout from the accusations against Shervin Pishevar.

After the venture capitalist faced accusations of sexual misconduct and assault,
two Democratic senators, Cory Booker of New Jersey and Kamala Harris of
California, gave to charity money that they had received from the investor, a
major donor to Democratic politicians, Bloomberg reported.

But will the claims cause Mr. Pishevar any blowback in his professional life?

Bloomberg said that some board members of Virgin Hyperloop One, the high-speed
train start-up he co-founded, have pressed him to resign. A spokeswoman for the
company denied that part of the report.

Uber, of which Mr. Pishevar was an early backer, said, "We fully support those
who have felt harassed speaking out, whenever and however they choose."

More sexual misconduct news

Netflix said that "House of Cards" will resume production of its final season
with Robin Wright as its remaining star, after Kevin Spacey was fired. (NYT)

The Metropolitan Opera's firing of the famed conductor James Levine has left the
institution reeling, and calling to reassure donors that it will take
appropriate action as it works to shore up its finances. (NYT, WSJ)

Mick Mulvaney begins remaking the C.F.P.B.

The acting director -- though not according to the bureau's deputy director, who
is also claiming that title -- has frozen the financial consumer regulator's
collection of data from credit cards and mortgages. Mr. Mulvaney said the
decision was made for cybersecurity reasons, but the move halted a practice long
criticized by the lending industry.

He also resumed payouts to victims of financial crimes, after having temporarily
halted those disbursements.

The digital currency flyaround

The Winklevoss twins have really struck it rich with their early investment in
Bitcoin. (Telegraph)

Ethereum may have preached the values of its network to supply chains and
securities sales, but it's mainly used for buying cartoon kittens known as
CryptoKitties. (Bloomberg)

The Securities and Exchange Commission announced its cyber unit's first
enforcement action against an initial coin offering. (WSJ)

Ben Eisen of the WSJ describes the lessons he learned in selling the Bitcoin he
was given as a wedding gift -- and missing out on the recent Bitcoin boom. (WSJ)

Ouch.

When he was the U.S. attorney general for the Southern District of New York,
Preet Bharara tangled with the defense lawyer John Dowd once before, in the
trial of the hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam over charges of insider trading.

Now that Mr. Dowd is back in the news in his role as personal defense lawyer for
Mr. Trump -- a role in which Mr. Dowd contended that the president could not be
found guilty of obstruction of justice -- Mr. Bharara weighed in on his former
legal opponent.

From yesterday's episode of Mr. Bharara's podcast, "Stay Tuned With Preet":

"I had experience with John Dowd when he represented an individual named Raj
Rajaratnam, who was convicted on all counts. And during the course of that trial
and after that trial, John Dowd said a lot of -- how shall I put it? --
ludicrous, silly things. So that's par for the course for him."

The Speed Read

New York State's attorney general, Eric Schneiderman, wrote an open letter to
F.C.C. chairman Ajit Pai asking for a delay to the repeal of net neutrality
rules, citing concern over the discovery of fake comments posted to the
regulator's website. (Medium)

Discovery Communications is taking majority control of OWN, the cable network it
co-owns with Oprah Winfrey. (WSJ)

The British cinema chain Cineworld has agreed to buy Regal in a $3.6 billion
deal that will create the world's second-largest cinema group, operating in 10
countries including the United States. (BBC)

Merrill Lynch will remain in a recruiting pact known as the Protocol for Broker
Recruiting, which may help it to retain staff and recruit as Wall Street
brokerages face challenges from independent rivals. (WSJ)

Germany's financial regulator, BaFin, is investigating whether HNA Group
accurately reported its holdings when building a stake in Deutsche Bank,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter. (Bloomberg)

Marcato Capital, led by the Bill Ackman protégé Mick McGuire, said it would seek
fewer seats on the board of Deckers Outdoor, the maker of Uggs, after the
advisory firms ISS and Glass Lewis failed to endorse its candidates. (NYPost)

Children from lower-income homes, children of color and girls aren't being
encouraged to innovate, and that is harming the economy in the United States,
according to the Equality of Opportunity project. (The Atlantic)

A group of global hedge fund managers have said it is willing to pursue the
Spanish government for a "zillion years" until they get as much as 4.5 billion
euros, or $5.3 billion, over bankrupt toll roads. (FT)

The Hartford agreed to sell Talcott Resolution, an annuities business, to an
investor group led by Cornell Capital for about $2 billion. (The Hartford)

The Italian tax police searched Gucci's campus in Milan and its offices in
Florence as part of an investigation into potential tax evasion. (NYT)

For the first time in 40 years, power plants no longer are the biggest source of
greenhouse gas pollution in the United States: It's now the transportation
sector because the electric grid has been cleaning up its act. (Bloomberg)

Each weekday, DealBook reporters in New York and London offer commentary and
analysis on the day's most important business news. Want this in your own email
inbox? Here's the sign-up.

You can find live updates of DealBook coverage throughout the day at
nytimes.com/dealbook.

Follow Andrew Ross Sorkin @andrewrsorkin, Michael J. de la Merced @m_delamerced
and Amie Tsang @amietsang on Twitter.

We'd love your feedback as we experiment with the writing, format and design of
this briefing. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              358 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 5, 2017 Tuesday 17:46 EST

The Best Movies and TV Shows New to Netflix Australia in December

BYLINE: NOEL MURRAY

SECTION: WATCHING

LENGTH: 1519 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here are the most interesting titles coming to the service in
December, broken down by release date.


Welcome to Watching, The New York Times's TV and movie recommendation site. Sign
up for our thrice-weekly newsletter, here.

Every month, Netflix Australia adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its
library. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for December, broken
down by release date. Netflix occasionally changes its schedule without giving
notice. (Unfortunately, the streaming information provided in our Watchlist
listings only applies to viewers in the United States.)

New Netflix Original TV Series

'Dark'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

Netflix's first German-language TV production is a twisty criminal procedural
crossed with a sensitive domestic melodrama, exploring how a missing persons
case exposes the long-held secrets of four families -- and the troubled history
of the small town where they all reside. Cocreated by Baran bo Odar and Jantje
Friese (who previously made the acclaimed big-screen cyber-thriller "Who Am I:
No System Is Safe"), this series promises to be as moody and spooky as it is
shocking.
--

'The Crown' Season 2
Starts streaming: Dec. 8
Add it to your Watchlist

A recent upsurge in interest in all things royal should provide a boost to
Netflix's pricey prestige bio-drama. After a first season that covered Queen
Elizabeth II's ascension to the throne and the last days of her governing
partnership with Winston Churchill, "The Crown" returns with ten more episodes,
stretching from the mid-1950s to the early '60s. Claire Foy is back as the
Queen, striving to hold her empire together in an era where youthful revolution
and anticolonial fervor hung heavy in the air.
--

'Erased'
Starts streaming: Dec. 15
Add it to your Watchlist

Kei Sanbe's highly meta manga "Erased" has already been adapted into a Japanese
anime series and a live-action film, and now becomes a live-action series,
following a cartoonist who acquires the power to travel back in time. While
exploring the mysteries of his own childhood, he finds that he has an
opportunity to change the past, and possibly avert a personal tragedy -- but at
a potentially life-changing cost.
--

'DreamWorks Trollhunters: Part Two'
Starts streaming: Dec. 15
Add it to your Watchlist

The late Anton Yelchin recorded enough material for writer-producer Guillermo
del Toro's animated adaptation of his own juvenile fantasy novel (co-written
with Daniel Kraus) that his voice will still be heard in the second season, as
the monster-fighting protagonist Jim Lake. A human who allies with good trolls
against evil trolls, the hero will continue his investigations into the truth
about a supernatural conflict that's been waged underground for generations.
--

'Wormwood'
Starts streaming: Dec. 15
Add it to your Watchlist

Award-winning documentarian Errol Morris tries something new with his latest
nonfiction project, casting accomplished actors Peter Sarsgaard, Bob Balaban,
and Molly Parker in extensive dramatic re-enactments of anecdotes featured in
his central interview. The six-part, four-hour docu-series is a deep dive into
the personal experiences and wild conspiratorial theories of a man who's spent
the last 60 years trying to find out who killed his CIA-affiliated father.
Morris and Netflix are already positioning "Wormwood" for an Oscar run, making
this a major event for both television and cinema.
--

New Netflix Original Comedy Specials

'Judd Apatow: The Return'
Starts streaming: Dec. 12
Add it to your Watchlist

Long before he wrote and directed the smash hit comedies "The 40-Year-Old
Virgin" and "Knocked Up," Judd Apatow was a promising stand-up comic, telling
jokes drawn from his own family life and everyday experiences. He's recently
returned to the stage, but now with over 20 years of fresh observations to make
about marriage, kids, and working in the upper echelons of showbiz.
--

'Dave Chappelle: Equanimity'
Starts streaming: Dec. 31
Add it to your Watchlist

After releasing two older performances on Netflix earlier this year to great
acclaim (and, according to the service, record-breaking viewership), Chappelle
will help fans say goodbye to 2017 with a stand-up set recorded just a couple of
months ago. Unlike his previous two specials, the fearless comedian's new one
will describe America in the age of Trump -- which should make it either a
depressing or reassuring way to spend New Year's Eve.
--

Movies New to Netflix

'The Dark Knight'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

Amid all the fannish squabbling over whether the recent crop of superhero movies
is too serious or too silly, there's scarcely been a better time to revisit
writer-director Christopher Nolan's widely beloved Batman movie, which drops
Christian Bale's morally conflicted caped crusader and the late Heath Ledger's
anarchic Joker into a gritty Gotham City. Looking more like a documentary than a
comic book movie -- and as entertaining as it is ambitious -- "The Dark Knight"
is a gripping crime-fighting adventure that doubles as a sophisticated
exploration of lost ideals.
--

'Elf'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

It's easy to make money off a Christmas movie, but harder to produce one that
becomes a new holiday classic. The 2003 Will Ferrell vehicle "Elf" accomplished
the latter so well that it inspired a Broadway musical and a TV special. The
original film's still the superior product though, telling the alternately goofy
and heartwarming tale of a naïve, gawky Santa Claus employee who travels to New
York City to meet his real father -- and quickly discovers that the cold real
world could use a lot more of the North Pole's warmth.
--

'Miracle on 34th Street'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

Frequently remade (but never well), this 1947 Christmas comedy endures not just
because of the cleverness of its premise, but because of the way it balances
well-earned uplift with genuine insight into modern life. Edmund Gwenn is
utterly charming as a Macy's Santa who claims to be the real Kris Kringle -- and
is subsequently subjected to a sensational sanity trial. But the movie's real
stars are an assortment of top-shelf Hollywood character actors, playing
customers and corporate lackeys, all standing in for every person who's ever
wished the holidays were more joyful and less of a letdown.
--

'Room'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

Brie Larson won a well-deserved Oscar for her at once heartbreaking and
harrowing performance in director Lenny Abrahamson's adaptation of Emma
Donoghue's best-selling novel "Room." Larson plays a kidnap victim struggling to
raise her young son -- first in the shed where her abductor imprisoned them, and
then back in her parents' home. Jacob Tremblay (currently winning over movie
audiences in "Wonder") is equally affecting as the five-year-old whose harsh
upbringing hasn't prepared him for the messiness of life outside a cell.
--

'The Revenant'
Starts streaming: Dec. 4
Add it to your Watchlist

As is often the case with director Alejandro G. Iñárritu's films, his version of
an American western is grandiose, adding thematic heft and ponderousness to the
true story of a fur-trapper surviving in the wilderness after a near-fatal bear
attack. But Leonardo DiCaprio earned his Oscar for his intensely physical,
mostly silent performance; and cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki worked closely
with Iñárritu on a bold, bracing reimagining of the look of the western, relying
more on extreme angles and claustrophobic framing than stunning landscapes.
--

New Netflix Original Movies

'My Happy Family'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

Don't make a "best movies of 2017" list without first checking out this rich
Georgian drama, which drew raves at the Sundance and Berlin film festivals back
at the start of the year. Ia Shughliashvili stars as an exhausted middle-aged
wife and mother who one day decides to move out of her family's cramped, noisy
apartment and try living alone for a while -- despite the scandal that ensues in
her conservative community. "My Happy Family" is a well-observed salute to the
courage it takes to pursue a path that nurtures the soul, regardless of who that
offends.
--

'Voyeur'
Starts streaming: Dec. 1
Add it to your Watchlist

Venerable journalist Gay Talese has generated a lot of controversy over the past
few years, including when his nonfiction book "The Voyeur's Motel" was
criticized both for factual inaccuracies and for expressing sympathy for its
subject: a motel-owner who illegally videotaped his guests. Myles Kane and Josh
Koury's documentary "Voyeur" revisits both the original story and its aftermath,
in a layered consideration of how sometimes in-depth reporting can border on the
perverse.
--

'Bright'
Starts streaming: Dec. 22
Add it to your Watchlist

"Suicide Squad" director David Ayer and "American Ultra" screenwriter Max Landis
collaborate on Netflix's biggest attempt yet at a blockbuster-level movie,
starring Will Smith as a gruff cop whose new partner is an Orc. Yes, an Orc --
the folkloric beastie popularized in "The Lord of the Rings." Joel Edgerton
plays the well-meaning monster, in a star-studded production that mixes a tough
urban crime story with wild fantasy.
--

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              359 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 6, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

How the Bot Stole Christmas: Toys Like Fingerlings Are Snapped Up and Resold

BYLINE: CHRISTINA CARON

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1122 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hot toys like the Barbie Hello Dreamhouse quickly sold out online
this year, then appeared on eBay and Amazon at inflated prices.


Fingerlings, those colorful chirping monkeys (and sloths and unicorns) that wrap
around your finger, have become one of the most desired toys on holiday shopping
lists.

Unfortunately, the $15 creatures are sold out online almost everywhere. Toys "R"
Us? Gone. Walmart? None left in stock. Target? Nope.

But check eBay or Amazon, and sellers are offering them for double, triple and
quadruple their original price. There's even one on eBay being advertised for
$5,000.

Hot holiday toys have always been hard to find. The long list of heartbreakers
includes Cabbage Patch Kids dolls, which caused parents to mob stores in the
1980s, Tickle Me Elmo in 1996, and a toy version of the "Star Wars" droid BB-8,
which quickly sold out in 2015.

But the proliferation of online shopping makes it even tougher to purchase
coveted items because of software that snaps them up as soon as they are offered
for sale.

"If it's popular, it's going to be taken by bots and resold," said Omri Iluz,
the co-founder and chief executive of the cybersecurity firm PerimeterX, in a
phone interview.

The bots work by constantly pinging retail websites, searching for sales and
analyzing URLs.

The moment an item is in stock, the software runs through the checkout process
at a speed that is "completely inhuman," said Mr. Iluz, whose company protects
large retailers and other organizations from bot attacks.

The bots are drawn to scarce items "like sharks to blood" and use web-scraping
techniques to guess the ID of an unreleased product, PerimeterX explains on its
website. That allows scalpers to buy products before an official sale becomes
public. Bots can also subscribe to online notifications of sales and bypass
purchasing limits set by retailers by using multiple internet addresses.

Laura Oliver, who blogs about deals on her website, A Frugal Chick, has been
keeping tabs on Fingerlings, the brainchild of the company WowWee, for months,
and notified her readers on Facebook whenever she found a retailer that had them
in stock.

It was an all-consuming job.

"I have had dreams about Fingerlings," she said.

On Amazon, Fingerlings priced at $15 will sometimes last as long as 25 minutes,
Ms. Oliver said.

"They are the only one that if I throw it up on social media I feel like my
people have a chance to get it before it disappears," she said. "I've had
readers comment that they've put the Fingerlings in their cart on the Walmart
website and when they go to check out, it's gone."

Walmart did not respond to a request for comment.

Toys "R" Us says on its website that Fingerlings are available in its
brick-and-mortar stores. When asked about the cyber bots, the retailer declined
to comment, referring instead to a statement from Christin Fernandez, vice
president for communications for the Retail Industry Leaders Association that
said retailers and suppliers "are working around the clock to make sure American
families have access to the season's hottest items" and are "committed to taking
precautions to mitigate fraud and illegal transactions."

Amazon said Tuesday that it monitors bot buying activity, and attempts to limit
the purchase of high-demand products.

Target has also taken measures to deter resellers, said a company spokesman,
Eddie Baeb, "including quantity limits for purchases and technologies designed
to help us monitor and prevent reseller activity."

Other hot toys, like the Barbie Hello Dreamhouse, the L.O.L. Surprise! Doll and
the Super Nintendo Entertainment System NES Classic Edition have also sold out,
but are appearing on Amazon and eBay advertised at prices several times higher
than retail.

"The entire ecosystem breaks down," Mr. Iluz said. Bots are making legal
purchases, but they don't become loyal customers, and they won't leave positive
reviews.

And customers get frustrated.

"When an advertised item is unavailable because of out-of-stocks, customers
don't blame bots, they blame the retailer," Roger Beahm, a professor of
marketing at the Wake Forest University School of Business, said in an email.

On Sunday, Chuck Schumer, the Senate minority leader, asked retail trade
associations to take action.

"When it comes to purchasing products online, major retailers should put forth
policies that will help prevent future Grinch bots from stealing the season's
hottest toys," he said in a statement.

Unusual purchases ought to raise a red flag said Angelo Roefaro, a spokesman for
Mr. Schumer.

"Say there's a suspicious order placed -- for example a massive quantity at
extreme speed -- they should be able to have some human intervention in that
transaction and potentially block the sale," Mr. Roefaro said in an email.

David French, senior vice president for government relations at the National
Retail Federation, said in a statement Monday that the federation shares Mr.
Schumer's concerns, "and we look forward to working with him and all interested
parties to strengthen enforcement against bad actors and take away the tools
being used against innocent consumers, particularly during the holiday season."

Mr. Schumer co-sponsored the Better Online Ticket Sales Act, or BOTS Act, which
was signed into law last December, and is targeted at online ticket scalpers.
The law makes it illegal to bypass ticketing website security measures, and
would fine hackers who seek to circumvent the system.

Ticket-scalping bots were partly responsible for the "Hamilton" ticket shortage
and also snatched up tickets for other shows that were in high demand, like a U2
concert where a single scalper bought more than 1,000 tickets in under a minute,
according to an investigation by the New York State attorney general.

Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, who also co-sponsored the
BOTS Act, said in a phone interview Tuesday that he aimed to introduce new
legislation to combat the "plague" of bots that buy up toys, sneakers and other
popular retail items.

"I think if there was a specific law it would encourage and empower the Federal
Trade Commission or criminal investigators to go after them, and we might learn
more about them and identify some of the specific culprits," he said.

For parents who were left empty-handed after searching for popular toys, there
are still plenty of gifts out there that children will love -- like Magna-Tiles
or the Hatchimals that were so hard to find last year.

The yearly rush to buy the hottest toy is often guided by emotions, Mr. Beahm
said.

"Sometimes it's important to remain a little more rational in our purchase
decisions," he added, and to remember the fate of fad items like the Beanie
Babies, which are now "practically worthless."

Related Articles


     ·    'Hamilton' Tries New Sales Method to Battle Bots and Scalpers
     ·    Congress Moves to Curb Ticket Scalping, Banning Bots Used Online


LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              360 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 6, 2017 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Deutsche Bank Said to Have Been Subpoenaed by Mueller: DealBook Briefing

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 2530 words


Good Tuesday. Here's what's happening:

Robert Mueller is said to have subpoenaed Deutsche Bank for information on its
business dealings with President Trump.

Lyft expanded the cap for its latest fund-raising round to $1.5 billion and
announced more investors.

TheSkimm is reportedly considering selling itself or taking on another
investment.

Steve Case has introduced very big backers for his new Rise of the Rest
investment fund.

Like what you see? Get the DealBook Briefing in your inbox each morning. Here's
the sign-up.

Deutsche Bank is said to be in Robert Mueller's cross hairs.

The special counsel has subpoenaed the bank for information on accounts held by
members of the Trump family, Bloomberg and Reuters reported, citing unidentified
people. The move came after Deutsche Bank rejected calls from Democratic
lawmakers to shed more light on its business dealings with President Trump.

More from Steven Arons of Bloomberg:

Trump's relationship with Deutsche Bank stretches back some two decades and the
roughly $300 million he owed to the bank represented nearly half of his
outstanding debt, according to a July 2016 analysis by Bloomberg. That figure
includes a $170-million loan Trump took out to finish a hotel in Washington. He
also has two mortgages against his Trump National Doral Miami resort and a loan
against his tower in Chicago.

The lender said in a statement, ''Deutsche Bank always cooperates with
investigating authorities in all countries.''

The Washington flyaround

Businesses are lobbying to neuter or kill the corporate alternative minimum tax
provision that remains in the Senate's tax bill. (WSJ)

Republicans are working on passing a two-week stopgap measure to avoid a
government shutdown. (NYT)

The Supreme Court allowed the third version of the Trump administration's travel
ban to take effect while legal challenges against the ban continued. (NYT)

Repealing the individual insurance mandate is more unpopular among the public
than initial opinion polling had suggested. (Axios)

Lyft's latest fundraising round just got bigger.

The ride-hailing company expanded the cap for its latest infusion of investor
capital to $1.5 billion, up from $1 billion.

Who's in: Alphabet's CapitalG investment arm is still leading the round. Other
investors include two new firms -- Fidelity, the mutual fund giant, and the
Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan -- and existing backers AllianceBernstein,
Baillie Gifford, KKR, Janus Henderson Investors and Rakuten.

Worth noting: The round isn't closed yet, but is near completion.

-- Michael J. de la Merced

When a popular newsletter company is exploring a sale ...

It's a big deal. TheSkimm, the daily newsletter producer that's popular among
young women, is weighing a sale of itself after receiving takeover interest, the
WSJ reported today.

TheSkimm, which counts several of my friends and celebrities like Oprah Winfrey
as aficionados -- sorry, ''Skimm'bassadors'' -- has won fans for its breezy and
sometimes snarky style and breakdowns of current events. Those fans also include
brands like Target, who have sponsored the newsletter.

Newsletters have become popular among media publishers who are looking for new
ways to reach audiences, particularly ways that are more measurable and
targeted. (Not that I'm biased or anything.)

The WSJ got its hands on a recent presentation by the company that includes
performance that, if accurate, would make many newsletter publishers highly
envious:

According to a recent presentation from theSkimm obtained by The Wall Street
Journal, 40% of theSkimm's audience opens all five email newsletters each week.
About 80% of its readers are female, and 45% earn more than $100,000 a year,
according to the presentation.

It's possible that TheSkimm and its founders Danielle Weisberg and Carly Zakin,
will instead decide to just take on an additional investment. Or they may decide
to do nothing.

-- Michael J. de la Merced

Putting the Aetna C.E.O.'s potentially big payday into context.

Mark Bertolini is set to receive as much as $500 million if his deal to sell the
insurer to CVS is completed, the WSJ reported today. That's a big number. But
let's point out a couple of things:

Most of that value -- some $230 million at the agreed-upon deal price of $207 a
share -- is tied to stock or appreciation rights that he had received during his
tenure and that has already vested.

Another $190 million would come from stock that he already owns.

Then $60 million to $85 million would come from a change-in-control provision
that was last amended in 2010, years before Mr. Bertolini had begun considering
whether to sell Aetna.

A significant portion of the acquisition price is in CVS stock, which has gone
down more than 5 percent since the transaction was announced.

Half a billion dollars is a huge amount of money, by any standard. And it's fair
for critics to question the practice of giving C.E.O.s huge stock payouts as
part of their compensation. But it doesn't appears as though Aetna had changed
Mr. Bertolini's compensation meaningfully before the CVS deal.

-- Michael J. de la Merced

Steve Case signs big partners for his new fund.

The former AOL chief executive, who is working with the author J.D. Vance, has
gotten some major business stars for Rise of the Rest, an investment vehicle for
pouring money into start-ups in the industrial ''flyover'' heart of the United
States. (Read: not in Silicon Valley).

Among the backers, who have also pledged to work with businesses that receive
money from the fund, according to Andrew's latest DealBook column:

From the tech world: Jeff Bezos of Amazon, Eric Schmidt of Alphabet and the
venture capitalist John Doerr

From the financial industry: Henry Kravis of K.K.R., David Rubenstein of the
Carlyle Group and Ray Dalio of Bridgewater Associates

From the rest of the business world: Howard Schultz of Starbucks, the fashion
mogul Tory Burch, and the sports team owners Ted Leonsis and Dan Gilbert

Andrew writes, ''All told, it may be the greatest concentration of American
wealth and power in one investment fund.''

The tech flyaround

Facebook has introduced a messenger app for children age 13 and younger. (NYT)

The tech giant wants to spend ''a few billion dollars'' on sports rights
worldwide. (Sports Business Journal via Recode)

Google couldn't establish a beachhead in China. Can it do so in India? (NYT)

Broadcom takes new risks in going hostile on Qualcomm.

In seeking to replace Qualcomm's board, Broadcom is taking a chance. The company
chose to pull one of the two levers available to try to force Qualcomm to the
negotiating table. (The other, of course, would have been to raise its bid above
$70 a share.)

Thomson Reuters reminded Michael of the odds of proxy fights and hostile bids
succeeding in some fashion:

Roughly 40 percent of hostile takeovers over the past 25 years ended in a deal.

Only about 26 percent of proxy fights that went to a shareholder vote over the
last five years led to victory for the challenger.

If one includes settlements between the company and activists, challengers have
succeeded roughly 57 percent of the time in the past five years.

Can CVS get its Aetna deal done, and make it work?

It isn't just a question of antitrust (though we'll get to that). CVS
shareholders appeared displeased at how expensive and cash-rich the takeover bid
turned out to be. Lex calculates that the net debt of the combined company would
be a hefty 4.6 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization.

Now on antitrust: Analysts and industry experts still aren't sure how the
government will assess the transaction and its effect on competition. Critics
worry about any further limiting of options for consumers, from which pharmacy
they can use, to which doctor they can see, according to the NYT.

If the deal closes: CVS would then have to worry about how to make the new
company work. From Anna Wilde Mathews and Sharon Terlep of the WSJ:

No major health care company has tried to build a vertical system around the
combination of drugstores, insurance and pharmacy-benefit management, the main
businesses of CVS and Aetna, experts said.

A fee bonanza: CVS and Aetna relied on a dozen banks and law firms to assemble
the transaction. The banks could split $120 million to $140 million in advisory
fees alone, according to estimates from Thomson Reuters.

An Irish roadblock in the Brexit talks.

Just when Prime Minister Theresa May thought that she had made substantial
progress in negotiations with European Union counterparts, her governing
coalition partner, the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland, withdrew
its support from an agreement on how to handle the border with Ireland.

A tight deadline: Britain and the E.U. are meant to reach ''sufficient
progress'' on key topics by the end of next week, including resolving Britain's
divorce bill from the political bloc, the rights of European citizens living in
Britain, and the Irish border.

What's next: A possible breakthrough with the D.U.P. Or the collapse of Ms.
May's governing coalition, potentially leading to Britain's third general
election in three years.

More fallout from the accusations against Shervin Pishevar.

After the venture capitalist faced accusations of sexual misconduct and assault,
two Democratic senators, Cory Booker of New Jersey and Kamala Harris of
California, gave to charity money that they had received from the investor, a
major donor to Democratic politicians, Bloomberg reported.

But will the claims cause Mr. Pishevar any blowback in his professional life?

Bloomberg said that some board members of Virgin Hyperloop One, the high-speed
train start-up he co-founded, have pressed him to resign. A spokeswoman for the
company denied that part of the report.

Uber, of which Mr. Pishevar was an early backer, said, ''We fully support those
who have felt harassed speaking out, whenever and however they choose.''

More sexual misconduct news

Netflix said that ''House of Cards'' will resume production of its final season
with Robin Wright as its remaining star, after Kevin Spacey was fired. (NYT)

The Metropolitan Opera's firing of the famed conductor James Levine has left the
institution reeling, and calling to reassure donors that it will take
appropriate action as it works to shore up its finances. (NYT, WSJ)

Mick Mulvaney begins remaking the C.F.P.B.

The acting director -- though not according to the bureau's deputy director, who
is also claiming that title -- has frozen the financial consumer regulator's
collection of data from credit cards and mortgages. Mr. Mulvaney said the
decision was made for cybersecurity reasons, but the move halted a practice long
criticized by the lending industry.

He also resumed payouts to victims of financial crimes, after having temporarily
halted those disbursements.

The digital currency flyaround

The Winklevoss twins have really struck it rich with their early investment in
Bitcoin. (Telegraph)

Ethereum may have preached the values of its network to supply chains and
securities sales, but it's mainly used for buying cartoon kittens known as
CryptoKitties. (Bloomberg)

The Securities and Exchange Commission announced its cyber unit's first
enforcement action against an initial coin offering. (WSJ)

Ben Eisen of the WSJ describes the lessons he learned in selling the Bitcoin he
was given as a wedding gift -- and missing out on the recent Bitcoin boom. (WSJ)

Ouch.

When he was the U.S. attorney general for the Southern District of New York,
Preet Bharara tangled with the defense lawyer John Dowd once before, in the
trial of the hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam over charges of insider trading.

Now that Mr. Dowd is back in the news in his role as personal defense lawyer for
Mr. Trump -- a role in which Mr. Dowd contended that the president could not be
found guilty of obstruction of justice -- Mr. Bharara weighed in on his former
legal opponent.

From yesterday's episode of Mr. Bharara's podcast, ''Stay Tuned With Preet'':

''I had experience with John Dowd when he represented an individual named Raj
Rajaratnam, who was convicted on all counts. And during the course of that trial
and after that trial, John Dowd said a lot of -- how shall I put it? --
ludicrous, silly things. So that's par for the course for him.''

The Speed Read

New York State's attorney general, Eric Schneiderman, wrote an open letter to
F.C.C. chairman Ajit Pai asking for a delay to the repeal of net neutrality
rules, citing concern over the discovery of fake comments posted to the
regulator's website. (Medium)

Discovery Communications is taking majority control of OWN, the cable network it
co-owns with Oprah Winfrey. (WSJ)

The British cinema chain Cineworld has agreed to buy Regal in a $3.6 billion
deal that will create the world's second-largest cinema group, operating in 10
countries including the United States. (BBC)

Merrill Lynch will remain in a recruiting pact known as the Protocol for Broker
Recruiting, which may help it to retain staff and recruit as Wall Street
brokerages face challenges from independent rivals. (WSJ)

Germany's financial regulator, BaFin, is investigating whether HNA Group
accurately reported its holdings when building a stake in Deutsche Bank,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter. (Bloomberg)

Marcato Capital, led by the Bill Ackman protégé Mick McGuire, said it would seek
fewer seats on the board of Deckers Outdoor, the maker of Uggs, after the
advisory firms ISS and Glass Lewis failed to endorse its candidates. (NYPost)

Children from lower-income homes, children of color and girls aren't being
encouraged to innovate, and that is harming the economy in the United States,
according to the Equality of Opportunity project. (The Atlantic)

A group of global hedge fund managers have said it is willing to pursue the
Spanish government for a ''zillion years'' until they get as much as 4.5 billion
euros, or $5.3 billion, over bankrupt toll roads. (FT)

The Hartford agreed to sell Talcott Resolution, an annuities business, to an
investor group led by Cornell Capital for about $2 billion. (The Hartford)

The Italian tax police searched Gucci's campus in Milan and its offices in
Florence as part of an investigation into potential tax evasion. (NYT)

For the first time in 40 years, power plants no longer are the biggest source of
greenhouse gas pollution in the United States: It's now the transportation
sector because the electric grid has been cleaning up its act. (Bloomberg)

Each weekday, DealBook reporters in New York and London offer commentary and
analysis on the day's most important business news. Want this in your own email
inbox? Here's the sign-up.

You can find live updates of DealBook coverage throughout the day at
nytimes.com/dealbook.

Follow Andrew Ross Sorkin @andrewrsorkin, Michael J. de la Merced @m_delamerced
and Amie Tsang @amietsang on Twitter.

We'd love your feedback as we experiment with the writing, format and design of
this briefing. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/05/business/dealbook/steve-case-flyover-startups
.html

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              361 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 7, 2017 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

How the Bot Stole Christmas: Toys Like Fingerlings Are Snapped Up and Resold

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA CARON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Express; Pg.

LENGTH: 1117 words


Fingerlings, those colorful chirping monkeys (and sloths and unicorns) that wrap
around your finger, have become one of the most desired toys on holiday shopping
lists.

Unfortunately, the $15 creatures are sold out online almost everywhere. Toys
''R'' Us? Gone. Walmart? None left in stock. Target? Nope.

But check eBay or Amazon, and sellers are offering them for double, triple and
quadruple their original price. There's even one on eBay being advertised for
$5,000.

Hot holiday toys have always been hard to find. The long list of heartbreakers
includes Cabbage Patch Kids dolls, which caused parents to mob stores in the
1980s, Tickle Me Elmo in 1996, and a toy version of the ''Star Wars'' droid
BB-8, which quickly sold out in 2015.

But the proliferation of online shopping makes it even tougher to purchase
coveted items because of software that snaps them up as soon as they are offered
for sale.

''If it's popular, it's going to be taken by bots and resold,'' said Omri Iluz,
the co-founder and chief executive of the cybersecurity firm PerimeterX, in a
phone interview.

The bots work by constantly pinging retail websites, searching for sales and
analyzing URLs.

The moment an item is in stock, the software runs through the checkout process
at a speed that is ''completely inhuman,'' said Mr. Iluz, whose company protects
large retailers and other organizations from bot attacks.

The bots are drawn to scarce items ''like sharks to blood'' and use web-scraping
techniques to guess the ID of an unreleased product, PerimeterX explains on its
website. That allows scalpers to buy products before an official sale becomes
public. Bots can also subscribe to online notifications of sales and bypass
purchasing limits set by retailers by using multiple internet addresses.

Laura Oliver, who blogs about deals on her website, A Frugal Chick, has been
keeping tabs on Fingerlings, the brainchild of the company WowWee, for months,
and notified her readers on Facebook whenever she found a retailer that had them
in stock.

It was an all-consuming job.

''I have had dreams about Fingerlings,'' she said.

On Amazon, Fingerlings priced at $15 will sometimes last as long as 25 minutes,
Ms. Oliver said.

''They are the only one that if I throw it up on social media I feel like my
people have a chance to get it before it disappears,'' she said. ''I've had
readers comment that they've put the Fingerlings in their cart on the Walmart
website and when they go to check out, it's gone.''

Walmart did not respond to a request for comment.

Toys ''R'' Us says on its website that Fingerlings are available in its
brick-and-mortar stores. When asked about the cyber bots, the retailer declined
to comment, referring instead to a statement from Christin Fernandez, vice
president for communications for the Retail Industry Leaders Association that
said retailers and suppliers ''are working around the clock to make sure
American families have access to the season's hottest items'' and are
''committed to taking precautions to mitigate fraud and illegal transactions.''

Amazon said Tuesday that it monitors bot buying activity, and attempts to limit
the purchase of high-demand products.

Target has also taken measures to deter resellers, said a company spokesman,
Eddie Baeb, ''including quantity limits for purchases and technologies designed
to help us monitor and prevent reseller activity.''

Other hot toys, like the Barbie Hello Dreamhouse, the L.O.L. Surprise! Doll and
the Super Nintendo Entertainment System NES Classic Edition have also sold out,
but are appearing on Amazon and eBay advertised at prices several times higher
than retail.

''The entire ecosystem breaks down,'' Mr. Iluz said. Bots are making legal
purchases, but they don't become loyal customers, and they won't leave positive
reviews.

And customers get frustrated.

''When an advertised item is unavailable because of out-of-stocks, customers
don't blame bots, they blame the retailer,'' Roger Beahm, a professor of
marketing at the Wake Forest University School of Business, said in an email.

On Sunday, Chuck Schumer, the Senate minority leader, asked retail trade
associations to take action.

''When it comes to purchasing products online, major retailers should put forth
policies that will help prevent future Grinch bots from stealing the season's
hottest toys,'' he said in a statement.

Unusual purchases ought to raise a red flag said Angelo Roefaro, a spokesman for
Mr. Schumer.

''Say there's a suspicious order placed -- for example a massive quantity at
extreme speed -- they should be able to have some human intervention in that
transaction and potentially block the sale,'' Mr. Roefaro said in an email.

David French, senior vice president for government relations at the National
Retail Federation, said in a statement Monday that the federation shares Mr.
Schumer's concerns, ''and we look forward to working with him and all interested
parties to strengthen enforcement against bad actors and take away the tools
being used against innocent consumers, particularly during the holiday season.''

Mr. Schumer co-sponsored the Better Online Ticket Sales Act, or BOTS Act, which
was signed into law last December, and is targeted at online ticket scalpers.
The law makes it illegal to bypass ticketing website security measures, and
would fine hackers who seek to circumvent the system.

Ticket-scalping bots were partly responsible for the ''Hamilton'' ticket
shortage and also snatched up tickets for other shows that were in high demand,
like a U2 concert where a single scalper bought more than 1,000 tickets in under
a minute, according to an investigation by the New York State attorney general.

Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, who also co-sponsored the
BOTS Act, said in a phone interview Tuesday that he aimed to introduce new
legislation to combat the ''plague'' of bots that buy up toys, sneakers and
other popular retail items.

''I think if there was a specific law it would encourage and empower the Federal
Trade Commission or criminal investigators to go after them, and we might learn
more about them and identify some of the specific culprits,'' he said.

For parents who were left empty-handed after searching for popular toys, there
are still plenty of gifts out there that children will love -- like Magna-Tiles
or the Hatchimals that were so hard to find last year.

The yearly rush to buy the hottest toy is often guided by emotions, Mr. Beahm
said.

''Sometimes it's important to remain a little more rational in our purchase
decisions,'' he added, and to remember the fate of fad items like the Beanie
Babies, which are now ''practically worthless.''




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/06/business/bots-shopping-christmas-holidays.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              362 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 10, 2017 Sunday 00:00 EST

Reminding E-Commerce Customers Who Delivers;
Advertising

BYLINE: ZACH SCHONBRUN

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 1045 words



HIGHLIGHT: During the holiday season, the three giants of package delivery
services -- FedEx, United Parcel Service and the United States Postal Service --
focus on the home.


For a recent commercial, FedEx tried something unusual. It was not set in a
bustling office. It did not feature one of its distinctive delivery trucks, or
even a single package.

Instead, there was a smiling Drew Brees, quarterback of the New Orleans Saints,
ringing a doorbell and waving an app in the face of an unsuspecting homeowner.
The message was simple.

"It's about letting the customer know they can have control over the destiny of
their package," Raj Subramaniam, FedEx's chief marketing and communications
officer, said.

Increasingly, its customers are consumers themselves. And as the holiday
shopping season approached, with online retail surging, the three giants of
package delivery services -- FedEx, United Parcel Service and the United States
Postal Service -- had to strategize on new ways to address people at home.

That represents somewhat of a departure for the major parcel services,
specifically FedEx and U.P.S., which have traditionally focused on their
relationships with retailers and that business-to-business connection. The
Postal Service has been the nation's mail carrier since 1792, yet only more
recently have packages become an area of emphasis.

[Video: FedEx TV Ad: Broke Down Watch on YouTube.]

But with e-commerce sales expected to eclipse $100 billion this year for the
first time, according to research by Adobe, somebody has to deliver all those
goods to all those doorsteps. Today, there is more competition over the "last
mile" -- getting packages into the hands of consumers -- than perhaps ever
before. Companies like Uber, Postmates and LaserShip are trying their hand at
on-demand and same-day deliveries, while Amazon may soon introduce its own
delivery service, Seller Flex.

This has prompted some couriers to rethink what they are offering and how their
messages are reaching different customers.

James Cochrane, senior vice president and chief customer and marketing officer
for the Postal Service, said that, for most the year, the company tries to
showcase e-commerce brands and the packages they deliver in its advertising.
But, now, during the peak shopping season, it is emphasizing households and
neighborhood relationships.

"This time of the year, we get on the porch," Mr. Cochrane said. "The rest of
the year we're in the warehouse."

U.P.S. said it expected to deliver 750 million packages between Thanksgiving and
New Year's, a 5 percent increase over last year. It expects about 65 percent of
those packages to be delivered directly to homes, a spokesman said, about the
same as last year.

That has prompted a variety of initiatives aimed at the "end customer," said
Louis DeJianne, U.P.S.'s vice president of retail marketing. Though Mr. DeJianne
said ad spending remains steady throughout the year, the company has tried to
highlight some of its e-commerce-related offerings through an increase in
digital ads. Among them are U.P.S. Access Point, which allows customers to pick
up packages from a locker at a designated location; Saturday deliveries; and a
program that makes it easier for customers to handle returns.

"We looked at how consumers engage with the retailer from searching, buying,
checkout, delivery, on through to return," Mr. DeJianne said. "When we analyze
the needs of retail, we recognize that reverse logistics is also important to
the consumer."

A few years ago, the Postal Service sought to end its Saturday delivery
practices for budget reasons. Now, the Postal Service is delivering packages
even on Sundays in major cities during the holiday rush. An estimated 6 million
parcels a day will be delivered this December.

"Everyone is being held to a new norm," Mr. Cochrane said. "Having seven-day
delivery gives us an advantage in the marketplace. We don't talk in business
days. We're delivering every day."

The National Retail Federation said that more people planned to shop online this
year (59 percent) than ever before, and already there have been delivery
hiccups. Last week, U.P.S. said some package deliveries had been delayed as it
struggled to handle a surge of online orders on Cyber Monday.

The rate of growth for e-commerce has not been surprising, Mr. Subramaniam said.
But, increasingly, he said FedEx -- which counts e-commerce as 20 percent of its
overall portfolio -- is being held to a higher standard for three elements of
its service: reliability, convenience and control.

That's shaped the corporate messaging, which has focused on informing
residential customers about ways to customize delivery options (such as the ad
featuring Mr. Brees) and emphasizing the scope of FedEx's logistical network,
which one recent ad described as working like "magic."

"That infrastructure is not something that can be achieved overnight," Mr.
Subramaniam said.

Patrick Fitzgerald, FedEx's senior vice president of integrated marketing and
communications, said same-day delivery accounted for only a small percentage of
the overall shipping landscape.

Satish Jindel, the founder of the SJ Consulting Group, which advises
transportation and logistics firms, said he did not expect Amazon to pose a
major threat to the existing couriers. But, he said, the explosion of delivery
demand has been a catalyst for change.

"If they don't do it, there are a lot of small companies coming into business
who are glad to do it on Sundays and Saturdays," he said. "It will create a
whole new dynamic in the parcel industry."

Mr. DeJianne said Amazon remains an open and communicative customer of U.P.S.

"As we're moving forward with our strategies, we're often at the table with them
discussing their strategies as well," he said. "We have a good relationship."

Still, even without Amazon in the mix, delivery services are dealing with
changing customer demands.

"It used to be that shipping was more about business days," Mr. Cochrane, of the
Postal Service, said. "Or you'd shop and shipping would be five to seven days.
But expectations have changed."

PHOTO: Picking up a package at a U.P.S. Accent Point in a New York City
pharmacy. E-commerce demands have prompted new services. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMON
HASSAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    A Street Fight Among Grocers to Deliver Your Milk, Eggs, Bananas
     ·    Amazon's Latest Way Into Your Life Is Through the Front Door
     ·    Buy a Sofa Online? Wayfair Is Counting on It


LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              363 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 11, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Keeping Up in the Fevered Delivery Business

BYLINE: By ZACH SCHONBRUN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 999 words


For a recent commercial, FedEx tried something unusual. It was not set in a
bustling office. It did not feature one of its distinctive delivery trucks, or
even a single package.

Instead, there was a smiling Drew Brees, quarterback of the New Orleans Saints,
ringing a doorbell and waving an app in the face of an unsuspecting homeowner.
The message was simple.

''It's about letting the customer know they can have control over the destiny of
their package,'' Raj Subramaniam, FedEx's chief marketing and communications
officer, said.

Increasingly, its customers are consumers themselves. And as the holiday
shopping season approached, with online retail surging, the three giants of
package delivery services -- FedEx, United Parcel Service and the United States
Postal Service -- had to strategize on new ways to address people at home.

That represents somewhat of a departure for the major parcel services,
specifically FedEx and U.P.S., which have traditionally focused on their
relationships with retailers and that business-to-business connection. The
Postal Service has been the nation's mail carrier since 1792, yet only more
recently have packages become an area of emphasis.

[Video: FedEx TV Ad: Broke Down Watch on YouTube.]

But with e-commerce sales expected to eclipse $100 billion this year for the
first time, according to research by Adobe, somebody has to deliver all those
goods to all those doorsteps. Today, there is more competition over the ''last
mile'' -- getting packages into the hands of consumers -- than perhaps ever
before. Companies like Uber, Postmates and LaserShip are trying their hand at
on-demand and same-day deliveries, while Amazon may soon introduce its own
delivery service, Seller Flex.

This has prompted some couriers to rethink what they are offering and how their
messages are reaching different customers.

James Cochrane, senior vice president and chief customer and marketing officer
for the Postal Service, said that, for most the year, the company tries to
showcase e-commerce brands and the packages they deliver in its advertising.
But, now, during the peak shopping season, it is emphasizing households and
neighborhood relationships.

''This time of the year, we get on the porch,'' Mr. Cochrane said. ''The rest of
the year we're in the warehouse.''

U.P.S. said it expected to deliver 750 million packages between Thanksgiving and
New Year's, a 5 percent increase over last year. It expects about 65 percent of
those packages to be delivered directly to homes, a spokesman said, about the
same as last year.

That has prompted a variety of initiatives aimed at the ''end customer,'' said
Louis DeJianne, U.P.S.'s vice president of retail marketing. Though Mr. DeJianne
said ad spending remains steady throughout the year, the company has tried to
highlight some of its e-commerce-related offerings through an increase in
digital ads. Among them are U.P.S. Access Point, which allows customers to pick
up packages from a locker at a designated location; Saturday deliveries; and a
program that makes it easier for customers to handle returns.

''We looked at how consumers engage with the retailer from searching, buying,
checkout, delivery, on through to return,'' Mr. DeJianne said. ''When we analyze
the needs of retail, we recognize that reverse logistics is also important to
the consumer.''

A few years ago, the Postal Service sought to end its Saturday delivery
practices for budget reasons. Now, the Postal Service is delivering packages
even on Sundays in major cities during the holiday rush. An estimated 6 million
parcels a day will be delivered this December.

''Everyone is being held to a new norm,'' Mr. Cochrane said. ''Having seven-day
delivery gives us an advantage in the marketplace. We don't talk in business
days. We're delivering every day.''

The National Retail Federation said that more people planned to shop online this
year (59 percent) than ever before, and already there have been delivery
hiccups. Last week, U.P.S. said some package deliveries had been delayed as it
struggled to handle a surge of online orders on Cyber Monday.

The rate of growth for e-commerce has not been surprising, Mr. Subramaniam said.
But, increasingly, he said FedEx -- which counts e-commerce as 20 percent of its
overall portfolio -- is being held to a higher standard for three elements of
its service: reliability, convenience and control.

That's shaped the corporate messaging, which has focused on informing
residential customers about ways to customize delivery options (such as the ad
featuring Mr. Brees) and emphasizing the scope of FedEx's logistical network,
which one recent ad described as working like ''magic.''

''That infrastructure is not something that can be achieved overnight,'' Mr.
Subramaniam said.

Patrick Fitzgerald, FedEx's senior vice president of integrated marketing and
communications, said same-day delivery accounted for only a small percentage of
the overall shipping landscape.

Satish Jindel, the founder of the SJ Consulting Group, which advises
transportation and logistics firms, said he did not expect Amazon to pose a
major threat to the existing couriers. But, he said, the explosion of delivery
demand has been a catalyst for change.

''If they don't do it, there are a lot of small companies coming into business
who are glad to do it on Sundays and Saturdays,'' he said. ''It will create a
whole new dynamic in the parcel industry.''

Mr. DeJianne said Amazon remains an open and communicative customer of U.P.S.

''As we're moving forward with our strategies, we're often at the table with
them discussing their strategies as well,'' he said. ''We have a good
relationship.''

Still, even without Amazon in the mix, delivery services are dealing with
changing customer demands.

''It used to be that shipping was more about business days,'' Mr. Cochrane, of
the Postal Service, said. ''Or you'd shop and shipping would be five to seven
days. But expectations have changed.''




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/10/business/media/delivery-fedex-post-office.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Picking up a package at a U.P.S. Accent Point in a New York City
pharmacy. E-commerce demands have prompted new services. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMON
HASSAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              364 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     December 13, 2017 Wednesday 00:00 EST

One Clue to the Upset in Alabama: 22,800 Write-In Votes

BYLINE: ALAN BLINDER and TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 897 words



HIGHLIGHT: Many of the write-in votes, which exceeded the margin of victory for
Doug Jones, are thought to have been cast by Republicans displeased with Roy S.
Moore.


MONTGOMERY, Ala. -- As supporters of Roy S. Moore on Wednesday sifted the
results of his stunning loss in Alabama, one number jumped out: About 22,800
write-in votes were cast, more than the gap separating Mr. Moore, the
scandal-plagued Republican, from the victorious Doug Jones, the first Democratic
senator elected in the state in a quarter-century.

Many of the votes are thought to have been cast by Republicans displeased by Mr.
Moore but unwilling to cross party lines, and who wanted to register a protest.

"I would bet strongly it was good Republican voters who couldn't stomach voting
for Roy Moore, but didn't want to stay home,'' said Brent Buchanan, a Republican
strategist in Alabama. "It was a protest vote.''

One was Senator Richard C. Shelby, the Republican dean of Alabama's
congressional delegation, who said over the weekend that he could not vote for
Mr. Moore and had written in the name of "a distinguished Republican'' whom he
declined to identify. Stephen K. Bannon, President Trump's former White House
adviser, said on Monday at a Moore rally that there was "a special place in
hell" for Republicans like Mr. Shelby.

An array of factors fueled Mr. Jones's upset win in a deeply conservative state,
including a surge in black turnout and pervasive frustration with Mr. Moore
among well-heeled suburban residents who ordinarily push Republicans to victory.
Some strategists suggested that the write-in votes also tipped the race,
depriving Mr. Moore, who was accused of sexually assaulting teenage girls, of
the support that a less-compromised Republican would have garnered.

"Those are people who value democracy and intellectual consistency and
conservative ideals so much that they were still willing to go to the polls and
vote," said Collier Tynes, a Republican who was chief of staff to Dianne Bentley
when she was first lady of Alabama. But they are unwilling, she said, "to
compromise human decency and conservative ideals."

No less a strategist than Mr. Trump, who made a late push for Mr. Moore, drew
attention to the write-in votes as the race was called on Tuesday night. "The
write-in votes played a very big factor, but a win is a win,'' Mr. Trump wrote
on Twitter.

By Wednesday night, with the margin between the candidates at 1.5 percent in
unofficial results, Mr. Moore had not conceded, and his campaign made no formal
statements. Alabama's secretary of state, John H. Merrill, said the gap, small
as it was, was not small enough to cause an automatic recount.

Because the number of write-in votes appears to exceed the margin of victory, an
Alabama law that requires that the names of write-in candidates be officially
tallied is likely to be triggered. Mr. Merrill will determine whether the
counting requirement applies by noon on Monday.

Such a count would reveal who, exactly, had snared the votes that might have
secured a rare Democratic victory. Past elections have shown a variety of
write-in recipients: friends, neighbors, pastors, an imprisoned former governor.
Perhaps in that spirit, a liberal "super PAC" sought to starve Mr. Moore of
support by promoting Nick Saban, the head football coach at the University of
Alabama, as a write-in. (Mr. Saban, who has won four national championships at
Alabama and is the state's highest-paid public employee, has said relatively
little over the years about his politics, but he is an especially common
write-in. A spokesman said Wednesday that Mr. Saban was not available for
comment.)

County-level results suggested that write-in votes hurt Mr. Moore. In two large
counties, Madison and Tuscaloosa, write-ins accounted for at least 1.9 percent
of the votes cast, ahead of the statewide average. Mr. Jones won both counties,
each of which Mr. Trump carried in 2016. In exit polls, demographic groups with
the largest proportions of write-in votes included white college graduates (3
percent) and voters aged 18 to 29 (3 percent).

Samuel Moffett, 26, a chemical engineer, called himself "a strong Christian" who
used to vote straight Republican. This time, he said, he wrote in the name of
Ron Bishop of the Libertarian Party.

Despite Mr. Moore's strenuous appeals to evangelical Christians, Mr. Moffett
said that he found the candidate's attacks on his female accusers, and his past
suggestion that homosexuality should be criminalized, to be disqualifying.

"I don't think he really acts on the Christian beliefs I want people to
associate with my faith," said Mr. Moffett, who lives in St. Clair County. "He
uses his faith as a cop-out."

Nicholas Franklin, 28, a cyber security specialist in Madison County, said he
wrote in the name of a local librarian because he thought Mr. Jones was too
liberal, and because he disliked Mr. Moore, who was effectively removed twice
from the State Supreme Court, even before the accusations of sexual misconduct.

"I don't vote for demagogues," he said.

Alan Blinder reported from Montgomery, and Trip Gabriel from New York. Marc
Tracy contributed reporting from New York.

Related Articles


     ·    For Trump, a Moment of Defeat but Maybe Not Recalibration
     ·    In Alabama, Blacks Saw a Vote Against Moore as a Vote Against Turning
          Back the Clock.
     ·    Alabama Women 'Make a Stand' in First Election of the #MeToo Era
     ·    Why Turnout Shifts in Alabama Bode Well for Democrats
     ·    Doug Jones: A Lawyer in the Thick of Alabama's Big Moments
     ·    Once a Long Shot, Democrat Doug Jones Wins Alabama Senate Race


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              365 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 14, 2017 Thursday 22:00 EST

What if You Couldn't See This Page?;
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: NICK FRISCH

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1146 words



HIGHLIGHT: This nightmare internet scenario is at our digital doorstep.


Update: The F.C.C. voted on Thursday to repeal net neutrality rules.

HONG KONG -- To taste a future without net neutrality, try browsing the web in
Beijing. China's internet, provided through telecom giants aligned with the
Communist Party, is a digital dystopia, filtered by the vast censorship
apparatus known as China's Great Firewall. Some sites load with soul-withering
slowness, or not at all. Others appear instantly. Content vanishes without
warning or explanation. The culprit is rarely knowable. A faulty Wi-Fi router? A
neighborhood power failure? Commercial sabotage? A clampdown on political
dissent? To most Chinese netizens, the reason matters little. They simply
gravitate to the few sites that aren't slowed or blocked entirely: the Chinese
counterparts of Facebook, Google, and Twitter. But these Chinese platforms come
with heavy government surveillance and censorship by corporate and party
apparatchiks. For the Communist Party and its commercial allies, this is
win-win, cementing respective monopolies on political markets and consumer
power.

The Trump administration's plan to dismantle net neutrality regulations has
brought this nightmare scenario to America's digital doorstep. With the Federal
Communications Commission scheduled to vote on the issue today, the threatened
rollback not only imperils fair play and free speech; it will also empower
foreign entities with substantial market-making power, like China's government,
to meddle in American public discourse on a scale dwarfing Russia's recent cyber
-chicanery. Worse, abolishing net neutrality gives American corporations the
means, motive and opportunity to become accomplices in selling out our freedom
of speech.

Net neutrality is called the First Amendment of the internet for a good reason.
Obama-era net neutrality rules classed telecom giants, such as AT&T, as "common
carriers," de facto public utilities like water and electricity companies. This
status prohibits corporate bosses from abusing control over network
infrastructure to stifle rivals or favor subsidiaries. Under net neutrality
rules, a company like Comcast, which owns NBC, cannot throttle data flows
carrying Netflix's competing TV shows, any more than General Electric, once a
majority stakeholder in NBC and corporate parent to Jay Leno's "Tonight Show,"
could have cut the power to David Letterman's "Late Show" studios at CBS. These
content-neutral safeguards apply to political speech as much as to "Orange Is
the New Black." They enshrine a basic American value: that diverse opinions,
from diverse sources, are a pillar of public welfare. Eliminating net neutrality
allows corporations to tamper with data flows on their networks without public
oversight or accountability. If a connection is slow for MSNBC but not for Fox
News, you may never learn why.

Beijing, meanwhile, is not shy about using its political and economic heft to
blot out dissent beyond China's borders, employing tactics that blend politics
and commerce. The process starts at home: Foreign media firms seeking access to
China's enormous markets face intense pressure from Communist Party gatekeepers
to make odious concessions on content control and privacy. Then, the chilling
effects spread overseas. This has already happened in Hollywood: If you can't
distribute a film like "Seven Years in Tibet" in China's giant market, why
bother making it at all? (That 1997 project would never be greenlit today.)
Facebook, long locked out of the Chinese market, is flirting with censorship in
a likely bid to gain entry. After the Facebook page of Guo Wengui, a prominent
regime critic living in exile, vanished last spring, Facebook blamed a systems
error. As a private corporation, it is under no obligation to provide more
detail.

As the incentives and opportunities to self-censor accumulate, content providers
will gravitate to producing and promoting whatever reaches the most customers
worldwide, even if that means pleasing Chinese cyber-commissars who control
access to a billion of them. Content providers -- companies like Facebook and
LinkedIn -- are not, after all, common carriers. They do not control the pipes,
or carry a unique public trust in the eyes of the government. As private
businesses, they are not bound by the First Amendment. Self-censorship is simply
good business.

It is much more dangerous to grant American telecom companies -- those that do
control the pipes -- the right to tamper with data flows and discriminate among
content. American businesses' track record of helping China export censorship
and Beijing's aggressive and platform-agnostic efforts to squelch unwanted
speech overseas are a dangerous combination.

For those telecom conglomerates that have current or potential business before
the Chinese government, the temptation to take behind-the-scenes guidance on
content "management" as a quid pro quo for market access may prove irresistible.
China already exports its cutting-edge internet censorship technologies, honed
in the world's largest natural laboratory for "opinion guidance," to
authoritarian countries around the world. These technologies are masterpieces of
subtlety and sophistication, offering a world-class censorship experience
amenable to consumers and commissars alike. They rarely resort to the "hard"
censorship of crude deletion, but rather give a suite of "softer" monitoring and
management tools to steer public discourse and discourage all but the most
dogged netizens from accessing undesirable content. For those who stick to
domestic and approved Chinese sites, the browsing experience is speedy and
seamless, the sutures where unwanted content has been excised barely visible.

Browsing the web in China today, one rarely encounters the once ubiquitous "your
connection has been reset" or "due to relevant laws and regulations, this
content cannot be shown." You're likelier to endure a load time that's just a
split-second too long, get bored and move elsewhere. Under this system, even
content creators who refuse self-censorship, regardless of consequences -- such
as The Times, which has been blocked in China since reporting on the party
leaders' family wealth in 2012 -- may find their ability to reach consumers at
the mercy of the companies that run the pipes. Without net neutrality, American
firms will have no obligation to provide equal access for content, and minimal
statutory requirement to explain why one piece of content might arrive more
slowly than another.

In the future, if the article you're reading loads slowly, or not at all, you
might not know the reason. But you can guess.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Nick Frisch (nbbf88) is an Asian studies doctoral candidate at Yale's graduate
school and a resident fellow at Yale Law School's Information Society Project.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 14, 2017 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In 22,800 Write-In Votes, Intriguing Clue to an Upset

BYLINE: By ALAN BLINDER and TRIP GABRIEL; Alan Blinder reported from Montgomery,
and Trip Gabriel from New York. Marc Tracy contributed reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 820 words


MONTGOMERY, Ala. -- As supporters of Roy S. Moore on Wednesday sifted the
results of his stunning loss in Alabama, one number jumped out: About 22,800
write-in votes were cast, more than the gap separating Mr. Moore, the
scandal-plagued Republican, from the victorious Doug Jones, the first Democratic
senator elected in the state in a quarter-century.

Many of the votes are thought to have been cast by Republicans displeased by Mr.
Moore but unwilling to cross party lines, and who wanted to register a protest.

''I would bet strongly it was good Republican voters who couldn't stomach voting
for Roy Moore, but didn't want to stay home,'' said Brent Buchanan, a Republican
strategist in Alabama. ''It was a protest vote.''

One was Senator Richard C. Shelby, the Republican dean of Alabama's
congressional delegation, who said over the weekend that he could not vote for
Mr. Moore and had written in the name of ''a distinguished Republican'' whom he
declined to identify. Stephen K. Bannon, President Trump's former White House
adviser, said on Monday at a Moore rally that there was ''a special place in
hell'' for Republicans like Mr. Shelby.

An array of factors fueled Mr. Jones's upset win in a deeply conservative state,
including a surge in black turnout and pervasive frustration with Mr. Moore
among well-heeled suburban residents who ordinarily push Republicans to victory.
Some strategists suggested that the write-in votes also tipped the race,
depriving Mr. Moore, who was accused of sexually assaulting teenage girls, of
the support that a less-compromised Republican would have garnered.

''Those are people who value democracy and intellectual consistency and
conservative ideals so much that they were still willing to go to the polls and
vote,'' said Collier Tynes, a Republican who was chief of staff to Dianne
Bentley when she was first lady of Alabama. But they are unwilling, she said,
''to compromise human decency and conservative ideals.''

No less a strategist than Mr. Trump, who made a late push for Mr. Moore, drew
attention to the write-in votes as the race was called on Tuesday night. ''The
write-in votes played a very big factor, but a win is a win,'' Mr. Trump wrote
on Twitter.

By Wednesday night, with the margin between the candidates at 1.5 percent in
unofficial results, Mr. Moore had not conceded, and his campaign made no formal
statements. Alabama's secretary of state, John H. Merrill, said the gap, small
as it was, was not small enough to cause an automatic recount.

Because the number of write-in votes appears to exceed the margin of victory, an
Alabama law that requires that the names of write-in candidates be officially
tallied is likely to be triggered. Mr. Merrill will determine whether the
counting requirement applies by noon on Monday.

Such a count would reveal who, exactly, had snared the votes that might have
secured a rare Democratic victory. Past elections have shown a variety of
write-in recipients: friends, neighbors, pastors, an imprisoned former governor.
Perhaps in that spirit, a liberal ''super PAC'' sought to starve Mr. Moore of
support by promoting Nick Saban, the head football coach at the University of
Alabama, as a write-in. (Mr. Saban, who has won four national championships at
Alabama and is the state's highest-paid public employee, has said relatively
little over the years about his politics, but he is an especially common
write-in. A spokesman said Wednesday that Mr. Saban was not available for
comment.)

County-level results suggested that write-in votes hurt Mr. Moore. In two large
counties, Madison and Tuscaloosa, write-ins accounted for at least 1.9 percent
of the votes cast, ahead of the statewide average. Mr. Jones won both counties,
each of which Mr. Trump carried in 2016. In exit polls, demographic groups with
the largest proportions of write-in votes included white college graduates (3
percent) and voters aged 18 to 29 (3 percent).

Samuel Moffett, 26, a chemical engineer, called himself ''a strong Christian''
who used to vote straight Republican. This time, he said, he wrote in the name
of Ron Bishop of the Libertarian Party.

Despite Mr. Moore's strenuous appeals to evangelical Christians, Mr. Moffett
said that he found the candidate's attacks on his female accusers, and his past
suggestion that homosexuality should be criminalized, to be disqualifying.

''I don't think he really acts on the Christian beliefs I want people to
associate with my faith,'' said Mr. Moffett, who lives in St. Clair County. ''He
uses his faith as a cop-out.''

Nicholas Franklin, 28, a cyber security specialist in Madison County, said he
wrote in the name of a local librarian because he thought Mr. Jones was too
liberal, and because he disliked Mr. Moore, who was effectively removed twice
from the State Supreme Court, even before the accusations of sexual misconduct.

''I don't vote for demagogues,'' he said.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/13/us/alabama-senate-jones-moore-writeins.html

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A voter in Oneonta, Ala. The number of write-in votes exceeded
Doug Jones's margin of victory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB MILLER FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              367 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 15, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

Guns Under the Christmas Tree, and Transformed Into Tools;
Editorial Notebook

BYLINE: FRANCIS X. CLINES

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 558 words



HIGHLIGHT: Black Friday set a record for gun sales. Meanwhile, a program buys
back firearms and melts them into gardening equipment.


Beyond the usual barometers of the Christmas marketing season -- this year's
Fingerling toy is a must-have for children -- there is the Black Friday tally of
holiday gun buyers, which this year broke all previous records.

For the single-day binge of gun sales measured annually after Thanksgiving, the
F.B.I. received 203,086 requests for background checks. This is the most ever in
a single day, topping last year's Black Friday high of 185,713 requests. (No
immediate tweets from President Trump, the candidate of the National Rifle
Association, that this is huge in making America great again.)

There were undoubtedly even more guns actually sold, since an F.B.I. request can
cover a buyer's multiple purchases. All seasonal evidence indicates that AR-15
assault rifles, the battlefield knockoffs familiar to so many Americans in the
relentless tales of mass shootings, will be under many Christmas trees. "Bang
for the buck!" enthused the blog post of one seasonal shopper. "I picked up a
Bushmaster carbine with rebate for around $400 ... I couldn't be happier."

Not to crimp such holiday cheer, but the police department in New Haven, Conn.,
plans a small biblical twist to America's avid gun culture: a gun buyback on
Saturday in which prison inmate volunteers will transform surrendered weapons
into gardening tools to be provided to schools so students can plant and harvest
vegetables for soup kitchens.

This takes the swords-into-plowshares dictum to a creative new level. The police
running the buyback promise to ask no questions of anyone turning in a weapon.
In return, they offer gift cards worth $25 per small, Derringer-like handgun.
Rifles and shotguns come in at $50 each, pistols and revolvers at $100, and
high-powered assault weapons are the most prized here, too, at $200.

The police worked out the buyback in cooperation with RAWtools Inc., a gun
safety program that specializes in breaking apart firearms and reforging gun
barrels into safer things, and the Newtown Foundation, created after the
massacre of 20 schoolchildren and six staff members five years ago at Sandy
HookElementary School in Newtown.

No one expects drastic results in crime statistics. But buybacks are considered
important by police officials in various cities for getting some guns off the
streets and out of owners' badly secured homes. They are a tangible commitment
to gun safety, particularly as elected politicians prove largely useless on the
subject. Over the past six years, the New Haven police have collected nearly 700
guns in buybacks, run at government expense, in which the firearms were broken
apart and discarded.

The new reforging approach is supported by Gun by Gun, a safety group run by
private donations, and Yale-New Haven Hospital, whose emergency room chief, Gail
D'Onofrio, speaks from the harshest experience: "Fewer guns means fewer deaths."
If nothing else, the forces at work in the plowshare buyback offer a humble
reminder that there can be more to the gun safety issue than the monolithic
standoff in Washington.

"You're taking a weapon of death and turning it into the complete opposite,
which is life," said Steven Yanovsky of the Newtown Foundation. "So you go from
a rifle or a handgun to carrots."

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              368 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 15, 2017 Friday 03:42 EST

What's in a Rick Owens Retrospective? Whatever He Wants

BYLINE: HETTIE JUDAH

SECTION: FASHION

LENGTH: 1266 words



HIGHLIGHT: The designer's exhibition in Milan, which opens Dec. 15, includes his
fashion designs but also a sculptural intrusion -- globular, coiled, ominous.


Correction Appended

You enter the Rick Owens exhibition at the Triennale di Milano through a tall
notch sliced from a white wall angled like a ziggurat. Within, a darkened
antechamber has a backstage vibe. Two columns of spotlights mounted on a
scaffolding arch face off, creating a wall of light beams through which you
cross, as if passing through a final check before stepping out onto the runway.

"Subhuman Inhuman Superhuman" is the first retrospective in Mr. Owens's 23-year
fashion career. The runway atmosphere is not coincidental, Mr. Owens said. On
the one hand, the introspection that goes into a self-curated retrospective
dictates that "this is kind of a portentous, significant moment." On the other:
"It's also another show, and I do four shows a year. If I didn't, something like
this would be a lot more intense, probably. It's kind of a show of all my
shows."

Icy-crisp winter daylight courses through high windows in the exhibition proper,
which opens with a group of white-clad mannequins on raised platforms. Their
dress is Rick Owens classical -- draped, twisted and pleated Grecian robes
queered with horsehair, beaten lambskin and outsize bugle beads. The atmosphere
is cyber-temple: Madame Grès goes "Star Wars." Undercutting this ethereal
atmosphere is an ominous black globular form that bursts through the front wall
and streams in serpentine coils through the 330-foot length of the Triennale's
horseshoe-shaped gallery.

This sculptural intrusion is, in part, a reference to Mr. Owens's notorious
pronouncement, made some 20 years ago, that he would "lay a black glittering
turd on the white landscape of conformity." Suspended from the ceiling by metal
cables, the structure itself contains a witchy amalgam of concrete, crushed
lilies, sand from Venice and wads of the designer's own hair.

For 30 years, Mr. Owens has stored the shed hair from his brush. In itself it
is, he said, another kind of created object. "My hair is naturally curly and
white. I wanted Cher hair. I wanted Joe Dallesandro hair. I wanted Joe
Dallesandro abs. I didn't have any of that stuff, and I made it happen. I got a
trainer, I took steroids, I went to the gym for years, I got the abs, I
straightened the teeth, I straightened the hair with chemicals, I dyed it. It's
a self-invention. This is my drag. I made this."

In the Milan sunlight, Mr. Owens's hair has the improbable black sheen of
laboratory carbon. Slim and tanned to the tips of his earlobes, he is bundled up
against the cold in a high-neck cashmere sweater and podlike duvet coat. He
chews gum and emits the delicious smell of Aesop face cream.

The coiling black structure was, the designer said, his first idea when the
Triennale offered him this space, though he admits: "It's so first degree" that
his wife, Michèle Lamy, "thought it was really dumb to use it." The snaking
sculpture also reflects Mr. Owens's current interest in monumental works of land
art by Michael Heizer and Richard Long. (It's a genre that's "about leaving your
mark, wrestling with the world, shaking your fist against the sky and saying
'I'm going to control you,'" he said.) While it's an unconventional inclusion in
an exhibition of fashion and furniture design, the structure serves a number of
interesting functions, breaking up the space, steering visitors and offering an
earthy, abject counterpoint to such cherished qualities as beauty, elegance and
refinement.

Mr. Owens returns often to the idea of equilibrium. It's a theme he sees
underscoring his life and work, in which he positions himself as a
counterbalance to joyless and conservative tendencies. He fights hard against
binaries and conventions, including those prevalent within his own industry.

"I think judging people on their appearance unfavorably is the kernel of
intolerance and bigotry," he said. If he can make "the strict rules about what
people need to look like a bit more flexible, then that's my role." In the same
breath, he admits that he is "as judgmental as anybody.

"I talk about people judging -- I'm the worst. I know both sides of it, and I
judge myself for judging."

Mr. Owens, who was born in California, studied painting and sculpture at what is
now Otis College of Art and Design in Los Angeles before pursuing a technical
qualification in pattern-cutting and draping. The act of hand-making is, he
assured me, still his day-to-day. An hourlong video, first presented at an
exhibition of his furniture design at Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles,
in 2016, shows him creating a garment from scratch on a mannequin.

"I took the video just with my phone, and it ended up being one of my favorite
things that I've ever done," he said. "But that was just luck: You only drape
something good one out of 50 times."

From a creative perspective, he does not, he admits, work well with others: "I
don't have a team of designers," he said. "I don't want to have a debate, I
don't want to have a conversation. I'm not good at sharing. I want other people
to feel comfortable so I just automatically get polite. I get passive. As a
group, that would never work creatively -- it can only be a complete
dictatorship."

The Triennale, built in 1933, is an excellent vessel for Mr. Owens's designs.
He's a big fan of pre-code Hollywood epics and describes, excitedly, both the
Art Deco elegance and "lurid fun" of Cecil B. DeMille's 1932 film, "The Sign of
the Cross," highlights of which include "virgins being eaten by crocodiles" and
"a sequence of giant women fighting African pygmies, which is so deliciously
politically incorrect."

There's more "lurid fun" in a set of vitrines loaded with show invitations,
catalogs and ephemera. These include gauntlets apparently stitched from shed
snakeskin, and a hairy, ring-shaped, "goat eye" sex accessory presented in a
wallet of bleached toad skin. There is, he said, no sequence to it: "It's all
mixed together, just a composition of how I would want to see somebody's life
laid out. I want to see an ikebana flower arrangement. I don't want a textbook."

Despite my repeated requests, Mr. Owens never detailed the themes, structure or
narrative of "Subhuman Inhuman Superhuman" for me. It was only much later that I
realized I had been asking the wrong question, using the wrong language. These
conventions of exhibition-making are just that -- conventions -- and as such
they fall outside of Mr. Owens's native vocabulary. Instead, the show seems to
be structured according to ... well, gut instinct.

He worries a little about how his excremental sculpture will be read. "People
are so sensitive now," he said. "A lot of times, people say the things that I do
are transgressive or shocking, and I think, "Doesn't this generation remember
Dadaism or Surrealism or Cubism?'"

Mr. Owens said that he habitually rejects the idea that fashion might be art. In
this exhibition of garments that radically reconfigure the human body, footwear
that accepts no logic of what a shoe might be and uncozy furniture, Dadaism does
seem an apt point of reference. Writing in a 1916 manifesto, the artist and poet
Tristan Tzara proclaimed that "Dada is life with neither bedroom slippers nor
parallels." One could say much the same for the vision of life delivered by Rick
Owens.

"Rick Owens Subhuman Inhuman Superhuman," Triennale di Milano, Dec. 15, 2017 --
March 25, 2018


Correction: December 18, 2017, Monday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article misstated, in some instances, the name of the Rick Owens
retrospective. It is "Subhuman Inhuman Superhuman," not "Subhuman Superhuman
Inhuman."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              369 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 18, 2017 Monday 10:00 EST

U.S. Accuses North Korea of Mounting WannaCry Cyberattack

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 915 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Trump administration suggested the U.S. would act against North
Korea beyond the sanctions now being imposed for its rapid expansion of its
nuclear weapons program.


WASHINGTON -- The Trump administration formally accused North Korea on Monday
night of creating the WannaCry cyberattack that briefly paralyzed the British
health system and placed ransomware on computers in dozens of countries around
the world.

President Trump's homeland security adviser, Thomas P. Bossert, wrote in an
op-ed published in The Wall Street Journal that the conclusion was "based on
evidence" that he did not disclose. He suggested that the United States would
act against North Korea -- beyond the sanctions now being imposed for its rapid
expansion of its nuclear weapons program, writing, "When we must, the U.S. will
act alone to impose costs and consequences for cybermalfeasance."

The conclusion was not by itself a surprise: The New York Times reported in May
that North Korea was the leading suspect in the attack, which encrypted hard
drives on hundreds of thousands of computers and demanded the payment of ransom
to unlock the data. Later, British officials reported that their forensic
evidence and intelligence pointed to Pyongyang, and Mr. Bossert wrote that in
recent days, Microsoft and other companies that track major threats have closed
pathways that the North's army of hackers could use for similar breaches.

Still, the assertion by the administration, which officials said would be
supported at a White House news conference on Tuesday, was notable for three
reasons.

It came almost three years to the week since President Barack Obama, appearing
in the White House press room, accused North Korea's leadership of mounting a
similarly sophisticated cyberattack on Sony Pictures Entertainment. The North
was enraged that Sony was releasing a comedy, "The Interview," envisioning a
C.I.A.-ordered assassination of Kim Jong-un, the country's young leader. That
was the first time the United States had accused another nation of a direct,
destructive online intrusion on an American target.

But the decision to name the North also stands in stark contrast to how Mr.
Trump has dealt with evidence that Russian hackers, under orders from President
Vladimir V. Putin, organized the attack on the Democratic National Committee and
the information warfare campaign that was meant to influence the 2016 election.
Mr. Trump has often dismissed the intelligence finding that Russia was behind
the hacking, declaring last month, "Putin said he did not do what they said he
did."

It is the same intelligence agencies -- and some of the government's same
experts -- that built the case against North Korea, according to members of the
intelligence community who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the
investigation.

But the third, and perhaps most delicate, element of the WannaCry attack
revolves around a fact that Mr. Bossert did not address in his op-ed: The North
exploited vulnerabilities in software developed by the division of the National
Security Agency that builds the United States' cyberweapons. The code pulled off
networks and computers compromised by WannaCry appears to have its roots in what
the agency formerly called theTailored Access Operationsdivision, which devised
online breaches.

Once it was clear the code had been stolen, the National Security Agency rushed
to contain the damage, asking Microsoft to build a "patch" in its operating
systems to prevent the attacks. But the agency has never talked about the group
that stole the computer code, called the Shadow Brokers, which many officials
believe is operating on behalf of the Russian government. But Mr. Bossert and
his deputy, Rob Joyce, who formerly ran the Tailored Access Operations, have
argued that it is the perpetrator of the attacks, not the United States
government, that must take all of the responsibility for the damage it has
wreaked.

"The consequences and repercussions of WannaCry were beyond economic," Mr.
Bossert wrote. "The malicious software hit computers in the U.K.'s health care
sector particularly hard, compromising systems that perform critical work. These
disruptions put lives at risk."

The assertion by the White House came only hours after Mr. Trump published his
new national security strategy, which calls for pushing back on states that
sponsor cyberactivity. And even some alumni of the Obama administration now
agree that they often underreacted to a range of digital threats, including
Iran's 2012 attacks on American banks, the hacking at Sony and the effort by
Russia to intervene in the election. Until now, North Korea's cyberstrikes have
prompted almost no punishment.

Mr. Bossert seems determined to change that, and he wrote about elements of a
new digital strategy that suggests that the Trump administration will be more
aggressive in alerting manufacturers to flaws found in their software. But he
has been vague about what kind of actions might be taken against those who
initiate cyberattacks.

Robert Hannigan, the former director of Britain's Government Communications
Headquarters, said last month that in the realm of digital breaches, North Korea
had benefited from being underestimated.

"Because they are such a mix of the weird and absurd and medieval and highly
sophisticated, people didn't take it seriously," he said. "How can such an
isolated, backward country have this capability? Well, how can such an isolated
backward country have this nuclear ability?"

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning
Briefing newsletter.

Related Articles


     ·    The World Once Laughed at North Korean Cyberpower. No More.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              370 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 19, 2017 Tuesday 18:32 EST

'Porch Pirates' Steal Holiday Packages as They Pile Up at Homes

BYLINE: NICK WINGFIELD

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1125 words



HIGHLIGHT: Police say package theft is up during the holiday shopping crush, but
homeowners and retailers are striking back with cameras and other technology.


SEATTLE -- It is a season for giving and, according to law enforcement officials
in Washington County, Ore., taking as well.

Two weeks ago, its Sheriff's Office ran a sting operation to catch porch
pirates, thieves who swipe packages from Amazon and other companies from
doorsteps. Detectives from the department's property crimes unit put several
electronics items worth more than $500 in a box, dropped in a tracking device
and "baited" a volunteer's front porch in the town of Aloha.

Sure enough, a pirate struck just after 2 a.m., and deputies traced him to a
home two blocks away. In an apparent effort to cover up his deed, the
27-year-old suspect microwaved the tracking device, so he was charged with
evidence tampering in addition to theft.

Porch pirates have darkened people's doorsteps for years. Law enforcement
agencies say they think the crime is on the rise, along with the growth of
online shopping. "There's more packages for them to grab," said Angela Sands, a
spokeswoman for the Police Department in Lincoln, Neb.

And the rewards are especially attractive during the holiday season. United
Parcel Service plans to deliver 750 million packages this season, up from 500
million five years ago.

"One of the outcomes is you've got one of the easiest ways to steal something
ever," said Nirav Tolia, chief executive of Nextdoor, a social network for
neighborhoods that has become a popular outlet for residents to gripe about
stolen boxes.

The more efficient thieves follow UPS and other delivery trucks, scooping up
packages as they are dropped off. Two weeks ago in Lincoln, two people were
arrested in a car stuffed with more than 30 packages that the police said had
been swiped from doorsteps.

Nextdoor says that during the holiday months, it usually sees a 500 percent
increase in posts on its social network about missing packages. Research
commissioned by businesses that make packaging products like boxes and
surveillance cameras suggests that from one-fifth to one-third of respondents
have had deliveries stolen from their porches.

It is yet another sign that the endless capacity of technology to improve lives
has led to endless criminal innovation as well.

Mike Armstrong, a general contractor in Memphis, has earned a reputation on his
neighborhood's Nextdoor forums as something of a vigilante. By his own estimate,
Mr. Armstrong has confronted suspected package thieves more than a dozen times
over the last four years, once on his own porch with the aid of his surveillance
system.

He said his neighbors call him the "strong arm of the law," a play on his last
name.

"It's almost like this sick perversion I have, catching thieves," Mr. Armstrong
said.

Technology is also amplifying awareness of the problem, while serving as a
deterrent. Internet surveillance cameras from Google's Nest and Ring have made
it easier for residents to capture video of package thieves in the act. Ring
makes internet-connected doorbell cameras that start at $179. Homeowners can
speak through the device to visitors -- or bad guys -- at their front doors
using a smartphone app, even if they are not home.

YouTube, Facebook, Nextdoor and other social media are popular places for
frustrated residents to share the footage. Camera companies like Ring have used
the videos as marketing.

[Video: Package Thief with a Sweater Tactic Watch on YouTube.]

Until those deterrent technologies are widespread, porch piracy appears to be
proliferating. Last week, a Tucson woman was awaiting an irreplaceable package
-- one containing urns with her father's ashes in them, sent from a funeral home
in Oklahoma. In a Facebook post, she said she received notice that the package
was delivered Monday of last week, and the courier was supposed to require a
signature for delivery but waived it. She thinks the package was stolen.

In late November, a nanny in Everett, Wash., chased down package thieves at a
home where she was babysitting, nabbing one of them and holding her until police
arrived, according to local media reports. The incident was captured on a Ring
camera.

Law enforcement agencies are stepping up their efforts to deter package thieves.
On Cyber Monday, postal inspectors and police officers in the Portland, Ore.,
area put out 21 bait packages. They made four arrests and recovered a stolen
vehicle, according to Sgt. Christopher Burley, a spokesman for the Portland
Police Department.

Steve Gaut, a UPS spokesman, said public perception of the problem was rising,
"driven by the greater use and affordability of home surveillance technology and
the pervasiveness of social media and related user-generated social content."
The company does not think there has been a significant increase in the
per-capita incidence of package theft, he said, but many victims never report
their problems to the company.

Amazon, by far the nation's largest online retailer, said the vast majority of
packages made it to customers without being stolen, but declined to provide
specifics. The company typically replaces deliveries that are reported stolen.

In November, the company began rolling out the Amazon Key service, which
includes an internet-connected door lock and camera, installed with the
customer's permission, and allows couriers to enter homes and drop off orders.
The camera records the couriers.

Walmart, the nation's second-largest online retailer, did not respond to
requests for comment.

Steven Kenworthy, a graduate student at Ohio State University in Columbus,
expected a large box from Amazon with a $400 electric skateboard to arrive at
his home in June. Amazon told him its carrier had delivered the item, but there
was no trace of it.

"Some rascal snagged my package," Mr. Kenworthy said. He went on his
neighborhood's Nextdoor discussion forums and found reports of missing packages
and suspected thieves tailing FedEx trucks through the area.

"Everybody's problems start feeling like your problems," he said. "People were
talking about how it was every single day packages would go missing."

Amazon sent him a replacement skateboard at no charge within two days, he said.

Mr. Kenworthy said he had no intention of installing a camera outside his home
because he thought it would make him feel more violated.

"It's going to make me mad," he said. "I don't want to see it."

Follow Nick Wingfield on Twitter: @nickwingfield

PHOTOS: Mike Armstrong, above, a general contractor in Memphis who likes to
confront suspected package thieves, says his neighbors call him the "strong arm
of the law." Left, a porch in Memphis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HOUSTON COFIELD FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Can the Landlord Do Anything to Help Prevent Package Theft?
     ·    Amazon's Latest Way Into Your Life Is Through the Front Door
     ·    Holiday Boxes on Stoops Bring Reports of Thefts


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              371 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 20, 2017 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gifts Vanish From Doorsteps. Now, a Plan to Deliver Justice.

BYLINE: By NICK WINGFIELD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1067 words


SEATTLE -- It is a season for giving and, according to law enforcement officials
in Washington County, Ore., taking as well.

Two weeks ago, its Sheriff's Office ran a sting operation to catch porch
pirates, thieves who swipe packages from Amazon and other companies from
doorsteps. Detectives from the department's property crimes unit put several
electronics items worth more than $500 in a box, dropped in a tracking device
and ''baited'' a volunteer's front porch in the town of Aloha.

Sure enough, a pirate struck just after 2 a.m., and deputies traced him to a
home two blocks away. In an apparent effort to cover up his deed, the
27-year-old suspect microwaved the tracking device, so he was charged with
evidence tampering in addition to theft.

Porch pirates have darkened people's doorsteps for years. Law enforcement
agencies say they think the crime is on the rise, along with the growth of
online shopping. ''There's more packages for them to grab,'' said Angela Sands,
a spokeswoman for the Police Department in Lincoln, Neb.

And the rewards are especially attractive during the holiday season. United
Parcel Service plans to deliver 750 million packages this season, up from 500
million five years ago.

''One of the outcomes is you've got one of the easiest ways to steal something
ever,'' said Nirav Tolia, chief executive of Nextdoor, a social network for
neighborhoods that has become a popular outlet for residents to gripe about
stolen boxes.

The more efficient thieves follow UPS and other delivery trucks, scooping up
packages as they are dropped off. Two weeks ago in Lincoln, two people were
arrested in a car stuffed with more than 30 packages that the police said had
been swiped from doorsteps.

Nextdoor says that during the holiday months, it usually sees a 500 percent
increase in posts on its social network about missing packages. Research
commissioned by businesses that make packaging products like boxes and
surveillance cameras suggests that from one-fifth to one-third of respondents
have had deliveries stolen from their porches.

It is yet another sign that the endless capacity of technology to improve lives
has led to endless criminal innovation as well.

Mike Armstrong, a general contractor in Memphis, has earned a reputation on his
neighborhood's Nextdoor forums as something of a vigilante. By his own estimate,
Mr. Armstrong has confronted suspected package thieves more than a dozen times
over the last four years, once on his own porch with the aid of his surveillance
system.

He said his neighbors call him the ''strong arm of the law,'' a play on his last
name.

''It's almost like this sick perversion I have, catching thieves,'' Mr.
Armstrong said.

Technology is also amplifying awareness of the problem, while serving as a
deterrent. Internet surveillance cameras from Google's Nest and Ring have made
it easier for residents to capture video of package thieves in the act. Ring
makes internet-connected doorbell cameras that start at $179. Homeowners can
speak through the device to visitors -- or bad guys -- at their front doors
using a smartphone app, even if they are not home.

YouTube, Facebook, Nextdoor and other social media are popular places for
frustrated residents to share the footage. Camera companies like Ring have used
the videos as marketing.

[Video: Package Thief with a Sweater Tactic Watch on YouTube.]

Until those deterrent technologies are widespread, porch piracy appears to be
proliferating. Last week, a Tucson woman was awaiting an irreplaceable package
-- one containing urns with her father's ashes in them, sent from a funeral home
in Oklahoma. In a Facebook post, she said she received notice that the package
was delivered Monday of last week, and the courier was supposed to require a
signature for delivery but waived it. She thinks the package was stolen.

In late November, a nanny in Everett, Wash., chased down package thieves at a
home where she was babysitting, nabbing one of them and holding her until police
arrived, according to local media reports. The incident was captured on a Ring
camera.

Law enforcement agencies are stepping up their efforts to deter package thieves.
On Cyber Monday, postal inspectors and police officers in the Portland, Ore.,
area put out 21 bait packages. They made four arrests and recovered a stolen
vehicle, according to Sgt. Christopher Burley, a spokesman for the Portland
Police Department.

Steve Gaut, a UPS spokesman, said public perception of the problem was rising,
''driven by the greater use and affordability of home surveillance technology
and the pervasiveness of social media and related user-generated social
content.'' The company does not think there has been a significant increase in
the per-capita incidence of package theft, he said, but many victims never
report their problems to the company.

Amazon, by far the nation's largest online retailer, said the vast majority of
packages made it to customers without being stolen, but declined to provide
specifics. The company typically replaces deliveries that are reported stolen.

In November, the company began rolling out the Amazon Key service, which
includes an internet-connected door lock and camera, installed with the
customer's permission, and allows couriers to enter homes and drop off orders.
The camera records the couriers.

Walmart, the nation's second-largest online retailer, did not respond to
requests for comment.

Steven Kenworthy, a graduate student at Ohio State University in Columbus,
expected a large box from Amazon with a $400 electric skateboard to arrive at
his home in June. Amazon told him its carrier had delivered the item, but there
was no trace of it.

''Some rascal snagged my package,'' Mr. Kenworthy said. He went on his
neighborhood's Nextdoor discussion forums and found reports of missing packages
and suspected thieves tailing FedEx trucks through the area.

''Everybody's problems start feeling like your problems,'' he said. ''People
were talking about how it was every single day packages would go missing.''

Amazon sent him a replacement skateboard at no charge within two days, he said.

Mr. Kenworthy said he had no intention of installing a camera outside his home
because he thought it would make him feel more violated.

''It's going to make me mad,'' he said. ''I don't want to see it.''

Follow Nick Wingfield on Twitter: @nickwingfield




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/19/technology/packages-holiday-season-porch-pira
tes-strike.html

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mike Armstrong, above, a general contractor in Memphis who
likes to confront suspected package thieves, says his neighbors call him the
''strong arm of the law.'' Left, a porch in Memphis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HOUSTON
COFIELD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              372 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 21, 2017 Thursday 16:27 EST

Forget the Strategy Paper. Watch What He Does.;
Editorial

BYLINE: THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 900 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Trump's first security strategy statement says many of the
right things, but the administration's actions tell a different story.


Many elements of President Trump's first National Security Strategy report could
have been endorsed by his predecessors. The importance of American leadership, a
strong defense, a vibrant economy and democratic values -- all have a rightful
place in the 55-page document made public on Monday.

Where the exercise runs aground is in the disconnect between the strategy, as it
appears on paper, and which in some respects reflects mainstream thinking, and
Mr. Trump's tweets, statements and actions that present the unpredictable public
face of his policies -- including his comments at the Ronald Reagan Building in
Washington introducing the document.

The annual strategy report was mandated by Congress in 1986 to provide clarity
about an administration's priorities and its plans to address them. But this
latest version is so at odds with the way Mr. Trump has been conducting national
security policy that it is likely to confuse people even more than they already
are, or more likely, to be ignored altogether.

Nowhere are the contradictions between Mr. Trump and the strategy document more
obvious than on the subject of Russia. Introducing the strategy, he described
Russia as a rival power that, with China, seeks "to challenge American
influence, values and wealth." While he's right about the threat, in practice
he's failed to address it.

After nearly a year in office, Mr. Trump is still refusing to accept the
intelligence community's conclusions that Russia launched an attack on American
democracy by interfering in the 2016 election on his behalf. This finding has
led him to lash out at investigations by the special prosecutor and Congress,
and his views have compromised the administration's ability to hold Russia to
account. Mr. Trump reportedly has neverconvened a cabinet-level meeting on
Russian interference.

The strategy document nods at reality by warning about Russia "using information
tools in an attempt to undermine the legitimacy of democracies." It says the
United States will impose "swift and costly consequences on foreign governments,
criminals and other actors who undertake significant malicious cyber
activities." But Mr. Trump said nothing about punishment in his remarks, nor did
he fault Russia's annexation of Crimea and destabilization of Ukraine. Instead,
he highlighted his bizarre affinity for the Russian president, boasting how
Vladimir Putin called on Sunday to thank him for intelligence provided by the
C.I.A. that prevented a terrorist attack in St. Petersburg.

No less confounding was the president's insistence that "we must integrate every
dimension of our national strength and we must compete with every instrument of
our national power." This is certainly a desirable objective, but one that Mr.
Trump and his secretary of state are doing their best to prevent by eviscerating
the State Department and its core diplomatic functions with budget cuts of 30
percent, forcing out senior diplomats and freezing hiring.

The document is replete with commitments to American principles like the rule of
law, equal rights and freedom of religion and the press, all described as a
"lasting force for good in the world" -- and all, in one way or another, under
fire from Mr. Trump and his allies with their incessant denigration of the
special prosecutor, Robert Mueller, federal judges, Muslims and the media.

Further, even as the document emphasizes the importance to global stability of
allies, partners and leading international organizations, Mr. Trump boasts of
America's importance in ways that seem to reduce other institutions and nations
to secondary status. "We are declaring that America is in the game and America
is going to win," he said.

We are not sure that Mr. Trump has any idea what he means by winning. What we do
know is that his boastfulness and belligerence and tendency to
self-aggrandizement are not only costing America worldwide support, but also
isolating it. Case in point: the vote Monday by the 14 other United Nations
Security Council members for a resolution demanding that the United States
rescind its decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital and move its
embassy there. The United States used its veto power to kill the measure. On
Thursday, however, the repudiation of Mr. Trump was complete after the General
Assembly, where Washington has no veto, voted 128 to 9 with 35 abstentions to
approve a similar resolution.

The overwhelming majority of member nations thus defied Mr. Trump's threats to
withhold aid from countries backing the resolution. Only small states allied
with the United States and Israel voted against the resolution: Guatemala,
Honduras, Palau, Nauru, the Marshall Islands, Micronesia and Togo. Most of the
top American aid recipients -- Egypt, Jordan, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq --
voted for it. A Pew Research Centerpoll shows that international confidence in
American leadership has plummeted.

Even in the fiercely competitive world that Mr. Trump envisions, keeping America
safe is not a game, a zero-sum calculus or something with a definable end. It is
an arduous process requiring global cooperation, diplomatic skill and
attentiveness, not constant saber-rattling and braggadocio. The strategy largely
recognizes that. In word and deed, the president does not.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              373 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 21, 2017 Thursday 12:44 EST

Review: In 'Happy End,' Another Unhappy Family From Michael Haneke

BYLINE: GLENN KENNY

SECTION: MOVIES

LENGTH: 787 words



HIGHLIGHT: Isabelle Huppert, Toby Jones and Mathieu Kassovitz make up a
remarkable ensemble cast. But "Happy End" belongs to Jean-Louis Trintignant.


Corrections Appended

If you are even only a little familiar with the work of the Austrian filmmaker
Michael Haneke, it will come as no surprise that he does not regard instant
messaging and smartphones as positive developments for humanity. His latest
picture, "Happy End," begins with the middle of its wide-screen frame taken up
by the perfectly centered image of a phone, its camera eavesdropping on a
middle-age woman whose bathroom door is open as she prepares for bed. The unseen
voyeur texts snide commentary on the woman's routine.

Mr. Haneke, whose technical mastery often makes his considered existential
dyspepsia easier to swallow, doesn't establish an explicit motivation for the
spy -- the 13-year-old Eve, the second-youngest member of the singularly unhappy
Laurent family, whose story this movie tells. The Laurents, a most
high-bourgeois clan, are besieged by trouble. Its patriarch, Georges (Jean-Louis
Trintignant), retains some mental sharpness in his 80s, but he's losing his
memory, and he'd like to get out -- that is, die -- while he still has some
faculties left. His son Thomas (Mathieu Kassovitz) has brought his daughter Eve
(Fantine Harduin) to stay with him and his new wife and baby after Eve's mother
attempted suicide. (Thomas also has a mistress, whom Eve learns about while
cyber-eavesdropping on her father.) They are all living in the family's Calais
mansion with Eve's aunt, Anne (Isabelle Huppert), who is trying to keep the
family construction business afloat, a task not helped much by her wayward son,
Pierre (Franz Rogowski), or a fatal accident at a building site.

"Happy End" has a linear structure, but Mr. Haneke presents his scenes with
little or no connective tissue. Instead of conventional transitions, there are
abrupt shifts that resemble clicking through channels on a television. A scene
of domestic disorder will cut to a web video in which an adolescent boy giddily
chronicles his hair and skateboarding styles from videos past, and the movie
lets this clip roll on quite a while before showing us that it's something Eve
is watching on her computer. This strategy has a distancing effect, but also
forces the viewer to stay on his or her toes.

It also constitutes a bit of misdirection, in that there is a bigger picture
outside of this chronicle of self-absorption. The Laurents, as what some would
call wealth creators, have, in Mr. Haneke's view, some responsibility to and for
a whole class of people who aren't even abstractions to them. Aside from their
servants, members of the working class -- both the documented and undocumented
-- are not often seen in this movie, but the times they are made visible are
significant. They appear at key points in the movie, as when Georges, in a
wheelchair after his attempted suicide-by-car fails, rolls down a street,
festooned with tacky little shops, and stops in front of a group of men, most
likely African immigrants. We can't hear what he's asking of them, but we can
guess. The character's presumption is staggering on several levels.

Like many of Mr. Haneke's films from the past two decades, "Happy End" is set in
France and features a mostly French-speaking cast. It has an uncommonly strong
ensemble cast (including Toby Jones, who plays Anne's English lover and business
ally), but the movie belongs to Mr. Trintignant. At the height of his career,
his nuanced performing mode achieved an almost supernatural perfection, whether
he was playing a romantically hapless intellectual (in "My Night at Maud's,"
released in the United States in 1970), a stoic racecar driver (in "A Man and a
Woman," 1966) or a fascist dupe (in "The Conformist," 1970). Here, he is both
steely and vulnerable in a role in which he has almost no physical movements to
perform. In the movie's central scene, a long conversation with the troubled
Eve, he merely has to move his head forward, or crook a finger, to throw a world
out of its orbit.

Happy EndRated R for no legitimate reason this reviewer can discern. In French,
with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes.


Correction: December 21, 2017, Thursday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article misspelled the surname of an actress in the film. She is
Fantine Harduin, not Hardun.


Correction: February 2, 2018, Friday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this review misidentified a character in the opening scene. The woman
in the phone video is Eve's mother, not her aunt.

PHOTOS: From above right, Fantine Harduin, Isabelle Huppert and Jean-Louis
Trintignant in "Happy End," directed by the Austrian filmmaker Michael Haneke.
(PHOTOGRAPHS VIA SONY PICTURES CLASSICS)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              374 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 22, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Self-Absorbed And Sadly Adrift In the Digital Void

BYLINE: By GLENN KENNY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 688 words


If you are even only a little familiar with the work of the Austrian filmmaker
Michael Haneke, it will come as no surprise that he does not regard instant
messaging and smartphones as positive developments for humanity. His latest
picture, ''Happy End,'' begins with the middle of its wide-screen frame taken up
by the perfectly centered image of a phone, its camera eavesdropping on a
middle-age woman whose bathroom door is open as she prepares for bed. The unseen
voyeur texts snide commentary on the woman's routine.

Mr. Haneke, whose technical mastery often makes his considered existential
dyspepsia easier to swallow, doesn't establish an obvious motivation for the spy
-- the 13-year-old Eve, the second-youngest member of the singularly unhappy
Laurent family, whose story this movie tells. The Laurents, a most
high-bourgeois clan, are besieged by trouble. Its patriarch, Georges (Jean-Louis
Trintignant), retains some mental sharpness in his 80s, but he's losing his
memory, and he'd like to get out -- that is, die -- while he still has some
faculties left. His son Thomas (Mathieu Kassovitz) has brought his daughter Eve
(Fantine Harduin) to stay with him and his new wife and baby after Eve's mother
attempted suicide. (Thomas also has a mistress, whom Eve learns about while
cyber-eavesdropping on her father.) They are all living in the family's Calais
mansion with Eve's aunt, Anne (Isabelle Huppert) -- she's the woman in Eve's
phone at the beginning -- who is trying to keep the family construction business
afloat, a task not helped much by her wayward son, Pierre (Franz Rogowski), or a
fatal accident at a building site.

''Happy End'' has a linear structure, but Mr. Haneke presents his scenes with
little or no connective tissue. Instead of conventional transitions, there are
abrupt shifts that resemble clicking through channels on a television. A scene
of domestic disorder will cut to a web video in which an adolescent boy giddily
chronicles his hair and skateboarding styles from videos past, and the movie
lets this clip roll on quite a while before showing us that it's something Eve
is watching on her computer. This strategy has a distancing effect, but also
forces the viewer to stay on his or her toes.

It also constitutes a bit of misdirection, in that there is a bigger picture
outside of this chronicle of self-absorption. The Laurents, as what some would
call wealth creators, have, in Mr. Haneke's view, some responsibility to and for
a whole class of people who aren't even abstractions to them. Aside from their
servants, members of the working class -- both the documented and undocumented
-- are not often seen in this movie, but the times they are made visible are
significant. They appear at key points in the movie, as when Georges, in a
wheelchair after his attempted suicide-by-car fails, rolls down a street,
festooned with tacky little shops, and stops in front of a group of men, most
likely African immigrants. We can't hear what he's asking of them, but we can
guess. The character's presumption is staggering on several levels.

Like many of Mr. Haneke's films from the past two decades, ''Happy End'' is set
in France and features a mostly French-speaking cast. It has an uncommonly
strong ensemble cast (including Toby Jones, who plays Anne's English lover and
business ally), but the movie belongs to Mr. Trintignant. At the height of his
career, his nuanced performing mode achieved an almost supernatural perfection,
whether he was playing a romantically hapless intellectual (in ''My Night at
Maud's,'' released in the United States in 1970), a stoic racecar driver (in ''A
Man and a Woman,'' 1966) or a fascist dupe (in ''The Conformist,'' 1970). Here,
he is both steely and vulnerable in a role in which he has almost no physical
movements to perform. In the movie's central scene, a long conversation with the
troubled Eve, he merely has to move his head forward, or crook a finger, to
throw a world out of its orbit.

Happy EndRated R for no legitimate reason this reviewer can discern. In French,
with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 47 minutes.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/21/movies/happy-end-review-michael-haneke.html

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From above right, Fantine Harduin, Isabelle Huppert and
Jean-Louis Trintignant in ''Happy End,'' directed by the Austrian filmmaker
Michael Haneke. (PHOTOGRAPHS VIA SONY PICTURES CLASSICS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              375 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 22, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Foreign Policy on Paper Only

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 907 words


Many elements of President Trump's first National Security Strategy report could
have been endorsed by his predecessors. The importance of American leadership, a
strong defense, a vibrant economy and democratic values -- all have a rightful
place in the 55-page document made public on Monday.

Where the exercise runs aground is in the disconnect between the strategy, as it
appears on paper, and which in some respects reflects mainstream thinking, and
Mr. Trump's tweets, statements and actions that present the unpredictable public
face of his policies -- including his comments at the Ronald Reagan Building in
Washington introducing the document.

The annual strategy report was mandated by Congress in 1986 to provide clarity
about an administration's priorities and its plans to address them. But this
latest version is so at odds with the way Mr. Trump has been conducting national
security policy that it is likely to confuse people even more than they already
are, or more likely, to be ignored altogether.

Nowhere are the contradictions between Mr. Trump and the strategy document more
obvious than on the subject of Russia. Introducing the strategy, he described
Russia as a rival power that, with China, seeks ''to challenge American
influence, values and wealth.'' While he's right about the threat, in practice
he's failed to address it.

After nearly a year in office, Mr. Trump is still refusing to accept the
intelligence community's conclusions that Russia launched an attack on American
democracy by interfering in the 2016 election on his behalf. This finding has
led him to lash out at investigations by the special prosecutor and Congress,
and his views have compromised the administration's ability to hold Russia to
account. Mr. Trump reportedly has never convened a cabinet-level meeting on
Russian interference.

The strategy document nods at reality by warning about Russia ''using
information tools in an attempt to undermine the legitimacy of democracies.'' It
says the United States will impose ''swift and costly consequences on foreign
governments, criminals and other actors who undertake significant malicious
cyber activities.'' But Mr. Trump said nothing about punishment in his remarks,
nor did he fault Russia's annexation of Crimea and destabilization of Ukraine.
Instead, he highlighted his bizarre affinity for the Russian president, boasting
how Vladimir Putin called on Sunday to thank him for intelligence provided by
the C.I.A. that prevented a terrorist attack in St. Petersburg.

No less confounding was the president's insistence that ''we must integrate
every dimension of our national strength and we must compete with every
instrument of our national power.'' This is certainly a desirable objective, but
one that Mr. Trump and his secretary of state are doing their best to prevent by
eviscerating the State Department and its core diplomatic functions with budget
cuts of 30 percent, forcing out senior diplomats and freezing hiring.

The document is replete with commitments to American principles like the rule of
law, equal rights and freedom of religion and the press, all described as a
''lasting force for good in the world'' -- and all, in one way or another, under
fire from Mr. Trump and his allies with their incessant denigration of the
special prosecutor, Robert Mueller, federal judges, Muslims and the media.

Further, even as the document emphasizes the importance to global stability of
allies, partners and leading international organizations, Mr. Trump boasts of
America's importance in ways that seem to reduce other institutions and nations
to secondary status. ''We are declaring that America is in the game and America
is going to win,'' he said.

We are not sure that Mr. Trump has any idea what he means by winning. What we do
know is that his boastfulness and belligerence and tendency to
self-aggrandizement are not only costing America worldwide support, but also
isolating it. Case in point: the vote Monday by the 14 other United Nations
Security Council members for a resolution demanding that the United States
rescind its decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital and move its
embassy there. The United States used its veto power to kill the measure. On
Thursday, however, the repudiation of Mr. Trump was complete after the General
Assembly, where Washington has no veto, voted 128 to 9 with 35 abstentions to
approve a similar resolution.

The overwhelming majority of member nations thus defied Mr. Trump's threats to
withhold aid from countries backing the resolution. Only small states allied
with the United States and Israel voted against the resolution: Guatemala,
Honduras, Palau, Nauru, the Marshall Islands, Micronesia and Togo. Most of the
top American aid recipients -- Egypt, Jordan, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq --
voted for it. A Pew Research Center poll shows that international confidence in
American leadership has plummeted.

Even in the fiercely competitive world that Mr. Trump envisions, keeping America
safe is not a game, a zero-sum calculus or something with a definable end. It is
an arduous process requiring global cooperation, diplomatic skill and
attentiveness, not constant saber-rattling and braggadocio. The strategy largely
recognizes that. In word and deed, the president does not.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/21/opinion/trump-security-strategy.html

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              376 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     December 27, 2017 Wednesday 21:27 EST

Confessions of a Digital Nazi Hunter;
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: YAIR ROSENBERG

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1151 words



HIGHLIGHT: In the wake of Trump's victory, I built a bot to expose bigots. Then
Twitter suspended it -- and kept the bigots.


Like many Jewish journalists who reported on Donald Trump's presidential
campaign, I spent the 2016 election being harassed by a motley crew of internet
racists who coalesced around the future president. They sent me threats,
photoshopped me into gas chambers and hurled an uncreative array of anti-Semitic
slurs my way. A study by the Anti-Defamation League found that I'd received the
second-most abuse of any Jewish journalist on Twitter during the campaign cycle.
My parents didn't raise me to be No. 2; fortunately, there's always 2020.

As a result, I've become something of an unintentional expert on alt-right
trolls and their tactics. For the most part, these characters are largely
laughable -- sad, angry men hiding behind images of cartoon frogs, deathly
afraid that their employers will uncover their online antics. But there are also
more insidious individuals, whose digital skulduggery can be more consequential
than the occasional bigoted bromide.

And so last November, in the wake of Trump's victory, I decided to turn the
tables on them. My target? Impersonator trolls.

You probably haven't heard of these trolls, but that is precisely why they are
so pernicious. These bigots are not content to harass Jews and other minorities
on Twitter; they seek to assume their identities and then defame them.

The con goes like this: The impersonator lifts an online photo of a Jew, Muslim,
African-American or other minority -- typically one with clear identifying
markers, like a yarmulke-clad Hasid or a woman in hijab. Using that picture as a
Twitter avatar, the bigot then adds ethnic and progressive descriptors to the
bio: "Jewish," "Zionist," "Muslim," "enemy of the alt-right."

False identity forged, the trolls then insert themselves into conversations with
high-profile Twitter users -- conversations that are often seen by tens of
thousands of followers -- and proceed to say horrifically racist things.

In this manner, unsuspecting readers glancing through their feed are given the
impression that someone who looks like, say, a religious Jew or Muslim is
outlandishly bigoted. Thus, an entire community is defamed.

This deception is relatively simple, but it is disturbingly effective. Most
casual users aren't likely to reverse image-search a troll's avatar to see if it
was stolen from someone else or peruse the account's other tweets and realize
that it only shares racist material. Twitter lacks the cultural competency to
police such impersonators, even if it were interested in doing so.

So I set out to unmask them.

I asked my own Twitter followers whether it might be possible to create a bot
that would reply to these impostors and expose their true nature to any users
they tried to fool. Neal Chandra, a talented developer in San Francisco whom
I've never met, replied, "I can try to throw something together this evening."
And so, after a week of testing, Impostor Buster was born.

Using a crowdsourced database of impersonator accounts, carefully curated by us
to avoid any false positives, the bot patrolled Twitter and interjected whenever
impostors tried to insinuate themselves into a discussion. Within days, our
golem for the digital age had become a runaway success, garnering thousands of
followers and numerous press write-ups. Most important, we received countless
thank-yous from alerted would-be victims.

The impersonator trolls seethed. Some tried changing their user names to evade
the bot (it didn't work). Others simply reverted to their openly neo-Nazi
personas. A few even tried to impersonate the bot, which was vastly preferable
from our perspective and rather amusing.

Then the problems began -- but not from where you might expect. The Nazis
realized they couldn't beat the bot, so they started mass-reporting it to
Twitter for "harassment." Just as they duplicitously cast themselves as
minorities, they disingenuously recast our response to their ongoing abuse as
harassment.

Twitter sided with the Nazis.

In April, the service suspended Impostor Buster without explanation and
reinstated it only after being contacted by the ADL's cyber-hate team. Over the
next few months, we fine-tuned the bot to reduce its tweets and avoid tripping
any of Twitter's alarms. As the trolls continued to report the bot to no avail,
we thought the problem was resolved. But we were wrong.

This month, Twitter suspended the bot again, and this time refused to revive it.
The company's justifications were both entirely accurate and utterly absurd. "A
large number of people have blocked you in response to high volumes of
untargeted, unsolicited, or duplicative content or engagements from your
account," we were informed. This was true; Impostor Buster had been blocked by
many neo-Nazis. "A large number of spam complaints have been filed against you."
Yes, by neo-Nazis. "You send large numbers of unsolicited replies or mentions."
Yes, to neo-Nazis.

The real threat, apparently, was not these trolls -- who today continue to roam
the platform unchallenged -- but our effort to combat them.

The great irony of this whole affair is that Impostor Buster was doing Twitter's
job for it. The platform has been notoriously prone to abuse since its inception
and has struggled to curb it. Rather than asking Twitter to provide a top-down
solution, however, we created a bottom-up one. We used Twitter's tools to police
itself -- until Twitter fired the sheriff. If the platform is going to rescue
itself from the trolls, it will need to foster these efforts, not fight them.

Given the terabytes of data uploaded daily to platforms like Facebook, YouTube,
Twitter and Instagram, it is simply unfeasible to expect them to effectively
regulate their content. It is also unwise, because we should not trust giant
corporations governed by profit motives rather than the public interest to
decide what we can and cannot say on the internet.

But perhaps more important, the top-down approach is wrong because it assumes
that the problem of bigotry and abuse is something we can simply sweep under the
rug through better censorship, rather than by building a better online community
that actively sidelines bigots and abusers through self-policing and collective
norms. Ultimately, the only way to fix social media is through nurturing a
healthier culture below, not imposing diktats from above. The vast majority of
users are not racists and can be mobilized through communal projects like
Impostor Buster -- a bot built by two people on different coasts using a
database compiled by users around the world -- to marginalize those who are.

The problem with Twitter, in other words, wasn't too much Impostor Buster. It
was too little. The sooner companies like Twitter understand this, the better
off we'll be.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Yair Rosenberg (@Yair_Rosenberg) is a senior writer at Tablet Magazine.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              377 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     December 27, 2017 Wednesday 00:07 EST

Barack Obama, North Korea, Big Tech: Your Thursday Briefing;
Asia and Australia Edition

BYLINE: CHARLES McDERMID

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 1160 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know to start your day.


Good morning.

Here's what you need to know:

Apple, Google, Microsoft and other tech giants have transformed the way billions
of us communicate, shop, socialize and work. Now they're going after health
care, too.

Tech companies are scrambling to make tracking apps, sensors and other tools.
It's part of an effort to get a bigger share of the $3 trillion spent each year
on health care in the United States.

Separately, the Affordable Care Act -- the U.S. health law that has been under
attack by Republicans -- appears to be relatively stable and increasingly
government-funded.

_____

A South Korean government-appointed panel said that a 2015 deal struck with
Japan to resolve a dispute over Korean women who were forced into sexual slavery
during World War II failed to represent the victims' demands.

The panel's findings offer President Moon Jae-in a chance to change or even
scrap the deal, which both governments at the time called "final and
irreversible."

Japan's foreign minister warned that any attempt to revise the agreement would
be "unacceptable" and would make the relationship between Japan and South Korea
"unmanageable."

_____

Turkey's president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, abandoned a softened approach toward
President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, calling Mr. Assad a "terrorist" with no
place in that country's postwar future.

Mr. Erdogan may have intended his remarks as a message to Russia, Syria's ally.
A day earlier, Russia said that Kurdish groups would be included in talks that
it's hosting next month, a move that Turkey strongly opposes.

_____

Chinese companies are still going global, despite Beijing's efforts to temper
outbound investment.

The latest example: Zhejiang Geely Holding Group, which bought Volvo cars in
2010, said it would take an 8.2 percent stake in AB Volvo, the Swedish truck
maker.

The deal would position Geely as the truck maker's largest shareholder.

_____

In an interview with Prince Harry for the BBC, the former President Barack Obama
said he was adjusting to life outside the White House and expressed concern
about social media. Here are highlights from the interview.

And Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, drew an intense response
with his claim that President Trump is similar to Winston Churchill. Historians
took issue with the comparison.

_____

Business

American produce growers, who grapple with migrant labor laws and many other
rules, exemplify what businesses describe as regulatory fatigue. President Trump
is tapping into the discontent.

Our technology writer says that it's easy to count the ways that tech did you
wrong in 2017. Here's his review.

China is expected to overtake the U.S. as the world's largest economy by 2032, a
new report shows.

Barbie. The hula hoop. The Rubik's Cube. Here are the stories behind some of the
must-have toys of several generations.

U.S. stocks were up. Here's a snapshot of global markets.

In the News

A court in Myanmar extended the detention of two Reuters journalists for another
14 days. The two had been reporting on the Rakhine State, the site of a military
crackdown on ethnic Rohingya Muslims. [The New York Times]

Japan's Supreme Court  upheld a not-guilty verdict for a woman who eluded the
police for 17 years following a cult's deadly crime spree, including a 1995
nerve gas attack in Tokyo. [The Asahi Shimbun]

Four defectors from the area near North Korea's nuclear testing site showed
symptoms that could be attributed to radiation exposure, scientists in South
Korea said. [The New York Times]

The Kremlin is clearly afraid of Aleksei Navalny, the Russian anticorruption
activist, but it is unclear exactly what it fears, our correspondent writes.
[The New York Times]

An Australian grandmother escaped the death penalty in Malaysia after a court
accepted her argument that she had been unaware of 2.4 pounds of crystal
methamphetamine in her luggage. [BBC]

In South Korea, prosecutors asked to extend the prison term of Lee Jae-yong, the
heir to the Samsung empire also known as Jay Y. Lee, in an appeal of Mr. Lee's
five-year sentence for bribery. [Bloomberg]

A Vietnamese general announced the existence of Force 47, a 10,000-strong team
of "cyber troops" tasked with "combating wrongful information and anti-state
propaganda." [Tuoi Tre News]

Saudi Arabia blocked Israel's chess team from competing in the world
championships in Riyadh by refusing to issue visas. [The New York Times]

Wild Oats XI won its ninth Sydney to Hobart yacht race, smashing the previous
record by nearly five hours. But the crew will face a hearing over a near
collision before officially being named the champion. [The Guardian]

Smarter Living

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

Should you shower in the morning, or at night? Yes.

Here are cities around the world that are trending for budget fare hunters, and
reasons you might want to visit them in 2018.

Recipe of the day: Provide comfort by cooking a lemony carrot and cauliflower
soup.

Noteworthy

From President Trump versus Hollywood to the debate over the whitewashing of
Asian movie characters, here's a not-so-nostalgic look back at the year's
fiercest cultural fights.

Unable to pay for the personnel, produce and precision needed to charge one-star
prices, the French chef Jérôme Brochot wrote to the Guide Michelin, the
gastronome's bible, to say he wanted out.

And in a behind-the-scenes post, one of our journalists writes about how her
life became deeply intertwinedwith that of a 14-year-old cancer patient.

Back Story

"The young writer touches us with a pungent melancholy, a kind of dark
brilliance."

That was a description of Heinrich Böll, the German writer born 100 years ago
this month, in the first review of his work in The Times in 1955.

Mr. Böll's writing was informed by his experiences as a soldier in World War II,
which ended with his capture by American troops.

"I will never forget those very young boys coming up the hill, who had to take
me a prisoner to liberate me," he once recalled in a Times Op-Ed.

This experience turned him, in a correspondent's words, into "an enemy of
tyrannies large and small, an anti-militarist and a doubter." One of Germany's
most widely read authors, Mr. Böll won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1972.

Months later, a Times reporter asked him how he felt about the United States.

His response: "You have Watergate and you have press freedom. You have desert
and you have New York, terrible provincialism and terrible up-to-datedness.
Being American means the chance to be what you want."

Patrick Boehler contributed reporting.

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Browse
past briefings here.

We have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian, European and American
mornings. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis
and conversations with readers. You can sign up for these and other Times
newsletters here.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 28, 2017 Thursday 17:33 EST

At an Air Show in China, Drones, Not Jets, Are the Stars

BYLINE: LAM YIK FEI and RAYMOND ZHONG

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 936 words



HIGHLIGHT: China makes the world's most popular drones. The country's passion
for unmanned flying machines runs deep -- and starts at an early age.


WUHAN, China -- Need more evidence that China is a global force in technology?
Just listen for the low whine of tiny propellers.

And look up.

At the World Fly-In Expo, an air show held in the central Chinese city of Wuhan
last month, jets, hot air balloons, autogiros and ultralight planes were
upstaged by Chinese-made drones.

Remote-controlled flying machines drew crowds at exhibition booths and performed
in tight formation, high above the ground. Teams in brightly colored jackets
raced industrial drones and competed in events like delivering parcels and
spraying plumes of mock pesticide.

Special drones even helped clear the skies of birds before performances by
manned aircraft, using loud blasts of noise.

China is the world leader in drones thanks largely to a single company, D.J.I.
Founded in 2006, D.J.I. has grown to account for more than 70 percent of the
global market, according to Skylogic Research, a drone research firm.

The privately owned company used cheap prices to cement its market share and is
frequently lauded as an example of China's ability to compete toe to toe with
global rivals in the technology sphere. While it does not disclose financial
results, it enjoys financial backing from Silicon Valley investors and has
access to suppliers and talent in China's southern manufacturing belt. D.J.I.'s
easy-to-fly machines, which can buzz over beaches and hover above scenic
mountainscapes, are used by hobbyists and professional photographers alike.

China's drone economy is not just about selfies and aerial video, however.

Drones in China inspect power lines, survey fires and disaster zones, spray
crops, and monitor air pollution around factories. In some remote areas, they
have delivered packages. Online retailers and logistics companies are aiming to
expand drone deliveries by signing more agreements with local governments.

But as D.J.I. courts more industrial customers such as utilities and developers,
the company's drones -- and the vast quantities of footage taken by their
cameras -- have come under scrutiny.

United States customs officials said in a memo this year that D.J.I.'s drones
were sending sensitive information about American infrastructure back to China.
The report, from the Los Angeles office of the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement bureau, cited an unnamed source in the drone industry.

D.J.I. -- formally named Da Jiang Innovations Science and Technology Company --
denied the allegations, saying the memo was "based on clearly false and
misleading claims."

This year, the United States Army also ordered its units to discontinue the use
of D.J.I. drones, equipment and software, citing unspecified "cyber
vulnerabilities."

Such concerns have scarcely dampened the public's enthusiasm for drones in
China.

In Wuhan, the Ewatt Aerospace Flight Academy is expanding. The school, which is
run by the industrial-drone maker Ewatt, was the first in China to be accredited
to issue the license needed to pilot heavy industrial drones. Its one-month
course attracts people who hope to work either for a drone maker or for another
kind of company that needs drone operators.

"More and more people want to learn," said the school's dean, Li Chunfei.

They are starting earlier and earlier, too. At Zhongjiacun elementary school in
downtown Wuhan, Xiong Sheyu, 11, is a member of the drone club. Under the
supervision of a teacher, Yang Lei, students meet every Sunday to fly commercial
drones.

They also build their own, which look like giant paper airplanes.

From the school's playground, Sheyu sends one of them soaring, a Chinese flag in
tow. With a remote control, he steers it among the concrete buildings. The
cardboard plane, held together by tape and glue, hangs in the air for around 10
minutes.

"I love to see the world from the sky," Sheyu said.

His father, Xiong Pinggao, added: "Learning to fly drones can make him prouder
of the country."

At the air show, Sam Zhang and Yuan Jiajie laid out more than 100 white drones
on a grassy field, preparing for the evening's entertainment. The two men work
for Ehang, a Guangzhou-based company that makes consumer and commercial drones.
Ehang is also testing another drone -- a small, unmanned helicopter, essentially
-- that can fly a passenger for 25 minutes at an average speed of 37 miles an
hour.

Another business for Ehang: light shows. Mr. Zhang drives a blue truck loaded
with equipment all around China, filling the skies above private parties and
government events with swarms of colorfully lit drones.

As night falls in Wuhan, Mr. Zhang and Mr. Yuan take their controls. Like a
regiment of fireflies, the drones lift off from the ground. They form words and
shapes -- a plane; a bird's wings; the letters "WFE," for World Fly-In Expo --
and make the sky dance and swirl with light.

Follow Lam Yik Fei and Raymond Zhong on Twitter: @lamyikfei and @zhonggg.Lam Yik
Fei reported from Wuhan, China, and Raymond Zhong from Hong Kong.

PHOTOS: From left, members of a team from Guangdong Province, China, carrying a
drone during a competition involving industrial-grade drones. The team's vehicle
flying during the competition. And, Yang Lei, who leads a drone club at
Zhongjiacun elementary school in the city of Wuhan in Hubei Province, talking
with students, including Xiong Sheyu, 11, center.; Dozens of drones waiting to
perform in a light show at Hannan General Aviation Airport in Wuhan in November.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAM YIK FEI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Drone Maker D.J.I. May Be Sending Data to China, U.S. Officials Say
     ·    For $499, a Drone for Beginners: DJI's Spark
     ·    China Drone Maker Says It May Share Data With State


LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 29, 2017 Friday 13:44 EST

Christmas May Be Over, but Holiday Shopping Is Not

BYLINE: TIFFANY HSU

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 977 words



HIGHLIGHT: In the last week of the year, called the 13th Month or the Second
Season by retailers, e-commerce-fueled returns and gift cards send consumers
back to buy more.


Gina Mezzacappa avoided the mall for her holiday shopping, but an ill-fitting
pair of Michael Kors boots brought her back this week.

The shoes, a gift for her daughter, had come from Macy's website, but Ms.
Mezzacappa visited the Galleria at White Plains to return them in person.

By the time she got her $50 back, she had spent $300 on other items.

Christmas is over, but holiday shopping is still in full swing.

The final stretch of December, traditionally a slow period used by retailers to
purge outdated inventory, is generating so much traffic and sales that some
chains are calling it the 13th Month or the Second Season. It is a recognition
of the swarms of consumers who are flooding back into shops and websites on a
rising tide of returns, exchanges and gift cards.

The day after Christmas was most likely the fourth-busiest shopping day of the
season this year, behind Black Friday and the two Saturdays before the holiday,
according to Shoppertrak. The Saturday after Christmas is expected to be the
ninth-busiest day.

Five years ago, only 5 percent of consumers planned to shop after Christmas,
according to a Deloitte survey. This year, nearly 40 percent will.

Retailers, as they do every year, are discounting leftover stacks of
reindeer-emblazoned sweaters. But some are also displaying new merchandise at
full price to attract impulse buyers emboldened by store credit and confidence
in the economy. Seasonal workers are being assigned longer shifts. Stores are
extending their hours.

For years, traditional retailers have been steadily losing sales to Amazon and
its e-commerce kin while being battered by a string of bankruptcies and
declining revenue. Shares in Macy's, which plans to shut 100 stores, have fallen
more than 60 percent in two and a half years.

But the vibrant holiday season has kindled hopes among some that the "retail
apocalypse" has perhaps hit bottom. Since sales forecasts were released in
November, Macy's stock has climbed 45 percent, and Abercrombie & Fitch is up 40
percent.

Recently, the last week of the year has started to feel "a little like a
stretched-out Black Friday," said Craig Johnson, president of Customer Growth
Partners, a consulting firm.

"This week has, over the years, been gradually assuming more and more importance
in the overall mix," he said. "Retailers want to get a second bite at the
apple."

And Ms. Mezzacappa, a homemaker, has still more spending planned.

"I wanted a shirt, I had it in my hand, but there was only one register open and
a line out the door," she said of her trip to the New York mall. "So I'll just
order it online."

E-commerce continues to gobble up most of the growth in retail sales.

Overall retail sales from the start of November until Christmas Eve increased
nearly 5 percent from the same period a year earlier, the largest upswing since
2011, according to data from Mastercard SpendingPulse. But online sales surged
18 percent.

And on Black Friday this year, Americans spent 17 percent more online than they
did in 2016, according to Adobe Digital Insights, while foot traffic into stores
declined slightly, according to Shoppertrak.

More e-commerce means more returns, as more online retailers try to entice
customers by allowing them to change their minds frequently and easily. Online
return rates are frequently double that of brick-and-mortar businesses and are
extremely costly to companies.

But even returns can have a silver lining when the economy is strong and
consumers are in a spending mood, as they are this year.

Companies are dangling incentives for consumers to return holiday gifts in
person, knowing that those who do often end up browsing the store and buying
other items. This year, Kohl's began accepting certain Amazon returns at 82 of
its stores.

And customers who receive store credit are often inclined to think of the value
as free money, according to behavioral economists.

A similar psychology applies with gift cards: Shoppers with a gift card in 2017
overspent its value by an average of $38, up $10 from last year, according to
First Data, a payment technology company. Americans bought more physical and
digital gift cards this year than in each of the previous three years, according
to the company.

And with consumer confidence near a 17-year high, fueled by a strong job market,
stock market gains and the prospect of tax cuts, shoppers are eager to treat
themselves.

Several brands are taking advantage, making a wider selection of fresh spring
merchandise available at full price and mixing it in with clearance items in
hopes of luring customers who are wielding new gift cards or who have just
unloaded returns.

J. C. Penney cut the number of discounts and deals in its print circular ad for
this week by 72 percent compared with the same week last year, according to an
analysis by Market Track, a retail and advertising data company. Kohl's cut its
deals by 67 percent, and Target by 33 percent.

"The race to the bottom is basically over," said Paula Rosenblum, managing
partner at RSR, a retail technology research firm.

"Some years, it's a panic game," she said, "but it's like retailers have woken
out of a dream, a weird dream filled with doorbusters, and are now starting to
play the game right."

Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.

PHOTOS: Five years ago, only 5 percent of consumers planned to shop after
Christmas, a survey found. This year, nearly 40 percent will.; Gina Mezzacappa
at the Galleria at White Plains. She went to return a pair of boots and wound up
spending $300 on other items. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID DEE DELGADO FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A17)

Related Articles


     ·    Many Unhappy Returns? Online Holiday Shopping's Big Hangover
     ·    Holiday Windows Brighten a Bleak Retail Scene, but How Long Will They
          Last?
     ·    In Season of Returning, a Start-Up Tries to Find Homes for the Rejects
     ·    Liberal Return Policies for Consumers Can Reduce Retail Workers' Pay


LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              380 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 29, 2017 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

At an Air Show in China, Drones, Not Jets, Are the Stars

BYLINE: By LAM YIK FEI and RAYMOND ZHONG; Lam Yik Fei reported from Wuhan,
China, and Raymond Zhong from Hong Kong..

Follow Lam Yik Fei and Raymond Zhong on Twitter: @lamyikfei and @zhonggg.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 806 words


WUHAN, China -- Need more evidence that China is a global force in technology?
Just listen for the low whine of tiny propellers.

And look up.

At the World Fly-In Expo, an air show held in the central Chinese city of Wuhan
last month, jets, hot air balloons, autogiros and ultralight planes were
upstaged by Chinese-made drones.

Remote-controlled flying machines drew crowds at exhibition booths and performed
in tight formation, high above the ground. Teams in brightly colored jackets
raced industrial drones and competed in events like delivering parcels and
spraying plumes of mock pesticide.

Special drones even helped clear the skies of birds before performances by
manned aircraft, using loud blasts of noise.

China is the world leader in drones thanks largely to a single company, D.J.I.
Founded in 2006, D.J.I. has grown to account for more than 70 percent of the
global market, according to Skylogic Research, a drone research firm.

The privately owned company used cheap prices to cement its market share and is
frequently lauded as an example of China's ability to compete toe to toe with
global rivals in the technology sphere. While it does not disclose financial
results, it enjoys financial backing from Silicon Valley investors and has
access to suppliers and talent in China's southern manufacturing belt. D.J.I.'s
easy-to-fly machines, which can buzz over beaches and hover above scenic
mountainscapes, are used by hobbyists and professional photographers alike.

China's drone economy is not just about selfies and aerial video, however.

Drones in China inspect power lines, survey fires and disaster zones, spray
crops, and monitor air pollution around factories. In some remote areas, they
have delivered packages. Online retailers and logistics companies are aiming to
expand drone deliveries by signing more agreements with local governments.

But as D.J.I. courts more industrial customers such as utilities and developers,
the company's drones -- and the vast quantities of footage taken by their
cameras -- have come under scrutiny.

United States customs officials said in a memo this year that D.J.I.'s drones
were sending sensitive information about American infrastructure back to China.
The report, from the Los Angeles office of the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement bureau, cited an unnamed source in the drone industry.

D.J.I. -- formally named Da Jiang Innovations Science and Technology Company --
denied the allegations, saying the memo was ''based on clearly false and
misleading claims.''

This year, the United States Army also ordered its units to discontinue the use
of D.J.I. drones, equipment and software, citing unspecified ''cyber
vulnerabilities.''

Such concerns have scarcely dampened the public's enthusiasm for drones in
China.

In Wuhan, the Ewatt Aerospace Flight Academy is expanding. The school, which is
run by the industrial-drone maker Ewatt, was the first in China to be accredited
to issue the license needed to pilot heavy industrial drones. Its one-month
course attracts people who hope to work either for a drone maker or for another
kind of company that needs drone operators.

''More and more people want to learn,'' said the school's dean, Li Chunfei.

They are starting earlier and earlier, too. At Zhongjiacun elementary school in
downtown Wuhan, Xiong Sheyu, 11, is a member of the drone club. Under the
supervision of a teacher, Yang Lei, students meet every Sunday to fly commercial
drones.

They also build their own, which look like giant paper airplanes.

From the school's playground, Sheyu sends one of them soaring, a Chinese flag in
tow. With a remote control, he steers it among the concrete buildings. The
cardboard plane, held together by tape and glue, hangs in the air for around 10
minutes.

''I love to see the world from the sky,'' Sheyu said.

His father, Xiong Pinggao, added: ''Learning to fly drones can make him prouder
of the country.''

At the air show, Sam Zhang and Yuan Jiajie laid out more than 100 white drones
on a grassy field, preparing for the evening's entertainment. The two men work
for Ehang, a Guangzhou-based company that makes consumer and commercial drones.
Ehang is also testing another drone -- a small, unmanned helicopter, essentially
-- that can fly a passenger for 25 minutes at an average speed of 37 miles an
hour.

Another business for Ehang: light shows. Mr. Zhang drives a blue truck loaded
with equipment all around China, filling the skies above private parties and
government events with swarms of colorfully lit drones.

As night falls in Wuhan, Mr. Zhang and Mr. Yuan take their controls. Like a
regiment of fireflies, the drones lift off from the ground. They form words and
shapes -- a plane; a bird's wings; the letters ''WFE,'' for World Fly-In Expo --
and make the sky dance and swirl with light.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/28/world/asia/china-drones.html

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              381 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 30, 2017 Saturday 16:33 EST

Free Your Mind? 'Black Mirror' Isn't Too Hopeful

BYLINE: JAMES PONIEWOZIK

SECTION: ARTS; television

LENGTH: 1555 words



HIGHLIGHT: A new season of Netflix's digital-age creep show warns that
technology can empower misanthropes and misogynists.


The following essay includes plot points for episodes of "Black Mirror,"
including Season 4, which arrived on Dec. 29 on Netflix.

In the beginning, there was a rock. Pretty soon, someone got bashed in the head
with it. Not long after that, someone fashioned a stone knife. Bronze, iron,
steel: knife, knife, knife.

Create a tool, and someone will weaponize it: This has been the theme of Charlie
Brooker's speculative tech anthology, "Black Mirror."

Since the series began in 2011, its anxieties have evolved. "Black Mirror" was
first concerned about media, in episodes like "The National Anthem" (in which
kidnappers coerce the British prime minister into having sex with a pig on live
TV) and "The Waldo Moment" (a crude cartoon character runs for office). Then it
focused on internet culture, in "Nosedive" (about a society in which one's
welfare is tied to one's online popularity) and "Hated in the Nation" (a parable
about social-media mobs).

In Season 4, Mr. Brooker has turned his dark imagination to the digitization of
consciousness itself -- what people will do with, and to, human minds that have
been rendered into zeros and ones.

Unsurprisingly, Mr. Brooker is not optimistic. Where some futurists might see
the potential for immortality or richly augmented brains, "Black Mirror" sees
the opportunity for people to commit their usual cruelty and selfishness,
creatively and in perpetuity.

[Video: Black Mirror - Season 4 | Official Trailer [HD] | Netflix Watch on
YouTube.]

In Season 3, uploaded consciousness was the premise of one of the series' best
and most hopeful episodes, "San Junipero," in which two lovers reunite on the
digital plane after their physical bodies die. It ends, boisterously, to the
strains of Belinda Carlisle's "Heaven Is a Place on Earth."

Season 4 references that technology -- "when they upload old people into the
cloud" -- in "Black Museum." But in this episode, it's a horror show: Rolo
Haynes (Douglas Hodge), the proprietor of a museum of curiosities, turns out to
be a perpetrator of cyber atrocities.

He introduces an implant that allows a doctor to feel the perceptions of his
dying patients, which the physician finds addictive to the point of madness.
Later, Rolo downloads a comatose woman's mind as a "cookie" (another reference,
this time to the 2014 "White Christmas" special), turning her into a device that
her husband can shut off when he tires of her. Eventually, Rolo imprisons her in
the body of an electronic teddy bear that can speak only two phrases.

Finally, Rolo captures the consciousness of a death-row inmate, charging museum
visitors to "electrocute" his hologram. As a souvenir, they get to take home "a
conscious sentient snapshot" of the prisoner, "a true conscious copy of his mind
perpetually experiencing that beautiful pain."

The sci-fi author Arthur C. Clarke coined the law "Any sufficiently advanced
technology is indistinguishable from magic." Fittingly, Mr. Brooker's episodes
are becoming increasingly indistinguishable from supernatural horror tales. They
warn that while the pain of physical weapons ended with the release of death,
giving people power over eternal consciousness would turn ordinary sadists into
digital Satans.

Every episode of the new season involves artificial consciousness or cyborg
technology; over and over, probes, implants and needles interface with the human
temple. Even the season's simplest tale, the lean thriller "Metalhead," involves
artificially intelligent "dog" robots -- possibly related to an apocalypse that
seems to have ended most human life -- hunting people as prey.

"Black Mirror" has been accused of being reflexively Luddite; Mr. Brooker has
joked that people must assume the show is "written by the Unabomber." But his
target isn't technology per se. Rather, the series assumes that people -- enough
people anyway -- will look at any new device the way a terrorist looks at a
truck or a boxcutter, with an eye toward the damage they can do with it.

So if science makes it possible to render people's thoughts, their perceptions,
their very selves into code, someone will figure out how to control them. In
"Crocodile," a device that seems like a boon to crime fighting -- it shows a raw
video feed of people's memories -- is used by a criminal to find and kill an
investigator's family.

Even in the lighthearted romance "Hang the DJ," we learn that the characters we
have hoped would fall in love are simulations in a dating app, conscious code
that feels heartbreak over and over so that a couple on another plane of
existence (ours?) can experience 99.8 percent foolproof love.

Sometimes, "Black Mirror" suggests, people will abuse technology out of love. In
"Arkangel," it's the misguided love of Marie (Rosemarie DeWitt), who has a
surveillance implant placed in the head of her toddler daughter, Sara, then uses
it to spy on her as she becomes a rebellious teen (Brenna Harding).

The technology is fanciful: Marie can track Sara, see through her eyes, even
adjust the settings so Sara perceives frightening images as pixelated blurs. But
its attractions are familiar to any parent who's used tech to monitor a child,
to filter her media experience, to keep her safe. "Arkangel" is a bit of a
melodramatic after-school special, but it's rooted in the fear at the heart of
raising a child.

The technology that protects Sara robs her of the developmental experience of
processing unpleasant events, the ability to make and learn from her own
mistakes. As Sara's teacher says during a lecture, "Moral responsibility implies
the existence of free will," a gift that Marie has denied her growing daughter.
The next step from helicopter parenting is hacker parenting.

The season's most explicit story of digital enslavement is its longest and most
ambitious: "U.S.S. Callister," written by Mr. Brooker and William Bridges. It
also manages to be the best reconception of "Star Trek" in a year that also gave
us "The Orville" and the actual prequel, "Star Trek: Discovery."

It starts with an ingenious bait-and-switch. The opening, a campy sendup of the
original "Star Trek," turns out to be a virtual-reality simulation, created by
Robert Daly (Jesse Plemons), a socially inept coding wizard who's an outcast at
the very company he founded.

The premise that the setup suggests, a Walter Mitty fantasy story about a
sympathetic loser, is also a fake-out. Daly has created a private VR universe
populated by conscious, subservient versions of his own company's staff --
destined to obey his whims forever -- whom he terrorizes and tortures, men and
women alike, with his godlike powers.

When a new employee, Nanette (Cristin Milioti), shuns him after the office
whisper network informs her that he's "stare-y," he adds her as a new character,
outfitted in a 1960s miniskirt. Her digital version externalizes Daly's stunted
sexuality; his swaggering captain character compels kisses from his female crew
members, but they, and the men, have no genitalia. They're the smooth-crotched
virtual action figures for an omnipotent, overgrown preteen.

"U.S.S. Callister" allows you a glimpse of the way Daly sees himself -- as the
decent guy who can't get the girl, before you see him as a predatory
schlemiel-monster. This story of virtual workplace harassment is unnervingly
timely, but it also captures an ugliness that's been percolating in digital
culture for a while.

Daly personifies a familiar figure: the Gamergate warrior, the social-media
men's-rights troll. His character touches at the curdled heart of modern
misogyny -- the pickup-artist mind-set that gamifies sex, the grievance that
"nice guys" are entitled to women's attention, the craving by poorly socialized
men to interact with programmable pawns rather than complex people.

The technology in "U.S.S. Callister" is fictional, but these attitudes are very
real in our virtual spaces. Online sexists use the "red pill" metaphor, borrowed
from "The Matrix," to argue that men have been imprisoned in a false reality
created by social rules and must be awakened to a true one, in which they can
claim dominance over women.

"U.S.S. Callister" inverts this idea by having its tech-bro channel his
resentment into fashioning his own personal matrix. (Mr. Brooker has hinted at
the marriage of technology and misogyny before; "White Christmas" and "Black
Museum" involve a man employing absolute power over a woman in cookie form.)

"U.S.S. Callister" ends with Daly's defeat, as the digitized Nanette pulls off
an "Inception"-like ruse by blackmailing her flesh-and-blood self into helping
her. But that makes the episode no less disturbing. Daly may have lost, and his
technology may be a fiction. But creeps like him are very real, and so is their
impulse to use the latest tools to make hell a place on earth.

PHOTOS: From top: In the "U.S.S. Callister" episode, a coding wizard turns an
employee (Cristin Miloti) into a digital character; in "Arkangel," a mother
(Rosemarie DeWitt) has a surveillance implant placed in her toddler's head;
Letitia Wright in "Black Museum"; Rafe Spall and Janet Montgomery in "White
Christmas," the series holiday special. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NETFLIX; CHRISTOS
KALOHORIDIS/NETFLIX; HOUSE OF TOMORROW)

Related Articles


     ·    In 'Black Mirror,' Sci-Fi That Feels Close to Home
     ·    'Black Mirror' and the Horrors and Delights of Technology
     ·    The Dark Side of a Digital Future


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              382 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 30, 2017 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Drones, Not Jets, Are the Stars of This Air Show in China

BYLINE: By LAM YIK FEI and RAYMOND ZHONG; Lam Yik Fei reported from Wuhan,
China, and Raymond Zhong from Hong Kong..

Follow Lam Yik Fei and Raymond Zhong on Twitter: @lamyikfei and @zhonggg.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 806 words


WUHAN, China -- Need more evidence that China is a global force in technology?
Just listen for the low whine of tiny propellers.

And look up.

At the World Fly-In Expo, an air show held in the central Chinese city of Wuhan
last month, jets, hot air balloons, autogiros and ultralight planes were
upstaged by Chinese-made drones.

Remote-controlled flying machines drew crowds at exhibition booths and performed
in tight formation, high above the ground. Teams in brightly colored jackets
raced industrial drones and competed in events like delivering parcels and
spraying plumes of mock pesticide.

Special drones even helped clear the skies of birds before performances by
manned aircraft, using loud blasts of noise.

China is the world leader in drones thanks largely to a single company, D.J.I.
Founded in 2006, D.J.I. has grown to account for more than 70 percent of the
global market, according to Skylogic Research, a drone research firm.

The privately owned company used cheap prices to cement its market share and is
frequently lauded as an example of China's ability to compete toe to toe with
global rivals in the technology sphere. While it does not disclose financial
results, it enjoys financial backing from Silicon Valley investors and has
access to suppliers and talent in China's southern manufacturing belt. D.J.I.'s
easy-to-fly machines, which can buzz over beaches and hover above scenic
mountainscapes, are used by hobbyists and professional photographers alike.

China's drone economy is not just about selfies and aerial video, however.

Drones in China inspect power lines, survey fires and disaster zones, spray
crops, and monitor air pollution around factories. In some remote areas, they
have delivered packages. Online retailers and logistics companies are aiming to
expand drone deliveries by signing more agreements with local governments.

But as D.J.I. courts more industrial customers such as utilities and developers,
the company's drones -- and the vast quantities of footage taken by their
cameras -- have come under scrutiny.

United States customs officials said in a memo this year that D.J.I.'s drones
were sending sensitive information about American infrastructure back to China.
The report, from the Los Angeles office of the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement bureau, cited an unnamed source in the drone industry.

D.J.I. -- formally named Da Jiang Innovations Science and Technology Company --
denied the allegations, saying the memo was ''based on clearly false and
misleading claims.''

This year, the United States Army also ordered its units to discontinue the use
of D.J.I. drones, equipment and software, citing unspecified ''cyber
vulnerabilities.''

Such concerns have scarcely dampened the public's enthusiasm for drones in
China.

In Wuhan, the Ewatt Aerospace Flight Academy is expanding. The school, which is
run by the industrial-drone maker Ewatt, was the first in China to be accredited
to issue the license needed to pilot heavy industrial drones. Its one-month
course attracts people who hope to work either for a drone maker or for another
kind of company that needs drone operators.

''More and more people want to learn,'' said the school's dean, Li Chunfei.

They are starting earlier and earlier, too. At Zhongjiacun elementary school in
downtown Wuhan, Xiong Sheyu, 11, is a member of the drone club. Under the
supervision of a teacher, Yang Lei, students meet every Sunday to fly commercial
drones.

They also build their own, which look like giant paper airplanes.

From the school's playground, Sheyu sends one of them soaring, a Chinese flag in
tow. With a remote control, he steers it among the concrete buildings. The
cardboard plane, held together by tape and glue, hangs in the air for around 10
minutes.

''I love to see the world from the sky,'' Sheyu said.

His father, Xiong Pinggao, added: ''Learning to fly drones can make him prouder
of the country.''

At the air show, Sam Zhang and Yuan Jiajie laid out more than 100 white drones
on a grassy field, preparing for the evening's entertainment. The two men work
for Ehang, a Guangzhou-based company that makes consumer and commercial drones.
Ehang is also testing another drone -- a small, unmanned helicopter, essentially
-- that can fly a passenger for 25 minutes at an average speed of 37 miles an
hour.

Another business for Ehang: light shows. Mr. Zhang drives a blue truck loaded
with equipment all around China, filling the skies above private parties and
government events with swarms of colorfully lit drones.

As night falls in Wuhan, Mr. Zhang and Mr. Yuan take their controls. Like a
regiment of fireflies, the drones lift off from the ground. They form words and
shapes -- a plane; a bird's wings; the letters ''WFE,'' for World Fly-In Expo --
and make the sky dance and swirl with light.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/28/world/asia/china-drones.html

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, members of a team from Guangdong Province, China,
carrying a drone during a competition involving industrial-grade drones. The
team's vehicle flying during the competition. And, Yang Lei, who leads a drone
club at Zhongjiacun elementary school in the city of Wuhan in Hubei Province,
talking with students, including Xiong Sheyu, 11, center.
 Dozens of drones waiting to perform in a light show at Hannan General Aviation
Airport in Wuhan in November. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAM YIK FEI FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              383 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 31, 2017 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Consciousness Controlled

BYLINE: By JAMES PONIEWOZIK

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1485 words


The following essay includes plot points for episodes of ''Black Mirror,''
including Season 4, which arrived on Dec. 29 on Netflix.

In the beginning, there was a rock. Pretty soon, someone got bashed in the head
with it. Not long after that, someone fashioned a stone knife. Bronze, iron,
steel: knife, knife, knife.

Create a tool, and someone will weaponize it: This has been the theme of Charlie
Brooker's speculative tech anthology, ''Black Mirror.''

Since the series began in 2011, its anxieties have evolved. ''Black Mirror'' was
first concerned about media, in episodes like ''The National Anthem'' (in which
kidnappers coerce the British prime minister into having sex with a pig on live
TV) and ''The Waldo Moment'' (a crude cartoon character runs for office). Then
it focused on internet culture, in ''Nosedive'' (about a society in which one's
welfare is tied to one's online popularity) and ''Hated in the Nation'' (a
parable about social-media mobs).

In Season 4, Mr. Brooker has turned his dark imagination to the digitization of
consciousness itself -- what people will do with, and to, human minds that have
been rendered into zeros and ones.

Unsurprisingly, Mr. Brooker is not optimistic. Where some futurists might see
the potential for immortality or richly augmented brains, ''Black Mirror'' sees
the opportunity for people to commit their usual cruelty and selfishness,
creatively and in perpetuity.

[Video: Black Mirror - Season 4 | Official Trailer [HD] | Netflix Watch on
YouTube.]

In Season 3, uploaded consciousness was the premise of one of the series' best
and most hopeful episodes, ''San Junipero,'' in which two lovers reunite on the
digital plane after their physical bodies die. It ends, boisterously, to the
strains of Belinda Carlisle's ''Heaven Is a Place on Earth.''

Season 4 references that technology -- ''when they upload old people into the
cloud'' -- in ''Black Museum.'' But in this episode, it's a horror show: Rolo
Haynes (Douglas Hodge), the proprietor of a museum of curiosities, turns out to
be a perpetrator of cyber atrocities.

He introduces an implant that allows a doctor to feel the perceptions of his
dying patients, which the physician finds addictive to the point of madness.
Later, Rolo downloads a comatose woman's mind as a ''cookie'' (another
reference, this time to the 2014 ''White Christmas'' special), turning her into
a device that her husband can shut off when he tires of her. Eventually, Rolo
imprisons her in the body of an electronic teddy bear that can speak only two
phrases.

Finally, Rolo captures the consciousness of a death-row inmate, charging museum
visitors to ''electrocute'' his hologram. As a souvenir, they get to take home
''a conscious sentient snapshot'' of the prisoner, ''a true conscious copy of
his mind perpetually experiencing that beautiful pain.''

The sci-fi author Arthur C. Clarke coined the law ''Any sufficiently advanced
technology is indistinguishable from magic.'' Fittingly, Mr. Brooker's episodes
are becoming increasingly indistinguishable from supernatural horror tales. They
warn that while the pain of physical weapons ended with the release of death,
giving people power over eternal consciousness would turn ordinary sadists into
digital Satans.

Every episode of the new season involves artificial consciousness or cyborg
technology; over and over, probes, implants and needles interface with the human
temple. Even the season's simplest tale, the lean thriller ''Metalhead,''
involves artificially intelligent ''dog'' robots -- possibly related to an
apocalypse that seems to have ended most human life -- hunting people as prey.

''Black Mirror'' has been accused of being reflexively Luddite; Mr. Brooker has
joked that people must assume the show is ''written by the Unabomber.'' But his
target isn't technology per se. Rather, the series assumes that people -- enough
people anyway -- will look at any new device the way a terrorist looks at a
truck or a boxcutter, with an eye toward the damage they can do with it.

So if science makes it possible to render people's thoughts, their perceptions,
their very selves into code, someone will figure out how to control them. In
''Crocodile,'' a device that seems like a boon to crime fighting -- it shows a
raw video feed of people's memories -- is used by a criminal to find and kill an
investigator's family.

Even in the lighthearted romance ''Hang the DJ,'' we learn that the characters
we have hoped would fall in love are simulations in a dating app, conscious code
that feels heartbreak over and over so that a couple on another plane of
existence (ours?) can experience 99.8 percent foolproof love.

Sometimes, ''Black Mirror'' suggests, people will abuse technology out of love.
In ''Arkangel,'' it's the misguided love of Marie (Rosemarie DeWitt), who has a
surveillance implant placed in the head of her toddler daughter, Sara, then uses
it to spy on her as she becomes a rebellious teen (Brenna Harding).

The technology is fanciful: Marie can track Sara, see through her eyes, even
adjust the settings so Sara perceives frightening images as pixelated blurs. But
its attractions are familiar to any parent who's used tech to monitor a child,
to filter her media experience, to keep her safe. ''Arkangel'' is a bit of a
melodramatic after-school special, but it's rooted in the fear at the heart of
raising a child.

The technology that protects Sara robs her of the developmental experience of
processing unpleasant events, the ability to make and learn from her own
mistakes. As Sara's teacher says during a lecture, ''Moral responsibility
implies the existence of free will,'' a gift that Marie has denied her growing
daughter. The next step from helicopter parenting is hacker parenting.

The season's most explicit story of digital enslavement is its longest and most
ambitious: ''U.S.S. Callister,'' written by Mr. Brooker and William Bridges. It
also manages to be the best reconception of ''Star Trek'' in a year that also
gave us ''The Orville'' and the actual prequel, ''Star Trek: Discovery.''

It starts with an ingenious bait-and-switch. The opening, a campy sendup of the
original ''Star Trek,'' turns out to be a virtual-reality simulation, created by
Robert Daly (Jesse Plemons), a socially inept coding wizard who's an outcast at
the very company he founded.

The premise that the setup suggests, a Walter Mitty fantasy story about a
sympathetic loser, is also a fake-out. Daly has created a private VR universe
populated by conscious, subservient versions of his own company's staff --
destined to obey his whims forever -- whom he terrorizes and tortures, men and
women alike, with his godlike powers.

When a new employee, Nanette (Cristin Milioti), shuns him after the office
whisper network informs her that he's ''stare-y,'' he adds her as a new
character, outfitted in a 1960s miniskirt. Her digital version externalizes
Daly's stunted sexuality; his swaggering captain character compels kisses from
his female crew members, but they, and the men, have no genitalia. They're the
smooth-crotched virtual action figures for an omnipotent, overgrown preteen.

''U.S.S. Callister'' allows you a glimpse of the way Daly sees himself -- as the
decent guy who can't get the girl, before you see him as a predatory
schlemiel-monster. This story of virtual workplace harassment is unnervingly
timely, but it also captures an ugliness that's been percolating in digital
culture for a while.

Daly personifies a familiar figure: the Gamergate warrior, the social-media
men's-rights troll. His character touches at the curdled heart of modern
misogyny -- the pickup-artist mind-set that gamifies sex, the grievance that
''nice guys'' are entitled to women's attention, the craving by poorly
socialized men to interact with programmable pawns rather than complex people.

The technology in ''U.S.S. Callister'' is fictional, but these attitudes are
very real in our virtual spaces. Online sexists use the ''red pill'' metaphor,
borrowed from ''The Matrix,'' to argue that men have been imprisoned in a false
reality created by social rules and must be awakened to a true one, in which
they can claim dominance over women.

''U.S.S. Callister'' inverts this idea by having its tech-bro channel his
resentment into fashioning his own personal matrix. (Mr. Brooker has hinted at
the marriage of technology and misogyny before; ''White Christmas'' and ''Black
Museum'' involve a man employing absolute power over a woman in cookie form.)

''U.S.S. Callister'' ends with Daly's defeat, as the digitized Nanette pulls off
an ''Inception''-like ruse by blackmailing her flesh-and-blood self into helping
her. But that makes the episode no less disturbing. Daly may have lost, and his
technology may be a fiction. But creeps like him are very real, and so is their
impulse to use the latest tools to make hell a place on earth.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/30/arts/television/black-mirror-season-4-netflix
.html

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top: In the ''U.S.S. Callister'' episode, a coding wizard
turns an employee (Cristin Miloti) into a digital character
in ''Arkangel,'' a mother (Rosemarie DeWitt) has a surveillance implant placed
in her toddler's head
Letitia Wright in ''Black Museum''
Rafe Spall and Janet Montgomery in ''White Christmas,'' the series holiday
special. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NETFLIX
CHRISTOS KALOHORIDIS/NETFLIX
 HOUSE OF TOMORROW)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
