
                               1 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 4, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Unashamedly Maturing Into Her Role

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1441 words


LOS ANGELES -- When Patricia Arquette was 19, spirited, rebellious, and juggling
auditions between waitressing and a job at Planned Parenthood, she learned that
she was pregnant by her punk rock boyfriend, whom she was living with here.

They decided to have the baby, a boy, Enzo. A month after Enzo was born, Ms.
Arquette and the father split up, leaving this struggling actress a single
mother. That combination often augurs career doom, but for Ms. Arquette,
intellectual restlessness coupled with her maternal instinct to, as she put it,
''drag meat back for my young,'' steeled something deep.

''I don't think I would have had much of a career if I didn't have my son,'' Ms.
Arquette, 46, said in an interview this fall, in Hollywood.

Having to support herself and her infant, she was also suddenly spending her
days singing the A B C's and watching ''Sesame Street.'' ''I was like, 'I have
so many grown-up feelings, I don't know where to put them, and I need at outlet,
now,' '' she said. Looking back, it seems inevitable that Ms. Arquette would
find herself cast, indelibly, in Tony Scott's 1993 cult classic, ''True
Romance,'' as the freewheeling, wildly sexy Alabama Whitman, opposite Christian
Slater. (Enzo appeared in the film as their toddler, playing on a beach.) The
role propelled Ms. Arquette into a steady career of art house films, directed by
the likes of David Lynch, Michel Gondry and David O. Russell.

Young parenthood also helped Ms. Arquette land her most significant role in
years, as the divorced Olivia, in Richard Linklater's ''Boyhood,'' which follows
a boy, Mason. (He is played by Ellar Coltrane, as Mason grows from ages 6 to
18.)

Following the quiet moments of life, and parents and children as they mature,
the film has left audiences misty eyed and generated awards chatter,
particularly for Ms. Arquette, who is in the throes of her first Oscar campaign.
She has already nabbed a slew of best supporting actress awards from critics and
as well as nominations from the Screen Actors Guild and for a Golden Globe.

''I liked her gutsiness in performances, and her realness,'' Mr. Linklater said.
''We talked about her as a young parent, a single parent, a married parent. I
can't imagine working with someone who didn't really have kids.''

In her personal life, Ms. Arquette checked off all those boxes and a few more
during the film's production -- marrying the actor Thomas Jane, having another
child, getting divorced.

She also did something quietly revolutionary for a Hollywood actress: Over the
dozen years of ''Boyhood,'' she unapologetically and naturally aged on-screen,
her body widening and her face adding wrinkles as she grew into middle age. ''So
vanity free,'' Mr. Linklater said. ''She never flinched.''

Indeed, rather than shying away from visibly aging, Ms. Arquette said it added
an incentive to take the role. She had long been taken aback, she said, by
expectations that she somehow stay frozen in time, eternally young, lithe and
dewy.

''This idea of the world expecting you to remain an ingénue forever -- it's a
very short shelf life if you're going to commit to that as your career, and I
knew that early,'' Ms. Arquette said. ''I was trying to get out of it for
years.''

''I gotta get old, people, do you understand?'' she continued. ''I need space to
grow and get old and be a human being. I don't want to be trapped in your
ingénue bubble. And I don't agree with it either, by the way.''

Appearing for the interview in a flowy dress with bangly bracelets and
necklaces, and speaking in her dreamy, melodious, slightly Southern voice, Ms.
Arquette gave off a quasi-Stevie Nicks vibe, coming across, as she does
on-screen, as deeply grounded yet ethereal, emanating palpable ease.

''She just lets the truth hang out,'' said Ethan Hawke, who plays her ex-husband
and Mason's father in ''Boyhood.'' ''She's always been a real hero because of
her unbelievable freedom and emotional authenticity. She's carrying it into this
midpoint in our lives, when fear strikes the heart of even the strongest.''

A fourth-generation actress -- her great-grandfather was a vaudevillian, her
grandfather and father were both actors -- Ms. Arquette grew up in a hippie
commune in Virginia and then Los Angeles. She is the middle child of five --
Rosanna, Richmond, Alexis and David -- all of whom became actors. Growing up
poor, she and her siblings often amused themselves by re-enacting plays put on
by her father's theater troupe.

After moving to California, Ms. Arquette became a street-smart tween, cutting
school with her best friend to smoke cigarettes and, at 15, leaving home to move
in with her sister Rosanna. She also fell in with a wild bunch of friends.
''Punkers and gang bangers and people who were dying left and right and going to
prison,'' Ms. Arquette said. ''I seemed to just find my way into this kind of
underbelly of the world.''

Ms. Arquette was drawn to the idea of being a midwife and also wanted to act but
was gripped by painful shyness. So she resolved to devote her 18th year toward
alleviating her performance anxiety by studying films, auditioning a lot and
learning not to crater after rejection.

''I wanted to be independent,'' she said. ''I wanted to be an interesting
person. I wanted to be an adventurer. I wanted to be a brave person in the
world.''

Having Enzo sharpened her focus. Her interest in her friends' post-adolescent
bar and club shenanigans evaporated, replaced by a grit that propelled her
career. Enzo was still an infant when Ms. Arquette got her first big screen
role, with Viggo Mortensen in ''The Indian Runner'' (1991), directed by Sean
Penn. Then came the role of Alabama -- a watershed moment.

''Our whole generation shook a little with her performance in 'True Romance,' ''
Mr. Hawke said. ''She was the sexiest, wildest, freest woman of our generation
that we'd seen.''

A run of indie films followed, among them ''Lost Highway,'' ''Flirting With
Disaster,'' ''Stigmata'' and ''Human Nature.'' Toward the mid-aughts, after
realizing she had begun losing roles to younger women (''How can I be too old if
I'm playing opposite a guy who's older than me?'' she recalls wondering), she
took the lead role as an investigative psychic in the TV drama ''Medium.'' The
move surprised some of her art-house-movie peers but appealed to her populist
leanings; the show would also last seven seasons and win her an Emmy.

''The idea of network TV is you could entertain old people at home, people
living in a trailer court, people who don't have money to go to movies and get a
babysitter,'' Ms. Arquette said. ''There's something very snobby about the way
the film and theater community used to look at television. I love small weird
art movies, and I love free mass entertainment.''

Of course, by then, she had another weird art movie underway: ''Boyhood.'' She
had been foremost in Mr. Linklater's mind for the role, and she leapt at the
chance.

''He said, 'I'm making this movie, where I shoot a week a year for 12 years, and
we follow this little boy from first grade to 12th grade,' '' Ms. Arquette said.
''And just everything in my body went, 'oh my God, oh my God, this is the most
exciting idea.' My son was already older, and I had seen how fast his childhood
had gone by.''

Filming started in 2002. Mr. Linklater had Ms. Arquette and Mr. Hawke pick names
for their own characters, as well as for the children, Mr. Coltrane and Lorelei
Linklater, who is Mr. Linklater's eldest daughter and plays Samantha, the boy's
sister.

As preparation, Ms. Arquette spent a weekend before filming started with the two
kids, puttering around a house in Austin, Tex., doing art projects, fixing their
meals, drawing their baths. An early scene shows the fruits of that intimacy,
with both children snuggled against Ms. Arquette as she reads to them.
''Patricia is kind of a maternal force,'' Mr. Coltrane said. ''It's pretty easy
to pretend she's your mom.''

Having grown to be a somewhat of a family, coming together every week for a
dozen years, the cast is reveling in the awards hype around ''Boyhood,'' because
it brings them together again. ''I don't miss them the way I'm going to miss
them,'' Ms. Arquette said.

In the meantime, she has returned to the television trenches, with a lead role
coming this year in ''CSI: Cyber.'' ''I want to work in whatever way I want to
work,'' she said, ''and I don't want it dictated to me by any society.''

Mr. Linklater, for his part, sees her as a woman who has fully hit her stride.

''She really looked forward to settling into adulthood,'' he said. ''That's
where her spirit really is.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/04/movies/patricia-arquette-born-for-boyhood.html

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Patricia Arquette, above, and, left in ''Boyhood,'' with
Lorelei Linklater and Ellar Coltrane. Ms. Arquette, who plays a single mother
and was one herself, says, ''I don't think I would have had much of a career if
I didn't have my son.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN SCANLON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 IFC FILMS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Sinosphere)

                            January 6, 2015 Tuesday

University in Xi'an Opens School of Cyberengineering

BYLINE: EDWARD WONG

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 823 words



HIGHLIGHT: The move by Xidian University, with more than 30,000 students on two
campuses, was a sign that cybersecurity had become an increasingly important
academic discipline for the Chinese government and military.


Xidian University, with more than 30,000 students on two campuses in the ancient
city of Xi'an, has a storied history. The original academy was personally
established by Mao Zedong in 1931, when the Communist Party and Red Army were
leading an insurgent movement to overthrow the Kuomintang government. Based in
Jiangxi Province, where the Communists had their headquarters for a period, the
school's mission was to train radio operators for the military.  Mao had set it
up in his role as head of the party's Central Military Commission.

One specialty then was cryptography, and the university's website boasts that
the institution has the finest cryptography program in the nation. The website
lists 16 schools or departments, most of them in engineering sciences.

On Monday, the website of People's Daily, the main party newspaper, published an
article saying that the university was opening what will be its 17th school -
one specializing in network and information security and cyberengineering. The
announcement was a sign that cybersecurity had become an increasingly important
academic discipline for the Chinese government and military. The article was
originally published by Science and Technology Daily, a newspaper managed by the
Chinese Academy of Sciences.

The article caught the attention of scholars overseas who study China's Internet
capabilities in the areas of defense, espionage and warfare. Amy Chang, a
research associate at the Center for a New American Security in Washington who
last month published a paper on the subject, posted a link on Twitter to the
People's Daily page.

"As cybersecurity threats pose new and significant challenges to countries, the
establishment of the School of Cyber Engineering and Innovation Center is an
attempt by the university and the central government to foster greater thought
leadership and innovation on an issue that has traditionally been understudied
and overlooked in China," Ms. Chang wrote in an email interview.

She said the programs at Xidian, whose full name translates to the University of
Electronic Technology and Science at Xi'an, was at least partly funded by a 2011
central government plan to promote innovation at universities. The
cyberengineering school appears to have support from the Communist Party's
Central Committee and the State Council, China's cabinet.

"Xidian's close connection with the People's Liberation Army may indicate a
potential linkage between civilian and military research on cybersecurity," she
said.

For two years, cyberespionage has been a central point of tension in the
relationship between the United States and China. The Obama administration has
accused units in the People's Liberation Army of being responsible for
large-scale theft of corporate secrets via the Internet. Last May, the United
States Justice Department indicted five Chinese men on charges of hacking into
the computers of American companies to steal commercial secrets. The indictment
said the men were members of an army hacking unit. Last month, following the
hacking attack against Sony Pictures, American officials said that North Korean
hackers were operating on Chinese soil or using Chinese network infrastructure.

Chinese officials have denied the accusations and say that China is itself often
the victim of hacking attacks. They have pointed to the leaks from Edward
Snowden, the former National Security Agency contract employee, as evidence that
the United States is a major player in cyberespionage.

A person answering the telephone at Xidian University on Tuesday said the school
had no immediate comment on the new programs.

The university has websites in Chinese and English that give general background
information. The university has more than 1,900 full-time teachers. One page on
the website says the university "has established the ideas of 'people-oriented'
and 'teachers being the core competitive ability of a university,' and forged a
well-structured contingent of teachers with an innovative spirit." The
English-language website has two slogans at the top of the homepage: "Great
Virtue Truth-seeking" and "Endeavor to Study Honesty in Behavior."

At least one other university in the city, Xi'an Jiaotong University, provides
training in network security and other computer specialties. There is little
public information about the training, and it is unclear how those programs
differ from the ones at the new school at Xidian University.

"While the school and innovation center both underscore innovation as a major
objective, a challenge China may eventually face, however, is that its
leadership will have a difficult time forcing strategic thinking in a culture
that is relatively limited in intellectual freedom and in access to
information," Ms. Chang said. "Funds can only cultivate so much innovation.
Whether the programs will truly foster new, original solutions to managing
cybersecurity is to be seen."

Mia Li contributed research.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 7, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

South Korea: Ministry Suggests North Has Made Nuclear Strides

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 423 words


SEOUL, South Korea -- The Defense Ministry of South Korea said Tuesday that
North Korea appeared to have made a ''significant'' advance toward making a
nuclear warhead small enough to fit onto a long-range missile capable of
reaching the West Coast of the United States. The ministry, which included the
assessment in its latest white paper, also suggested that the North now had a
missile that could fly that far.

Ministry officials stressed that North Korea had yet to conduct a test to
demonstrate an ability to deliver a nuclear warhead by missile at such a long
distance. The white paper also did not elaborate on how South Korean officials
had reached their conclusions, except for noting the North's success in putting
a satellite into orbit on a long-range rocket in 2012 and its third underground
nuclear test in February 2013.

The South's assessments, if correct, could change calculations about the
vulnerability of the United States.

American officials have struggled for years to figure out how close North Korea
has come to building a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile and
have sometimes issued conflicting conclusions. In early 2011, Robert M. Gates,
who was the defense secretary, said that North Korea was within five years of
being able to strike the continental United States with an intercontinental
ballistic missile.

In April 2013, the United States Defense Intelligence Agency said that it had
''moderate confidence'' that North Korea had mastered the technology of building
a miniaturized weapon to fit atop a missile. Within days, however, President
Obama said he did not believe that the North had that capability.

Then last October, the commander of the American forces in South Korea, Gen.
Curtis Scaparrotti of the Army, effectively sided with the Defense Intelligence
Agency. But he too cautioned that North Korea had not tested a miniaturized
weapon, and said that for a weapon ''that complex, without it being tested, the
probability of it being effective is pretty darn low.''

The South Korean defense white paper noted another growing threat from North
Korea, saying that it has boosted its numbers of cyber warfare specialists to
6,000. It did not disclose how South Korea had acquired the estimate.

Last week, Washington imposed new sanctions on North Korea, blaming it for a
recent cyberattack on Sony Pictures Entertainment. Pyongyang has denied
responsibility, and some cyberexperts have also voiced skepticism.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/07/world/north-korea-has-made-significant-advance
s-in-nuclear-arms-program-south-says.html

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

F.B.I. Says Little Doubt North Korea Hit Sony

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT, NICOLE PERLROTH and MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN; Michael S.
Schmidt reported from Washington, Nicole Perlroth from San Francisco and Matthew
Goldstein from New York. David E. Sanger contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1123 words


WASHINGTON -- The F.B.I.'s director, James B. Comey, said on Wednesday that the
United States had concluded that North Korea was behind the destructive attacks
on Sony Pictures partly because the hackers failed to mask their location when
they broke into the company's servers.

Mr. Comey said that instead of routing some of the attacks and messages through
decoy servers, the hackers had sent them directly from known North Korean
Internet addresses.

Though Mr. Comey did not offer more details about the government's evidence in a
speech in New York, senior government officials said that F.B.I.'s analysts
discovered that the hackers made a critical error by logging into both their
Facebook account and Sony's servers from North Korean Internet addresses. It was
clear, the officials said, that hackers quickly recognized their mistake. In
several cases, after mistakenly logging in directly, they quickly backtracked
and rerouted their attacks and messages through decoy computers abroad.

Before the attacks in November, Sony Pictures was threatened in a series of
messages posted to a Facebook account set up by a group calling itself
''Guardians of Peace.'' After Facebook closed that account in November, the
group changed its messaging platform and began sending threats in emails to Sony
and on the anonymous posting site Pastebin. As far back as last June, North
Korean officials wrote in a letter to the United Nations that ''The Interview,''
a Sony comedy about two journalists hired to assassinate its leader, Kim
Jong-un, was an act of terrorism.

Responding to critics who have questioned why the United States thinks North
Korea was the source of the attacks, Mr. Comey said on Wednesday that the
hackers became ''sloppy'' as they tried to cover their tracks. He acknowledged
that the North Koreans had used decoys but did not elaborate about the specific
mistakes the hackers made that gave him ''high confidence'' the country was
behind the attack.

Mr. Comey urged the United States intelligence community to declassify all the
information that showed that the hackers had used such servers, something that
could take months

Mr. Comey's remarks came a little more than three weeks after President Obama
took the unusual step of publicly naming the North Koreans as the culprit. Last
week, American officials imposed a series of sanctions on senior North Korean
officials as retaliation for the attack.

The slip-up by the North Koreans was similar to one two years ago that led
American officials to conclude that hackers inside the Chinese military's Unit
61398 was behind attacks on thousands of companies and government agencies
abroad. In that case, the Chinese hackers logged into their Facebook and Twitter
accounts from the same infrastructure they used for their attacks.

Facebook closed the Guardians of Peace Facebook account in November. A Facebook
spokesman said the company could not comment on specific accounts or law
enforcement requests. In the past, the F.B.I. has compelled companies like
Facebook to provide it with specific information about user accounts, including
logs of user activity and Internet protocol addresses, through court orders.

The Sony breach has become a focal point for the F.B.I. and other officials
because it was one of the rare attacks on a big corporation that the United
States has attributed to a foreign government.

Mr. Comey made his remarks about the Sony breach in a speech at the
International Conference on Cyber Security in New York. The four-day event,
coordinated by the F.B.I., brings together law enforcement officials and
Internet security experts from around the world to discuss and analyze
techniques hackers use to breach corporate computer networks.

Shortly after the F.B.I. blamed the North Korean government for the Sony attack,
some digital security experts began to raise doubts about the government's
claim. Working off a sliver of the digital evidence from the attack -- samples
of malware that were distributed to security researchers -- several security
researchers said they were skeptical of government claims that the attackers
were North Korean.

Critics noted that an extortion letter posted by the attackers suggested that
they may have been criminals or embittered employees, not a nation state. They
suggested that the fact that the attackers coded malware off computers with
Korean language settings could have been faked, and they said that the I.P.
addresses used in the attack were also used in other attacks. Some at Taia
Global, a organizer of cybersecurity conferences, said a linguistic analysis of
2,000 words that the attackers had posted online persuaded them that the
attackers could have been North Korean but were more likely Russian.

But the F.B.I. and other security experts say those critics have had access to
only some of the evidence from the attack. They say the accumulation of the
evidence collected by the F.B.I., Sony and Mandiant, a security firm hired by
Sony, makes clear that North Korea was the culprit.

Just before Mr. Comey made his statements, a leading cybersecurity expert took
those critics to task.

''One of the joys of the Internet is that anyone with a keyboard and a
connection can be an expert,'' James A. Lewis, a director and senior fellow at
the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, wrote in an
essay posted online on Wednesday. ''Opinion substitutes for research. The
uninformed debate over the Sony cyberincident is the most recent example of the
Internet's limitations.''

Mr. Lewis said a close reading of classified documents leaked last year by
Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor, made clear
that American intelligence officials maintained deep access in North Korea's
networks.

The real debate, Mr. Lewis said, was one of government mistrust by the
cybersecurity community, particularly after the revelations by Mr. Snowden.

On Wednesday, some skeptics of the government's claims, like Sean Sullivan, a
cybersecurity adviser at F-Secure, a security firm based in Helsinki, said the
government should release evidence it collected from the Facebook account of
Sony's attackers.

''Revealing what Facebook knows about that account and how it was used can't be
something the F.B.I. needs to keep classified. Just can't,'' Mr. Sullivan said.
''It is a very simple request to ask what was discovered when investigated.
Very.''

But some of the most vocal critics of the government's claims, like Marc Rogers,
a security researcher at CloudFlare, said they were still not convinced. ''If
the government had laid out its attribution in the beginning, that may have
quelled the criticism, but the evidence that's been put before me and many of my
colleagues is flimsy.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/08/business/chief-says-fbi-has-no-doubt-that-nort
h-korea-attacked-sony.html

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James B. Comey, director of the F.B.I., said on Wednesday that
the hackers became ''sloppy'' as they tried to cover their tracks. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Times Insider)

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Daily Clip Report

BYLINE: JORDAN COHEN

LENGTH: 241 words



HIGHLIGHT: Good morning. Here is Daily Clip Report, a collection of articles
about The Times and the media sent by email each morning to senior executives
and newsroom editors. The email is produced by the Corporate Communications
Department at The Times.


 Good morning. Here is Daily Clip Report, a collection of articles about The
Times and the media sent by email each morning to senior executives and newsroom
editors. The email is produced by the Corporate Communications Department at The
Times.

News organizations wrestle with whether to publish Charlie Hebdo cartoons after
attack The Washington Post - 1/7

The Charlie Hebdo Mohammed cartoons: Media outlets shy away or take a stand CNN
Money - 1/7

Charlie Hebdo Broke Taboos, Defying Threats and Violence The New York Times -
1/7

Apps are winning mobile, but not for publishers Digiday - 1/8

If people will pay $20 a month to watch ESPN online, what will they pay for HBO?
Quartz - 1/7

Vocativ shuffles executive ranks at the outset of new investment Poynter - 1/7

One year in, The Information sticks to subscription model Digiday - 1/8

Yahoo's Troubled. Don't Blame Marissa Mayer. Bloomberg View - 1/7

2015: A make-or-break year for traditional publishers Digiday - 1/7

LinkedIn Expands Blogging Tool, Wants More People Writing Long-Form Recode - 1/7

Netflix's Sarandos on Nielsen: Ratings are Irrelevant The Wall Street Journal -
1/7

The looming threat of newsroom cyber attacks Columbia Journalism Review - 1/7

Facebook Reminds Video Makers That Facebook Video Is Really Big Recode - 1/7

Here's how a real teenager uses, and doesn't use, social media gigaOM - 1/7

Ex-NYT senior editor Larry Ingrassia to join the Los Angeles Times Los Angeles
Times - 1/7

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 9, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

No Safety for Christians in the Mideast

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM EUROPE; Pg.

LENGTH: 675 words


LONDON -- It has been that time of year when Christians, in the West at least,
gather to count their blessings. Churches more used to the murmured orisons of
shrinking congregations suddenly fill with worshipers singing carols,
punctuating less-spiritual rites of frenetic spending that mimic the feast days
of the faithful -- Black Friday, Cyber Monday.

Only this week, on the 12th day, did the moment come for many to strip the
decorative lights from Christmas trees and pack the baubles and tinsel away
until next December, making room, perhaps, for darker thoughts.

Rarely, if ever, it seems, has this Western blend of belief and materialism been
so remote from the experience of hundreds of thousands of Christians elsewhere
struggling to cope with an unwanted and bloody collision with the Islamic
exclusivism of jihadists, primarily in Iraq, Syria and Nigeria. And rarely have
Western worshipers seemed so reluctant to acknowledge that their faith could be
entering the final stage of its long decline in the lands where it was born and
first propagated.

For decades, Christian communities in the Holy Land have dwindled, squeezed
between the competing claims of Israelis and Palestinians and threatened by
Islamic militancy.

In Lebanon, 15 years of civil war starting in 1975 brought Muslims and Maronites
into bloody conflict. In 2003, the American-led invasion of Iraq replaced the
relative tolerance of Christians under Saddam Hussein with sectarian strife
between Sunni and Shiite Muslims that drove Christians away.

Since 2011, the so-called Arab Spring has narrowed the space, forcing Christians
such as Egypt's Copts to take sides between secular and Islamic forces.

The Middle East's demography, in other words, is being fundamentally rewritten,
particularly in recent months when militants of the Islamic State, also known as
ISIS or ISIL, have expelled, murdered or persecuted Christians and other
minorities in the Iraqi city of Mosul.

For the first time in centuries, scholars of Middle Eastern religion say, Iraq
is becoming an exclusively Islamic state after hosting one of the region's
biggest Christian minorities.

''There is a feeling of 'fin de race' among Christians all over the Middle
East,'' the prominent Lebanese historian Kamal Salibi was widely quoted as
saying before his death in 2011.

''Each time a Christian goes, no other Christian comes to fill his place, and
that is a very bad thing for the Arab world.''

Indeed, Pope Francis told Middle Eastern Christians: ''Your very presence is
precious for the Middle East. You are a small flock, but one with a great
responsibility in the land where Christianity was born and first spread. You are
like leaven in the dough.''

Yet the plight of those communities seems to leave Christian leaders facing an
insuperable dilemma. If they urge Western societies to give sanctuary to fellow
Christians from the patchwork of denominations that have flourished in the
Middle East, they risk accelerating the region's de-Christianization and fanning
xenophobia in European lands.

If they do nothing, they stand accused of abandoning those who share their
faith.

''These are not Johnny-come-latelies,'' the Most Rev. Justin Welby, the
archbishop of Canterbury, said in Britain. ''They have got more history of being
there than we have, most of us, of being in this country.''

''There are things that can be done,'' he said, ''and it is better than simply
draining the entire region of Christians who have been there since the time of
St. Paul.''

The archbishop, the leader of the Church of England and spiritual head of the
world's 80 million Anglicans, has spoken in favor of creating ''safe havens''
for Middle Eastern Christians, maintaining their presence in the region while
shielding them from persecution.

But with tensions again mounting across the region, and the collision between
radical Islam and the West spilling onto the streets of Paris with Wednesday's
lethal attack on the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo, the very notion
of safety seems elusive, irrespective of faith.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/09/world/europe/no-safety-for-christians-in-the-m
ideast.html

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 12, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Monday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 704 words


9:15 A.M. (IFC) IGBY GOES DOWN (2002) Kieran Culkin portrays Igby, a 17-year-old
military school runaway who camps out in a New York loft as he rebels against
his preppy older brother (Ryan Phillippe) and high-strung mother (Susan
Sarandon), in this sarcastic comedy written and directed by Burt Steers. Amanda
Peet, above with Mr. Culkin, is the heroin-addicted choreographer and trophy
girlfriend of Igby's wealthy godfather and benefactor (Jeff Goldblum) with whom
Igby finds solace; Bill Pullman is Igby's father, in a mental hospital after a
schizophrenic breakdown. ''Even though the movie drifts uneasily between satire
and realism, and its visions of military school and bohemia feel secondhand, it
maintains a ruthless emotional honesty,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The New York
Times. ''Ultimately, it gets at something that no other recent American movie
has captured quite so acutely: a resentful, lurking disappointment in the good
life.''

9:40 A.M. (Starz Cinema) PARIS, JE T'AIME (2006) Eighteen vignettes by directors
like Olivier Assayas, Joel and Ethan Coen, Gus Van Sant, Alfonso Cuarón and Tom
Tykwer pay homage to the various neighborhoods of the City of Light. The cast
includes Juliette Binoche, Steve Buscemi, Ben Gazzara, Natalie Portman, Fanny
Ardant, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Nick Nolte, Gena Rowlands and Gérard Depardieu.
Writing in The Times, Stephen Holden described the film as ''a cinematic tasting
menu consisting entirely of amuse-bouches.''

8 P.M. (TCM) LOVE, ITALIAN STYLE That's amore: a five-film mini-fest begins with
William Wyler's ''Roman Holiday'' (1953), starring Audrey Hepburn (in an
Oscar-winning performance, and dressed by Edith Head, who also won an Oscar) as
a runaway princess who finds love in Rome with a reporter (Gregory Peck, above
with Ms. Hepburn) who knows her true identity. The lineup continues with ''Light
in the Piazza'' (1962), with George Hamilton as a dapper Florentine who woos the
beautiful but mentally handicapped daughter (Yvette Mimieux) of an American
tourist (Olivia de Havilland), at 10:15; ''Rome Adventure'' (1962), about a
librarian (Suzanne Pleshette) who, after allowing a student to read a banned
book about love, quits her job and journeys to Rome for a dose of romance
herself, at 12:15 a.m.; ''The Roman Spring of Mrs. Stone'' (1961), with Vivien
Leigh as a fading star who takes up with an Italian gigolo (Warren Beatty) after
her husband's death, at 2:30; and ''Gidget Goes to Rome'' (1962), in which the
California surfer (Cindy Carol) and her gang trade the Pacific for a dip in the
Trevi Fountain, at 4:30.

8:30 P.M. (BBC America) TOP GEAR: PATAGONIA SPECIAL In Part 1 of this
two-episode prelude to Season 22, Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May
each drive a V8-engine sports cars -- a Porsche 928 GT, a Ford Mustang Mach 1
and a Lotus Esprit -- for 1,600 miles of unpaved roads, collapsed bridges and
even broken bones in a quest to reach Ushuaia, Argentina, which claims to be the
world's southernmost city.

9 P.M. (Al Jazeera America) DEATH ON THE BAKKEN SHALE ''Fault Lines''
investigates why the oil boom in North Dakota -- now producing more than one
million barrels per day from more than 8,000 wells -- has been accompanied by
the highest worker fatality rate in the country.

10 P.M. (MTV) EYE CANDY In this new mystery series based on the novel by R. L.
Stine, a tech genius (Victoria Justice) who suspects that an online suitor is a
cyber-stalker with deadly intentions sets out to solve a series of murders while
imposing her own style of justice on the streets of New York.

10 P.M. (ABC) CASTLE After being banned from working with the 12th Precinct,
Castle (Nathan Fillion) gets a private investigator's license and shows up at a
crime scene overseen by Beckett (Stana Katic).

What's Streaming Now

MOONSTRUCK (1987) That's amore, too: A Brooklyn bookkeeper (Cher, who won an
Oscar for her performance) falls for the estranged younger brother (Nicolas
Cage) of her fiancé (Danny Aiello), wreaking havoc on their large Italian
families, in Norman Jewison's comedy. ''The moon hits your eye like a big pizza
pie in 'Moonstruck,' and a lot of other things do too,'' Janet Maslin wrote in
The Times. (amazon.com) KATHRYN SHATTUCK

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/12/arts/whats-on-tv-monday.html

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MYLES ARONOWITZ/UNITED ARTISTS FILMS
 PARAMOUNT PICTURES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      January 15, 2015 Thursday 00:00 EST

Unshackled Hacker Dons a White Hat;
Movie Review

BYLINE: MANOHLA DARGIS

SECTION: MOVIES

LENGTH: 1347 words



HIGHLIGHT: In Michael Mann's "Blackhat," a hacker is provisionally released from
prison to combat a cybercriminal who has sabotaged a nuclear plant and
manipulated a financial market.


Michael Mann's thriller "Blackhat," a story about the intersection of bodies and
machines, is a spectacular work of unhinged moviemaking. By turns brutal and
sentimental, lovely and lurid, as serious as the grave and blissfully
preposterous, it combines a truckload of plot with many of the obsessions,
tropes, sights and sounds that distinguish his other movies, from kinetic gun
battles to cool beauties gazing into the distance in sunglasses. Here those
beauties are a pair of improbable computer savants, played by Chris Hemsworth
and Tang Wei, who race, jet and furiously bang on keyboards across the globe
while chasing villainy, lines of code and millions in loot.

The jampacked story, pegged to a shadow hacker stirring up global trouble, could
have been gleaned from the latest news. The inspiration for the script, by
Morgan Davis Foehl, was an attack on the Natanz uranium enrichment plant in Iran
by malware deployed through USB flash drives. The movie opens with an explosion
at a nuclear power plant in Hong Kong, where Chinese officials call in Chen
Dawai (Wang Leehom), who in turn taps his sister, Lien (Ms. Tang), for help and
then an old school friend, Nick Hathaway (Mr. Hemsworth).

Another, more benign hacker turned prisoner, Hathaway is first seen reading Jean
Baudrillard's "The System of Objects," a neo-Marxist critique of the
commodification of everyday life. Also adorning Hathaway's shelves is
"Discipline and Punish," Michel Foucault's inquiry into modern penal systems and
disciplinary technologies of power, including surveillance. The nods to these
heavyweights happen in an eye blink, and they felt gratuitous and self-conscious
the first time I saw "Blackhat." (Jean-François Lyotard's "The Postmodern
Condition" is also on the shelf, as is Jacques Derrida.)

The movie's suppositions - namely that the world is now a surveillance
penitentiary - emerge clearly enough that you don't need these intellectual
signposts, even if name-dropping philosophers has long been par for the
cinematic course for the likes of, say, Jean-Luc Godard. Yet such allusions are
of a piece with Mr. Mann's singular hybrid approach, which exists at the
crossroads of the classical Hollywood cinema and the European art film and is
evident in his oscillation between action and introspection, transformation and
stasis, exterior and interior realms.

A maximalist, Mr. Mann crams a great deal into the movie's fleet two-hour
running time, including the nuclear mishap, a commodities run-up, some cyber
-slapstick with the National Security Agency and the specter of 9/11. Once
Hathaway has been cut loose from federal lockup with an ankle monitor, he joins
a stellar backup team tasked with catching the power-plant hacker that includes
Viola Davis on lead. Her character, Carol Barrett, is an agent for the F.B.I.
whose reddish wig, plumy lashes and cavalcade of weary sighs and devastating
deadpan stares are among the movie's best special effects. Barrett serves as
Hathaway's handler and coordinates the American team with the Chinese, while Ms.
Davis's fine-grained performance deepens the movie's emotional texture.

Mr. Hemsworth is a brooding Adonis best known for playing Thor in the big-screen
cartoons who should be better known for playing a racecar driver in the
undersung "Rush." He has a pallor and hard-body physique that don't jibe with
the usual mental snapshot of the puny, pasty criminal hacker, even if his bulk
makes sense as a jailhouse defense. He isn't a persuasive typist (he was tutored
on his keyboard fingerwork), but what he does have is a natural pensiveness
bordering on melancholy that creates a nice frisson with his bulging muscles and
heartthrob looks. You can see him diving into thought, which works for a role
that requires his character to serve as our conduit for a lot of jargon. His
strong physicality also works with the movie's sense of hacking and other tech
work as labor.

Like the safecracker played by James Caan in "Thief," Mr. Mann's 1981 thriller,
Hathaway is defined - as a man and professional, but also as a friend, lover and
target - through his job. The characters in "Blackhat" spend a great deal of
time staring at screens and making like Rachmaninoff with their keyboards, a
familiar image for the increasing numbers of people who are plugged in for work,
play or both, even as they're increasingly disconnected from the physical world.
This disconnect and its dangers are something of a refrain in the movie and are
invoked in Hathaway's prison-house philosophy (when not perusing Baudrillard, he
connects mind and body by, um, doing ironman push-ups) and in the conceit of
faceless terrorists who, hidden in a virtual world, wreak damage on human
beings.

All this face time with blinking screens is in the service of the story's turns,
many of which involve following the digital trail left by the hacker who
infiltrated the nuclear plant. That initially makes "Blackhat" a cat-and-mouse
game, one that shifts into high-action gear with the introduction of the
hacker's army of thugs, whose apparatus of choice is a machine gun and whose
leader is a dead-eyed enforcer, Elias (an excellent Ritchie Coster). The chase
takes Hathaway and company through computer networks, a pursuit that Mr. Mann at
times represents by plunging deep into the physical networks, running straight
into the guts of the machine, much as he did in "Thief" when he pushed his
camera in for a peek inside a lock cylinder as it's being picked.

That's pretty cool, as are the various Far Eastern locations that add palpable
density to the movie's thin-looking, at times near-translucent visuals. The
contrast between the richness of the action and the thinness of the (still
beautiful) images is just one of many dualities that run through the movie, as
when Mr. Mann cuts from a fanlike image spreading across a screen to a huge
flame shooting out from under a Hong Kong cook's wok. Time and again, he puts
computer and other spaces into play visually, mapping a brave new world with
images of kaleidoscopically pulsing screens and the jewel-like glittering of
nighttime megacities. The practical locations, with real bodies moving through
real spaces, underline the idea that something big is still at stake in the
physical world.

A few times, though, notably during a chaotic fight in a crowded Jakarta square
that turns multitudes into a streaming network, the locations feel like an
directorial extravagance and a mistake. Those bodies are finally too decorative
and disposable, and the ease with which they fall undercuts the movie's moral
seriousness. Mr. Mann fares better in more intimately scaled scenes, whether
inside a restaurant with Hathaway and Lien or out on the street with some
joltingly personal shootouts. Whether his characters are making love or war, Mr.
Mann often captures them in tight close-ups that thrust their faces into the
foreground of the shot. It's a visual choice that briefly isolates these men and
women from a world that, like everyone else, they're desperate to comprehend.

"Blackhat" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian).
Extreme gun and blade violence.

Blackhat

Opens on Friday

Directed by Michael Mann; written by Morgan Davis Foehl; director of
photography, Stuart Dryburgh; edited by Joe Walker, Stephen Rivkin, Jeremiah
O'Driscoll and Mako Kamitsuna; music by Harry Gregson-Williams and Atticus Ross;
production design by Guy Hendrix Dyas; costumes by Colleen Atwood; produced by
Mr. Mann, Thomas Tull and Jon Jashni; released by Universal Pictures. Running
time: 2 hours 4 minutes.

WITH: Chris Hemsworth (Nicholas Hathaway), Tang Wei (Chen Lien), Viola Davis
(Carol Barrett), Ritchie Coster (Elias Kassar), Holt McCallany (Mark Jessup),
Yorick van Wageningen (Sadak) and Wang Leehom (Chen Dawai).

PHOTOS: Chris Hemsworth and Tang Wei as computer savants chasing an unseen
villain in "Blackhat," directed by Michael Mann.; Viola Davis as an F.B.I. agent
and mission coordinator. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRANK CONNOR/UNIVERSAL PICTURES)

Related Articles


     ·    The Tech Changes, but Not the Crime


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday

Need Some Espionage Done? Hackers Are for Hire Online

BYLINE: MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1360 words



HIGHLIGHT: No longer just the domain of intelligence agencies,
&#8220;hacktivists&#8221; or criminal gangs, there is a growing cottage industry
of ordinary people hiring hackers for much smaller acts of espionage.


A man in Sweden says he will pay up to $2,000 to anyone who can break into his
landlord's website. A woman in California says she will pay $500 for someone to
hack into her boyfriend's Facebook and Gmail accounts to see if he is cheating
on her.

The business of hacking is no longer just the domain of intelligence agencies,
international criminal gangs, shadowy political operatives and disgruntled
"hacktivists" taking aim at big targets. Rather, it is an increasingly personal
enterprise.

At a time when huge stealth attacks on companies like Sony Pictures, JPMorgan
Chase and Home Depot attract attention, less noticed is a growing cottage
industry of ordinary people hiring hackers for much smaller acts of espionage.

A new website, called Hacker's List, seeks to match hackers with people looking
to gain access to email accounts, take down unflattering photos from a website
or gain access to a company's database. In less than three months of operation,
over 500 hacking jobs have been put out to bid on the site, with hackers vying
for the right to do the dirty work.

It is done anonymously, with the website's operator collecting a fee on each
completed assignment. The site offers to hold a customer's payment in escrow
until the task is completed.

In just the last few days, offers to hire hackers at prices ranging from $100 to
$5,000 have come in from around the globe on Hacker's List, which opened for
business in early November.

For instance, a bidder who claimed to be living in Australia would be willing to
pay up to $2,000 to get a list of clients from a competitor's database,
according to a recent post by the bidder.

"I want the client lists from a competitors database. I want to know who their
customers are, and how much they are charging them," the bidder wrote.

Others posting job offers on the website were looking for hackers to scrub the
Internet of embarrassing photos and stories, retrieve a lost password or change
a school grade.

The rather matter-of-fact nature of the job postings on Hacker's List shows just
how commonplace low-profile hacking has become and the challenge such activity
presents for law enforcement at a time when federal and state authorities are
concerned about data security.

Hacking into individual email or social media accounts occurs on a fairly
regular basis, according to computer security experts and law enforcement
officials. In September, the Internet was abuzz when hackers posted nude photos
of female celebrities online.

It is not clear just how successful Hacker's List will prove to be. A review of
job postings found many that had yet to receive a bid from a hacker. Roughly 40
hackers have registered with the website, and there are 844 registered job
posters. From the postings, it is hard to tell how many of the job offers are
legitimate.

The site did get a favorable review recently on hackerforhirereview.com, which
specializes in assessing the legitimacy of such services. The reviewer and owner
of that site, who would identify himself only as "Eric" in emails, said he gave
his top rating to Hacker's List because it's a "really cool concept" that limits
the ability of customers and hackers to take advantage of one another.

In light of the novelty of the site, it's hard to say whether it violates any
laws.

Arguably some of the jobs being sought on Hacker's List - breaking into another
person's email account - are not legal.

The founders of Hacker's List, however, contend that they are insulated from any
legal liability because they neither endorse nor condone illegal activities.

The website includes a 10-page terms and conditions section to which all users
must agree. It specifically forbids using "the service for any illegal
purposes."

Some experts say it is not clear whether Hacker's List is doing anything wrong
in serving as a meeting ground for hackers and those seeking to employ them.

Yalkin Demirkaya, president of the private investigation company Cyber
Diligence, and a former commanding officer of the New York Police Department's
computer crimes group, said a crackdown would depend on whether law enforcement
officials saw it as a priority. He said Hacker's List may skate by because many
of the "people posting the ads are probably overseas."

But Thomas G. A. Brown, a senior managing director with FTI Consulting and a
former deputy chief of the computer and intellectual property crime unit of the
United States attorney's office in Manhattan, said hacker-for-hire websites
posed problems.

"Hackers for hire can permit nontechnical individuals to launch cyberattacks
with a degree of deniability, lowering the barriers to entry for online crime,"
Mr. Brown said.

The website, which is registered in New Zealand, is modeled after several online
businesses in which companies seeking freelancers can put projects out to bid.
Some have compared the service to a hacker's version of the classified
advertising website Craigslist. Hacker's List even has a Twitter account
(@hackerslist), where it announces the posting of new hacking assignments.

Still, the three founders of Hacker's List are not willing to go public with
their own identities - at least not yet.

After registering with the website and beginning an email conversation, a
reporter contacted one of the founders. Over a period of weeks, the founder, who
identified himself only as "Jack," said in a series of emails that he and two
friends had founded Hacker's List and that it was based in Colorado. Jack
described himself as a longtime hacker and said that his partners included a
person with master's degree in business administration and a lawyer.

He said that the three were advised by legal counsel on how to structure the
website to avoid liability for any wrongdoing by people either seeking to hire a
hacker, or by hackers agreeing to do a job. The company, he said, tries to do a
small background check on the hackers bidding on jobs to make sure they are
legitimate, and not swindlers.

"We all have been friends for a while," Jack said in an email, adding that
Hacker's List "was kind of a fluke occurrence over drinks one night."

"We talked about a niche and I built it right there," he said. "It kind of
exploded on us, which was never expected."

Hacker's List began its website several months after federal prosecutors and
F.B.I. agents in Los Angeles completed a two-year crackdown on the
hacker-for-hire industry. The investigation, called Operation Firehacker by the
F.B.I., led to the filing of criminal charges against more than a dozen people
across the country involved in either breaking into a person's email account or
soliciting a hacker for the job.

In New York, information uncovered during the investigation in Los Angeles led
to the arrest in 2013 of Edwin Vargas, a New York Police Department detective at
the time, who was charged with paying $4,000 for the hacking of the email
accounts of 43 people, including current and former New York police officers.
Mr. Vargas, who pleaded guilty in November 2013 and was sentenced to four months
in prison, said he had been motivated by jealousy and wanted to see whether any
of his colleagues were dating an ex-girlfriend who is the mother of his son.

The F.B.I. investigation also involved the cooperation of the authorities in
China, India and Romania, because a number of the websites where the hackers
advertised their expertise were based overseas.

Still, the market for hackers, many of whom comply with the law and act more
like online investigators, shows no signs of slowing. Many companies are hiring
so-called ethical hackers to look for weaknesses in their networks.

David Larwson, a director of operations with NeighborhoodHacker.com, which is
incorporated in Colorado, said he had seen increased demand from companies
looking to make sure their employees are not obtaining sensitive information
through hacking. He said in an email that companies were increasingly focused on
an "insider threat" leading to a breach or unauthorized release of information.

On its website, NeighborhoodHacker describes itself as a company of "certified
ethical hackers" that works with customers to "secure your data, passwords and
children's safety."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 16, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Unshackled Hacker Dons a White Hat

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE
REVIEW; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1305 words


Michael Mann's thriller ''Blackhat,'' a story about the intersection of bodies
and machines, is a spectacular work of unhinged moviemaking. By turns brutal and
sentimental, lovely and lurid, as serious as the grave and blissfully
preposterous, it combines a truckload of plot with many of the obsessions,
tropes, sights and sounds that distinguish his other movies, from kinetic gun
battles to cool beauties gazing into the distance in sunglasses. Here those
beauties are a pair of improbable computer savants, played by Chris Hemsworth
and Tang Wei, who race, jet and furiously bang on keyboards across the globe
while chasing villainy, lines of code and millions in loot.

The jampacked story, pegged to a shadow hacker stirring up global trouble, could
have been gleaned from the latest news. The inspiration for the script, by
Morgan Davis Foehl, was an attack on the Natanz uranium enrichment plant in Iran
by malware deployed through USB flash drives. The movie opens with an explosion
at a nuclear power plant in Hong Kong, where Chinese officials call in Chen
Dawai (Wang Leehom), who in turn taps his sister, Lien (Ms. Tang), for help and
then an old school friend, Nick Hathaway (Mr. Hemsworth).

Another, more benign hacker turned prisoner, Hathaway is first seen reading Jean
Baudrillard's ''The System of Objects,'' a neo-Marxist critique of the
commodification of everyday life. Also adorning Hathaway's shelves is
''Discipline and Punish,'' Michel Foucault's inquiry into modern penal systems
and disciplinary technologies of power, including surveillance. The nods to
these heavyweights happen in an eye blink, and they felt gratuitous and
self-conscious the first time I saw ''Blackhat.'' (Jean-François Lyotard's ''The
Postmodern Condition'' is also on the shelf, as is Jacques Derrida.)

The movie's suppositions -- namely that the world is now a surveillance
penitentiary -- emerge clearly enough that you don't need these intellectual
signposts, even if name-dropping philosophers has long been par for the
cinematic course for the likes of, say, Jean-Luc Godard. Yet such allusions are
of a piece with Mr. Mann's singular hybrid approach, which exists at the
crossroads of the classical Hollywood cinema and the European art film and is
evident in his oscillation between action and introspection, transformation and
stasis, exterior and interior realms.

A maximalist, Mr. Mann crams a great deal into the movie's fleet two-hour
running time, including the nuclear mishap, a commodities run-up, some cyber
-slapstick with the National Security Agency and the specter of 9/11. Once
Hathaway has been cut loose from federal lockup with an ankle monitor, he joins
a stellar backup team tasked with catching the power-plant hacker that includes
Viola Davis on lead. Her character, Carol Barrett, is an agent for the F.B.I.
whose reddish wig, plumy lashes and cavalcade of weary sighs and devastating
deadpan stares are among the movie's best special effects. Barrett serves as
Hathaway's handler and coordinates the American team with the Chinese, while Ms.
Davis's fine-grained performance deepens the movie's emotional texture.

Mr. Hemsworth is a brooding Adonis best known for playing Thor in the big-screen
cartoons who should be better known for playing a racecar driver in the
undersung ''Rush.'' He has a pallor and hard-body physique that don't jibe with
the usual mental snapshot of the puny, pasty criminal hacker, even if his bulk
makes sense as a jailhouse defense. He isn't a persuasive typist (he was tutored
on his keyboard fingerwork), but what he does have is a natural pensiveness
bordering on melancholy that creates a nice frisson with his bulging muscles and
heartthrob looks. You can see him diving into thought, which works for a role
that requires his character to serve as our conduit for a lot of jargon. His
strong physicality also works with the movie's sense of hacking and other tech
work as labor.

Like the safecracker played by James Caan in ''Thief,'' Mr. Mann's 1981
thriller, Hathaway is defined -- as a man and professional, but also as a
friend, lover and target -- through his job. The characters in ''Blackhat''
spend a great deal of time staring at screens and making like Rachmaninoff with
their keyboards, a familiar image for the increasing numbers of people who are
plugged in for work, play or both, even as they're increasingly disconnected
from the physical world. This disconnect and its dangers are something of a
refrain in the movie and are invoked in Hathaway's prison-house philosophy (when
not perusing Baudrillard, he connects mind and body by, um, doing ironman
push-ups) and in the conceit of faceless terrorists who, hidden in a virtual
world, wreak damage on human beings.

All this face time with blinking screens is in the service of the story's turns,
many of which involve following the digital trail left by the hacker who
infiltrated the nuclear plant. That initially makes ''Blackhat'' a cat-and-mouse
game, one that shifts into high-action gear with the introduction of the
hacker's army of thugs, whose apparatus of choice is a machine gun and whose
leader is a dead-eyed enforcer, Elias (an excellent Ritchie Coster). The chase
takes Hathaway and company through computer networks, a pursuit that Mr. Mann at
times represents by plunging deep into the physical networks, running straight
into the guts of the machine, much as he did in ''Thief'' when he pushed his
camera in for a peek inside a lock cylinder as it's being picked.

That's pretty cool, as are the various Far Eastern locations that add palpable
density to the movie's thin-looking, at times near-translucent visuals. The
contrast between the richness of the action and the thinness of the (still
beautiful) images is just one of many dualities that runs through the movie, as
when Mr. Mann cuts from a fanlike image spreading across a screen to a huge
flame shooting out from under a Hong Kong cook's wok. Time and again, he puts
computer and other spaces into play visually, mapping a brave new world with
images of kaleidoscopically pulsing screens and the jewel-like glittering of
nighttime megacities. The practical locations, with real bodies moving through
real spaces, underline the idea that something big is still at stake in the
physical world.

A few times, though, notably during a chaotic fight in a crowded Jakarta square
that turns multitudes into a streaming network, the locations feel like an
directorial extravagance and a mistake. Those bodies are finally too decorative
and disposable, and the ease with which they fall undercuts the movie's moral
seriousness. Mr. Mann fares better in more intimately scaled scenes, whether
inside a restaurant with Hathaway and Lien or out on the street with some
joltingly personal shootouts. Whether his characters are making love or war, Mr.
Mann often captures them in tight close-ups that thrust their faces into the
foreground of the shot. It's a visual choice that briefly isolates these men and
women from a world that, like everyone else, they're desperate to comprehend.

''Blackhat'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian). Extreme gun and blade violence.

Blackhat

Opens on Friday

Directed by Michael Mann; written by Morgan Davis Foehl; director of
photography, Stuart Dryburgh; edited by Joe Walker, Stephen Rivkin, Jeremiah
O'Driscoll and Mako Kamitsuna; music by Harry Gregson-Williams and Atticus Ross;
production design by Guy Hendrix Dyas; costumes by Colleen Atwood; produced by
Mr. Mann, Thomas Tull and Jon Jashni; released by Universal Pictures. Running
time: 2 hours 4 minutes.

WITH: Chris Hemsworth (Nicholas Hathaway), Tang Wei (Chen Lien), Viola Davis
(Carol Barrett), Ritchie Coster (Elias Kassar), Holt McCallany (Mark Jessup),
Yorick van Wageningen (Sadak) and Wang Leehom (Chen Dawai).

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/16/movies/blackhat-a-cyberthriller-starring-chris
-hemsworth.html

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chris Hemsworth and Tang Wei as computer savants chasing an
unseen villain in ''Blackhat,'' directed by Michael Mann.
 Viola Davis as an F.B.I. agent and mission coordinator. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRANK
CONNOR/UNIVERSAL PICTURES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 16, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Need Some Espionage Done? Hackers Are for Hire Online

BYLINE: By MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1378 words


A man in Sweden says he will pay up to $2,000 to anyone who can break into his
landlord's website. A woman in California says she will pay $500 for someone to
hack into her boyfriend's Facebook and Gmail accounts to see if he is cheating
on her.

The business of hacking is no longer just the domain of intelligence agencies,
international criminal gangs, shadowy political operatives and disgruntled
''hacktivists'' taking aim at big targets. Rather, it is an increasingly
personal enterprise.

At a time when huge stealth attacks on companies like Sony Pictures, JPMorgan
Chase and Home Depot attract attention, less noticed is a growing cottage
industry of ordinary people hiring hackers for much smaller acts of espionage.

A new website, called Hacker's List, seeks to match hackers with people looking
to gain access to email accounts, take down unflattering photos from a website
or gain access to a company's database. In less than three months of operation,
over 500 hacking jobs have been put out to bid on the site, with hackers vying
for the right to do the dirty work.

It is done anonymously, with the website's operator collecting a fee on each
completed assignment. The site offers to hold a customer's payment in escrow
until the task is completed.

In just the last few days, offers to hire hackers at prices ranging from $100 to
$5,000 have come in from around the globe on Hacker's List, which opened for
business in early November.

For instance, a bidder who claimed to be living in Australia would be willing to
pay up to $2,000 to get a list of clients from a competitor's database,
according to a recent post by the bidder.

''I want the client lists from a competitors database. I want to know who their
customers are, and how much they are charging them,'' the bidder wrote.

Others posting job offers on the website were looking for hackers to scrub the
Internet of embarrassing photos and stories, retrieve a lost password or change
a school grade.

The rather matter-of-fact nature of the job postings on Hacker's List shows just
how commonplace low-profile hacking has become and the challenge such activity
presents for law enforcement at a time when federal and state authorities are
concerned about data security.

Hacking into individual email or social media accounts occurs on a fairly
regular basis, according to computer security experts and law enforcement
officials. In September, the Internet was abuzz when hackers posted nude photos
of female celebrities online.

It is not clear just how successful Hacker's List will prove to be. A review of
job postings found many that had yet to receive a bid from a hacker. Roughly 40
hackers have registered with the website, and there are 844 registered job
posters. From the postings, it is hard to tell how many of the job offers are
legitimate.

The site did get a favorable review recently on hackerforhirereview.com, which
specializes in assessing the legitimacy of such services. The reviewer and owner
of that site, who would identify himself only as ''Eric'' in emails, said he
gave his top rating to Hacker's List because it's a ''really cool concept'' that
limits the ability of customers and hackers to take advantage of one another.

In light of the novelty of the site, it's hard to say whether it violates any
laws.

Arguably some of the jobs being sought on Hacker's List -- breaking into another
person's email account -- are not legal.

The founders of Hacker's List, however, contend that they are insulated from any
legal liability because they neither endorse nor condone illegal activities.

The website includes a 10-page terms and conditions section to which all users
must agree. It specifically forbids using ''the service for any illegal
purposes.''

Some experts say it is not clear whether Hacker's List is doing anything wrong
in serving as a meeting ground for hackers and those seeking to employ them.

Yalkin Demirkaya, president of the private investigation company Cyber
Diligence, and a former commanding officer of the New York Police Department's
computer crimes group, said a crackdown would depend on whether law enforcement
officials saw it as a priority. He said Hacker's List may skate by because many
of the ''people posting the ads are probably overseas.''

But Thomas G. A. Brown, a senior managing director with FTI Consulting and
former chief of the computer and intellectual property crime unit of the United
States attorney's office in Manhattan, said hacker-for-hire websites posed
problems.

''Hackers for hire can permit nontechnical individuals to launch cyberattacks
with a degree of deniability, lowering the barriers to entry for online crime,''
Mr. Brown said.

The website, which is registered in New Zealand, is modeled after several online
businesses in which companies seeking freelancers can put projects out to bid.
Some have compared the service to a hacker's version of the classified
advertising website Craigslist. Hacker's List even has a Twitter account
(@hackerslist), where it announces the posting of new hacking assignments.

Still, the three founders of Hacker's List are not willing to go public with
their own identities -- at least not yet.

After registering with the website and beginning an email conversation, a
reporter contacted one of the founders. Over a period of weeks, the founder, who
identified himself only as ''Jack,'' said in a series of emails that he and two
friends had founded Hacker's List and that it was based in Colorado. Jack
described himself as a longtime hacker and said that his partners included a
person with master's degree in business administration and a lawyer.

He said that the three were advised by legal counsel on how to structure the
website to avoid liability for any wrongdoing by people either seeking to hire a
hacker, or by hackers agreeing to do a job. The company, he said, tries to do a
small background check on the hackers bidding on jobs to make sure they are
legitimate, and not swindlers.

''We all have been friends for a while,'' Jack said in an email, adding that
Hacker's List ''was kind of a fluke occurrence over drinks one night.''

''We talked about a niche and I built it right there,'' he said. ''It kind of
exploded on us, which was never expected.''

Hacker's List began its website several months after federal prosecutors and
F.B.I. agents in Los Angeles completed a two-year crackdown on the
hacker-for-hire industry. The investigation, called Operation Firehacker by the
F.B.I., led to the filing of criminal charges against more than a dozen people
across the country involved in either breaking into a person's email account or
soliciting a hacker for the job.

In New York, information uncovered during the investigation in Los Angeles led
to the arrest in 2013 of Edwin Vargas, a New York Police Department detective at
the time, who was charged with paying $4,000 for the hacking of the email
accounts of 43 people, including current and former New York police officers.
Mr. Vargas, who pleaded guilty in November 2013 and was sentenced to four months
in prison, said he had been motivated by jealousy and wanted to see whether any
of his colleagues were dating an ex-girlfriend who is the mother of his son.

The F.B.I. investigation also involved the cooperation of the authorities in
China, India and Romania, because a number of the websites where the hackers
advertised their expertise were based overseas.

Still, the market for hackers, many of whom comply with the law and act more
like online investigators, shows no signs of slowing. Many companies are hiring
so-called ethical hackers to look for weaknesses in their networks.

David Larwson, a director of operations with NeighborhoodHacker.com, which is
incorporated in Colorado, said he had seen increased demand from companies
looking to make sure their employees are not obtaining sensitive information
through hacking. He said in an email that companies were increasingly focused on
an ''insider threat'' leading to a breach or unauthorized release of
information.

On its website, NeighborhoodHacker describes itself as a company of ''certified
ethical hackers'' that works with customers to ''secure your data, passwords and
children's safety.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2015/01/15/need-some-espionage-done-hackers-are-for-
hire-online/

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The home page of Hacker's List, a website that matches hackers
with people looking for someone to delete embarrassing photos or retrieve a
password. (B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 19, 2015 Monday
                        The International New York Times

A Fashionable Way to Track Those Steps

BYLINE: By JAKE CIGAINERO

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: WATCHES; Pg.

LENGTH: 960 words


PARIS -- Those ubiquitous plastic bands that track your every move, each minute
of sleep and other metrics that numerically paint a portrait of your fitness are
starting to look less like trendy gadgets and more like everyday fashion.

According to a study from IDC Health Insights on wearable fitness trackers, one
in three users stop using the device within a year of purchasing it. Behind the
primary reason of just losing interest in tracking their activity, people also
cited wearability and the device's look and feel as turnoffs.

Most wearable fitness trackers look like either nondescript wristbands without
any apparent function or cheap digital watches. One new fitness band, the
Withings Activité, raises the sophistication bar to a more grown-up level. This
smart watch is not the design of some Silicon Valley start-up, but of a
Paris-based design team, whose style-conscious creation is engineered by people
who know watches: the Swiss.

When the watch was released, Nina Garcia, the creative director at Marie Claire
magazine, lauded the Activité as a new era in wearables. ''This is a really
exciting time in fashion, which until recently has not been on speaking terms
with technology,'' Ms. Garcia said. She called the smartwatch a ''true style
accessory'' and ''one of the most wearable wearables out there.''

The Activité is a traditional timepiece in a contemporary, minimalist unisex
design in a standard, one-size-fits-all 36.3 millimeter stainless steel case.
The gadget-in-disguise has a black or white face with silver hands and weighs
just 36 grams, or 1.3 ounces. The French manufacturer Tanneries Haas, which also
counts among its clients some of the world's top luxury brands, including Chanel
and Hermès, makes the watch's calf leather strap.

For active wearers who wish to test the watch's waterproofing, the timepiece
also comes with an interchangeable plastic strap to preserve the leather band
against damage from sweat and swimming.

The watch face bears the all-important words ''Swiss Made,'' and timepiece
connoisseurs can rest assured that the sleek wrist wear will not betray their
obsession with digital fitness-tracking trends.

Underneath its classic analog exterior, the Activité records distance traveled
for walking, running and swimming. The watch calculates calories burned as well
as tracking the wearer's sleep cycles. All of the collected data is logged into
the Withings proprietary online application Health Mate, which can be used to
design fitness plans and set goals to track and monitor statistics on five
points of fitness: activity, weight, heart rate, sleep and environment.

The only hint that the Activité is a Bluetooth-loaded device with powers beyond
telling time is a subdial that indicates the percentage of completed progress
toward a particular metric goal set by the user through the app, such as steps
taken while walking or the number of strokes made in a swimming session. Users
can also open the accompanying app for live, detailed updates on their
statistics.

The obsession with tracking steps started in the 15th century with the Italian
inventor Leonardo da Vinci, who sketched a prototype of an early pedometer to
count the steps of a Roman soldier. Some credit the French for an early design
that came 200 years later.

Thomas Jefferson is also credited for the pedometer's creation after he made
some improvisations on the French design he picked up while in Paris.
Fast-forward approximately 300 years, and that old contraption is masquerading
as a digital gizmo tracking your every move and logging the information in a
cyber cloud.

Like other popular wearable devices, the Activité watch also monitors sleep
patterns, and can even wake up the wearer with its silent, vibrating alarm
clock. The watch's sleep analysis builds detailed graphs to show a person's
sleep quality by breaking down cycles to indicate the length of time taken to
fall asleep and the duration of light and deep sleep.

The watch's sensors automatically toggle to active mode, detecting when the
wearer has started walking, running or swimming. The only tactile interaction
wearers have with the watch is tapping the sapphire glass to check the preset
alarm. The watch hands will slowly move to show the alarm time before moving
back to the actual hour. The hands even adjust automatically when traveling
between different time zones.

The Activité is somewhat limited in compatibility, as it connects only to Apple
iOS devices like the iPhone and iPod touch. Withings is currently developing
software updates to work with Android operating systems. The device runs on a
standard watch battery with a life up to about 10 months.

At $450, the refinement of the Activité comes at a slightly higher price than
basic wearable fitness devices. Standard trackers of other brands start around
$50 and go up to about $199. The Withings Pulse, the brand's more obvious
digital fitness tracker, costs about $120.

Jon Wilde, an editor at GQ magazine and a technology writer, said the Activité
timepiece offered a way to try out the fitness-tracking craze without fully
joining the tech-manacled masses.

''What I like most about the Withings Activité is that it's kind of a
health-tracking gateway drug. It's simple and stylish, like a daily-worn watch
should be, and it sticks to the basics of counting steps and quantifying
sleep,'' Mr. Wilde said. ''If after a few months you want more, you can graduate
to something with more bells, whistles, and blinking LED lights.''

''And if you decide you're bored with the whole idea of health tracking -- which
happens often -- at least you've got a snazzy watch to wear instead of a dead
gadget in the back of a drawer,'' he added. ''In that way it's basically a
health tracker with a safety net.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/19/style/international/a-fashionable-way-to-track
-those-steps.html

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 21, 2015 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Obama's State of the Union 2015 Transcript (Full Text) and Video

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 6612 words


Following is the transcript of President Obama's State of the Union address, as
transcribed by the Federal News Service.

PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you so much, please.
Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, members of Congress, my fellow Americans.

We are 15 years into this new century, 15 years that dawned with terror touching
our shores; that unfolded with a new generation fighting two long and costly
wars; that saw a vicious recession spread across our nation and the world. It
has been, and still is, a hard time for many. But tonight, we turn thepage.

Tonight, after a breakthrough year for America, our economy is growing and
creating jobs at thefastest pace since 1999. (Applause.) Our unemployment rate
is now lower than it was before thefinancial crisis. More of our kids are
graduating than ever before; more of our people are insured than ever before --
(applause) -- and we are as free from the grip of foreign oil as we've been in
almost 30 years. (Applause.)

Tonight, for the first time since 9/11, our combat mission in Afghanistan is
over. Six years ago, nearly 180,000 American troops served in Iraq and
Afghanistan. Today, fewer than 15,000 remain. And we salute the courage and
sacrifice of every man and woman in this 9/11 Generation who has served to keep
us safe. We are humbled and grateful for your service. (Applause.)

America, for all that we've endured, for all the grit and hard work required to
come back, for all thetasks that lie ahead, know this: The shadow of crisis has
passed, and the State of the Union is strong. (Applause.)

At this moment, with a growing economy, shrinking deficits, bustling industry,
booming energy production, we have risen from recession freer to write our own
future than any other nation on Earth. It's now up to us to choose who we want
to be over the next fifteen years, and for decades to come.

Will we accept an economy where only a few of us do spectacularly well? Or will
we commit ourselves to an economy that generates rising incomes and chances for
everyone who makes theeffort? (Applause.)

Will we approach the world fearful and reactive, dragged into costly conflicts
that strain our military and set back our standing? Or will we lead wisely,
using all elements of our power to defeat new threats and protect our planet?

Will we allow ourselves to be sorted into factions and turned against one
another, or will we recapturethe sense of common purpose that has always
propelled America forward?

In two weeks, I will send this Congress a budget filled with ideas that are
practical, not partisan. And in the months ahead, I'll crisscross the country
making a case for those ideas.

So tonight, I want to focus less on a checklist of proposals, and focus more on
the values at stake inthe choices before us.

It begins with our economy.

Seven years ago, Rebekah and Ben Erler of Minneapolis were newlyweds. She waited
tables. He worked construction. Their first child, Jack, was on the way. They
were young and in love in America, and it doesn't get much better than that.

''If only we had known,'' Rebekah wrote to me last spring, ''what was about to
happen to the housing and construction market.''

As the crisis worsened, Ben's business dried up, so he took what jobs he could
find, even if they kept him on the road for long stretches of time.

Rebekah took out student loans and enrolled in community college and retrained
for a new career.

They sacrificed for each other, and slowly, it paid off. They bought their first
home. They had a second son, Henry. Rebekah got a better job, and then a raise.
Ben's back in construction and home for dinner every night.

''It is amazing,'' Rebekah wrote, ''what you can bounce back from when you have
to. We are a strong, tight-knit family who has made it through some very, hard
times.''

''We are a strong, tight-knit family who has made it through some very, hard
times.''

America, Rebekah and Ben's story is our story. They represent the millions
who've worked hard and scrimped and sacrificed and retooled.

You are the reason that I ran for this office. You are the people I was thinking
of six years ago today in the darkest months of the crisis when I stood on the
steps of this Capitol and promised we would rebuild our economy on a new
foundation. And it has been your resilience, your effort that has made it
possible for our country to emerge stronger.

We believed we could reverse the tide of outsourcing, and draw new jobs to our
shores. And over thepast five years, our businesses have created more than 11
million new jobs. (Applause.)

We believed we could reduce our dependence on foreign oil and protect our
planet. And today, America is number one in oil and gas. America is number one
in wind power. Every three weeks, we bring online as much solar power as we did
in all of 2008. (Applause.)

And thanks to lower gas prices and higher fuel standards, the typical family
this year should save about $750 at the pump. (Applause.)

We believed we could prepare our kids for a more competitive world. And today,
our younger students have earned the highest math and reading scores on record.
Our high school graduation rate has hit an all-time high. More Americans finish
college than ever before. (Applause.

We believed that sensible regulations could prevent another crisis, shield
families from ruin, and encourage fair competition.

Today, we have new tools to stop taxpayer-funded bailouts, and a new consumer
watchdog to protect us from predatory lending and abusive credit card practices.
And in the past year alone, about ten million uninsured Americans finally gained
the security of health coverage. (Applause.)

At every step, we were told our goals were misguided or too ambitious, that we
would crush jobs and explode deficits. Instead, we've seen the fastest economic
growth in over a decade, our deficits cut by two thirds, a stock market that has
doubled and health care inflation at its lowest rate in 50 years. (Applause.)

This is good news, people. (Laughter.) So -- (applause) -- so the verdict is
clear. Middle-class economics works, expanding opportunity works, and these
policies will continue to work as long as politics don't get in the way.

We can't slow down businesses or put our economy at risk with government
shutdowns or fiscal showdowns. We can't put the security of families at risk by
taking away their health insurance or unraveling the new rules on Wall Street or
refighting past battles on immigration when we've got to fix a broken system.

And if a bill comes to my desk that tries to do any of these things, it will
veto it. It will have earned my veto. (Applause.)

Today, thanks to a growing economy, the recovery is touching more and more
lives. Wages are finally starting to rise again. We know that more
small-business owners plan to raise their employees' pay than at any time since
2007.

But here's the thing. Those of us here tonight, we need to set our sights higher
than just making sure government doesn't screw things up, the government doesn't
halt the progress we're making. We need to do more than just do no harm.

Tonight, together, let's do more to restore the link between hard work and
growing opportunity for every American. (Applause.)

Because families like Rebekah's still need our help. She and Ben are working as
hard as ever, but they've had to forego vacations and a new car so that they can
pay off student loans and save for retirement. Friday night pizza, that's a big
splurge. Basic child care for Jack and Henry costs more than their mortgage, and
almost as much as a year at the University of Minnesota.

Like millions of hardworking Americans, Rebekah isn't asking for a handout, but
she is asking that we look for more ways to help families get ahead.

And in fact, at every moment of economic change throughout our history, this
country has taken bold action to adapt to new circumstances and to make sure
everyone gets a fair shot.

We set up worker protections, Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid to protect
ourselves from theharshest adversity. We gave our citizens schools and colleges,
infrastructure and the Internet, tools they needed to go as far as their efforts
and their dreams will take them.

That's what middle-class economics is: the idea that this country does best when
everyone gets their fair shot, everyone does their fair share, everyone plays by
the same set of rules. (Applause.) We don't just want everyone to share in
America's success; we want everyone to contribute to our success. (Applause.)

So -- so what does middle-class economics require in our time?

First, middle-class economics means helping working families feel more secure in
a world of constant change. That means helping folks afford child care, college,
health care, a home, retirement, and my budget will address each of these
issues, lowering the taxes of working families and putting thousands of dollars
back into their pockets each year. (Applause.)

Here's one example: During World War II, when men like my grandfather went off
to war, having women like my grandmother in the workforce was a national
security priority. So this country provided universal child care.

In today's economy, when having both parents in the workforce is an economic
necessity for many families, we need affordable, high-quality child care more
than ever. (Applause.)

It's not a nice-to-have: it's a must-have. So it's time we stop treating
childcare as a side issue, or a women's issue, and treat it like the national
economic priority that it is for all of us. (Applause.)

And that's why my plan will make quality childcare more available, and more
affordable, for every middle-class and low-income family with young children in
America, by creating more slots and a new tax cut of up to $3,000 per child, per
year. (Applause.)

Here's another example. Today, we are the only advanced country on Earth that
doesn't guarantee paid sick leave or paid maternity leave to our workers. 43
million workers have no paid sick leave. 43 million. Think about that.

And that forces too many parents to make the gut-wrenching choice between a
paycheck and a sick kid at home. So I'll be taking new action to help states
adopt paid leave laws of their own. And since paid sick leave won where it was
on the ballot last November, let's put it to a vote right here in Washington.
(Applause.) Send me a bill that gives every worker in America the opportunity to
earn seven days of paid sick leave.

It's the right thing to do. (Applause.)

Of course, nothing helps families make ends meet like higher wages. That's why
this Congress still needs to pass a law that makes sure a woman is paid the same
as a man for doing the same work. (Applause.) It's 2015. It's time. We still
need to make sure employees get the overtime they've earned -- (applause) -- and
everyone in this Congress who still refuses to raise the minimum wage, I say
this: If you truly believe you could work full-time and support a family on less
than $15,000 a year, try it. (Laughter.) If not, vote to give millions of the
hardest-working people in America a raise. (Applause.)

These ideas won't make everybody rich, won't relieve every hardship. That's not
the job ofgovernment.

To give working families a fair shot, we still need more employers to see beyond
next quarter's earnings and recognize that investing in their workforce is in
their company's long-term interest.

We still need laws that strengthen rather than weaken unions, and give American
workers a voice. (Applause.)

But -- but you know, things like child care and sick leave and equal pay, things
like lower mortgage premiums and a higher minimum wage, these ideas will make a
meaningful difference in the lives ofmillions of families. That's a fact. And
that's what all of us, Republicans and Democrats alike, were sent here to do.

Second, to make sure folks keep earning higher wages down the road, we have to
do more to help Americans upgrade their skills. (Applause.)

Now America thrived in the 20th century because we made high school free, sent a
generation ofG.I.s to college, trained the best workforce in the world. We were
ahead of the curve. But other countries caught on. And in a 21st century economy
that rewards knowledge like never before, we need to up our game. We need to do
more.

By the end of this decade, two in three job openings will require some higher
education. Two in three. And yet, we still live in a country where too many
bright, striving Americans are priced out of theeducation they need. It's not
fair to them, and it's sure not smart for our future. That's why I am sending
this Congress a bold new plan to lower the cost of community college to zero.
(Applause.)

Keep in mind, 40 percent of our college students choose community college. Some
are young and starting out. Some are older and looking for a better job. Some
are veterans and single parents trying to transition back into the job market.

Whoever you are, this plan is your chance to graduate ready for the new economy,
without a load ofdebt. Understand, you've got to earn it. You've got to keep
your grades up and graduate on time.

Tennessee, a state with Republican leadership, and Chicago, a city with
Democratic leadership, are showing that free community college is possible. I
want to spread that idea all across America so that two years of college becomes
as free and universal in America as high school is today. (Applause.) Let's stay
ahead of the curve.

And -- and I want to work with this Congress to make sure Americans already
burdened with student loans can reduce their monthly payments so that student
debt doesn't derail anyone's dreams. (Applause.)

Thanks to Vice President Biden's great work to update our job training system,
we're connecting community colleges with local employers to train workers to
fill high-paying jobs like coding and nursing and robotics.

Tonight, I'm also asking more businesses to follow the lead of companies like
CVS and UPS and offer more educational benefits and paid apprenticeships,
opportunities that give workers the chance to earn higher-paying jobs, even if
they don't have a higher education.

And as a new generation of veterans comes home, we owe them every opportunity to
live theAmerican Dream they helped defend.

Already, we've made strides towards ensuring that every veteran has access to
the highest quality care, we're slashing the backlog that had too many veterans
waiting years to get the benefits they need, and we're making it easier for vets
to translate their training and experience into civilian jobs.

And joining forces, the national campaign launched by Michelle and Jill Biden --
(applause) -- thank you, Michelle, thank you, Jill -- has helped nearly 700,000
veterans and military spouses get a new job. (Applause.)

So to every CEO in America, let me repeat: If you want somebody who's going to
get the job done, and done right, hire a veteran. (Applause.)

Finally, as we better train our workers, we need the new economy to keep
churning out high-wage jobs for our workers to fill. Since 2010, America has put
more people back to work than Europe, Japan, and all advanced economies
combined. (Applause.)

Our manufacturers have added almost 800,000 new jobs. Some of our bedrock
sectors, like our auto industry, are booming. But there are also millions of
Americans who work in jobs that didn't even exist 10 or 20 years ago: jobs at
companies like Google, and eBay, and Tesla.

So no one knows for certain which industries will generate the jobs of the
future. But we do know we want them here in America. (Applause.) We know that.

That's why the third part of middle-class economics is all about building the
most competitive economy anywhere, the place where businesses want to locate and
hire.

Twenty-first st century businesses need 21st century infrastructure: modern
ports, and stronger bridges, faster trains and the fastest Internet. (Applause.)

Democrats and Republicans used to agree on this. So let's set our sights higher
than a single oil pipeline; let's pass a bipartisan -- (applause) --
infrastructure plan that could create more than 30 times as many jobs per year
and make this country stronger for decades to come.

Let's do it. Let's get it done. (Applause.) Let's get it done.

21st century businesses, including small businesses, need to sell more American
products overseas. Today, our businesses export more than ever, and exporters
tend to pay their workers higher wages.

But as we speak, China wants to write the rules for the world's fastest-growing
region. That would put our workers and our businesses at a disadvantage.

Why would we let that happen? We should write those rules. We should level the
playing field.

That's why I'm asking both parties to give me trade promotion authority to
protect American workers with strong new trade deals from Asia to Europe
--(applause) -- that aren't just free but are also fair. It's the right thing to
do.

Look, I'm -- I'm the first one to admit -- I'm the first one to admit that past
trade deals haven't always lived up to the hype, and that's why we've gone after
countries --- (applause) -- that break the rules at our expense. But 95 percent
of the world's customers live outside our borders. We can't close ourselves off
from those opportunities. More than half of manufacturing executives have said
they're actively looking to bring jobs back from China. So let's give them one
more reason to get it done.

21st century businesses will rely on American science and technology, research
and development. I want the country that eliminated polio and mapped the human
genome to lead a new era of medicine: one that delivers the right treatment at
the right time. (Applause.)

In some patients with cystic fibrosis, this approach has reversed a disease once
thought unstoppable. Tonight, I'm launching a new Precision Medicine Initiative
to bring us closer to curing diseases like cancer and diabetes and to give all
of us access to the personalized information we need to keep ourselves and our
families healthier. We can do this. (Applause.)

I intend to protect a free and open Internet, to extend its reach to every
classroom, and every community -- (applause) -- and help folks build the fastest
networks, so that the next generation ofdigital innovators and entrepreneurs
have the platform to keep reshaping our world.

I want Americans to win the race for the kinds of discoveries that unleash new
jobs: converting sunlight into liquid fuel; creating revolutionary prosthetics,
so that a veteran who gave his arms for his country can play catch with his kids
again. (Applause.)

Pushing out into the solar system not just to visit, but to stay. Last month, we
launched a new spacecraft as part of a re-energized space program that will send
American astronauts to Mars. And in two months, to prepare us for those
missions, Scott Kelly will begin a year-long stay in space. So good luck,
Captain. (Applause.) Make sure to Instagram it. We're proud of you.

Now, the truth is when it comes to issues like infrastructure and basic
research, I know there's bipartisan support in this chamber. Members of both
parties have told me so.

Where we too often run onto the rocks is how to pay for these investments. As
Americans, we don't mind paying our fair share of taxes, as long as everybody
else does too.

But for far too long, lobbyists have rigged the tax code with loopholes that let
some corporations pay nothing while others pay full freight. They've riddled it
with giveaways that the super rich don't need, while denying a break to
middle-class families who do.

This year, we have an opportunity to change that. Let's close loopholes so we
stop rewarding companies that keep profits abroad, and reward those that invest
in America. (Applause.) Let's use those savings to rebuild our infrastructure
and make it more attractive for companies to bring jobs home. Let's simplify the
system and let a small-business owner file based on her actual bank statement
instead of the number of accountants she can afford. (Applause.)

And let's close the loopholes that lead to inequality by allowing the top one
percent to avoid paying taxes on their accumulated wealth. We can use that money
to help more families pay for childcare and send their kids to college. We need
a tax code that truly helps working Americans trying to get a leg up in the new
economy, and we can achieve that together. (Applause.) We can achieve it
together.

Helping hardworking families make ends meet. Giving them the tools they need for
good-paying jobs in this new economy. Maintaining the conditions of growth and
competitiveness. This is where America needs to go. I believe it's where the
American people want to go. It will make our economy stronger a year from now,
15 years from now, and deep into the century ahead.

Of course, if there's one thing this new century has taught us, it's that we
cannot separate our work at home from challenges beyond our shores.

My first duty as Commander-in-Chief is to defend the United States of America.
In doing so, thequestion is not -- in doing so the question is not whether
America leads in the world, but how.

When we make rash decisions, reacting to the headlines instead of using our
heads; when the first response to a challenge is to send in our military, then
we risk getting drawn into unnecessary conflicts, and neglect the broader
strategy we need for a safer, more prosperous world. That's what our enemies
want us to do.

I believe in a smarter kind of American leadership. We lead best when we combine
military power with strong diplomacy; when we leverage our power with coalition
building; when we don't let our fears blind us to the opportunities that this
new century presents.

That's exactly what we're doing right now, and around the globe, it is making a
difference.

First, we stand united with people around the world who've been targeted by
terrorists, from a school in Pakistan to the streets of Paris.

We will continue -- (applause) -- to hunt down terrorists and dismantle their
networks, and we reservethe right to act unilaterally, as we have done
relentlessly since I took office, to take out terrorists who pose a direct
threat to us and our allies. (Applause.)

At the same time, we've learned some costly lessons over the last 13 years.
Instead of Americans patrolling the valleys of Afghanistan, we've trained their
security forces, who've now taken the lead, and we've honored our troops'
sacrifice by supporting that country's first democratic transition.

Instead of sending large ground forces overseas, we're partnering with nations
from South Asia to North Africa to deny safe haven to terrorists who threaten
America.

In Iraq and Syria, American leadership, including our military power, is
stopping ISIL's advance. Instead of getting dragged into another ground war in
the Middle East, we are leading a broad coalition, including Arab nations, to
degrade and ultimately destroy this terrorist group. (Applause.)

We're also supporting a moderate opposition in Syria that can help us in this
effort and assisting people everywhere who stand up to the bankrupt ideology of
violent extremism.

Now, this effort will take time. It will require focus. But we will succeed. And
tonight, I call on this Congress to show the world that we are united in this
mission by passing a resolution to authorize theuse of force against ISIL.
(Applause.) We need that authority.

Second, we are demonstrating the power of American strength and diplomacy. We're
upholding theprinciple that bigger nations can't bully the small by opposing
Russian aggression and supporting Ukraine's democracy, and reassuring our NATO
allies. (Applause.)

Last year, as we were doing the hard work of imposing sanctions along with our
allies, as we were reinforcing our presence with the frontline states, Mr.
Putin's aggression, it was suggested, was a masterful display of strategy and
strength. That's what I heard from some folks. Well, today, it is America that
stands strong and united with our allies, while Russia is isolated, with its
economy in tatters. That's how America leads: not with bluster, but with
persistent, steady resolve. (Applause.)

In Cuba, we are ending a policy -- (applause) -- that was long past its
expiration date. When what you're doing doesn't work for 50 years, it's time to
try something new. (Applause.) And our shift in Cuba policy has the potential to
end a legacy of mistrust in our hemisphere and removes the phony excuse for
restrictions in Cuba, stands up for democratic values and extends the hand of
friendship tothe Cuban people. And this year, Congress should begin the work of
ending the embargo. (Applause.)

As -- as his Holiness, Pope Francis, has said, diplomacy is the work of small
steps. These small steps have added up to new hope for the future in Cuba. And
after years in prison, we are overjoyed that Alan Gross is back where he
belongs. (Applause.) Welcome home, Alan. We're glad you're here.

Our diplomacy is at work with respect to Iran, where, for the first time in a
decade, we've halted theprogress of its nuclear program and reduced its
stockpile of nuclear material.

Between now and this spring, we have a chance to negotiate a comprehensive
agreement that prevents a nuclear-armed Iran, secures America and our allies,
including Israel, while avoiding yet another Middle East conflict.

There're no guarantees that negotiations will succeed, and I keep all options on
the table to prevent a nuclear Iran. But new sanctions passed by this Congress
at this moment in time will all but guarantee that diplomacy fails, alienating
America from its allies, making it harder to maintain sanctions and ensuring
that Iran starts up its nuclear program again. It doesn't make sense. That is
why I will veto any new sanctions bill that threatens to undo this progress.
(Applause.) The American people expect us to only go to war as a last resort,
and I intend to stay true to that wisdom.

Third, we're looking beyond the issues that have consumed us in the past to
shape the coming century.

No foreign nation, no hacker, should be able to shut down our networks, steal
our trade secrets, or invade the privacy of American families, especially our
kids. (Applause.)

But we are making sure our government integrates intelligence to combat cyber
threats, just as we have done to combat terrorism. And tonight, I urge this
Congress to finally pass the legislation we need to better meet the evolving
threat of cyber-attacks, combat identity theft, and protect our children's
information. That should be a bipartisan effort. (Applause.)

You know, if we don't act, we'll leave our nation and our economy vulnerable. If
we do, we can continue to protect the technologies that have unleashed untold
opportunities for people around theglobe.

In West Africa, our troops, our scientists, our doctors, our nurses and
healthcare workers are rolling back Ebola, saving countless lives and stopping
the spread of disease. (Applause.) I could not be prouder of them, and I thank
this Congress for your bipartisan support of their efforts.

But the job is not yet done, and the world needs to use this lesson to build a
more effective global effort to prevent the spread of future pandemics, invest
in smart development and eradicate extreme poverty.

In the Asia Pacific, we are modernizing alliances while making sure that other
nations play by therules in how they trade, how they resolve maritime disputes,
how they participate in meeting common international challenges like
nonproliferation and disaster relief. And no challenge, no challenge, poses a
greater threat to future generations than climate change. (Applause.) 2014 was
the planet's warmest year on record.

Now, one year doesn't make a trend, but this does: 14 of the 15 warmest years on
record have all fallen in the first 15 years of this century.

I've heard some folks try to dodge the evidence by saying they're not
scientists, that we don't have enough information to act. Well, I'm not a
scientist either. But you know what? I know a lot of really good scientists at
NASA and at NOAA and at our major universities, and the best scientists in
theworld are all telling us that our activities are changing the climate, and if
we don't act forcefully, we'll continue to see rising oceans, longer, hotter
heat waves, dangerous droughts and floods, and massive disruptions that can
trigger greater migration and conflict and hunger around the globe. ThePentagon
says that climate change poses immediate risks to our national security. We
should act like it. (Applause.)

That's why, over the past six years, we've done more than ever to combat climate
change, from theway we produce energy, to the way we use it. That's why we've
set aside more public lands and waters than any administration in history. And
that's why I will not let this Congress endanger thehealth of our children by
turning back the clock on our efforts. I am determined to make sure American
leadership drives international action. (Applause.)

In Beijing, we made a historic announcement: the United States will double the
pace at which we cut carbon pollution, and China committed, for the first time,
to limiting their emissions. And because theworld's two largest economies came
together, other nations are now stepping up, and offering hope that, this year,
the world will finally reach an agreement to protect the one planet we've got.

And There's one last pillar of our leadership, and that's the example of our
values.

As Americans, we respect human dignity, even when we're threatened, which is why
I've prohibited torture, and worked to make sure our use of new technology like
drones is properly constrained. (Applause.) It's why we speak out against the
deplorable anti-Semitism that has resurfaced in certain parts of the world.
(Applause.)

It's why we continue to reject offensive stereotypes of Muslims, the vast
majority of whom share our commitment to peace. That's why we defend free speech
and advocate for political prisoners and condemn the persecution of women or
religious minorities or people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender. We
do these things not only because they are the right thing to do -- (applause) --
but because ultimately, they make us safer.

As Americans, we have a profound commitment to justice. So it makes no sense to
spend $3 million per prisoner to keep open a prison that the world condemns and
terrorists use to recruit. (Applause.)

Since I've been president, we've worked responsibly to cut the population of
Gitmo in half. Now it is time to finish the job, and I will not relent in my
determination to shut it down. It is not who we are. (Applause.) It's time to
close Gitmo.

As Americans, we cherish our civil liberties, and we need to uphold that
commitment if we want maximum cooperation from other countries and industry in
our fight against terrorist networks. So while some have moved on from the
debates over our surveillance programs, I have not. As promised, our
intelligence agencies have worked hard, with the recommendations of privacy
advocates to increase transparency and build more safeguards against potential
abuse.

And next month, we'll issue a report on how we're keeping our promise to keep
our country safe while strengthening privacy.

Looking to the future instead of the past, making sure we match our power with
diplomacy and use force wisely. Building coalitions to meet new challenges and
opportunities. Leading always with theexample of our values. That's what makes
us exceptional. That's what keeps us strong. And that's why we have to keep
striving to hold ourselves to the highest of standards: our own.

You know, just over a decade ago, I gave a speech in Boston where I said there
wasn't a liberal America, or a conservative America; a black America or a white
America, but a United States ofAmerica.

I said this because I had seen it in my own life, in a nation that gave someone
like me a chance; because I grew up in Hawaii, a melting pot of races and
customs; because I made Illinois my home, astate of small towns, rich farmland,
and one of the world's great cities; a microcosm of the country where Democrats
and Republicans and Independents, good people of every ethnicity and every
faith, share certain bedrock values.

Over the past six years, the pundits have pointed out more than once that my
presidency hasn't delivered on this vision. How ironic, they say, that our
politics seems more divided than ever. It's held up as proof not just of my own
flaws, of which there are many, but also as proof that the vision itself is
misguided, naive, that there are too many people in this town who actually
benefit from partisanship and gridlock for us to ever do anything about it.

I know how tempting such cynicism may be. But I still think the cynics are
wrong. I still believe that we are one people. I still believe that together --
(applause) -- we can do great things, even when theodds are long.

I believe this because over and over in my six years in office, I have seen
America at its best. I've seen the hopeful faces of young graduates from New
York to California; and our newest officers at West Point, Annapolis, Colorado
Springs, and New London. I've mourned with grieving families in Tucson and
Newtown; in Boston, and West Texas, and West Virginia. I've watched Americans
beat back adversity from the Gulf Coast to the Great Plains; from Midwest
assembly lines to the Mid-Atlantic seaboard.

I've seen something like gay marriage go from a wedge issue used to drive us
apart to a story offreedom across our country, a civil right now legal --
(applause) -- in states that seven in ten Americans call home.

So I know the good, and optimistic, and big-hearted generosity of the American
people who, every day, live the idea that we are our brother's keeper, and our
sister's keeper. And I know they expect those of us who serve here to set a
better example.

So the question for those of us here tonight is how we, all of us, can better
reflect America's hopes. I've served in Congress with many of you. I know many
of you well. There are a lot of good people here, on both sides of the aisle.

And many of you have told me that this isn't what you signed up for -- arguing
past each other on cable shows, the constant fundraising, always looking over
your shoulder at how the base will react to every decision.

Imagine if we broke out of these tired old patterns. Imagine if we did something
different.

Understand, a better politics isn't one where Democrats abandon their agenda or
Republicans simply embrace mine; a better politics is one where we appeal to
each other's basic decency instead of our basest fears.

A better politics is one where we debate without demonizing each other, where we
talk issues and values and principles and facts, rather than ''gotcha'' moments
or trivial gaffes or fake controversies that have nothing to do with people's
daily lives. (Applause.)

A politics -- a better politics is one where we spend less time drowning in dark
money for ads that pull us into the gutter, and spend more time lifting young
people up with a sense of purpose and possibility, asking them to join in the
great mission of building America.

If we're going to have arguments, let's have arguments. But let's make them
debates worthy of this body and worthy of this country.

We still may not agree on a woman's right to choose, but surely, we can agree
it's a good thing that teen pregnancies and abortions are nearing all-time lows,
and that every woman should have access to the health care that she needs.
(Applause.)

Yes, passions still fly on immigration, but surely we can all see something of
ourselves in the striving young student, and agree that no one benefits when a
hardworking mom is snatched from her child, and that it's possible to shape a
law that upholds our tradition as a nation of laws and a nation ofimmigrants.
I've talked to Republicans and Democrats about that. That's something that we
can share.

We may go at it in campaign season, but surely we can agree that the right to
vote is sacred -- (applause) -- that it's being denied to too many; and that, on
this 50th anniversary of the great march from Selma to Montgomery and the
passage of the Voting Rights Act, we can come together, Democrats and
Republicans, to make voting easier for every single American. (Applause.)

We may have different takes on the events of Ferguson and New York. But surely
we can understand a father who fears his son can't walk home without being
harassed. And surely we can understandthe wife who won't rest until the police
officer she married walks through the front door at the end ofhis shift.
(Applause.)

And surely we can agree it's a good thing that for the first time in 40 years,
the crime rate and theincarceration rate have come down together, and use that
as a starting point for Democrats and Republicans, community leaders and law
enforcement, to reform America's criminal justice system so that it protects and
serves all of us. (Applause.)

That's a better politics. That's how we start rebuilding trust. That's how we
move this country forward. That's what the American people want. That's what
they deserve. I have no more campaigns to run. My only agenda -- (applause,
laughter) -- I know, because I won both of them. (Applause, laughter.) My only
agenda for the next two years is the same as the one I've had since the day I
swore an oath on the steps of this Capitol: to do what I believe is best for
America.

If you share the broad vision I outlined tonight, I ask you to join me in the
work at hand. If you disagree with parts of it, I hope you'll at least work with
me where you do agree. And I commit to every Republican here tonight that I will
not only seek out your ideas, I will seek to work with you to make this country
stronger. (Applause.)

Because -- because I want this chamber, I want this city, to reflect the truth
that for all our blind spots and shortcomings, we are a people with the strength
and generosity of spirit to bridge divides, to unite in common effort, to help
our neighbors, whether down the street or on the other side of the world.

I want our actions to tell every child, in every neighborhood: your life
matters, and we are as committed to improving your life chances -- (applause) --
as committed as we are we are to working on behalf of our own kids.

I want future generations to know that we are a people who see our differences
as a great gift, that we are a people who value the dignity and worth of every
citizen: man and woman, young and old, black and white, Latino and Asian,
immigrant and Native American, gay and straight, Americans with mental illness
or physical disability. Everybody matters.

I want them to grow up in a country that shows the world what we still know to
be true: that we are still more than a collection of red states and blue states;
that we are the United States of America. (Applause.) I want them to grow up in
a country where a young mom can sit down and write a letter to her president
with a story that sums up these past six years:

''It is amazing what you can bounce back from when you have to. We are a strong,
tight-knit family who has made it through some very, very hard times.''

My fellow Americans, we too are a strong, tight-knit family. We, too, have made
it through some hard times. Fifteen years into this new century, we have picked
ourselves up, dusted ourselves off and begun again the work of remaking America.
We have laid a new foundation. A brighter future is ours to write.

Let's begin this new chapter together, and let's start the work right now.

Thank you. God bless you. (Applause.) God bless this country we love. Thank you.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/21/us/politics/obamas-state-of-the-union-2015-add
ress.html

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 21, 2015 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Transcript of Republican Response to 2015 State of the Union Address

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1195 words


Following is the transcript of the official Republican response to President
Obama's State of the Union address, as transcribed by the Federal News Service.

SENATOR JONI ERNST (R-IA): Good evening.

I'm Joni Ernst. As a mother, a soldier and a newly elected senator from the
great State of Iowa, I am proud to speak with you tonight.

A few moments ago, we heard the president lay out his vision for the year to
come. Even if we may not always agree, it's important to hear different points
of view in this great country. We appreciate the president sharing his.

Tonight, though, rather than respond to a speech, I'd like to talk about your
priorities. I'd like to have a conversation about the new Republican Congress
you just elected and how we plan to make Washington focus on your concerns
again.

We heard the message you sent in November loud and clear, and now we're getting
to work to change the direction Washington has been taking our country.

The new Republican Congress also understands how difficult these past six years
have been. For many of us, the sting of the economy and the frustration with
Washington's dysfunction weren't things we had to read about; we felt them every
day.

We felt them in Red Oak, the little town in southwestern Iowa where I grew up
and am still proud to call home today.

As a young girl, I plowed the fields of our family farm. I worked construction
with my dad. To save for college, I worked the morning biscuit line at Hardees.

We were raised to live simply, not to waste. It was a lesson my mother taught me
every rainy morning.

You see, growing up, I had only one good pair of shoes. So on rainy school days,
my mom would slip plastic bread bags over them to keep them dry. But I was never
embarrassed, because the school bus would be filled with rows and rows of young
Iowans with bread bags slipped over their feet.

Our parents may not have had much, but they worked hard for what they did have.

These days though, many families feel like they're working harder and harder
with less and less to show for it, not just in Red Oak, but across the country.

We see our neighbors agonize over stagnant wages and lost jobs. We see the hurt
caused by canceled healthcare plans and higher monthly insurance bills. We see
too many moms and dads put their own dreams on hold while growing more fearful
about the kind of future they'll be able to leave to their children.

Americans have been hurting, but when we demanded solutions, too often
Washington responded with the same stale mindset that led to failed policies
like ''Obamacare.'' It's a mindset that gave us political talking points, not
serious solutions.

That's why the new Republican majority you elected started by reforming Congress
to make it function again. And now, we're working hard to pass the kind of
serious job-creation ideas you deserve.

One you've probably heard about is the Keystone jobs bill. President Obama has
been delaying this bipartisan infrastructure project for years, even though many
members of his party, unions, and a strong majority of Americans support it. the
president's own State Department has said Keystone's construction could support
thousands of jobs and pump billions into our economy, and do it with minimal
environmental impact.

We worked with Democrats to pass this bill through the House. We're doing the
same now in the Senate.

President Obama will soon have a decision to make. Will he sign the bill or
block good American jobs?

There's a lot we can achieve if we work together.

Let's tear down trade barriers in places like Europe and the Pacific. Let's sell
more of what we make and grow in America over there so we can boost
manufacturing, wages and jobs right here at home.

Let's simplify America's outdated and loophole-ridden tax code. Republicans
think tax filing should be easier for you, not just the well-connected. So let's
iron out loopholes to lower rates and create jobs, not pay for more government
spending.

The president has already expressed some support for these kinds of ideas. We're
calling on him now to cooperate to pass them.

You'll see a lot of serious work in this new Congress.

Some of it will occur where I stand tonight, in the Armed Services Committee
room. This is where I'll join committee colleagues, Republicans and Democrats,
to discuss ways to support our exceptional military and its mission. This is
where we'll debate strategies to confront terrorism and the threats posed by Al
Qaeda, ISIL and those radicalized by them.

We know threats like these can't just be wished away. We've been reminded of
terrorism's reach both at home and abroad, most recently in France and Nigeria
but also in places like Canada and Australia.

Our hearts go out to all the innocent victims of terrorism and their loved ones.
We can only imagine the depth of their grief.

For two decades, I've proudly worn our nation's uniform, today, as a lieutenant
colonel in the Iowa Army National Guard. While deployed overseas with some of
America's finest men and women, I've seen just how dangerous these kinds of
threats can be.

The forces of violence and oppression don't care about the innocent. We need a
comprehensive plan to defeat them.

We must also honor America's veterans. These men and women have sacrificed so
much in defense of our freedoms and our way of life. They deserve nothing less
than the benefits they were promised and a quality of care we can be all be
proud of.

These are important issues the new Congress plans to address.

We'll also keep fighting to repeal and replace a health care law that's hurt so
many hardworking families, we'll work to correct executive overreach, we'll
propose ideas that aim to cut wasteful spending and balance the budget with
meaningful reforms, not higher taxes like the president has proposed, we'll
advance solutions to prevent the kind of cyber attacks we've seen recently,
we'll work to confront Iran's nuclear ambitions, and we'll defend life, because
protecting our most vulnerable is an important measure of any society.

Congress is back to work on your behalf, ready to make Washington focus on your
concerns again.

We know America faces big challenges, but history has shown there's nothing our
nation, and our people, can't accomplish.

Just look at my parents and grandparents.

They had very little to call their own except the sweat on their brow and the
dirt on their hands. But they worked, they sacrificed, and they dreamed big
dreams for their children and grandchildren.

And because they did, an ordinary Iowan like me has had some truly extraordinary
opportunities -- because they showed me that you don't need to come from wealth
or privilege to make a difference. You just need the freedom to dream big, and a
whole lot of hard work.

The new Republican Congress you elected is working to make Washington understand
that too. And with a little cooperation from the president, we can get
Washington working again.

Thank you for allowing me to speak with you tonight.

May God bless this great country of ours, the brave Americans serving in uniform
on our behalf, and you, the hardworking men and women who make the United States
of America the greatest nation the world has ever known.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/21/us/politics/republican-response-to-obamas-2015
-state-of-the-union-address.html

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                           January 22, 2015 Thursday

In Davos, Executives Express Worries Over More Disruptive Cyberattacks

BYLINE: DAVID GELLES

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1056 words



HIGHLIGHT: Top executives including John Chambers of Cisco say that not only are
cyberattacks becoming more common, they are getting tougher to fight.


DAVOS, Switzerland - Executives from Target and Home Depot were not present at
the World Economic Forum, where world leaders and corporate titans are rubbing
shoulders and debating weighty issues.

Yet the names of those two companies are being invoked several times a day here,
held up as examples of early victims in the growing battle against cybercrime.

Hackers stole credit card information from 40 million Target customers in late
2013. Last year, Home Depot was hit with a similar breach. And those are just
two of a growing list of embattled businesses that includes JPMorgan Chase, Sony
and others.

Executives were broadly pessimistic on the topic, believing that while last year
had a number of prominent cyber attacks, this year would only be worse.

"The number of security incidents this year will be exponentially greater than
last year," said John Chambers, chief executive of Cisco, the big Silicon Valley
technology company.

And not only are such incidents becoming more common, they are getting more
disruptive.

"We haven't sent he worst yet," said Vishal Sikka, chief executive of the Indian
outsourcing giant Infosys. "I think we'll see five times as many bad incidents
as we did last year."

Though Infosys has so far escaped a major cyber attack, Mr. Sikka said his
company was being more vigilant than ever before, and regularly fended off
smaller, unsuccessful efforts to penetrate the company's network.

"You can never win," said Robert Smith, chief executive of Vista Equity
Partners, a private equity firm that invests in enterprise technology companies.
"It's a constant battle to stay even or stay ahead."

Noting that the scale, scope and sensitivity of the data being stolen continued
to become more problematic for companies, Mr. Smith also warned of a tough year
ahead for fighting cybercrime.

"The security breaches that we had in the last 12 months are going to pale in
comparison to these that we're going in the next 12 months," said Mr. Smith.

The chief executive of Sony, the company at the center of the most disruptive
recent hack, did attend the forum in Davos on Thursday.

At a private lunch, Kazuo Hirai, chief executive of Sony, discussed the attack
on Sony that briefly shut down the company's computers, exposed thousands of
sensitive documents and emails, and scuttled the release of "The Interview."

Details of his remarks were kept confidential, but according to people in
attendance he did not say whether he believed that North Korea was behind the
attacks, as the Obama administration has asserted.

The Sony hack was particular alarming because it was aimed not at stealing data
for a profit, but because it was apparently designed to humiliate and debilitate
an entire company.

"The issue around Sony is a different issue," said Mr. Smith. "We're not just
going to take your data, we're going to use your data to embarrass you."

But as some companies grapple with the effects of hacking, others, sees the
growing threat of cyber crime as a business opportunity.

"We're going to become the number one security company," said Mr. Chambers of
Cisco. Already, Cisco has acquired one big security firm, Sourcefire, for $2.7
billion. And Mr. Chambers said more such acquisitions would follow.

Mr. Chambers sees the growing threat of cyber security as part and parcel with
an increasingly digital world.

"Everything will become more digital," said Mr. Chambers. "Every city, state,
small business, large business, car, home, highway, and everything you wear."
And when that happens, there are more opportunities than ever for hackers to
penetrate secure networks and steal sensitive data.

In turn, Cisco is trying to create security products for public clouds, private
clouds, wide area networks and devices. "I don't focus a lot of the on the
symptoms," said Mr. Chambers. "I go back to the underlying issue and ask how do
you fix the illness."

Yet for most big companies, simply staying ahead of the hackers remained the
priority.

"The one thing that really scares me said that if someone wants to get into your
system, they can get in," said Richard Gelfond, chief executive of Imax. "Almost
no amount of money will keep them out.

Not that he isn't trying. Mr. Gelfond said Imax had established a series of
internal firewalls that prevent any one person from having access to too much of
company's technology.

"For us there are two holy grail that we have to protect," said Mr. Gelfond.
"The first is movies, the second is intellectual property."

But he admitted that despite the company's best efforts, hackers would be trying
to break into Imax's systems. "Think of the value of an advance copy of the
upcoming Star Wars movie," he said.

The enhanced focus on cyber security was reflected in the event's official
agenda. A panel titled "Fighting Shadows" will take place on Saturday, featuring
the president of Estonia, Toomas Hendrick Ilves; Bradford Smith, the general
counsel of Microsoft; and Eugene Kaspersky, a Russian internet security expert.

"Three years ago when you talked about security, you didn't get much interest,"
said Mr. Chambers.

Jonathan Zittrain, a Harvard University professor of law and computer science
who will also be on the panel, said he hoped industry professionals could come
together and begin to make gradual fixes to the Internet that would make all
companies more secure.

Small improvements, like software that detected unusual patters in Internet
traffic, or suspicious attempts to access data, could help stop hackers before
they caused too much damage. Such small, incremental steps could make the web
gradually safer for individuals and companies, and less friendly to hackers, Mr.
Zittrain said.

"This is a moon shot going one step at a time, rather than fling a missile and
hoping it hits," Mr. Zittrain said.

Mr. Zittrain and others acknowledge that a more holistic fix is a long ways off.
In the meantime, tech executives like Mr. Chambers don't pretend that they can
make the problem go away.

"There is no secure data center in the world; they have all been broken in to,"
said Mr. Chambers. "We can help you prepare for it and minimize the damage when
it does occur."

But the message to companies was clear: the hacks will continue to occur.

"You will get a data breach, period," said Mr. Smith. "If you think you haven't
been attacked, you're lying to yourself."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Carpetbagger)

                           January 24, 2015 Saturday

Sundance 2015: Documentaries Suddenly Made Timely

BYLINE: BROOKS BARNES

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 325 words



HIGHLIGHT: News events have made four nonfiction entries in the festival very
relevant.


PARK CITY, Utah - If timing is everything, then four documentary filmmakers are
about to have a very good run in this resort town.

About two months ago, when Sundance announced its lineup for the 2015 festival,
"Drunk Stoned Brilliant Dead: The Story of the National Lampoon" came across as
a time capsule, a fond look back on a counterculture magazine.

But the terrorist attacks on the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo made National
Lampoon and the risks its editors took in the 1970s instantly topical.

"Racing Extinction," about the mistreatment of oceanic life, also has strangely
on-the-button timing. Last week, the journal Science published a major
reportsaying the oceans are on the brink of "a major extinction event." "Racing
Extinction," which will have its premiere here on Saturday, is a follow-up film
from Louie Psihoyos, whose dolphin slaughter documentary, "The Cove," won the
best documentary Oscar in 2010.

With tragic timeliness following the events of Ferguson, Mo., comes "3 1/2
Minutes," a deep dive into the 2012 killing of an unarmed black teenager, Jordan
Davis, by a white man, Michael Dunn. The film, backed by Participant Media,
includes comments, racist in their overtone,  by Mr. Dunn in recorded prison
phone conversations and a deeply humanizing look at Mr. Davis and his
middle-class family.

"The more we see each other as human being, the less inevitable will be violent
outcomes from racial bias and disparate cultures colliding,"  Caroline Libresco,
a Sundance senior programmer, wrote of the film in the festival guidebooks.

Last and quite possibly least is "Dennis Rodman's Big Bang in Pyongyang," a
documentary about the former N.B.A. star's drunken trip to North Korea with
other basketball players. "Big Bang" is playing Slamdance, the guerrilla
festival that runs in Sundance's shadow, and arrives in the wake of the cyber
attack on Sony Pictures. Tough minded "Big Bang" is not, but it fits the bill
for bizarre.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 26, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Malaysia: Airline Website Is Hacked

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 126 words


Malaysia Airlines's website has been hacked by a group that posted a message
proclaiming support for the Islamic State militant group. The airline's site was
changed on Monday, at first with a message saying ''404 - Plane Not Found'' and
''Hacked by Cyber Caliphate.'' The browser tab for the website said, ''ISIS will
prevail.'' Malaysia Airlines is struggling to recover from disasters last year,
including the disappearance of Flight 370. The website was later changed to a
picture of a lizard, and the claim of responsibility to ''Lizard Squad --
Official Cyber Caliphate.'' The Lizard Squad group claimed last year that it was
behind attacks on Sony's online PlayStation network. The airline said on Twitter
that it was working on resolving the issue.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/26/world/asia/malaysia-airline-website-is-hacked.
html

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday

Law Firm Founds Project to Fight 'Revenge Porn'

BYLINE: MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1283 words



HIGHLIGHT: K&#038;L Gates has set up the Cyber Civil Rights Legal Project to
fight the shame-posting of sexual photos and videos online by jilted lovers.


A California law student and a Virginia man dated for about six months after
meeting through an online dating service. The fallout from the breakup, however,
has gone on far longer, as the former boyfriend faces federal criminal charges
over posting nude selfies and a sexually explicit video of the woman on
pornographic websites.

Now the former boyfriend has a new problem: A big law firm recently has come to
the law student's aid and is suing him in federal court in Los Angeles.

The woman's lawsuit, filed under a pseudonym to protect her privacy, seeks
damages for violating United States copyright law by posting the video and
photos without her permission and also causing her emotional distress.

The lawsuit reflects a battle line that is being drawn in an age when it is not
uncommon for couples to share nude photos digitally, and just as easy for a
jilted lover to find a pornographic website willing to post them online.

The litigation is the handiwork of a new initiative by K&L Gates, a
Pittsburgh-based law firm. Begun in late September, its Cyber Civil Rights Legal
Project has roughly 50 lawyers at the firm volunteering their time.

The "Jane Doe" complaint filed on behalf of the law student is among the first
lawsuits filed by the K&L clinic, which is working with about 100 victims of
"revenge porn," a type of online harassment that involves the non-consensual
posting of sexually explicit material - often involving a former girlfriend or a
spouse.

The program is believed to be the first of its kind at a major United States law
firm and is led by David A. Bateman, a partner in the firm's Seattle office, and
Elisa J. D'Amico, a litigator in the firm's Miami office.

Most of its clients come through the program's website or referrals from two
national advocacy groups for victims of revenge porn, the Cyber Civil Rights
Initiative and Without My Consent.

"The advocacy groups are really excited about what we are doing," said Ms.
D'Amico, a litigator who specializes in technology and Internet law issues.

Ms. D'Amico said she came up with the idea of the legal clinic while working
last year with one of the founders of the nonprofit Cyber Civil Rights
Initiative during an effort to lobby Florida officials to pass a revenge porn
criminal statute. Up until now, advocacy groups have largely relied on lawyers
at smaller firms to contribute their time and services.

The K&L program not only advises victims as to what legal steps can be taken to
sue for damages, it also works with victims to consider the pros and cons of
reporting online abuse to prosecutors. In instances where the victims have taken
nude selfies or videos of themselves, the K&L lawyers are using the protections
offered by federal copyright law to demand that the websites take down the
images or risk being sued along with the perpetrators.

More often than not, commercial pornography websites, especially those based in
the United States, will comply with a request to avoid any further legal
entanglement.

But if a victim wants to bring a federal copyright lawsuit, there is a catch. In
many cases, she or he would first need to register any videos or photos to be
protected with the United States Copyright Office. In other words, to use
copyright law as a hammer, a victim must publicly register a photo or video that
she or he would rather no one ever see.

Using copyright law to sue people for the unauthorized posting of nude photos
and videos is novel, but not unprecedented. Over the last year, a number of
legal scholars have advocated using copyright law as an innovative way of
combating revenge porn.

"Copyright is not designed to deal with revenge porn, it just happens to give
you a remedy," said Mr. Bateman, a K&L partner. "But it's not perfect and won't
be available in all situations."

There have been a handful of successful jury awards to victims. A Texas jury
last year, for instance, awarded one of the largest verdicts ever to a revenge
porn victim, ordering a man to pay $500,000 to his former girlfriend for posting
a sexually explicit video of her online. In that case, the woman claimed she had
suffered emotional distress.

It's not clear just how widespread revenge porn is. Victims are often unwilling
to come forward out of fear of bringing more attention to the videos and photos.
Advocates also say that some victims are reluctant to pursue legal action
because they blame themselves and worry that a jury will not be sympathetic.

Until recently, few states had criminal statutes on revenge porn. In the last
year, however, a dozen states, including Colorado, Hawaii, Illinois and
Pennsylvania, enacted laws criminalizing the activity.

Regulators also are beginning to tackle the problem. On Thursday, the Federal
Trade Commission reached a settlement with Craig Brittain, who operated a
pornography website, that required him to stop sharing and posting nude videos
and photographs of people without their permission. The agency in its complaint
said Mr. Brittain operated  the website "for commercial gain and without the
knowledge or consent of those depicted."

Federal prosecutors, meanwhile, are going after perpetrators of revenge porn by
charging them with online stalking, or attempting to access another person's
online account or computer. Federal authorities in Los Angeles, for instance,
have been particularly active,  pursuing revenge porn cases, filing charges
against 10 people over the last five years, including the California woman's
former boyfriend, David K. Elam II.

Agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Los Angeles began
investigating Mr. Elam in spring 2013, shortly after he began posting the
sexually explicit photos and videos. The F.B.I. began investigating Mr. Elam
shortly after the law student got a restraining order against him.

Mr. Elam, who was indicted by a federal grand jury in June on charges of
stalking, aggravated identity theft and unauthorized access to computer, is said
to have done much more than post videos and photos online. Authorities contend
he created fake accounts for his former girlfriend on a several online dating
websites in which he encouraged people to call her for sex. Mr. Elam, 29, also
reportedly sent links of the video he posted to some of his former girlfriend's
classmates and her mother.

The woman told an F.B.I. agent that the persistent harassment left her obsessed
with searching the web for videos or photos of her, caused her to become
depressed and led to some of her friends not wanting to talk to her anymore. She
was particularly embarrassed when a law firm she had applied to for a job told
her that they found the videos of her during an online search of her name.

Mr. Elam, a former financial adviser who now lives in Philadelphia, declined to
comment as did his lawyer, Craig A. Harbaugh, a deputy public federal defender.

It is believed the videos and photos Mr. Elam posted to about half-dozen
websites were removed after the law student registered them with the Copyright
Office in the summer of 2013. But some of the dead URLs and links with her name
remain online like echoes of the past.

Ms. D'Amico and Mr. Bateman declined to discuss the law student's case.

Mary Anne Franks, a professor at the University of Miami School of Law and vice
president of the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative, said it was not unusual for
victims to pursue civil suits even if prosecutors have filed criminal charges.

"Hypothetically one thing a victim might be after is something that will make
them whole," said Ms. Franks, whose organization began operating in 2013. "Most
of the criminal punishments don't require a person to take down the material.
That is something that is better addressed by civil law."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            January 30, 2015 Friday

Morning Agenda: Crackdown on Car Title Loans

BYLINE: SYDNEY EMBER

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2283 words



HIGHLIGHT: Car title loans are drawing scrutiny from regulators. | Law firm
founds a project to fight &#8220;revenge porn.&#8221; | Shake Shack is going
public with big dreams. | How Apple beat Microsoft.


CRACKDOWN ON LOANS LINKED TO CARS  |  Car title loans, which allow owners to
borrow money against their cars, are under fire, Jessica Silver-Greenberg and
Michael Corkery report in DealBook. On Friday, the Federal Trade Commission is
expected to announce that it has reached a settlement with two car title
lenders, First American Title Lending and Finance Select, over suspicions that
they misled borrowers by failing to accurately disclose the terms and costs of
the loans, according to people briefed on the action. The agreement will require
the companies, both based in Georgia, to overhaul how they advertise and promote
their loans, the people said.

"The move [#x2012] the first time that the agency has taken action against title
lenders [#x2012] points to a growing concern among state and federal authorities
that the loans are plunging some of the most vulnerable borrowers further into
debt, propelling them into bankruptcy and, in many cases, costing them their
cars," Ms. Silver-Greenberg and Mr. Corkery write. The loans allow borrowers to
hand over car titles as collateral for cash, usually a percentage of a car's
resale value. The loans come with annual interest rates as high as 300 percent
and last from as little as 30 days to two years.

There is little nationwide data on title-loan borrowers, but recent academic
studies offer a portrait of who takes out title loans, and why, Ms.
Silver-Greenberg and Mr. Corkery write. Analyzing more than 400 borrowers in
three states, professors at Vanderbilt University and the University of Houston
Law Center found that roughly 20 percent of customers used the proceeds of title
loans to cover mortgage or rent payments.

LAW FIRM FIGHTS 'REVENGE PORN'  |  A big law firm recently filed a lawsuit on
behalf of a California law student that seeks damages from her former boyfriend
for violating United States copyright law by posting a sexually explicit video
and photos without her permission and causing emotional distress, DealBook's
Matthew Goldstein writes. The litigation is the handiwork of K&L Gates, a law
firm based in Pittsburgh, which has set up the Cyber Civil Rights Legal Project
to fight the shame-posting of sexual photos and videos online by jilted lovers.

The complaint is among the first lawsuits filed by the K&L clinic, which is
working with about 100 victims of so-called revenge porn, Mr. Goldstein writes.
The program is believed to be the first of its kind at a major United States law
firm and is led by David A. Bateman, a partner in the firm's Seattle office, and
Elisa J. D'Amico, a litigator in the firm's Miami office. Most of its clients
come through the program's website or referrals from two national advocacy
groups for victims of revenge porn, the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative and
Without My Consent.

In instances where the victims have taken nude selfies or videos of themselves,
the K&L lawyers are using the protections offered by federal copyright law to
demand that the websites take down the images or risk being sued along with the
perpetrators. But if a victim wants to bring a federal copyright lawsuit, "there
is a catch," Mr. Goldstein writes. "In many cases, she or he would first need to
register any videos or photos to be protected with the United States Copyright
Office. In other words, to use copyright law as a hammer, a victim must publicly
register a photo or video that she or he would rather no one ever see."

SHAKE SHACK GOES PUBLIC  |  What began as a Chicago-style hot dog stand nearly
14 years ago in Manhattan's Madison Square Park is now Shake Shack, a hamburger
empire that is set to begin trading on Friday on the New York Stock Exchange
with a valuation of about $745 million, Michael J. de la Merced and Kim Severson
write in DealBook. The initial public offering will increase the net worth of
the restaurateur Danny Meyer, who opened the hot dog cart, by about $155
million.

Shake Shack has become "one of the most prominent purveyors of fast-casual
food," a sector that has fundamentally reshaped the fast-food industry with its
emphasis on fresh ingredients, Mr. de la Merced and Ms. Severson write. "Shake
Shack has resonated with consumers who grew up on fast food but are both wary
and weary of it." Other fast-casual chains have gone public with great success.
Shares in Zoës Kitchen, for instance, have doubled from the chain's public
debut. Those in El Pollo Loco are up 76 percent.

Hospitality has been the hallmark of Mr. Meyer's restaurant empire, which
includes fixtures of the New York dining scene. Even in its prospectus, Shake
Shack refers to its customers as "guests." The combination of quality
ingredients and warm service has proved profitable. Shake Shack reported $5.4
million in net income in 2013 on $82.5 million in sales. But Shake Shack's
ambitious expansion plans [#x2012] the chain plans to open at least 10
company-owned restaurants in the United States each fiscal year [#x2012] may
threaten the high level of hospitality the company is known for.

ON THE AGENDA  |  The first estimate of fourth-quarter G.D.P. is released at
8:30 a.m. The University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index is out at 10
a.m. Data on farm prices is released at 3 p.m. Daniel K. Tarullo, a Federal
Reserve governor, gives a speech on advancing macroprudential policy objectives
at 12:45 p.m. in Arlington, Va.

HOW APPLE BEAT MICROSOFT  |  With the latest earnings reports from Microsoft and
Apple, "the once unthinkable became reality: Apple's market capitalization hit
$683 billion, more than double Microsoft's current value of $338 billion," James
B. Stewart writes in the Common Sense column. What is more, Apple earned $18
billion in the quarter [#x2012] more than any company ever in a single quarter
[#x2012] on revenue of $75 billion. Microsoft's revenue, on the other hand, was
barely one-third of Apple's, and operating income of $7.8 billion was less than
a quarter of Apple's.

How [#x2012] and why [#x2012] did this happen? Mr. Stewart writes: "The most
successful companies need a vision, and both Apple and Microsoft have one. But
Apple's was more radical and, as it turns out, more farsighted. Microsoft
foresaw a computer on every person's desk, a radical idea when IBM mainframes
took up entire rooms. But Apple went a big step further: Its vision was a
computer in every pocket." And unlike Microsoft, Apple has not been afraid to
"cannibalize itself," as Walter Isaacson, who interviewed Steve Jobs for his
biography, put it. Apple has also integrated all aspects of the design and
manufacture of a product.

Although some investors worry that Apple could "become the prisoner of its own
success," Mr. Stewart writes, its shares appear to be a bargain, especially
given the huge amount of cash it has on its balance sheet. The question for
Apple now is what's next.

|  Contact: @melbournecoal | E-mail

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Hershey to Buy Krave, a Maker of Jerky  |  The Hershey Company announced plans
on Thursday to buy Krave, a fast-growing business intent on turning jerky into
the next upscale snack food, The New York Times reports.NEW YORK TIMES

Manitowoc to Split in Two After Pressure From Activists  |  In a victory for
Carl C. Icahn and Ralph Whitworth's Relational Investors, the Manitowoc Company
said it would separate its crane manufacturing business from its food service
business, betting that the two would be more valuable as independent
companies.DealBook »

Qatar Airways Acquires 9.99% Stake in British Airways Parent  |  The stake in
the International Airlines Group, also the parent of the Spanish carrier Iberia,
deepens an existing commercial partnership with the group, The New York Times
reports.NEW YORK TIMES

Why Yahoo May Have Some Breathing Room  |  Yahoo's spinoff of its stake in
Alibaba, worth $39 billion, will "not be happening until at least the end of the
year, if not more given the complexity of the transaction," Kara Swisher of
ReCode writes. That would give Marissa Mayer, the chief executive of Yahoo,
"lots and lots of breathing room."RECODE

New Hurdle for Comcast-Time Warner Cable Deal  |  "United States regulators have
thrown a new roadblock in the path of Comcast's $45 billion takeover of Time
Warner Cable, rewriting their definition of broadband to paint the largest U.S.
cable company as a more dominant force in high-speed internet access," The
Financial Times reports.FINANCIAL TIMES

Valeant in Deal to Buy Provenge From Dendreon   |  Valeant Pharmaceuticals has
reached a tentative deal to buy the prostate cancer drug Provenge and other
assets from Dendreon for $296 million in cash, The Wall Street Journal
reports.WALL STREET JOURNAL

Occidental Chief's Quip About Chevron Drives Stock Up  |  Stephen Chazen, the
chief executive of the oil giant Occidental Petroleum, joked on an earnings call
on Thursday that his bigger rival, Chevron, was too poor to buy his company, but
the remark sent Occidental's stock up anyway, Reuters writes.REUTERS

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Weiss Fight Is Over, but Wall Street Animosity Lingers  |  The drive by Senator
Elizabeth Warren to derail the nomination of Antonio Weiss for a Treasury post
highlights a vitriol toward bankers that risks becoming counterproductive,
William D. Cohan writes in the Street Scene column.DealBook »

Currency Unrest Fuels Big Bets   |  A climbing dollar is hammering global
currencies, igniting a wave of investor bets to profit from the upheaval, The
Wall Street Journal reports.WALL STREET JOURNAL

Macquarie Said to Be in Talks to Buy Jefferies Futures Arm  |  The Macquarie
Group of Australia is said to be in discussions to buy the Jefferies Group's
commodities and financial derivatives brokerage, Reuters reports, citing
unidentified sources.REUTERS

PRIVATE EQUITY »

Blackstone Courts Wealthy Individuals With New Private Equity Fund  |  The
Blackstone Group has raised about $700 million from wealthy individuals for a
new fund intended expressly for this class of investors, a new and largely
untapped source of capital for buyout firms.DealBook »

Blackstone's Falling Earnings Still Beat Forecasts  |  Economic net income from
private equity nearly doubled, but the firm reported declines in its real estate
and credit businesses.DealBook »

HEDGE FUNDS »

Activist Investors Gain Foothold in Japan  |  A friendlier approach to activist
investing is catching on in Japan, where the government has been pushing
companies to be more responsive to shareholders, The Wall Street Journal
reports.WALL STREET JOURNAL

Former Hedge Fund Managers Plan Comebacks  |  Michael Karsch of Karsch Capital
Management and Adam Weiss of Scout Capital Management are planning to start new
funds less than two years after closing their old firms, The Wall Street Journal
writes.WALL STREET JOURNAL

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Move by Spotify to Raise $500 Million Could Delay I.P.O.  |  Spotify, the
popular streaming music service, has retained Goldman Sachs to raise $500
million in private investment, a move that would probably delay the possibility
of an initial public stock offering in the near future, The New York Times
reports.NEW YORK TIMES

Alibaba Profit Surges, but a Revenue Gain Misses Forecasts   |  The Alibaba
Group, which had a huge initial public offering in September, is now facing
trouble with China's government regulators and an economic slowdown, The New
York Times writes.NEW YORK TIMES

Alibaba's Lesson in Government Relations  |  Alibaba's run-in with a Chinese
regulator serves as a reminder that there is no such thing as a good
relationship with China's government, John Foley of Reuters Breakingviews
writes.DealBook »

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Microsoft Said to Invest in Android Start-Up Cyanogen  |  Microsoft is said to
be putting money into Cyanogen, which is building a version of the Android
operating system without Google's authority, The Wall Street Journal reports,
citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. Microsoft would be a
minority investor in a roughly $70 million round of equity financing that would
value Cyanogen in the high hundreds of millions, one of the people said.WALL
STREET JOURNAL

Uber Accused of Lax Safety Practices by Delhi Woman  |  The woman, who says she
was sexually assaulted by an Uber driver, said in a lawsuit filed in California
that the company did not adequately screen its drivers, risking the safety of
Uber customers, the Bits blog writes.NEW YORK TIMES BITS

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

British Regulators Assessing Loan Insurance Compensation Efforts  |  The
Financial Conduct Authority said its review would assess whether sales of
payment protection insurance were meeting the objectives of protecting the
public and enhancing the integrity of the country's financial system.DealBook »

Eurozone Takes On Quantitative Easing and Its Risks  |  The European Central
Bank's bond buying should benefit 18.4 million people without jobs. But there is
a chance it will help only a privileged few, The New York Times writes.NEW YORK
TIMES

Eurozone Inflation Falls to Lowest Level Since 2009  |  The annual rate of
inflation in the 19 countries of the eurozone was minus 0.6 percent in
January.The unemployment rate dipped to 11.4 percent, The New York Times
writes.NEW YORK TIMES

Greece's Feisty Finance Minister Tries a More Moderate Message  |  Yanis
Varoufakis, a self-described "erratic Marxist,'' says that renegotiating Greek
debt does not need to be a "yes or no, take it or leave it" situation, The New
York Times writes.NEW YORK TIMES

How to Avoid Frauds in Investments, and Personnel Hires  |  Hiring people is a
lot like picking stocks, and in both situations, even smart investors can be
blindsided by fraud, Carson C. Block writes in an Another View column.DealBook »

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 30, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Law Firm Founds Project to Fight 'Revenge Porn'

BYLINE: By MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1310 words


A California law student and a Virginia man dated for about six months after
meeting through an online dating service. The fallout from the breakup, however,
has gone on far longer, as the former boyfriend faces federal criminal charges
over posting nude selfies and a sexually explicit video of the woman on
pornographic websites.

Now the former boyfriend has a new problem: A big law firm recently has come to
the law student's aid and is suing him in federal court in Los Angeles.

The woman's lawsuit, filed under a pseudonym to protect her privacy, seeks
damages for violating United States copyright law by posting the video and
photos without her permission and also causing her emotional distress.

The lawsuit reflects a battle line that is being drawn in an age when it is not
uncommon for couples to share nude photos digitally, and just as easy for a
jilted lover to find a pornographic website willing to post them online.

The litigation is the handiwork of a new initiative by K&L Gates, a
Pittsburgh-based law firm. Begun in late September, its Cyber Civil Rights Legal
Project has roughly 50 lawyers at the firm volunteering their time.

The ''Jane Doe'' complaint filed on behalf of the law student is among the first
lawsuits filed by the K&L clinic, which is working with about 100 victims of
''revenge porn,'' a type of online harassment that involves the non-consensual
posting of sexually explicit material -- often involving a former girlfriend or
a spouse.

The program is believed to be the first of its kind at a major United States law
firm and is led by David A. Bateman, a partner in the firm's Seattle office, and
Elisa J. D'Amico, a litigator in the firm's Miami office.

Most of its clients come through the program's website or referrals from two
national advocacy groups for victims of revenge porn, the Cyber Civil Rights
Initiative and Without My Consent.

''The advocacy groups are really excited about what we are doing,'' said Ms.
D'Amico, a litigator who specializes in technology and Internet law issues.

Ms. D'Amico said she came up with the idea of the legal clinic while working
last year with one of the founders of the nonprofit Cyber Civil Rights
Initiative during an effort to lobby Florida officials to pass a revenge porn
criminal statute. Up until now, advocacy groups have largely relied on lawyers
at smaller firms to contribute their time and services.

The K&L program not only advises victims as to what legal steps can be taken to
sue for damages, it also works with victims to consider the pros and cons of
reporting online abuse to prosecutors. In instances where the victims have taken
nude selfies or videos of themselves, the K&L lawyers are using the protections
offered by federal copyright law to demand that the websites take down the
images or risk being sued along with the perpetrators.

More often than not, commercial pornography websites, especially those based in
the United States, will comply with a request to avoid any further legal
entanglement.

But if a victim wants to bring a federal copyright lawsuit, there is a catch. In
many cases, she or he would first need to register any videos or photos to be
protected with the United States Copyright Office. In other words, to use
copyright law as a hammer, a victim must publicly register a photo or video that
she or he would rather no one ever see.

Using copyright law to sue people for the unauthorized posting of nude photos
and videos is novel, but not unprecedented. Over the last year, a number of
legal scholars have advocated using copyright law as an innovative way of
combating revenge porn.

''Copyright is not designed to deal with revenge porn, it just happens to give
you a remedy,'' said Mr. Bateman, a K&L partner. ''But it's not perfect and
won't be available in all situations.''

There have been a handful of successful jury awards to victims. A Texas jury
last year, for instance, awarded one of the largest verdicts ever to a revenge
porn victim, ordering a man to pay $500,000 to his former girlfriend for posting
a sexually explicit video of her online. In that case, the woman claimed she had
suffered emotional distress.

It's not clear just how widespread revenge porn is. Victims are often unwilling
to come forward out of fear of bringing more attention to the videos and photos.
Advocates also say that some victims are reluctant to pursue legal action
because they blame themselves and worry that a jury will not be sympathetic.

Until recently, few states had criminal statutes on revenge porn. In the last
year, however, a dozen states, including Colorado, Hawaii, Illinois and
Pennsylvania, enacted laws criminalizing the activity.

Regulators also are beginning to tackle the problem. On Thursday, the Federal
Trade Commission reached a settlement with Craig Brittain, who operated a
pornography website, that required him to stop sharing and posting nude videos
and photographs of people without their permission. The agency in its complaint
said Mr. Brittain operated  the website ''for commercial gain and without the
knowledge or consent of those depicted.''

Federal prosecutors, meanwhile, are going after perpetrators of revenge porn by
charging them with online stalking, or attempting to access another person's
online account or computer. Federal authorities in Los Angeles, for instance,
have been particularly active,  pursuing revenge porn cases, filing charges
against 10 people over the last five years, including the California woman's
former boyfriend, David K. Elam II.

Agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Los Angeles began
investigating Mr. Elam in spring 2013, shortly after he began posting the
sexually explicit photos and videos. The F.B.I. began investigating Mr. Elam
shortly after the law student got a restraining order against him.

Mr. Elam, who was indicted by a federal grand jury in June on charges of
stalking, aggravated identity theft and unauthorized access to computer, is said
to have done much more than post videos and photos online. Authorities contend
he created fake accounts for his former girlfriend on a several online dating
websites in which he encouraged people to call her for sex. Mr. Elam, 29, also
reportedly sent links of the video he posted to some of his former girlfriend's
classmates and her mother.

The woman told an F.B.I. agent that the persistent harassment left her obsessed
with searching the web for videos or photos of her, caused her to become
depressed and led to some of her friends not wanting to talk to her anymore. She
was particularly embarrassed when a law firm she had applied to for a job told
her that they found the videos of her during an online search of her name.

Mr. Elam, a former financial adviser who now lives in Philadelphia, declined to
comment as did his lawyer, Craig A. Harbaugh, a deputy public federal defender.

It is believed the videos and photos Mr. Elam posted to about half-dozen
websites were removed after the law student registered them with the Copyright
Office in the summer of 2013. But some of the dead URLs and links with her name
remain online like echoes of the past.

Ms. D'Amico and Mr. Bateman declined to discuss the law student's case.

Mary Anne Franks, a professor at the University of Miami School of Law and vice
president of the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative, said it was not unusual for
victims to pursue civil suits even if prosecutors have filed criminal charges.

''Hypothetically one thing a victim might be after is something that will make
them whole,'' said Ms. Franks, whose organization began operating in 2013.
''Most of the criminal punishments don't require a person to take down the
material. That is something that is better addressed by civil law.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2015/01/29/law-firm-founds-project-to-fight-revenge-
porn/

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elisa D'Amico and David Bateman lead K&L Gates's Cyber Civil
Rights Legal Project. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAKE NAUGHTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 31, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Verizon Wireless to Let Users Opt Out of Ad Tracking

BYLINE: By BRIAN X. CHEN and NATASHA SINGER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 649 words


Verizon Wireless, which has been under fire by privacy advocates since late last
year, has decided to make a major revision to its mobile ad-targeting program.
Users who do not want to be tracked with an identifier that Verizon uses for
ad-targeting purposes will soon be able to completely opt out, the company said
on Friday.

In the past, Verizon allowed users to opt out of the marketing side of the
program, but they had no option to disable being tagged with its undeletable
customer codes, which critics dubbed ''supercookies.'' Some security researchers
quickly illustrated that third parties, like advertisers, could easily exploit
Verizon's persistent tracking to continually follow a user's web browsing
activities.

In a recent interview, Praveen Atreya, a Verizon director who helped develop the
technology behind the mobile marketing program, said the company was considering
allowing its subscribers to opt out of being tagged with its undeletable
customer codes. On Friday, Verizon confirmed this decision.

Debi Lewis, a Verizon spokeswoman, issued this statement:

Verizon takes customer privacy seriously and it is a central consideration as we
develop new products and services. As the mobile advertising ecosystem evolves,
and our advertising business grows, delivering solutions with best-in-class
privacy protections remains our focus.

We listen to our customers and provide them the ability to opt out of our
advertising programs. We have begun working to expand the opt-out to include the
identifier referred to as the UIDH, and expect that to be available soon. As a
reminder, Verizon never shares customer information with third parties as part
of our advertising programs.

The about-face from Verizon comes less than a day after four Democratic members
of the Senate's powerful Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation sent
a letter to Lowell C. McAdam, the chief executive of Verizon, criticizing the
company's data security and privacy practices and demanding an explanation.

''While Verizon allows customers to affirmatively prohibit the sharing of
information collected by these supercookies, it does not allow customers to
remove the supercookies altogether, doing nothing to stop third parties from
exploiting their existence,'' the senators wrote in the letter. ''Because of the
threats to consumer privacy, AT&T wisely discontinued the use of similar mobile
trackers, while Verizon has chosen to carry on.''

Also this month, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital rights group in
San Francisco, started a consumer petition asking federal agencies to penalize
Verizon and Turn, a digital marketing software company that works with Verizon,
for failing to fully disclose their tracking practices to consumers. More than
2,000 people have since signed the petition.

''The telecom giant did not properly disclose the nature of the tracking
header,'' the text of the petition said. ''They do not allow customers to
opt-out of the tracking, and their current explanation of its use is deceptive
at best.''

But even if Verizon now allows subscribers to opt-out of having their online
activities tracked using a unique customer code, that option may not satisfy
privacy advocates who say consumers are unlikely to understand the implications
of default tracking. Some say Verizon should have the feature turned off by
default and require people to voluntarily switch it on.

''What they really should be doing is opt-in,'' said Nate Cardozo, a staff
lawyer at the Electronic Frontier Foundation.

But whether Verizon ultimately gives its subscribers the choice to opt out or
opt in, cyber-security experts say Verizon will still have to grapple with a
basic issue: how to prevent third parties from hijacking its unique customer
codes for their own purposes.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/01/30/verizon-wireless-to-allow-complete-opt-
out-of-mobile-supercookies/

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 1, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Life in Memory and Real Time

BYLINE: By J. HOBERMAN

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1324 words


Richard Linklater's ''Boyhood'' -- now available in a dual Blu-ray DVD edition
from Paramount -- may or may not win the Academy Award for best picture in
February, but it's a safe bet that no movie released in 2014 received more
passionate approval.

Both the New York Film Critics Circle and its Los Angeles counterpart named
''Boyhood'' the year's best picture. The movie topped the annual Film Comment,
Indiewire and Village Voice critics' polls. The New York Times critics Manohla
Dargis, Stephen Holden and A. O. Scott included it on their lists of the year's
best films, with Mr. Holden and Mr. Scott putting it first.

Critics were more excited than audiences (''Boyhood'' has enjoyed some
commercial success, with domestic grosses of around $25 million in mid-January),
but the enthusiasm is understandable. Rarely does a commercial movie take its
own medium so seriously. ''Boyhood'' is a true experiment. Mr. Linklater filmed
in brief increments each year, over a 12-year period, using the same actors. Two
children, Ellar Coltrane and Lorelei Linklater, the director's daughter, played
the siblings Mason and Samantha, with Patricia Arquette and Ethan Hawke as their
estranged parents. During the course of 164 minutes, the kids pass through
adolescence and the adults enter middle age. The movie is not so much a
compressed TV soap opera as a form of time-lapse photography ending with Mason's
mystical recognition that ''everything is now.''

While ''Boyhood'' taps into film's capacity to dramatize the flow of time, it
cannot be said that the home-video version exploits its format so well -- or
even at all. The sole extra, included on the Blu-ray disc, is ''The 12 Year
Project,'' a 20-minute documentary in which, interspersed with bits of on-set
footage and brief backstage interviews, Mr. Linklater gives a relaxed account of
his ideas. Ms. Arquette's professionalism is amply documented, as is Mr. Hawke's
poise, but, because they are closer to being themselves in the movie, the two
young performers are far more interesting figures.

That Ms. Linklater was directed by her father, who refers to Mr. Coltrane as the
son he never had, adds emotional complexity. ''I like being an only child
better,'' she says when asked how she felt sharing the screen with a
make-believe younger brother. ''She used to want her character to die,'' Mr.
Linklater allows fondly. At these moments, ''The 12 Year Project'' offers a
tantalizing hint of what could have been a much longer parallel film, as well as
a clue to how else Mr. Linklater might have organized his footage.

Kenneth Turan of The Los Angeles Times, one of the few critics with a dissenting
opinion on ''Boyhood,'' characterized the movie as a popularization of Michael
Apted's ''heroic work'' -- the ''Up'' documentaries, in which the same group of
British individuals have been filmed every seven years for nearly half a
century. But if ''Boyhood'' seems a more modest enterprise than that (or the
monumental home movies shot over a period of decades by the avant-garde
filmmaker Stan Brakhage), it is because the authenticity of Mr. Linklater's
project is limited by its fictional framework.

For me, watching ''Boyhood'' incrementally on Blu-ray inspired a desire to cast
off the story and experience the movie shot by shot, perhaps even in a random
sequence, in the manner of Chris Ware's graphic-novel-in-a-box, ''Building
Stories.'' Were it possible to so program ''Boyhood'' on disc, narrative would
melt away to leave a succession of exalted present moments, a composition in
what another avant-garde filmmaker, the pioneer Maya Deren, called
''transfigured time.''

'My Winnipeg'

Guy Maddin considers his own boyhood in ''My Winnipeg'' (2007), newly released
by Criterion in Blu-ray and DVD editions. One of contemporary cinema's great
originals, Mr. Maddin has consistently used motion pictures as a sort of time
machine, mainly by creating movies that are intentionally anachronistic.

A jittery mix of archival footage and newly shot black-and-white images with a
deliberately distressed quality, ''My Winnipeg'' shares with ''Boyhood'' a
kindred sense of midcareer stocktaking. (At 58, Mr. Maddin is four years older
than Mr. Linklater.) But rather than using film to record a process, Mr. Maddin
employs the medium to restore a lost past. His movie is a comic requiem for his
''snowy, sleepwalking'' birthplace. The filmmaker himself supplies a
free-associative narration; the film is punctuated by repeated images of his
surrogate (Darcy Fehr, who also plays ''Guy Maddin'' in ''Cowards Bend the
Knee'') asleep on a train. As in a dream, ''My Winnipeg'' keeps circling back to
the filmmaker's mother (Ann Savage, a figure beloved by film noir enthusiasts as
the scary, consumptive hitchhiker in Edgar G. Ulmer's ''Detour'').

Mr. Maddin's cryptic recollections are presented in the context of variously
invented, embroidered or reported historical incidents including naked séances,
a popular television show (starring Mr. Fehr), an apocalyptic racetrack fire and
a wartime dramatization of Nazi occupation in which Winnipeg is renamed
Himmlerstadt. The movie's longest section is a paean to a now-nonexistent hockey
arena, where Mr. Maddin claims to have been born, that was once home to his
beloved, long-departed Winnipeg Maroons. ''Demolition is one of our city's
growth industries,'' he bitterly notes.

Mapping a labyrinth of unnamed back streets, reading ''fossils'' created by the
snow, Mr. Maddin calls his hometown a ''city of palimpsests.'' Winnipeg is as
haunted as the surreal Paris that André Breton created in his equally
unclassifiable memoir ''Nadja''; Mr. Maddin's tone has the provocative
grandiloquence of the earth artist Robert Smithson's ''The Monuments of
Passaic,'' a deadpan photo essay about the New Jersey town that asked, ''Has
Passaic replaced Rome as the Eternal City?''

NEWLY RELEASED

GIRLS: THE COMPLETE THIRD SEASON Out on Blu-ray and DVD, last year's 12 episodes
of the popular, Brooklyn-set series, taglined ''Happily Whatever After,'' have
Lena Dunham's crew enjoying career advances and suffering romantic reversals (or
vice versa) in a rhythm that is basically two steps forward and one (or more)
steps back. (HBO)

GONE GIRL A wife disappears, and a model marriage goes kablooey in David
Fincher's adaptation of Gillian Flynn's he-said/she-said best seller, starring
Ben Affleck and the Oscar-nominated Rosamund Pike. ''At its strongest, 'Gone
Girl' plays like a queasily, at times gleefully, funny horror movie about a
modern marriage,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York Times in September.
Available on Blu-ray, DVD and Amazon Instant Video. (20th Century Fox)

THE INTERNET'S OWN BOY: THE STORY OF AARON SWARTZ Brian Knappenberger's
absorbing documentary, available on DVD and Amazon Instant Video, recounts the
brief life and tragic death of a programming prodigy and open-access activist.
The movie ''is a devastating meditation on what can happen when a prescient
thinker challenges corporate interests and the power of the state,'' Jeannette
Catsoulis wrote in The Times in June. (Kino Lorber)

THE PLEASURES OF BEING OUT OF STEP The jazz critic, record producer, First
Amendment absolutist and contentious former Village Voice columnist Nat Hentoff
is the subject of David L. Lewis's warm and somewhat circumspect documentary
portrait, out on DVD. ''The film also pays tribute to a faded era of alternative
journalism and to a model for cultural bonds across racial lines,'' Nicolas
Rapold wrote in The Times in June. (First Run Features)

THE ZERO THEOREM Christoph Waltz plays a tormented computer genius in Terry
Gilliam's latest meditation on cyber-tech dystopia. ''Every frame is dense with
information, some of it in the service of the film's allegorical intention, some
of it there for fun,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The Times in September. Available on
Blu-ray, DVD and Amazon Instant Video. (Well Go)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/01/movies/homevideo/on-disc-richard-linklaters-bo
yhood-and-guy-maddins-my-winnipeg.html

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ellar Coltrane, left, and  Ethan Hawke in Richard  Linklater's
''Boyhood,''  now in a dual-format  video edition from  Paramount. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY MATT LANKES/IFC FILMS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 1, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Stranger in the Mirror

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; RIFF; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1404 words


One of the most disturbing moments in the British TV series ''Black Mirror'' is
what appears to be a passionate love scene. The episode takes place in a version
of the future where most people have had small devices, called ''grains,''
surgically implanted in their heads that can record and replay their memories on
demand. As the encounter progresses, it is revealed that the couple are actually
having dull and mechanical sex, their eyes grayed out as they both tune into
their grains to watch memories of their previous trysts, from an earlier,
steamier time in their relationship.

Each episode of ''Black Mirror'' -- named for the way our screens look while
powered down -- paints a different nightmarescape of a future gone
technologically awry. In one episode, for example, a woman uses a mail-order kit
to create a golem of her deceased boyfriend using his social-media profiles.
Another follows an obnoxious cartoon character as he becomes a powerful
political figure after performing a series of public stunts. Still another
imagines a post-peak-oil future, wherein people generate energy and currency by
pedaling on stationary bikes, and the only escape from the drudgery is
reality-show fame. The show feels like required viewing for our always
connected, device-augmented lives.

Despite all the recent hype, ''Black Mirror'' isn't a new show at all. Its first
season was broadcast in Britain in 2011, but it's enjoying a new surge of
interest in the United States since it began streaming on Netflix in December.
It wasn't widely advertised; its growing popularity is fueled by references to
it on Twitter and Facebook, screenshots posted to Tumblr and the like.

That the show probably owes its American stature to social media is perfectly
appropriate, because the series fixates on our codependent and contradictory
relationship with technology and media. We love being able to share our inner
monologues and the minutia of our lives with one another, until, that is, it all
goes horribly wrong in ways previously unimaginable. Or even if it doesn't, we
still find ourselves annoyed, jealous, infuriated and even depressed by the
behavior of others (and occasionally ourselves) online. And yet we keep logging
on.

The show quickly went from crossover hit to something America seems keen to
co-opt. Robert Downey Jr. purchased the rights to the episode described above,
in which people use implants to tape their memories, called ''The Entire History
of You.'' Jon Hamm sought out the show's creators for a meeting and eventually
guest-starred on a special holiday episode called ''White Christmas.'' It's hard
to say exactly how many people have watched the show, because Netflix declined
to share that data, but Charlie Brooker, one of the creators, said the uptick
was noticeable, even from London. ''It had made some kind of impact,'' he said
in a recent phone interview. It was as if ''suddenly, America got it.''

In a sense, ''Black Mirror'' is just the latest in a long line of British
exports, right alongside One Direction and Benedict Cumberbatch, that captivate
the American public by scratching an itch we didn't know we had. The show's
appeal is, on the surface, completely obvious, but it is so obvious that you
have to wonder why we didn't come up with the premise ourselves.

When it comes to weaving technology into its story lines, Hollywood tends to
take an unimaginative path of least resistance. Some films imagine a world so
fallen and far gone, as a result of technological excess, that it is rendered
unrecognizable, as in ''Elysium,'' ''Gattaca,'' ''The Final Cut'' or even
''Wall-E.'' Others rely on technology only as a backdrop or as a means of
dazzling audiences with new gadgetry: Think ''Interstellar'' (space travel),
''Looper'' (time travel) and ''Lucy'' (telekinesis and teleportation). Hollywood
offers little between the horror of dystopia and the wonder of a trip to Q's
laboratory.

This problem persists in movies that are set on a more human scale and that
actually imagine the near future of consumer technologies. ''Her,'' for example,
the sweet romantic comedy about a lonely man falling in love with his operating
system, focuses more on the male protagonist's inability to connect with other
humans than the implications of unleashing such powerful programs on the world.
Similarly, ''Silicon Valley,'' Mike Judge's comedy series on HBO, prefers to
make caricatures out of entrepreneurs and venture capitalists but not their
creation, which is comically arcane: a video-compression algorithm.

Occasionally, of course, Hollywood does dig deeper. ''Blade Runner,'' ''Eternal
Sunshine of the Spotless Mind,'' ''The Matrix'' and ''Battlestar Galactica'' all
stand out as excellent cautionary tales about the way humans can lose control
over their inventions. But each is at least a decade old. It's as if film
producers caught a prophetic glimpse of the rise of Facebook and Snapchat and
iDevices and realized that lecturing audiences about the perils of wasting time
online wouldn't be huge box-office draws. (They were probably right.)

''Black Mirror'' falls somewhere in between its predecessors, equal parts horror
and wonder, somewhere in the uncanny valley between our world and one dominated
by Skynet. It looks like a future we might actually inhabit, making the show a
lot more effective as a critique of the tech industry's trajectory -- one that
might make you think twice about which devices you buy and which services you
use.

In this way, it makes sense that ''Black Mirror'' came from outside our borders.
Europe and Britain have a richer tradition of lashing back at emerging
technologies, especially those they (rightly) view as American technocultural
imperialism. Germany, for example, has long warred with Google, Amazon and Uber
over business practices, data-collection habits and freewheeling growth tactics
that often circumvent regulation and longstanding rules. Technology is one of
America's most important exports, and, as the Snowden disclosures revealed, the
widespread adoption of Silicon Valley products allowed our government to surveil
the world's communications. In the aftermath of the exposure of the National
Security Agency's extensive spying network, lawmakers in Brazil, Japan, India
and Russia pushed for new laws and cyber infrastructure intended to thwart
American snooping.

In America, we treat the release of each new Apple product with the reverence
usually reserved for pop icons. The sly ingenuity of ''Black Mirror'' is that it
nails down our love for the same devices we blame for our psychological torment.
Brooker understands that even as we swear off tweeting and promise to stop
Googling our exes, our phones are still the last things we see before falling
asleep and the first things we reach for when we awaken.

To that end, the gadgets in ''Black Mirror,'' including the creepy
memory-recording devices, look sleek enough to want, which is perhaps the show's
cleverest trick. It is impossible to watch the show and not idly fantasize about
having access to some of the services and systems they use, even as you see them
used in horrifying ways. (You might not feel this way about, say, ''The
Terminator.'') Most television shows and movies can't even correctly portray the
standard interfaces that we use to browse the Web, send a text message or make a
voice call, let alone design them in a desirable way.

''Black Mirror'' resonates because the show manages to exhibit caution about the
role of technology without diminishing its importance and novelty, functioning
as a twisted View-Master of many different future universes where things have
strayed horribly off-course. (This is an advantage it has over the movies: a
blockbuster must settle on one convincing outcome and stick with it.)

But those futures, or ones like it, loom on our own horizon. Real-world events
like the Snowden leaks and even the Sony email hacks may give us the chills, but
they weren't enough to persuade us to change our behavior or demand more from
the companies we rely on to send risqué photos and store our personal
communications. And perhaps that's the true appeal of the series: It does more
than blame technology for our woes. It deals with the reality that, no matter
what gadgetry we may possess, our problems remain human. It reminds us that
technology probably won't enslave us, but it definitely will change us.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/01/magazine/black-mirror-and-the-horrors-and-deli
ghts-of-technology.html

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM GAULD)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            February 3, 2015 Tuesday

Brokerage Firms Most Worried About Hackers and Rogue Employees, Finra Report
Says

BYLINE: MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 701 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Finra report recommended that all brokerage firms assess their
security as well as review the safeguards put in place by their vendors, after
finding that a small minority of firms are not yet doing so.


The destructive cyberattack on Sony Pictures Entertainment last fall that
federal authorities linked to the North Korean government raised alarm bells
about the hacking threat posed by foreign governments. But brokerage firms based
in the United States remain most concerned about an attack carried out by a
loose band of hackers or employees with a grudge.

A report released on Tuesday by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the
industry's self-regulatory organization, said a survey of about 20 brokerage
firms found the threat of an online attack by nation or a terrorist group ranked
near the bottom of the industry's concerns.

Concerns about state-sponsored attacks were highest at big investment banks. But
few of the largest firms surveyed by Finra put such attacks at the top of their
list.

All the firms said they had little concerned about a hack carried out by a
competitor.

The results of the survey were included in a Finra report that focused on best
practices that brokerage firms should enact to prevent serious attacks that can
compromise customer personal and financial information. The organization
conducted the survey last year to gain a better understanding of what brokerage
firms, both large and small, are doing to guard against a serious attack.

In another sign of just how important the threat of an attack has become for the
financial services industry, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued its
own report on Tuesday that examined how prepared Wall Street investment banks
and brokerage firms are to repel hackers bent on accessing their digital
networks. The S.E.C. examination of more than 100 registered firms found that
the overwhelming majority of them "have been the subject of cyber-related
incident."

The most common attacks involved hackers introducing malware into a firm's
network or the use of fraudulent emails to seeking to persuade brokers to
improperly transfer a client's money.

The Finra report recommended that all brokerage firms assess their security as
well as review the safeguards put in place by the vendors they employed. These
reviews should focus on things like data encryption, the number of employees who
have access to a network, the frequency of software patches and updates, the
security of data storage facilities and measures taken to secure wireless and
mobile systems.

The report said about 80 percent of firms surveyed already conduct some form of
periodic security self-assessment. But the regulatory agency said it was
"concerned that the remaining firms either had no program in place or were in
the nascent stages of establishing a program."

The report does not identify the firms that Finra surveyed. From time to time,
the group conducts so-called sweep investigations of surveys of a select group
of brokerage firms that are supposed to represent a cross-section of the large
and small firms the regulatory agency oversees.

"Firms must make responding to these threats a high priority," Susan F. Axelrod,
Finra's executive vice president for regulatory operations, said in a prepared
statement.

Finra  also recommended that brokerage firms institute strict measures to
restrict who at a firm can get access to sensitive "systems and data." The
report also recommended that firm's put in place a plan for quickly terminating
employees' and vendors' ability to access a particular system when it was no
longer relevant to their particular job.

Better safeguards about employee and vendor access to a firm's network is one
way to prevent a hack being conducted by a company insider.

The report also highlights the need for financial services firms to better
coordinate their efforts and share information about potential threats and
attacks. Finra is echoing a point increasingly made by federal authorities about
the need for companies to work more closely with government authorities and each
other to thwart increasingly sophisticated hacks.

"Finra believes that the security industry can be more effective in advancing
cybersecurity for the community as a whole when it engage in collaborative
self-defense," the report said. "To that end, Finra urges firms to revisit their
hesitancy to participate in information sharing bodies."

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 4, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Firms Wary of Breaches by Hackers, Not Terrorists

BYLINE: By MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 633 words


The online attack on Sony Pictures Entertainment in the fall that federal
authorities linked to the North Korean government raised alarm bells about the
hacking threat posed by foreign governments. But brokerage firms based in the
United States remain most concerned about an attack carried out by a loose band
of hackers or employees with a grudge.

A report released on Tuesday  by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
the industry's self-monitoring organization, said a study of about 20 brokerage
firms found the threat of an online intrusion by a nation or a terrorist group
ranked near the bottom of the industry's concerns.

Worries about state-sponsored breaches were highest at big investment banks. But
few of the largest firms questioned by Finra put such attacks at the top of
their list.

All the firms said they had little concern about a hacking carried out by a
competitor.

The results of the study were included in a Finra report that focused on best
practices that brokerage firms should enact to prevent serious attacks that can
compromise a customer's personal and financial information. The organization
conducted the survey last year to better understand what brokerage firms, both
large and small, are doing to guard against a serious breach.

In another sign of just how important the threat of an intrusion has become for
the financial services industry, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued
its own report on Tuesday that examined how prepared Wall Street investment
banks and brokerage firms were to repel hackers bent on gaining access to their
digital networks. That examination of more than 100 registered firms found that
the overwhelming majority ''have been the subject of a cyber-related incident.''

The most common attacks involved hackers introducing malware into a firm's
network or the use of fraudulent emails seeking to persuade brokers to
improperly transfer a client's money.

The Finra report recommended that all brokerage firms assess their security as
well as review the safeguards put in place by their vendors. These reviews
should focus on things like data encryption, the number of employees who have
access to a network, the frequency of software patches and updates, the security
of data storage facilities, and measures taken to secure wireless and mobile
systems.

The report said about 80 percent of firms questioned already conducted some form
of periodic security self-assessment. But the regulatory agency said it was
''concerned that the remaining firms either had no program in place or were in
the nascent stages of establishing a program.''

The report does not identify the firms that Finra examined. From time to time,
the agency conducts so-called sweep investigations, or studies of a select group
of brokerage firms that are supposed to represent a cross-section of the large
and small firms that it oversees.

Finra also recommended that brokerage firms institute strict measures to
restrict who at a firm can gain access to sensitive systems and data. The report
also suggested that firms establish a plan for quickly terminating employees'
and vendors' ability to gain access to a particular system when it was no longer
relevant to their job.

Better safeguards about employee and vendor access to a firm's network are one
way to prevent an attack by a company insider.

Morgan Stanley recently was the victim of an insider threat when it discovered
in December that a broker had stolen account information on more than 300,000 of
its wealth management customers and tried to sell the data on the Internet. The
firm quickly fired the broker after learning of the matter, and federal
authorities are now investigating.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2015/02/03/brokerage-firms-most-worried-about-hacker
s-and-rogue-employees-finra-report-says/

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                           February 4, 2015 Wednesday

Federal Prosecutor to Join Paul Weiss Law Firm

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 559 words



HIGHLIGHT: Richard Tarlowe, head of the complex frauds and cybercrime unit at
the United States attorney&#8217;s office in Manhattan, will focus on white
collar criminal defense, cybersecurity and foreign corrupt practices cases.


In the span of 18-months, the federal prosecutor Richard Tarlowe racked up six
insider trading convictions, helping secure some signature moments in a
long-running investigation.

Next month, Mr. Tarlowe will leave that prosecutorial career behind.

Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison has hired Mr. Tarlowe as counsel in its
litigation department, he said in an interview on Wednesday. Mr. Tarlowe,
currently head of the complex frauds and cybercrime unit at the United States
attorney's office in Manhattan, will now focus on white collar criminal defense,
cybersecurity and foreign corrupt practices cases.

Mr. Tarlowe, who worked at Goldman Sachs after graduating from Harvard Law
School, is the latest white collar prosecutor in Manhattan to decamp to the
private sector. Last month, three longtime federal prosecutors in Manhattan
landed at Boies Schiller.

In the interview, Mr. Tarlowe said he chose Paul Weiss because of its
track-record for litigation, a reputation he knew first hand as a prosecutor.
Many of the firm's Wall Street clients, including the hedge fund SAC Capital,
were targets of federal investigations.

"I feel very honored about the opportunity," said Mr. Tarlowe, 39, adding that
he believes "there's no firm in the world that has a stronger litigation or
white collar defense practice."

While many of Paul Weiss's cases are of the Wall Street variety, Mr. Tarlowe
said he was also drawn to the eclectic nature of its clients. Paul Weiss, for
example, is currently handling the investigation into so-called deflate-gate, in
which the New England Patriots used game balls that turned out to be under
inflated.

Choosing Paul Weiss will also reunite Mr. Tarlowe with his old supervisor, Lorin
Reisner. Mr. Reisner led the office's criminal division until he joined Paul
Weiss last summer.

The recent hires signal that Paul Weiss - home to the famed litigator Theodore
V. Wells, Jr., whose clients have included I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby and Eliot
Spitzer - is building its next generation of litigators.

"It is critical that Paul Weiss continues to recruit star talent for the white
collar group in order to support our preeminent platform in this area," Mr.
Wells said in an interview. "We are very conscious about issues of succession."

He added that, while Mr. Tarlowe has most recently focused on cyber crime and
other complex frauds, "this is not a niche hire."

His hire coincides with a wave of federal investigations into Wall Street. As
clients encounter such scrutiny, every white shoe law firm in New York has
scrambled to add prosecutors to their rosters.

"Given the unprecedented scrutiny of Wall Street and other industries, we are
thrilled to add someone of Rich's talents to our firm," said Brad Karp, Paul
Weiss's chairman.

At the United States attorney's office, which he joined in 2007, Mr. Tarlowe
prosecuted several big Wall Street cases. The six insider trading cases he
helped win between June 2011 and December 2012 included the conviction of Rajat
K. Gupta, the former Goldman Sachs director accused of leaking boardroom
secrets.

Mr. Tarlowe, a native of Roslyn, NY., who is married with two young daughters,
was also part of the trial team that convicted Anthony Chiasson and Todd Newman.
A federal appeals court recently overturned those convictions, a victory for
Paul Weiss, which helped handle Mr. Chiasson's appeal.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

She's Leaning on One Shoulder

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA JACOBS

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 475 words


NAME Patricia Arquette

FILM ''Boyhood''

BACKGROUND Ms. Arquette, 46, is the middle child of five in a performing family
of several generations and varying levels of goofiness. She has been praised for
her performances in ''True Romance'' (1993) and ''Flirting With Disaster''
(1996), and won an Emmy in 2005 for the series ''Medium,'' then on NBC. But none
of this compares to the cavalcade of accolades she's received for Richard
Linklater's epic coming-of-age story, in which she plays the protagonist's
mother, Olivia, over the course of a dozen years, and for which she is the
prohibitive favorite for best supporting actress at the Oscars this month.

BEHIND THE SCENES Ms. Arquette is not one of those actresses with a corporate
wardrobe entourage plotting her every nanosecond in front of the flashbulbs, as
evinced by her appearance in a gray cotton caftan at the Hollywood Foreign Press
Association's Grants Banquet last August. But in October, prompted by a manager,
she hired Annabelle Harron, an Australian-born stylist now living in Los
Angeles, to help with week after week of awards ceremonies. ''We were thinking
about what's going to make her life easier, because she's working on a TV show
as well,'' Ms. Harron said (''CSI: Cyber'' on CBS). ''Patricia's an artist, so
she is of course interested in anything and everything creative. But to her, it
is not about trends, it's more about the work.''

LOOKS The petite, curvaceous actress tends toward simple designs like a
leather-topped sleeveless black shift worn with stiletto boots for the Sundance
premiere of ''Boyhood.'' As if giving a ''cold shoulder'' to the whole fashion
industrial complex, she has a tendency to choose one-sleeved gowns: a longer
black gown at the Berlin International Film Festival; a flaming red one at a Los
Angeles County Museum of Art gala; and a gathered, trumpet-hemmed confection at
the Golden Globes. The last two were from a house she often favors, Escada.
''The way that they cut dresses is just flattering for her in particular,'' Ms.
Harron said. ''We've gone into the archives and really experimented.''

At the Screen Actors Guild Awards, though, the stylist coaxed Ms. Arquette into
a pine-green draped gown by Vivienne Westwood. ''She really identified with
Vivienne's aesthetic, her punk side -- it reminds her of a younger part of
herself,'' Ms. Harron said. ''What's interesting for Patricia is a really
nostalgic connection. Having something that feels close to her is extremely
important.'' Indeed, she recently announced plans to wear a custom-made dress by
her best friend, Rosetta Getty, a designer and wife of the oil scion and actor
Paul Balthazar Getty, to the Oscars.

Not that bigger brands aren't also circling. ''They absolutely are,'' Ms. Harron
said. ''That's the experience of all women who are nominated for an Oscar.''




URL:

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Patricia Arquette at the Screen Actors Guild Awards,
the Golden Globes and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art gala.
 At Sundance for ''Boyhood.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY MOLOSHOK/INVISION, VIA A.P.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Led by Tinder, the Mobile Dating Game Surges

BYLINE: By MOLLY WOOD.

Email: molly.wood@nytimes.com; Twitter: @mollywood

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; MACHINE LEARNING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1126 words


BLESS or curse the smartphone, but you can't doubt its impact. Even digital
dating has become a hand-held activity.

Online dating, long dominated by big outfits like Match.com and eHarmony, has in
the last two years been transformed by the rise of Tinder, the mobile phone app
that lets its users scan photos and short profiles of potential dates.

Then, as easy as a swipe of a finger, you can decide if you want to chat or pass
on a prospect.

But Tinder's free app isn't the only mobile dating game in town. Many app makers
are trying to capitalize on the Tinder method of simple, smartphone-based
dating. Of course, they add a twist to the swipe.

An app called Hinge sifts only through your Facebook connections for friends of
friends. Clover offers Tinder-like features but with an added, if dubious, bonus
called ''On-Demand Dating.'' Think Uber for dating -- you pick a location and a
date, and Clover sends someone to meet you.

And there are others with variations on the theme, including How About We, where
you pose an idea for a fun date and see who bites, and the League, sort of a
mobile dating app for the 1 percent: it promotes exclusivity and a carefully
selected clientele.

''Because there's such an increase in smartphone usage, it directly relates to
the increase in dating app usage,'' said Julie Spira, an online dating guru who
runs a site called Cyber-Dating Expert. ''People are dating on the fly, they're
dating in real time, they're hooking up or meeting for dates, they're doing
both. Same day, same hour.''

It's easier, faster and more discreet to swipe through an app than to create
laborious online profiles. The downside of that convenience is uncertainty,
since mobile profiles tend to be sparse or nonexistent.

Still, this simplicity has caused Tinder's growth to explode in just two years.
According to the company, it processes more than one billion swipes a day and
matches some 12 million people a day. A ''match'' means two people agreed they
were interested in one another. From there, they can choose whether to exchange
messages or meet in person.

Traditional dating sites like Match.com, eHarmony and OkCupid also have apps
that let their users keep tabs on their profiles, messages and matches, of
course. In fact Tinder, Match and OkCupid, among other dating sites, are all
part of the IAC/InterActiveCorp media conglomerate.

Amarnath Thombre, president of Match.com in North America, said that in the last
year it had registered a 35 percent increase in the people who use Match through
the app each month, and a 109 percent increase in the number of people who use
only the app to reach Match every month. But he acknowledged that Tinder was
creating an entirely new audience of digital daters.

''What Tinder especially has accomplished, which I think none of our competitors
could achieve before, is that it opened up this young demographic -- 18- to
25-year-olds -- that no product could open up before,'' Mr. Thombre said.

While Tinder, which may eventually add a premium service for a fee, has had a
reputation as a way to find casual encounters, it appears to be moving beyond
that. I found plenty of people my own age using the app, including quite a few
friends and acquaintances. And some are even finding love on Tinder.

''I heard about Tinder in a funny, joking, laugh-about-it way,'' said Sara
Chamberlin, a 31-year-old marketing manager in San Francisco. ''But I started
hearing that friends of mine had met significant others on this app, and I
thought, maybe it's not just this hookup thing. It's for finding
relationships.''

Ms. Chamberlin met her boyfriend on Tinder. They've been dating about a year,
she said, and are preparing to move in together.

''The thing that I appreciated the most was efficiency, and just the lack of
pressure to come up with this persona,'' she said. ''The very thing that made it
feel seedy and not like a good idea is the exact reason I liked it so much --
how casual it was.''

Tinder is indeed easy, casual and fun. In the interest of, ahem, research, I set
up profiles on Tinder and then one on OkCupid, the popular free online dating
site, as well as Match.com.

To use Tinder, you must have a Facebook account. Most Facebook profiles are tied
to real identities and real names, and the app shows you if you have friends in
common.

To set up a profile, you log in using your Facebook credentials and then choose
a few photos from the collection you have on the site. Tinder will automatically
fill in a few for you. Then, you enter a short bio -- or leave it blank, as some
people do when they're relying solely on their looks.

After that short setup, which takes just a few minutes depending on how much
time you spend writing your profile or choosing photos, you can set search
parameters like distance from you, age and gender. And then you just start
swiping through pictures of potential matches. You tap one for more information,
and if you like them, swipe right. If you want to move on, swipe left.

If you match with someone -- you both swipe right -- you see a little pop-up
that says you can either send a message or ''keep playing.'' In that way, Tinder
really is like a game.

One thing I particularly liked about Tinder: no one can send you a message
unless you both like each other. It's an instant filter.

Setting up an OkCupid profile is significantly more work and requires much more
personal information. The first step -- choosing a profile name -- is a stumper.
Between all the names that are already taken and the myriad sites offering
advice on choosing an effective one, it might be easier to just use your name.

OkCupid also wants users to answer up to thousands of questions so it can narrow
down matches with greater accuracy. Match.com doesn't have page after page of
questions, but does push you to add more and more information to your profile.

Then there are the long profiles of potential matches to read, messages to sift
through or delete, and a barrage of communication from the sites themselves.
Managing an online dating profile can feel like a full-time job; Tinder is more
like a little hobby.

However, Ms. Spira, the online dating expert, says that people who use Tinder
are also using other dating sites, sometimes even paying for memberships. Mr.
Thombre confirmed that many Tinder users were also Match or OkCupid users,
either at the same time or after they give up on one and move on to the next.

And Ms. Spira said that having easy access to lots of different dates actually
increases your odds of eventually finding a match.

''It's making dates happen a lot more quickly,'' she said. ''The more dates you
go on, the better dater you become, so let mobile dating apps become your new
best friend.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/05/technology/personaltech/led-by-tinder-the-mobi
le-dating-game-surges.html

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hackers Breached Data of Millions, Insurer Says

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON and MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 938 words


Anthem, one of the nation's largest health insurers, said late Wednesday that
the personal information of tens of millions of its customers and employees,
including its chief executive, was the subject of a ''very sophisticated
external cyberattack.''

The company, which is continuing its investigation into the exact scope of the
attack, said hackers were able to breach a database that contained as many as 80
million records of current and former customers, as well as employees. The
information accessed included names, birthdays, addresses, email and employment
information, including income data.

Anthem said no credit card information had been stolen, and it emphasized that
it did not believe medical information like insurance claims or test results
were compromised. It said hospital and doctor information was also not believed
to have been taken.

Still, the attack, which was first reported by The Wall Street Journal, could be
the largest breach of a health care company to date, and one of the largest ever
of customer information.

Anthem said that the breach was detected on Jan. 29, and that the company was
now working with the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The company said it had
also hired Mandiant, a well-known cybersecurity firm, to look into
vulnerabilities of its computer system.

In a letter to the company's members, Joseph R. Swedish, Anthem's chief
executive, said he wanted ''to personally apologize'' for the security breach.
He said his own personal information had been accessed and emphasized that the
company was ''working around the clock to do everything we can to further secure
your data.''

Anthem operates health plans under numerous brands, including Anthem Blue Cross,
Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia and
Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield.

The company said it would begin notifying members in the coming weeks. In a
statement, the F.B.I. said that it was investigating the breach, and that people
should alert officials to any possible instances of identity theft.

Anthem set up a website, www.AnthemFacts.com, and a toll-free number,
1-877-263-7995, to respond to any questions. The company said it would provide
free identity repair services and credit monitoring.

The last year has seen an increasing number of sophisticated and ever larger
hacks on corporate networks and even on federal government social media
accounts.

In December, Staples, the office supply retailer, said hackers had broken into
the company's network and compromised the information of about 1.16 million
credit cards when they broke into the company's network in October.

JPMorgan Chase, the nation's largest bank, last summer said hackers had
compromised some of the personal information of 83 million households and small
businesses. But the bank has said that the attack was limited to nonfinancial
information such as customer addresses, phone numbers and email addresses.

And in November, hackers that the United States government has said had ties to
the North Korean government orchestrated a destructive attack on Sony
Entertainment that resulted in a flood of confidential executive emails and
personal information about employees and the company's plans for coming movies.

Federal authorities believe the attack was in response to Sony's plans to
release the movie ''The Interview,'' a comedy about fictional plot to kill the
North Korean leader Kim Jong-un.

The ever increasing threat of cyberattacks on United States companies, whether
carried out by cybercriminals looking to steal information to make money or
nation-state actors looking to send a message, has become a top priority for
federal law enforcement.

The F.B.I. now ranks cybercrime as one of its top law enforcement activities,
and President Obama's recently proposed budget advocates sharply increasing
spending on cybersecurity, to $14 billion.

Social Security numbers are a particularly popular target for hackers.
Combinations of Social Security numbers, birth dates and names sell for more
than even credit card numbers in an increasingly sophisticated black market,
where such information is sold and resold through popular auction sites.

Law enforcement officials have openly said that keeping ahead of the hackers --
many of whom are believed to live overseas -- is a challenge. On Wednesday, Leo
Taddeo, the F.B.I. agent in New York who oversees the cyber and special
operations division, said at a financial services industry conference in New
York that ''we are losing ground'' in the battle with hackers.

Other in law enforcement have said it is no longer a matter whether a company
will be hacked but when it will be hacked.

The threat of a hacking is particularly acute in the health care and financial
services industry, where companies routinely keep the most sensitive personal
information about their customers on large databases.

''We have seen a huge in uptick in health care hacks,'' said Vitor De Souza,
vice president of communications for FireEye, the parent company of Mandiant.

Anthem learned of the hacking last week and called in Mandiant over the weekend.
The company was not obligated to report the breach for at least several more
weeks but chose to do so now to show that it was treating the matter seriously.

The F.B.I. praised Anthem for quickly alerting the authorities. ''Anthem's
initial response in promptly notifying the F.B.I. after observing suspicious
network activity is a model for other companies and organizations facing similar
circumstances,'' said Joseph Campbell, an F.B.I. spokesman, in an email
statement.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/05/business/hackers-breached-data-of-millions-ins
urer-says.html

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 11, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Administration Plans to Open Center to Fight Cyberattacks

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 624 words


President Obama's homeland security adviser said Tuesday that the administration
was planning to open a new center that would quickly assess and deter
cyberattacks on the United States.

The adviser, Lisa Monaco, who provides threat assessments to Mr. Obama every
morning, said the world was at a ''transformational moment'' regarding
cyberthreats.

''Annual reports of data breaches have increased roughly fivefold since 2009,''
Ms. Monaco said. That was the year that Mr. Obama first began to publicly press
for greater cybersecurity initiatives -- while secretly authorizing the largest
state-sponsored use of a cyberweapon against Iran's nuclear enrichment
facilities.

A cyberthreat office has long been discussed, but planning became more urgent
after the attack on Sony Pictures Entertainment in November, which Mr. Obama and
the F.B.I. later said was the work of North Korea. The attack exposed weaknesses
in the government's ability to come up with a consensus on an attack's origin
and how to respond to it.

Presidential aides had expressed similar frustrations during the lengthy
investigations into attacks on JPMorgan Chase -- no single culprit has been
reliably identified -- and in a number of other hacking cases, including some on
the unclassified White House and State Department email systems.

The new center would essentially put greater control of assessments into the
hands of the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr. While there
are a number of federal cybercenters in operation, the Department of Homeland
Security, which has primary responsibility for the defense of American domestic
networks, has often been at odds with the National Security Agency, the
military's United States Cyber Command and other branches of the government
responsible for assessing or reacting to cyberattacks.

Mr. Obama is also attempting to press companies and the government to cooperate
more fully in sharing information on cyberattacks. He is scheduled to travel to
Stanford University on Friday to sign an executive order easing the way for
American companies to share data with the government.

His executive powers, however, do not allow him to address the liability issues
that companies face if they turn over information on customers or other private
data. That can o be done only by legislation, and Mr. Obama will urge the new
Congress to pass a comprehensive cybersecurity bill, which has failed in
Congress for three years.

Ms. Monaco, in a speech at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington, painted a
picture of an administration struggling to keep up with the increasing number of
cyberattacks, which are growing more destructive.

She named four adversaries who regularly attack networks in the United States:
China, Russia, Iran and North Korea.

While espionage and the theft of intellectual property motivate many of the
attacks, she said, ''politically motivated attacks are a growing reality, as we
saw with North Korea's attacks on South Korean banks and media outlets last
year.''

Those breaches were followed by the Sony attack, which began in September but
which American intelligence agencies -- and Sony itself -- did not understand
until half to two-thirds of the company's computers and servers had been damaged
or destroyed.

''It was a game changer because it wasn't about profit,'' she said. ''It was
about a dictator trying to impose censorship and prevent the exercise of free
expression.'' At the time of the attack, Sony was preparing to release ''The
Interview,'' a comedy about a C.I.A. effort to kill Kim Jong-un, the leader of
North Korea.

''I worry that malicious attacks like the one on Sony Pictures will increasingly
become the norm unless we adapt quickly,'' she said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/11/us/politics/obama-administration-plans-to-open
-center-to-fight-cyberattacks.html

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 12, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Start-Up Takes on Victoria's Secret and Other Bigger Lingerie Rivals

BYLINE: By SARAH MAX

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1324 words


In the weeks leading up to Valentine's Day, the headquarters of Adore Me, a
lingerie start-up, are frantic with activity, for good reason: Its daily sales
in this period are more than 20 times the typical volume and nearly double those
of Black Friday or Cyber Monday.

So significant is Valentine's Day for this three-year-old company, in fact, that
a flat screen mounted on a wall in the company's offices, in the heart of New
York's fashion district, counts down the days, hours and seconds until Feb. 14.

There is more to the lingerie business than meets the eye. These garments are
complex to design and size -- bras have up to 20 different components -- and
manufacturing them requires long lead times and large minimum orders.

''If you want to start a brand with, say, 100 different styles, and you need to
purchase 5,000 to 10,000 units of each, that's a $10 million to $15 million
investment before you've made any sales,'' said Adore Me's chief executive and
co-founder, Morgan Hermand-Waiche. ''It's a hard problem to crack,'' and it is
the reason, he said, that Victoria's Secret has been the dominant player.

The market is top-heavy, to say the least, with L Brands, the parent company of
Victoria's Secret and Pink, accounting for about 42 percent of the $13 billion
United States lingerie market, according to the research firm IBISWorld. The
next largest competitors, Frederick's of Hollywood and American Eagle
Outfitters' Aerie brand among them, have market shares in the low single digits.

''VS changed the game for the lingerie market,'' said Britanny Carter, industry
analyst for IBISWorld. ''A lot of stores try to sell sex, whereas VS is more of
a lifestyle brand.''

Rather than tiptoe into the market, Mr. Hermand-Waiche has raised close to $12
million in funding, hired a former design director from Victoria's Secret and
charted an ambitious plan to make Adore Me a household name. In 2014, it tripled
its revenue from a reported $5.6 million the previous year.

The company introduces a collection every month and offers a broad range of
sizes, from petites to plus. Like many start-ups today, Adore Me has used online
advertising, social media and referrals to build its brand, but it is also using
old-school tactics. In January, it began a television campaign, with spots on
networks like Bravo, Lifetime and MTV.

The lingerie business has unique advantages and challenges, said Shikhar Ghosh,
a co-leader of Harvard Business School's entrepreneurial manager program and an
investor in the company.

''This is one area where the fashion doesn't change quickly, and it is dominated
by a single large competitor,'' he said.

Unlike many start-up businesses today, however, this one demands a high initial
investment. ''You don't want to aim low and miss,'' Mr. Ghosh said.

The inspiration behind Adore Me resembles that of Victoria's Secret, which was
founded by Roy Raymond in 1977 after he went shopping for lingerie for his wife
and decided there had to be a better alternative to the department store.

Mr. Hermand-Waiche started thinking about the lingerie business in 2010, when he
was a second-year M.B.A. student at Harvard and went shopping for a gift for his
girlfriend. He couldn't afford the lingerie he liked and was unimpressed with
the lingerie he could afford.

Mr. Hermand-Waiche, who was born in France, used the remainder of his time in
business school researching the industry, fine-tuning his plan and talking with
investors. Soon after graduation, he teamed up with a Frenchman, Gary Bravard,
who oversees supply chain management and operations.

The fashion industry was not a huge reach for Mr. Hermand-Waiche. His family
owns and operates clothing stores throughout France. Before business school, he
worked as a junior associate with McKinsey & Company, spending much of his time
working with manufacturers in Asia.

Rather than hire a designer and wait up to a year for the merchandise, he
started a website in January 2012 with garments designed by suppliers. The logic
is not unlike that of a winemaker who sources grapes from another grower until
his own crop is ready. To work around the problem of high-volume minimum orders,
Mr. Hermand-Waiche negotiated with suppliers to stagger deliveries over several
months.

Meanwhile, he went to work recruiting his own designer to help shape the Adore
Me brand. As luck would have it, Helen Mears, a former design director for
Victoria's Secret and, later, a division of Wacoal Corporation, was looking to
do something more entrepreneurial. A lace manufacturer introduced Ms. Mears and
Mr. Hermand-Waiche. ''I hired her the same day I met her,'' he said.

Today Ms. Mears and another designer have a hand in every garment sold by Adore
Me. This is no small undertaking, given that the company unveils 30 to 40 new
styles every month. There are more than 400 items on the Adore Me site.

Like many retail start-ups now, the company helps consumers select items by
having them take a style quiz and by selling all of its bras and panties in
sets.

The company offers a wide range of sizes, from 30A to 42G. Women who wear plus
and petite sizes account for roughly a third of the United States market, Mr.
Hermand-Waiche said, and that share is growing. Yet these groups are underserved
by traditional lingerie brands. (An online petition is currently on Change.org
asking Victoria's Secret to offer larger sizes.)

Adore Me encourages users to sign up for a free V.I.P. membership. Members are
sent a new set of lingerie each month at a discounted price of $25 for the first
order, then a $10 discount on sets, which typically sell for $50. Every sixth
set is free. Members can opt out of monthly orders or cancel any time.

Shipping is free, as are returns -- and everything can be returned; the policy,
commonplace among online sellers, is a benefit to online shoppers who like the
option of trying on styles and sizes at home. Still, the return rate is just 6
percent, according to Mr. Hermand-Waiche, versus 20 percent to 40 percent for
other e-commerce companies.

Mr. Hermand-Waiche said he planned eventually to sell Adore Me products in
department stores or through stand-alone locations. For now, however, the
company is exclusively online and mobile -- with the latter accounting for 60
percent to 70 percent of Adore Me's traffic.

Customers who follow Adore Me on social media receive the usual promotions, such
as free items and express shipping, but they also have the opportunity to give
feedback or vote on new styles or lines the company is considering.

''We can develop styles and have prototypes made, put them on the site and see
how the customer reacts even before we place the order,'' Ms. Mears said.

Similarly, Adore Me photographs the same styles on different models in different
settings, then uses what's known as A/B testing to see what sells best. The
technique involves showing one group of users one picture and another group a
second picture and seeing which image has the better response. Online companies
use this for all kinds of things, whether it's two different web pages,
different copy or different pictures.

''It blows me away how much of a difference it can make in sales,'' Ms. Mears
said. As a rule, customers do not respond as well to blond models or scenes that
are too suggestive.

When Adore Me began its television campaign -- a bold move for any start-up --
it used some of the information it had gleaned from social media and its testing
to determine what ads to show on what networks, and when.

Expensive television advertising may seem to be an anomaly for a lean online
start-up aimed primarily at younger customers, but Mr. Hermand-Waiche said it
made a difference. ''With online advertising, there comes a saturation point,
where if people see an ad one more time, it's not going to help,'' he said. ''It
took almost a year of research, but so far the results have been very good.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/12/business/smallbusiness/adore-me-takes-on-victo
rias-secret-and-other-bigger-lingerie-rival.html

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, left to right: Helen Mears, Morgan Hermand-Waiche and
Gary Bravard of Adore Me, an online lingerie start-up. Below, an employee
working in Adore Me's Manhattan offices. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 15, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Invention Mob

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3352 words


As inventions go, Jake Zien's was a clever fix rather than an imaginative
breakthrough: Irritation was the mother of his invention.

He found the standard power strip maddening because electric plugs would often
block the adjacent sockets. So after his senior year in high school, while
attending a summer program at the Rhode Island School of Design, he devised an
adjustable power strip that solved that problem. But his product concept -- a
brief description, drawings and a crude mock-up -- went nowhere until he was a
senior in college. At that point, he sent digital versions of his sketches to a
start-up called Quirky.

Quirky's designers and engineers refined the concept. ''They made it a much more
elegant solution,'' he said. Quirky also handled the manufacturing and
marketing, secured a patent and listed Mr. Zien as the lead inventor. A year
later, in 2011, the snakelike adjustable strip, Pivot Power, was on its way to
store shelves.

Mr. Zien, 25, now gets a few cents on the dollar for every Pivot Power sold. A
software designer in New York, Mr. Zien has collected more than $700,000, and
counting.

This flexible power strip is the biggest hit so far for Quirky, founded in 2009.
The company, based in Manhattan, is a curious creation of the Internet era, a
hybrid of the digital and physical worlds. It is a social network, an online
retailer and an industrial designer, manufacturer and marketer.

Ben Kaufman, the company's 28-year-old founder and chief executive, calls it ''a
modern invention machine,'' whose mission is to commercialize product ideas.

Quirky is Exhibit A for the case that a digital-age renaissance of the small
inventor is not only possible but underway. The company taps an online community
of one million registered users. More than 400 Quirky-generated products have
made it to the marketplace so far.

The company is also a laboratory for testing how far the crowd-based model of
innovation and product development can go. Quirky's ultimate goal, Mr. Kaufman
insists, is to create an engine that accelerates the process of identifying and
developing new ideas for all kinds of products. ''I'd like Quirky to be a
utility like electricity,'' he said.

Investors are betting that Quirky can build a sizable business. The company has
raised $185 million to date. General Electric, the nation's largest
manufacturer, has put in $30 million, as part of a partnership to experiment
with faster-paced models of manufacturing. The rest of the money has come mainly
from venture capital firms, including Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and
Andreessen Horowitz.

To realize its ambitious goals, however, Quirky has to go beyond making
small-bore products that you could imagine hanging in the aisle of Bed Bath &
Beyond, like the Pivot Power. Other popular Quirky products include a gadget for
separating egg yolks, a plastic stem that inserts into a lemon or a lime and
becomes a push-button spritzer, and a corkscrew that cuts the foil off a wine
bottle and doubles as a pour spout. Smart, perhaps, but not essential for a
networked future.

That is starting to change. Quirky is pursuing the much-promoted vision of the
smart home, or the consumer Internet of Things. The strategy and the timing are
guided in part by its inventor community. A quarter of the 4,000 product ideas
Quirky fields each week are for products -- like light switches and air
conditioners -- that can communicate with a smartphone or a household Wi-Fi
network.

Big companies -- not just lone inventors -- will increasingly be part of
Quirky's future. It says a handful of companies have lined up for its new
corporate partnership program, which builds on Quirky's experience with G.E.
Though it is not identifying them yet, the new partners will include large
companies that make toys, audio equipment and kitchenware. The products created
will carry the tagline ''Powered by Quirky,'' but will be sold under the big
companies' brands.

The corporate-partner strategy is intended to allow Quirky to focus on its
design talents while it benefits from the marketing and manufacturing muscle of
the large enterprises. But it creates the potential for a culture clash. Big
companies want to pick up innovation tips from Quirky, but they will be
encountering a corporate culture whose essence Mr. Kaufman defines as ''a
complete disregard for the way things are supposed to be done.''

A Macworld Epiphany

Quirky occupies the expansive top floor of a 19th-century building, overlooking
the Hudson River, that was once a terminal for rail car deliveries in Manhattan.
The interior is all red brick, vintage wood floors and inventive restoration. An
unusually long, open desk space is made from a bowling lane salvaged from North
Carolina. Another desk area is a reclaimed glass basketball backboard.

Walking the floor, Mr. Kaufman observed, ''We're a very Internet-minded hardware
company.''

Leadership, it is said, is a performance art, and Mr. Kaufman is a natural.
Stocky, animated and always dressed in black, Mr. Kaufman has the ability to
persuade.

While still in high school, Mr. Kaufman coaxed his parents into taking out a
second mortgage of $185,000 on their house to fund an early entrepreneurial
venture, which made accessories for the Apple iPod. His mother, Mindy Kaufman, a
business manager, and father, Roy Kaufman, a lawyer, initially had no intention
of lending their son that kind of money. But he kept coming to them with
spreadsheets, product sketches and arguments. ''I don't know what I was thinking
-- I just did it,'' she recalled. ''He convinced me.''

The young Mr. Kaufman, who had just graduated from high school, traveled alone
to China to arrange contract manufacturing for the products. ''Age has always
been just a number for Ben,'' said Claude Zdanow, a friend since high school.

The loan from his parents had one condition: that Mr. Kaufman go to college. He
attended Champlain College in Burlington, Vt., but he dropped out in his
freshman year. He worked on his start-up, called Mophie. It made products like a
plastic sled to hold the iPod Nano that could split the audio stream so two
people could listen at once. It won a Best of Show award at the Macworld
convention in 2006.

Rather than simply trying to repeat that accomplishment the following year, Mr.
Kaufman decided to do something totally different. He and his team showed up at
Macworld in San Francisco, set up a booth and asked the attendees to invent the
company's 2007 product line. At their booth, they passed out small notebooks and
pens, and encouraged the Macworld crowd -- die-hard Apple fanatics -- to draw up
their ideas and submit the sketches. Winning entries were selected, and by the
end of the four-day show, they used a 3-D printer to make prototypes.

That experience, Mr. Kaufman recalled, was ''absolutely life changing.'' He was
struck, he said, by the power of seeing ''a community of passionate people work
together to create and invent the future.''

So Mr. Kaufman sold his iPod accessory business and founded another start-up in
July 2007, a month after the first iPhone was sold. The new company, Kluster,
was a social network for product design, and it began operating in February
2008. It was the right idea, Mr. Kaufman said, but too early. It didn't attract
a crowd. At the time, Facebook was four years old and Twitter was two. The
online sharing ethos had not yet become deeply ingrained.

But Kluster paved the way. Two years later, he founded Quirky.

The Wisdom of Crowds

''Ladies and gentleman, 7 p.m. Thursday night and you're watching Quirky product
evaluation,'' Mr. Kaufman said, standing behind a lectern, stage-lit and wearing
a mike. ''Give it up.''

Hearty applause issued from the 100 or so people assembled at the company's
headquarters. Many more Quirky followers in the United States and abroad were
watching the event streamed over the web.

This happened to be in December, but these evaluation sessions happen every
Thursday, except holidays, and are the theatrical highlight of Quirky's
idea-winnowing system.

The first step in that process is automated. Software algorithms search
inventors' online submissions for product ideas that are off limits for Quirky,
like guns, bombs, medicine and food. Next, the company's inventor community gets
engaged in a virtual plebiscite, voting up or down on the ideas.

Quirky's screeners and product managers then study the popular ideas. They look
for, among other criteria, whether the product category is a trending subject,
Twitter-style, on its inventor social network. That's a good indicator that
other community members will contribute to and refine the initial idea.

Each week, fewer than 10 ideas are presented at the Thursday events, and about
half typically get the go-ahead. Mr. Kaufman is the evening's wisecracking
ringmaster. He asks questions of audience members and a panel of Quirky staff
members and outside guests. Man-in-the-street interviews conducted outside
Madison Square Garden, in which good-natured civilians are asked about the
proposed products, are beamed into the webcast. Mr. Kaufman offers summaries,
commentary and encouragement. When a product idea gets the nod, Mr. Kaufman
intones, ''Congratulations, you're a Quirky inventor.''

In truth, there's still a way to go at that point. About one in five of the
ideas approved at weekly evaluation events makes it into the marketplace, where
Quirky products are sold through major retail chains including Home Depot,
Target and Bed Bath & Beyond, and through online sites like Amazon and Quirky's
own Internet store. (The company sold 172,000 items of merchandise on its
website on Cyber Monday in December.)

Quirky's motto is ''We make invention accessible.'' For any individual inventor
the odds are long. Still, what Quirky has done for many inventors is to make
placing a product on store shelves an attainable aspiration. And that has
attracted a crowd of enthusiasts: a million registered users, 66 percent male,
with the largest single cluster between the ages of 26 to 36. There are Quirky
members in 165 countries, but a majority are Americans.

All inventors have their own stories. Tony Lytle, 56, a millwright in Larwill,
Ind., came up with his idea years ago, after his daughter's dog nearly died of
dehydration one scorching summer day. His daughter, who lived nearby, was both
working and taking college courses, so she was often away from her house for
hours. Her dog had a habit of kicking over its backyard water bowl. Mr. Lytle
vowed to think over the problem. One day at a tractor supply store, he paused
for a drink at a water fountain. ''I started walking away, and it just hit me,''
he recalled. ''If I could do that for a dog, I think we've got something.''

Mr. Lytle built a prototype of a water fountain for dogs. It attached to a
garden hose, and a thirsty and trained dog could press a pedal and up would come
a stream of water. Then, over the next few years, he got an education in the
hurdles facing inventors. He applied for a patent, which was eventually granted,
but not before he paid more than $5,000 in fees to a patent law firm. A pet
product company liked the idea, but dropped its plans in 2008, after the economy
sank.

Mr. Lytle found a very different experience at Quirky. After his idea was
approved at an evaluation event in December 2013, Mr. Lytle spoke regularly with
his invention ambassador, a Quirky staff member assigned to shepherd a product
through development. ''Quirky,'' Mr. Lytle said, ''listened to all my ideas.''
And the company added some of its own as well as ones culled from its community
of inventors, including the product name, Pawcet. The dog faucet, priced at $25,
went on sale over the holidays last year and sold out its initial production run
of 500, Mr. Lytle said. Shipments are scheduled to resume in the spring.

Quirky welcomes inventors like Mr. Lytle, but the company's future will
increasingly rely on ones like Nathan Firth, a 32-year-old software developer
who is inventing for the smart-home market.

Like many Americans, Mr. Firth, who lives in San Marcos, Calif., typically
enters his home through his garage door, and was growing weary of the hassle of
using his garage door opener. If he went to the playground with his children or
for a run, he would have to carry the clicker with him.

Mr. Firth figured he always carried his smartphone with him, so why not use that
instead? He sketched out a design for a sensor-equipped device that could be
connected to the ceiling-mounted motor of any garage door opener. With a
smartphone app, users could open and close the door and program it to allow
others to have access when they were away on vacation.

In November 2012, Mr. Firth submitted his idea to Quirky. Nothing happened at
first; he did not have a following on its social network of inventors, and his
idea was ignored.

But months later, a popular Quirky inventor submitted a similar idea. It was
headed for approval, prompting a search of Quirky's digital archive -- and
discovery of Mr. Firth's idea. The ruling was that Mr. Firth was the original
inventor. ''It was like having a patent without having to get one,'' he
recalled.

Then Quirky staff members did a real patent search, scrutinizing the invention
records at the United States Patent and Trademark Office. That took a few more
months. The first prototype was built in August 2013, and his smart garage door
device was on its way. The result, called Ascend, can now be ordered for $100,
with shipments starting in April. ''They take your idea,'' Mr. Firth said of
Quirky, ''and they do the hard part.''

For its hard work, Quirky takes 90 cents of each dollar of product sales. The
other 10 cents is distributed among the inventor community. The person who came
up with the product idea typically pockets 4 cents of that. Lesser shares go for
contributions like enhancing the idea, choosing the price or coming up with the
name.

There are a few Quirky inventors, like Mr. Zien, who have made very good money.
But for most, the main satisfaction is being a part of ideas that make their way
into the world as products. And there is recognition: The inventor's name
appears on the packaging for each product.

Old Maker, New Maker

G.E., the 123-year-old industrial giant, and Quirky, a feisty start-up, seem an
odd couple. But two years ago, G.E. sought out Quirky, as a window into new ways
of doing business. ''We got intrigued by community-based innovation, and Quirky
is a real-life laboratory,'' said Beth Comstock, president of G.E.'s business
innovation unit and its chief marketing officer.

G.E. may be the only corporate investor in Quirky, but across corporate America
and in business schools there is a fascination with the collaborative
crowdsourcing model it uses. These so-called open innovation techniques have
already spurred productivity and product development in the field of open-source
software, like the Linux operating system and the Apache web server, which rely
on contributions from far-flung programmers.

''Quirky has adapted the innovation model from open-source software for the
physical world, and done it quite successfully,'' said Karim R. Lakhani, an
associate professor at Harvard Business School.

Other companies are using crowdsourcing to make physical goods, from Threadless
for T-shirt designs to Local Motors for automobiles. But none are doing it as
broadly and across as wide a range of products as Quirky.

At first, G.E.'s main interest in teaming up with Quirky was to explore faster,
more democratic models of designing and producing goods -- ''the next wave of
manufacturing,'' as Ms. Comstock put it. But as the two companies began working
together, they also found that the product strategies for both companies were
going along parallel paths: mechanical products that increasingly include
software and communicate digitally. Today G.E.'s jet engines, for example,
generate sensor data to help predict when maintenance is needed.

In the emerging smart-home market, Quirky and G.E. could even make products
together. There were some early duds, like the Egg Minder. It was billed as a
''smart egg tray,'' with sensors and wireless technology to track the number of
eggs remaining and when they might be going bad. It worked, but no market
existed for the $50 tray.

Other products have done better. One is an air conditioner introduced last year
with sensors and software to monitor household usage patterns and temperature
preferences, and to help keep energy costs within a set budget. It can be
controlled from a smartphone app. The initial idea for the Aros window air
conditioner, which was introduced last year and sells for $279, came from
Garthen Leslie, a former technology manager at the Department of Energy and a
Quirky inventor. Mr. Leslie has earned $275,000 so far from his idea (inventors'
earnings are displayed on their Quirky profile page, with a time lag).

Another promising product resulting from the partnership between Quirky and G.E.
is a light bulb made of energy-efficient light-emitting diodes, or LEDs. The GE
Link bulb communicates with home networks and can be programmed so that, for
example, certain lights automatically go on when a person opens the front door
at night. The bulb costs $15, far less than previous networked LED bulbs. The
time from initial design to its shipping to retailers took 100 days, compared
with a typical 12 months, said John Strainic, general manager of G.E.'s North
American consumer lighting business.

''That shows why we're doing this,'' Ms. Comstock said.

Quirky was in charge of design and overseeing manufacturing for the bulb, while
G.E. brought the LED technology and its expertise in quality control and federal
regulations. There was no inventor or listed influencers on the Quirky web page
for GE Link. The idea for a networked LED bulb had been around. What remained,
it seems, was largely hard-core engineering -- work perhaps suited for a focused
few rather than a crowd.

Broadening the Base

Quirky, with nearly 300 employees, is growing fast. The company is private and
does not make public its financial reports, but Mr. Kaufman says Quirky's
revenue more than doubled in 2014, to $100 million.

How far Quirky can go from here depends on the pace at which the smart-home
market develops. Someday, homes will be more intelligent, safer and more
energy-efficient as devices including light bulbs, doors, window shades, water
heaters and lawn sprinklers become able to communicate and respond to and learn
from users' digital commands. It's beginning to happen, but slowly.

Another question is how much you can bank on the wisdom of the crowd. Skeptics
say that the Quirky model has produced a comparative handful of winners, like
Pivot Power, and a host of products with marginal sales. That is starting to
change as Quirky broadens its portfolio, but it is also true that its crowd is a
community of invention devotees. Their votes are hardly a representative
sampling of American consumers. Clever invention does not equal market demand.

Quirky supporters note that a high failure rate is the norm for new consumer
products. ''What open innovation does is change the economics of experimentation
and discovery,'' Mr. Lakhani said. ''Things move more quickly, the cost of
failure is much lower, and ideas are more widely distributed as a result of the
process.''

Mr. Kaufman, an impresario of open innovation, offers a perspective informed by
firsthand experience. Community-based innovation, he says, is surely a huge
asset in finding ideas and in guiding decisions on a product's price, color,
name and design improvements. Truly original ideas or complex engineering
challenges, he notes, tend to be the province of inspired individuals or
dedicated small teams of people.

Crowdsourcing, Mr. Kaufman said, is ''a tool, not a silver bullet. I look at the
community as a way to have a broader conversation about how to make great
products and better decisions.''

In short, be guided by the crowd, not ruled by it.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/15/technology/quirky-tests-the-crowd-based-creati
ve-process.html

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben Kaufman, top, the founder of Quirky, every week stages
highly interactive product evaluations, above, where audience members and
employees vote on the inventions that the company is considering manufacturing.
(BU1)
The Manhattan headquarters of Quirky, top and bottom right, are suitably
eccentric for a company that, according to its founder, wants to be ''a modern
invention machine.'' Jake Zien, above, submitted the concept for an adjustable
power strip to Quirky, whose designers and engineers then developed the idea
into the Pivot Power, below, the company's best-selling product. Other products
include the Pawcet, a fountain for dogs, below center, and the Pluck egg
separator, bottom. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SASHA MASLOV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6)
 Nathan Firth, in his backyard  in the San Diego suburbs, is inventing  for the
smart-home  market. He is holding his device  that opens garage doors on  the
command of a phone app. (PHOTOGRAPH BY T. LYNNE PIXLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(BU7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 15, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Espionage: Sunday, February 15th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 403 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the February 15, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending January
31, 2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Espionage
This Last  On
Week Week List
1           3   ALAN TURING: THE ENIGMA,  by Andrew Hodges. (Princeton
                University) The presiding mathematician and decoding force at
                Bletchley Park, the center that cracked the German Enigma code;
                the inspiration for the film "The Imitation Game."
2           1   THE BRIGADE,  by Howard Blum. (HarperCollins) Clandestine
                operations conducted in 1944 by the Jewish Brigade Group using
                intelligence reports to pinpoint the location of former SS
                officers and camp guards.
3           3   GEORGE WASHINGTON'S SECRET SIX,  by Brian Kilmeade and Don
                Yaeger. (Sentinel) The story of the Culper spy ring, which
                aided the American cause during the Revolution.
4           1   CYBER WAR,  by Richard A. Clarke and Robert Knake.
                (HarperCollins) The front lines of American cyber defense.
5           3   THE GOOD SPY,  by Kai Bird. (Crown) The career of the
                influential American Mideast spy Robert Ames.-
6           3   A SPY AMONG FRIENDS,  by Ben Macintyre. (Crown) An account of
                the British Cold War spy Kim Philby focuses on the two close
                friends whose trust he betrayed.
7           3   OPERATION PAPERCLIP,  by Annie Jacobsen. (Little, Brown) The
                secret intelligence program that brought Nazi scientists to
                America.
8           3   WORTHY FIGHTS,  by Leon Panetta with Jim Newton. (Penguin) The
                writer's experience in the Obama administration as director of
                the C.I.A. and secretary of defense.
9           3   LIAR, TEMPTRESS, SOLDIER, SPY,  by Karen Abbott. (Harper) Four
                women who were undercover in the Civil War.
10          1   THE NAZIS NEXT DOOR,  by Eric Lichtblau. (Houghton Mifflin
                Harcourt) How America became a safe haven for Hitler's men.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

11. THE FUTURE, DECLASSIFIED,  by Mathew Burrows. (Palgrave Macmillan)

12. AGENT STORM,  by Morton Storm with Paul Cruickshank and Tim Lister.
(Grove/Atlantic)

13. GOOD HUNTING,  by Jack Devine with Vernon Loeb. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux)

14. FAIR GAME,  by Valerie Plame Wilson. (Simon & Schuster)

15. DEAR LEADER,  by Jang Jin-sung. (Atria)


URL:

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 17, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Embedded Spyware, Report Says

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1087 words


SAN FRANCISCO --  The United States has found a way to permanently embed
surveillance and sabotage tools in computers and networks it has targeted in
Iran, Russia, Pakistan, China, Afghanistan and other countries closely watched
by American intelligence agencies, according to a Russian cybersecurity firm.

In a presentation of its findings at a conference in Mexico on Monday, Kaspersky
Lab, the Russian firm, said that the implants had been placed by what it called
the ''Equation Group,'' which appears to be a veiled reference to the National
Security Agency and its military counterpart, United States Cyber Command.

It linked the techniques to those used in Stuxnet, the computer worm that
disabled about 1,000 centrifuges in Iran's nuclear enrichment program. It was
later revealed that Stuxnet was part of a program code-named Olympic Games and
run jointly by Israel and the United States.

Kaspersky's report said that Olympic Games had similarities to a much broader
effort to infect computers well beyond those in Iran. It detected particularly
high infection rates in computers in Iran, Pakistan and Russia, three countries
whose nuclear programs the United States routinely monitors.

Some of the implants burrow so deep into the computer systems, Kaspersky said,
that they infect the ''firmware,'' the embedded software that preps the
computer's hardware before the operating system starts. It is beyond the reach
of existing antivirus products and most security controls, Kaspersky reported,
making it virtually impossible to wipe out.

In many cases, it also allows the American intelligence agencies to grab the
encryption keys off a machine, unnoticed, and unlock scrambled contents.
Moreover, many of the tools are designed to run on computers that are
disconnected from the Internet, which was the case in the computers controlling
Iran's nuclear enrichment plants.

Kaspersky noted that of the more than 60 attack groups it was tracking in
cyberspace, the so-called Equation Group ''surpasses anything known in terms of
complexity and sophistication of techniques, and that has been active for almost
two decades.''

Kaspersky Lab was founded by Eugene Kaspersky, who studied cryptography at a
high school co-sponsored by the K.G.B. and once worked for the Russian military.
Its studies, including one describing a cyberattack of more than 100 banks and
other financial institutions in 30 countries, are considered credible by Western
experts.

The fact that security software made by Kaspersky Lab is not used by many
American government agencies has made it more trusted by other governments, like
those of Iran and Russia, whose systems are closely watched by United States
intelligence agencies. That gives Kaspersky a front-row seat to America's
digital espionage operations.

The firm's researchers say that what makes these attacks particularly remarkable
is their way of attacking the actual firmware of the computers. Only in rare
cases are cybercriminals able to get into the actual guts of a machine.

Recovering from a cyberattack typically involves wiping the computer's operating
system and reinstalling software, or replacing a computer's hard drive. But if
the firmware becomes infected, security experts say, it can turn even the most
sophisticated computer into a useless piece of metal.

In the past, security experts have warned about ''the race to the bare metal''
of a machine. As security around software has increased, criminals have looked
for ways to infect the actual hardware of the machine. Firmware is about the
closest to the bare metal you can get -- a coveted position that allows the
attacker not only to hide from antivirus products but also to reinfect a machine
even if its hard drive is wiped.

''If the malware gets into the firmware, it is able to resurrect itself
forever,'' Costin Raiu, a Kaspersky threat researcher, said in the report. ''It
means that we are practically blind and cannot detect hard drives that have been
infected with this malware.''

The possibility of such an attack is one that math researchers at the National
Institute of Standards and Technology, a branch of the Commerce Department, have
long cautioned about but have very rarely seen. In an interview last year,
Andrew Regenscheid, a math researcher at the institute, warned that such attacks
were extremely powerful. If the firmware becomes corrupted, Mr. Regenscheid
said, ''your computer won't boot up and you can't use it. You have to replace
the computer to recover from that attack.''

That kind of attack also makes for a powerful encryption-cracking tool, Mr. Raiu
noted, because it gives attackers the ability to capture a machine's encryption
password, store it in ''an invisible area inside the computer's hard drive'' and
unscramble a machine's contents.

Kaspersky's report also detailed the group's efforts to map out so-called
air-gapped systems that are not connected to the Internet, including Iran's
nuclear enrichment facilities, and infect them using a USB stick. To get those
devices onto the machines, the report said, the attackers have in some cases
intercepted them in transit.

Documents revealed by the former National Security Agency contractor Edward J.
Snowden detailed the agency's plans to leap the ''air gaps'' that separate
computers from the outside world, including efforts to install specialized
hardware on computers being shipped to a target country. That hardware can then
receive low-frequency radio waves broadcast from a suitcase-size device that the
N.S.A. has deployed around the world. At other times the air gaps have been
leapt by having a spy physically install a USB stick to infect the adversary's
computer.

Basing its estimate on the time stamps in code, the Kaspersky presentation said
the Equation Group had been infecting computers since 2001, but aggressively
began ramping up their capabilities in 2008, the year that President Obama was
elected, and began doubling down on digital tools to spy on adversaries of
America.

While the United States has never acknowledged conducting any offensive
cyberoperations, President Obama discussed the issue in general in an interview
on Friday with Re/code, an online computer industry publication, describing
offensive cyberweapons as being unlike traditional weapons.

''This is more like basketball than football, in the sense that there's no clear
line between offense and defense,'' said Mr. Obama, himself a basketball player.
''Things are going back and forth all the time.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/17/technology/spyware-embedded-by-us-in-foreign-n
etworks-security-firm-says.html

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eugene Kaspersky, founder of the firm that issued the report.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MCCARTHY/SPORTSFILE)
 The Moscow headquarters of Kaspersky Lab, which says America has permanently
planted surveillance tools in foreign networks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEI
KARPUKHIN/REUTERS) (B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           February 17, 2015 Tuesday

Daily Report: U.S. Said to Have Surveillance Tools in Computers Overseas

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 108 words



HIGHLIGHT: A Russian firm says the United States has found a way to permanently
embed surveillance and sabotage tools in computers in countries including Iran,
Russia, Pakistan and China.


The United States has found a way to permanently embed surveillance and sabotage
tools in computers and networks it has targeted in Iran, Russia, Pakistan,
China, Afghanistan and other countries closely watched by American intelligence
agencies, according to a Russian cybersecurity firm,Nicole Perlroth and David
Sanger report.

In a presentation of its findings at a conference in Mexico on Monday, Kaspersky
Lab, the Russian firm, said that the implants had been placed by what it called
the "Equation Group," which appears to be a veiled reference to the National
Security Agency, and its military counterpart, United States Cyber Command. Read
more »

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 23, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Document Reveals Growth of Cyberwarfare Between the U.S. and Iran

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1126 words


WASHINGTON --  A newly disclosed National Security Agency document illustrates
the striking acceleration of the use of cyberweapons by the United States and
Iran against each other, both for spying and sabotage, even as Secretary of
State John Kerry and his Iranian counterpart met in Geneva to try to break a
stalemate in the talks over Iran's disputed nuclear program.

The document, which was written in April 2013 for Gen. Keith B. Alexander, then
the director of the National Security Agency, described how Iranian officials
had discovered new evidence the year before that the United States was preparing
computer surveillance or cyberattacks on their networks.

It detailed how the United States and Britain had worked together to contain the
damage from ''Iran's discovery of computer network exploitation tools'' -- the
building blocks of cyberweapons. That was more than two years after the Stuxnet
worm attack by the United States and Israel severely damaged the computer
networks at Tehran's nuclear enrichment plant.

The document, which was first reported this month by The Intercept, an online
publication that grew out of the disclosures by Edward J. Snowden, the former
N.S.A. contractor, did not describe the targets. But for the first time, the
surveillance agency acknowledged that its attacks on Iran's nuclear
infrastructure, a George W. Bush administration program, kicked off the cycle of
retaliation and escalation that has come to mark the computer competition
between the United States and Iran.

The document suggested that even while the high-stakes nuclear negotiations
played out in Europe, day-to-day hostilities between the United States and Iran
had moved decisively into cyberspace.

''The potential cost of using nuclear weapons was so high that no one felt they
could afford to use them,'' said David J. Rothkopf, the author of ''National
Insecurity,'' a new study of strategic decisions made by several American
administrations. But the cost of using cyberweapons is seemingly so low, Mr.
Rothkopf said, that ''we seem to feel we can't afford not to use them'' and that
''many may feel they can't afford ever to stop.''

The N.S.A.'s new director, Adm. Michael S. Rogers, has declared that his first
task is to deter attacks by making it costly for countries like Russia, China
and Iran to wage cyberwar. But a former senior intelligence official who looked
at the two-page document prepared for General Alexander after it was published
10 days ago said it provided ''more evidence of how far behind we are in
figuring out how to deter attacks, and how to retaliate when we figured out who
was behind them.''

The document declares that American intercepts of voice or computer
communications showed that three waves of attacks against American banks that
began in August 2012 were launched by Iran ''in retaliation to Western
activities against Iran's nuclear sector,'' and added that ''senior officials in
the Iranian government are aware of these attacks.''

The main targets were the websites of Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase. By
2015 standards, those were relatively unsophisticated ''denial of service''
strikes that flooded the banks with data, so overloading them it was impossible
for a time for customers to access their accounts. American officials -- with
the exception of then-Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, who was the
chairman of the Senate Homeland Security committee -- never publicly identified
Iran as the culprit, though it was widely reported as the prime suspect.

More recently, the Obama administration, in an effort to deter attacks, has
grown less reticent about naming countries that the administration believes are
responsible for such attacks. In May, five members of the Chinese People's
Liberation Army were indicted on a charge of stealing intellectual property from
American companies. And in December, President Obama said he had evidence that
North Korea's leadership was behind an attack on Sony Pictures Entertainment,
though he did not provide details. The New York Times later reported that the
N.S.A. had gathered the evidence from implants that it had placed in North
Korean computers beginning in 2010.

But just as American officials woke up to North Korea's abilities last year, the
newly disclosed document makes clear that by early 2012, American officials were
increasingly alarmed by the successes of Iran's new ''cybercorps.''

The background briefing for General Alexander, who is now running his own
cyberdefense firm, said flatly that Iran was responsible for the ''destructive
cyberattack against Saudi Aramco in August 2012, during which data was destroyed
on tens of thousands of computers,'' an attack that appeared to pave the way for
a technically similar strike on Sony last year. The N.S.A. document suggests
that the attack on Saudi Aramco was in response to ''a similar cyberattack''
against Iran's oil industry earlier that year; it did not indicate who launched
that attack.

The document refers to a major program at the N.S.A. to prepare for traditional
or cyberwar ''contingencies'' with Iran, including a ''planned battle rhythm''
that would allow it to feed data to the White House and the military's commands.
That is fairly standard planning, but the document underscored that the plans
depended on ''both our access and Iran's capabilities,'' meaning that there is a
constant reassessment of how deeply the N.S.A. and its military partner, United
States Cyber Command, have penetrated Iranian systems.

The core of the document urges General Alexander to tell his counterpart at the
Government Communications Headquarters that the two organizations have ''worked
multiple high-priority surges'' against Tehran. GCHQ, as it is known, is the
British intelligence agency that is famous for breaking Germany's Enigma codes,
recently portrayed in the movie ''The Imitation Game.''

But it hints at discord. GCHQ wanted to set up ''a trilateral arrangement to
prosecute the Iranian target,'' the memo said. But the United States ''has been
opposed to such a blanket arrangement,'' the document said, and hints that both
the N.S.A. and GCHQ ''have agreed to continue to share information gleaned from
the respective bilateral relationships'' with Israel's Unit 8200, also known as
the Israeli Sigint National Unit. ''Sigint'' stands for ''signals
intelligence.''

The relationship between the N.S.A. and its Israeli counterpart has always been
testy. Both American and Israeli intelligence agencies spy on each other, even
while working together. The joint development of Olympic Games was their
proudest moment of collaboration, but it was also marked by disagreements about
how, and how vigorously, to press cyberattacks on Iran.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/23/us/document-reveals-growth-of-cyberwarfare-bet
ween-the-us-and-iran.html

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (News)

                             March 3, 2015 Tuesday

Morning Agenda: Buffett's Warning on Banks

BYLINE: SYDNEY EMBER

LENGTH: 2393 words



HIGHLIGHT: Warren E. Buffett&#8217;s annual letter to shareholders seemed to amp
up the pugnacity against the financial industry. | JPMorgan&#8217;s business
tilts toward the consumer side. | Barclays posts an annual loss. |
Britain&#8217;s elite are still benefiting from an old tax law.


  BUFFETT'S WARNING ON BANKS  |  Warren E. Buffett has long ridiculed the
financial industry. But his annual letter to shareholders "seemed to amp up the
pugnacity and was clearly noted by the industry," Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in
the DealBook column. Mr. Buffett used his letter, published over the weekend, to
warn his followers about "the Street's denizens." He criticized investment
bankers for urging acquirers to pay up to 50 percent premiums over market price
for publicly held businesses and railed against spinoffs.

"No doubt, Mr. Buffett speaks the truth. There are countless examples of the
build-it-up-and-tear-it-down phenomenon," Mr. Sorkin writes. "But as Mr. Buffett
often points out the foibles of the finance industry, he also extols the
personal virtues of some of the biggest names in investment banking. Berkshire
owns a stake in Goldman Sachs, and Mr. Buffett has talked publicly about owning
shares of JPMorgan Chase in his own account." He has praised Lloyd C. Blankfein,
Goldman's chief executive, and Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan.

What explains Mr. Buffett's stance on the industry? One investment banker and
blogger wrote over the weekend that Mr. Buffett "despises investment bankers and
employs his considerable folksy charm to scare potential business sellers away
from using us for the plain and simple reason that we make his job harder and
more expensive." For his part, Mr. Buffett, when reached at his office in Omaha,
explained that he was trying to educate his shareholders. "There's nothing wrong
with looking at the biases of a given field," he said.

JPMORGAN TILTS TOWARD CONSUMER SIDE  |  The diverging prospects for JPMorgan
Chase's biggest businesses [#x2012] its investment and consumer banks [#x2012]
reflect a split within the broader financial industry, DealBook's Nathaniel
Popper writes. Investors are betting that banks like Wells Fargo and U.S.
Bancorp, which focus primarily on American consumers, will grow much faster than
firms like Goldman Sachs, which are concentrated on Wall Street business. The
division at JPMorgan Chase is so apparent that Gordon Smith, the chief of the
consumer bank, is said to be in line to succeed Jamie Dimon, according to
company executives.

"JPMorgan is a particularly stark indication of the trends because it has
maintained dominant operations in both consumer and investment banking," Mr.
Popper writes. The investment bank, led by Daniel Pinto, has been improving its
position relative to competitors, gaining market share in areas like stock
trading and European banking, cementing its place as the world's biggest
investment bank. But while profits at JPMorgan Chase rose to a record level last
year, profits from the investment bank fell 16 percent from the previous year to
the lowest level since 2011. When judged by returns it provides to shareholders,
the investment bank has become the worst performing major division in the
company.

The gap between the different businesses inside JPMorgan is a big part of the
reason an analyst at Goldman Sachs suggested that the company might be worth
more if the investment bank were broken off as a separate business. JPMorgan's
executives push back against any suggestion that the bank should be split up,
but the lagging performance is forcing Mr. Pinto to consider cutting expenses
more sharply than other divisions of the company must. The situation has been
brought on by several factors, including regulatory pressure and continuing low
interest rates, which have reduced activity on trading desks across the
industry.

BARCLAYS POSTS ANNUAL LOSS  |  Lower income in its investment bank and charges
related to potential fines and litigation costs dragged Barclays to a loss in
2014, the bank said on Tuesday. The bank's annual results included 2.8 billion
pounds, or about $4.3 billion, in litigation and conduct charges. That included
£750 million in the fourth quarter related to continuing investigations into the
potential manipulation of foreign currency trading markets, bringing the total
set aside for 2014 to about £1.25 billion.

For the year ended Dec. 31, Barclays reported a net loss of £174 million,
compared with a profit of £540 million in 2013. Excluding the legal provisions
and other one-time charges, Barclays said its full-year pretax profit had risen
12 percent to £5.5 billion from £4.9 billion in 2013. The adjusted results
exceeded analysts' expectations. For the fourth quarter, the bank posted a loss
of £1.68 billion, from a loss of £642 million in the period a year earlier.
Operating expenses declined 10 percent, to £16 billion, in 2014, from £17.8
billion in the previous year.

Antony P. Jenkins, the Barclays chief executive, received total compensation of
£5.47 million in 2014, including a bonus of £1.1 million. He turned down a bonus
in 2013, citing the lender's continued restructuring and litigation expenses.
The bank's bonus awards for 2014 declined 22 percent to £1.86 billion in 2014.

ON THE AGENDA  |   Automakers report February sales figures. Gallup's economic
confidence index is released at 8:30 a.m. Janet L. Yellen, the chairwoman of the
Federal Reserve, gives a speech on bank regulation and supervision at 8:15 p.m.
at the Citizens Budget Commission's annual awards dinner in New York.

On the Hill: The House Energy and Commerce Committee holds a hearing titled
"Understanding the Cyber Threat and Implications for the 21st Century Economy"
at 2 p.m. Richard Cordray, the director of the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, delivers the agency's semiannual report to the House Financial Services
Committee at 2:30 p.m. The Senate Banking Committee holds a hearing titled
"Federal Reserve Accountability and Reform" at 2:30 p.m.

BRITAIN'S ELITE ENJOY OLD TAX LAW  |  A growing number of wealthy British
residents do not have to pay tax on their foreign income or assets, thanks to an
Edwardian-era law that has recently returned to center stage, Jenny Anderson
writes in DealBook. Now, questions are being raised as recent revelations that
HSBC's private bank in Switzerland helped clients stash money in offshore
accounts reinforce a view that the wealthy play by a different set of rules when
it comes to taxes.

After several years of decline, the number of "non-domiciled," or non-doms, is
again increasing. To qualify as a non-dom, these British elite simply need to
show that their fathers were born outside Britain and that they intend to
someday return to that place. Alternatively, they can choose a new permanent
home, return to Britain and demonstrate their intention to go back to their new
permanent home by, for example, buying a grave plot there or drawing up a local
will. Defenders of the tax policy say that Britain benefits because it
encourages wealthy people who have choices about where to settle and spend their
money to choose Britain over other tax havens.

Details about some prominent British non-doms have emerged in the HSBC files
that were recently leaked. For instance, Stuart T. Gulliver, chief executive of
HSBC, who was born in Britain and runs Britain's biggest bank, became a non-dom
as a result of his long tenure in Hong Kong and his stated intention to return
there to die. Chris Hohn, the billionaire hedge fund manager and another
prominent non-dom, built his business in Britain and his family lives here, but
he is a non-dom because his father was born in Jamaica.

|  Contact: @melbournecoal | E-mail

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Billionaire Grocer Said to Be Daily News Suitor  |  John A. Catsimatidis, the
billionaire owner of the grocery chain Gristedes, is said to have met Mortimer
B. Zuckerman, the owner of The Daily News, to discuss a sale, according to a
person with knowledge of the meeting.
NYT

HP to Buy Wi-Fi Equipment Maker Aruba Networks for About $3 Billion  |  The deal
would be the first major transaction by Hewlett-Packard since it announced plans
to split itself in two last year.
NYT

Johnson & Johnson to Sell Cordis Unit for Nearly $2 Billion  |  Johnson &
Johnson said on Monday that it would sell its Cordis business, which makes
vascular technology, to Cardinal Health for just under $2 billion.
NYT

Ocwen to Sell Servicing Rights on Fannie Mae Loans  |  The mortgage servicer
Ocwen Financial said it would sell residential mortgage servicing rights on $45
billion of Fannie Mae loans to an undisclosed buyer, Reuters reports.
REUTERS

Springleaf Said to Agree to Buy Citigroup's OneMain Unit  |  Springleaf, which
is majority owned by the Fortress Investment Group, is said to have agreed to
acquire Citigroup's subprime lender OneMain Financial for $4.25 billion in cash,
Bloomberg Business writes, citing an unidentified person with knowledge of the
matter.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESS

PayPal to Buy Mobile Payments Firm Paydiant  |  Ebay's PayPal payments unit is
buying Paydiant, a mobile wallet firm, to compete with the likes of Apple and
Google, ReCode writes, and will pay about $280 million for the company,
according to unidentified sources.
RECODE

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Gordon Dyal, Veteran Deal Maker at Goldman Sachs, to Retire  |  Gordon E. Dyal
served most recently as co-chairman of the firm's investment bank.
NYT

European Banking Regulator Postpones Next Stress Tests to 2016  |  The European
Banking Authority said on Tuesday that it would conduct its next Europe-wide
stress test in 2016, rather than this year. The decision was driven by an
acknowledgment that lenders have strengthened their capital positions in
response to reviews last year, the regulator said in a news release.
NYT

Foreign Banks Brace for Fed Stress Tests   |  The Federal Reserve's rising
scrutiny of global banks has ignited a scramble among foreign institutions as
they restructure operations to meet the central bank's rising expectations, The
Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

Merrill Lynch Hires Tax Expert From Credit Suisse  |  The hiring of Lewis
Steinberg comes as tax considerations have played a big role in deal
discussions.
NYT

Stock Trading Platform IEX Hires Ex-N.Y.S.E. Regulatory Chief  |  Claudia
Crowley is expected to play a central role as the company seeks regulatory
approval to operate as an exchange before the end of the year.
NYT

PRIVATE EQUITY »

Philips's Lighting Business Said to Draw Buyout Firms  |  The private equity
firms CVC Capital Partners and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts as well as the investor
Bain Capital were expected to hand in final bids valuing Philips's lighting
components business at roughly $2.8 billion, Reuters reports, citing
unidentified sources.
REUTERS

Waddington, a Disposable Tupperware Maker, Said to Explore Sale  |  The
Waddington Group, owned by the buyout firm Olympus Partners, is said to be
weighing a sale that could value the company at about $1.5 billion, Reuters
writes, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.
REUTERS

Blackstone and CVC to Sell Remaining Shares in Merlin of Britain  |  The private
equity firms CVC Capital Partners and the Blackstone Group will sell all of
their remaining shares in Merlin Entertainments, a British theme park resort
company, Reuters writes.
REUTERS

HEDGE FUNDS »

Gannett Says Carl Icahn Has Withdrawn Nominees to Its Board  |  Gannett
disclosed on Monday that Carl C. Icahn, who owns roughly 6.6 percent of the
company's stock, had withdrawn his two nominees for its board, as well as his
corporate governance proposals that would have made it easier to sell the media
company.
NYT

Hedge Fund Suit Accusing U.S. of Misconduct Faces High Bar  |  A lawsuit filed
by Level Global's founder accusing the government of violating his rights must
overcome significant protection given to prosecutors, Peter J. Henning writes in
the White Collar Watch column.
NYT

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Actavis to Complete Mega-Bond Sale   |  The pharmaceutical company Actavis is
planning to complete its roughly $20 billion bond offering on Tuesday to pay for
its $66 billion acquisition of Allergan, the Botox maker, The Wall Street
Journal writes. The bond deal would be the second-biggest corporate offering on
record.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

Chinese Brokerage Plans $1.6 Billion I.P.O.  |  The Orient Securities Company, a
joint venture partner of a Citigroup unit, plans to raise $1.59 billion in an
initial public offering on the Shanghai stock exchange, the brokerage firm said
in a prospectus late on Monday.
REUTERS

Truven Health Analytics Said to Prepare for I.P.O.  |  Truven Health Analytics,
which provides data to hospitals, doctors and companies, is said to be preparing
for an initial public offering that it hopes will value it at more than $3
billion, Reuters writes, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.
REUTERS

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Alibaba to Invest in Taiwan Start-Up Fund  |  The Chinese e-commerce giant
Alibaba Group said on Monday that it had set aside $316 million to invest in
entrepreneurs from Taiwan who are starting and developing their businesses
through Alibaba's online platforms, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

Google Confirms Plans for Wireless Service  |  The company is experimenting with
a network that would rely primarily on Wi-Fi technology and use cellular towers
as a backup, the Bits blog writes.
NEW YORK TIMES BITS

Mark Zuckerberg Goes on Charm Offensive for Internet.org  |  Mark Zuckerberg,
the chief executive of Facebook, outlined on Monday at the Mobile World Congress
why he thought Internet.org would help telecommunications carriers persuade
customers to spend more on streaming content to their cellphones, the Bits blog
writes.
NEW YORK TIMES BITS

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

University President Is Choice to Lead Philadelphia Fed  |  The Federal Reserve
Bank of Philadelphia said on Monday that it had named Patrick Harker, president
of the University of Delaware, as its new president.
NYT

Disclosure Can Produce Meaningful Change  |  Disclosure is the first, necessary
step on the way to ensuring that problematic public actors can be held
accountable for bad action, Chris Gates writes in an Another View column.
NYT

India Overhauls Monetary Policy With Inflation Target  |  In the biggest change
to monetary policy in more than two decades, India's central bank and the
finance ministry have agreed, to introduce inflation targets to counter a long
history of volatile prices.
REUTERS

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 4, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Giving a Digital Tweak to the Old Forensics Formula

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 657 words


''CSI: Crime Scene Investigation,'' now chugging along in its 15th season, keeps
leaving its spinoffs in the dust. ''CSI: Miami'' gave up after 10 seasons,
''CSI: NY'' fell away after nine. But the hope for advertising dollars springs
eternal, so here we have ''CSI: Cyber,'' making its debut on CBS on Wednesday
night.

''Cyber'' gives a few tweaks to the old forensics formula. As the title implies,
the evidence of the weekly crimes is mostly electronic rather than grossly
physical. And where its three forerunners were set in metropolitan police
departments, ''Cyber'' features an F.B.I. unit based in Quantico, Va., that jets
off to wherever the action is, like the F.B.I. profilers in CBS's ''Criminal
Minds.'' (How long until we see a triple crossover among these two shows and
''NCIS'' involving a terrorist attack on Washington?)

The most significant change is at the top of the credits: Patricia Arquette,
playing special agent in charge Avery Ryan, is the first female headliner in 35
''CSI'' seasons. (Marg Helgenberger's Catherine Willows was the boss for two
seasons of the original, but Ms. Helgenberger was still second banana to
Laurence Fishburne, who played one of her subordinates.)

In the ways that matter, though, ''Cyber'' is pure ''CSI'' -- a slick but wooden
fantasy of middle-American paranoia in which aberrant criminals face off against
hilariously competent crime solvers. The soul of the franchise is summed up by
an exchange in the second episode between Ryan and her boss, Simon Sifter (the
always welcome Peter MacNicol, with his perfectly calibrated hamminess): ''I
believe that our target is part of a deviant peer group that encourages violent
urges,'' Ryan said.

Replied Sifter, ''And that's the motive: harm innocent people going about their
daily lives just to arouse some sick, exclusive group.''

Is that a description of cybercriminals or the producers of CBS police
procedurals? ''Cyber'' is actually less gory than the ''CSI'' norm, partly
because it has to devote so much time to computer code whizzing by on wall-size
screens and discussions of Bluetooth sniffers and phishing attacks. Despite
their digital aspects -- hacking a baby monitor, duping an Uber-like car service
-- the crimes are reassuringly old-fashioned: child abductions, revenge
killings.

Ryan's team is small by ensemble crime drama standards but still requisitely
diverse: a pretty-boy weapons guy (James Van Der Beek), a heavyset tech guy
(Charley Koontz), a black hacker who was supposed to go to jail (Shad Moss,
a.k.a. the rapper Bow Wow) and a social media specialist named Ramirez (Hayley
Kiyoko), who ticks off the female, Asian and Latino boxes. The two minority
characters are 2015 versions of reform-school kids.

Ms. Arquette, who just won an Oscar for ''Boyhood,'' is perfectly fine in a part
that requires very little of her. Alternating tough love for her team, worry and
righteous anger, she's brisk and likable but not as moving or interesting as she
often was in her previous TV series, the underrated ''Medium'' (for which she
won a lead-actress Emmy in 2005).

To answer what will be the most burning question for some fans of the ''CSI''
shows: the Who song chosen as the theme for ''CSI: Cyber'' is the band's biggest
American hit, ''I Can See for Miles.'' Not bad, though they might have
considered ''Substitute'': ''Substitute your lies for fact/I can see right
through your plastic mac.''

CSI: Cyber

CBS, Wednesday nights at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central time.

Produced by CBS Television Studios in association with Jerry Bruckheimer
Television. Carol Mendelsohn, Ann Donahue, Anthony Zuiker, Pam Veasey, Jerry
Bruckheimer and Jonathan Littman, executive producers.

WITH: Patricia Arquette (Special Agent Avery Ryan), James Van Der Beek (Agent
Elijah Mundo), Peter MacNicol (Simon Sifter), Charley Koontz (Daniel Krumitz),
Shad Moss (Brody Nelson) and Hayley Kiyoko (Raven Ramirez).




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/04/arts/television/review-in-csi-cyber
-cbs-digitizes-the-forensics-formula.html

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CSI: Cyber: From left, Charley Koontz, Patricia Arquette and
James Van Der Beek star in this most recent ''CSI'' spinoff, which begins on
Wednesday night on CBS. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONTY BRINTON/ CBS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 7, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Britain: Suspect Arrested in Cyberattack

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 486 words


LONDON -- A 23-year-old British man has been arrested over a cyberattack in
which data was stolen from the United States Department of Defense, the police
said on Friday.

The man was detained Wednesday morning by detectives from the National Crime
Agency of Britain on suspicion of offenses linked to a hacking that took place
in June, said a spokesman for the agency, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity, in line with official policy.

The man, who was arrested in Sutton Coldfield, close to Birmingham in the West
Midlands, has not been identified and has not yet been charged, the spokesman
said.

During the cyberattack, data was stolen from a messaging service used by Defense
Department employees around the world, including contact details for about 800
people consisting of names, titles, email addresses and phone numbers, the
British agency said in a statement.

''It also included device information for approximately 34,400 devices including
IMEI numbers, which are the unique codes used to identify a mobile device,'' the
agency added. ''No sensitive data was obtained, and none of the data obtained
could be used as personally identifiable information or compromise U.S. national
security interests.''

The agency said that screenshots of the Defense Department system had been
posted online, apparently to prove that the cyberattack had been successful.

A message on a website called Pastebin, believed to have been posted by the
suspect, included claims like, ''We're in your bases, we control your
satellites. The missiles shall rein upon thy who claim alliance, watch your
heads,'' the agency said. Another read, ''Department of Defense has no
defenses.''

In the statement from the British agency, Jeffrey Thorpe, special agent in
charge at the Defense Criminal Investigative Service of the Defense Department,
said the arrest showed the ''commitment and the joint ongoing efforts among
international law enforcement to stop cybercriminals in their tracks.''

''D.C.I.S. special agents will use every tool at their disposal to pursue and
bring to justice those that attack the Department of Defense,'' he added, using
an abbreviation for his unit.

Andy Archibald, deputy director of the British crime agency's National Cyber
Crime Unit, said that the arrest was one of 57 this week across Britain for
digital offenses, the result of a collaboration between ''law enforcement,
industry and government, that is at the heart of fighting cybercrime.''

''Criminals need to realize that committing crime online will not make them
anonymous to law enforcement,'' Mr. Archibald said in a statement. ''We are
continuously working to track down and apprehend those seeking to utilize
computers for criminal ends, and to disrupt the technical networks and
infrastructures supporting international cyber crime.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/07/world/europe/uk-hacking-defense-department-cyb
erattack.html

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 11, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bain Buys Blue Coat

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA STEVENSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 298 words


The private equity firm Bain Capital is poised to acquire Blue Coat Systems for
$2.4 billion, in a nod to the fast-growing cybersecurity market.

Thoma Bravo, the buyout firm, agreed to sell Blue Coat in an all-cash deal after
taking it private in 2012 for $1.3 billion. Based in California, Blue Coat
provides security solutions for more than three-quarters of the Fortune 500
companies.

In the three years since Thoma Bravo took the company private, it has acquired a
series of companies to help it bolster its security offerings in areas like
security analytics.

''We are very impressed with the profitable growth the company has demonstrated
and believe strongly in the future growth of the cyber security market and Blue
Coat's position in this important sector,'' David Humphrey, a managing director
at Bain Capital, said in a statement.

Bain Capital could look to take the company back to the public markets,
according to someone familiar with the company's thinking but not authorized to
speak publicly.

Gregory S. Clark, chief executive of Blue Coat, said the deal with Bain Capital
would help to set the company ''on the trajectory to further grow our portfolio,
better serve our customers and help us prepare to return to the public
markets.''

The deal has not been finalized but both parties have entered a definitive
agreement.

Goldman Sachs advised Blue Coat, while the law firm Wilson Sonsini Goodrich &
Rosati is acting as legal adviser. Jefferies Finance is providing the financing
commitments, and Jefferies is acting as sole financial adviser to Bain Capital.
Ropes & Gray is acting as legal counsel, and PricewaterhouseCoopers is serving
as accounting adviser to Bain Capital.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/11/business/dealbook/bain-capital-to-buy-security
-firm-blue-coat-systems-for-2-4-billion.html

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 11, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Wednesday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 699 words


10 P.M. (BBC America) BROADCHURCH After learning that her husband, Joe (Matthew
Gravelle), murdered Danny Latimer, Detective Sgt. Ellie Miller (Olivia Colman,
above) returns to Broadchurch to hear what she assumes will be his guilty plea.
But then he declares his innocence, forcing a courtroom battle that will
re-examine the case. Detective Alec Hardy (David Tennant), meanwhile, finds
himself embroiled in an unsolved murder and disappearance from his past.
''Season 2 is, from the start, an entirely messier, more contingent affair,
enjoyable in a different and, to me, more appealing way,'' Mike Hale wrote in
The New York Times. Having Joe plead not guilty enables Chris Chibnall, the
show's creator and writer, ''to keep all the central characters of Season 1
around without the usual implausibility of plunging the town into a new mystery.
It's also a device to get Ms. Colman's Ellie Miller back into the center of the
story'' -- where she once again steals the show. ''She's a wonderful comic
actress, and now even more than before Mr. Tennant is her straight man -- Miller
has had it, and Hardy has to absorb all of her (amusing) petulance and
disgust.''

9:30 P.M. (ABC) BLACK-ISH  Anthony Anderson, above, Tracee Ellis Ross and
Laurence Fishburne star in humorous outtakes in this blooper special, while Yara
Shahidi, Marcus Scribner, Miles Brown and Marsai Martin give a behind-the-scenes
tour of the show's set.

10 P.M. (HBO Signature) RUSH (2013) The director Ron Howard, working from a
screenplay by Peter Morgan, climbs into the cockpits of Formula One racecars as
he recounts the rivalry between James Hunt (Chris Hemsworth), a blond British
playboy who rose from his middle-class beginnings to racing royalty, and Niki
Lauda (Daniel Brühl), a wealthy Austrian nicknamed the Rat for his pronounced
overbite, who drove the sport into mainstream consciousness in 1976. ''Mr.
Howard doesn't just want you to crawl inside a Formula One racecar, he also
wants you to crawl inside its driver's head,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The
Times. '' 'Rush,' which is serious without being self-serious, fun without being
trivial, feels like the movie that he has been waiting to make his whole life.''
She added: ''There are no washed-out tones or characters here. There are,
instead, shifting feet, trembling hands, shredding tires and the hard whine of
machines that whether flying or skidding over the track, can feel like nothing
other than needlessly reckless manifestations of human arrogance, like Icarus's
wings -- but, you know, with the Marlboro brand emblazoned on them.''

10 P.M. (CBS) CSI: CYBER Agent Ryan (Patricia Arquette) and her crew investigate
a roller-coaster accident caused by a computer breach.

10 P.M. (Ovation) AMERICAN CANVAS What if you detoured around the tourist
attractions when visiting a place for the first time and ventured off the beaten
path? In this new series, Dave Holmes focuses on the culture and history, not
always mentioned in guidebooks, that make three cities distinctive. His journey
begins in San Francisco, where he watches the Spidey-esque members of Bandaloop
dance on the faces of skyscrapers with the help of rock-climbing equipment,
traces the footsteps of Jack Kerouac and Allen Ginsberg, and tours ''@Large,''
an exhibition at Alcatraz centered on freedom and confinement, by the Chinese
artist and activist Ai Weiwei.

What's Streaming Now

GIMME SHELTER (1970) David and Albert Maysles and Charlotte Zwerin record the
last leg of the Rolling Stones' 1969 American tour and the ''ugly, beautiful
mass,'' in the words of one concertgoer, that came together to hear the band at
places like the Altamont Speedway in California, where the Hells Angels oversaw
security and four people were killed, including one stabbed to death on camera.
''There is quite a lot of music and performing in 'Gimme Shelter,' some of it
beautifully recorded, but it is not a concert film, like Woodstock,'' Vincent
Canby wrote in The Times. ''It is more like an end-of-the-world film, and I
found it very depressing.'' Albert Maysles, who received the National Medal of
Arts from President Obama in July, died on Thursday at 88. (iTunes) KATHRYN
SHATTUCK




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/11/arts/television/whats-on-tv-wednesday.html

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ITV/KUDOS
 PETER HOPPER STONE/ABC)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 12, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Senate Caucus Proud of Its Empty Email Boxes

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1055 words


WASHINGTON --  No single emoji seemed quite adequate to capture the collective
flip-out over the admission by Senator Lindsey Graham that he has never, ever
sent an email.

''I don't know what that makes me,'' Mr. Graham, Republican of South Carolina,
said on NBC's ''Meet the Press'' on Sunday.

A card-carrying member of the Flip Phone Caucus, perhaps. A first-team
all-Luddite, maybe. And, without doubt, one of a small circle of members of
Congress who shape 21st-century policy and legislation but do not actually send
or receive email.

The email quirks of politicians burst into view in recent days, after news broke
that Hillary Rodham Clinton, a likely 2016 Democratic presidential candidate,
used a private email address during her time as secretary of state. On Tuesday,
Mrs. Clinton held a news conference to try to quell the controversy.

But in a city where aides and operatives take an almost perverse pleasure in
checking their email in the middle of the night when they wake up to go to the
bathroom; in a Capitol complex where lawmakers are often trailed by ''purse
boys'' and ''body men''; and in a building that still employs staff to press the
elevator buttons for the senators, some members seem to take pride in not
emailing.

In some ways, after all, eschewing email can be seen as the ultimate status
symbol -- second only to sending someone to fetch your lunch. Mr. Graham --
rarely a sympathizer with Mrs. Clinton -- could have given her tips. His
frequent Republican sidekick, Senator John McCain of Arizona, has said he also
does not use email -- in part to prevent himself from filing off hot-tempered
missives he might regret.

Nor does Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. ''Maybe once every
four months, I do one email,'' he said, with evident relish. ''I like to
communicate by talking directly to people. I find it's an important part of
humanity to understand not just the words that are said, but how they're said,
the tone they're said in, the speed they're said with.''

And Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, said his email habits tended
toward ''not very much.'' When he does turn to his iPhone 6 -- ''the latest,''
he noted -- his emails are ''short things, like 'Thanks.' 'Great.' ''

In a Capitol where bare shoulders for women are considered too informal for the
Speaker's Lobby just off the House floor, forgoing email also seems like a
polite vestige of the rules and etiquette that once reigned.

Jim Manley, a Democratic strategist and longtime former Hill staff member,
recalled that one of his bosses, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts, could not use his BlackBerry ''if his life depended on it.''

''When the Senate first distributed BlackBerries to members, he gave his to his
assistant -- and it was never seen from again,'' Mr. Manley said.

He added that while it is now common to find lawmakers and staffers pecking away
on smartphones, ''back in the day'' when Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of
West Virginia, was alive, ''staff and members, at least on the Democratic side,
all lived in fear of him catching someone even peeking at the things, because it
was strictly against the rules and defied decorum.''

On Monday, Mr. Schumer proudly displayed his silver LG flip phone. ''It's a
Verizon 3G,'' he said. ''What is it called? 3G?''

''Nope,'' said Matt House, his press secretary, with the amused resignation of
an aide accustomed to having his boss call every time he has a new thought to
share. ''I don't know, but 3G is not the correct answer.''

Undaunted, Mr. Schumer enumerated his phone's perceived virtues -- ''It goes
from your ear to your mouth,'' and his staff prefers it. ''If a Type A
personality like me emailed, I'd be bothering them all the time,'' he said.
''This way, they don't have to answer.''

Like Mr. Schumer, Mr. Graham also still has a flip phone, though they do own
iPads, which they use to read the news. Mr. McCain has an iPhone 6 Plus -- and
came under criticism for playing iPhone poker during a committee hearing on
Syria last Congress. (An aide says now that Mr. McCain is chairman of the Senate
Armed Services Committee, his cyber poker-during-hearing days are behind him.)

But the Flip Phone Caucus is, admittedly, still the outlier -- not unlike the
flip phone itself. Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, snorted in
laughter when asked if he used email. ''Constantly,'' he said. ''One of my goals
and challenges as a parent is to stop texting, Tweeting, emailing, Facebooking,
while I'm home with my kids.''

And Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, said she was ''in awe'' of
her colleagues who did not email. ''I can't imagine how I could do my job
without the ability to communicate on a constant basis,'' she said, looking up
from her iPhone 5 -- with an extended battery pack -- to answer the question.

''Now admittedly, I have seven children and eight grandchildren, so that's also
a consideration,'' she said. ''I'm multitasking most of the day, helping
somebody figure out how to negotiate with their landlord at the same time I'm
trying to go to a hearing.''

Other lawmakers offered a more droll take on their colleagues' decidedly
low-tech tendencies. ''Yes, of course I email -- I'm modern, I'm contemporary,
I'm hot, I'm hip,'' said Senator Barbara Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, who at
age 78 recently announced her plans to retire at the end of her term. But, she
added, ''If they want to cling to papyrus and stylus, they can.''

And Senator Tom Carper, Democrat of Delaware, when asked about his email habits,
said dryly: ''I've never used it. I understand some of my colleagues do, but I
figure if I end up using email, I'll get into real trouble.''

''So I have a quill,'' he continued, unable to suppress a giggle. ''And what's
the paper they have in Egypt?''

Indeed, as Mrs. Clinton learned this week, email -- whether you use it, don't
use it or set up your own private server to store it -- can be politically
confounding. There just might be some merit in avoiding it entirely, said John
Feehery, a Republican strategist.

''Politicians used to be taught 'don't write if you can say it, don't say it if
you can nod,' '' Mr. Feehery said. '''Don't email it' is the updated version,
and a very smart way to avoid embarrassment and possibly jail.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/12/us/politics/storing-emails-from-these-senators
-will-be-easy-if-they-ever-send-one.html

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, says that he
sends an email ''maybe once every four months.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 16, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Authorities Closing In on Hackers at Chase

BYLINE: By MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN and NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1361 words


It has become a familiar pattern: The computer system of a big American company
is breached, the personal information of tens of millions of customers is stolen
and a public outcry ensues. Rarely are the thieves caught.

But last summer's attack on JPMorgan Chase -- which resulted in hackers gaining
access to email addresses and phone numbers for 83 million households and small
businesses -- may break that pattern of investigative dead ends in large
corporate breaches.

Federal authorities investigating the attack at JPMorgan are increasingly
confident that a criminal case will be filed against the hackers in the coming
months, said people briefed on the investigation. Law enforcement officials
believe that several of the suspects are ''gettable,'' meaning that they live in
a country with which the United States has an extradition treaty. That would not
include countries like Russia.

Indictments and arrests would be a notable victory for the Federal Bureau of
Investigation and Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan. In
contrast, there have been no criminal charges in a December 2013 breach at
Target, where payment card data for 40 million customers was stolen, along with
the personal information of 70 million customers, or in the major attacks
against eBay and Home Depot involving hundreds of millions more customers last
year.

Although the breach at JPMorgan did not result in the loss of customer money or
the theft of personal information, it was one of the largest such attacks
against a bank and a warning sign that the American financial system was
vulnerable.

Officials with the F.B.I. and Mr. Bharara's office declined to comment on the
investigation.

The JPMorgan case is advancing quickly partly because the attack was not nearly
as sophisticated as initially believed, and law enforcement authorities were
able to identify at least some suspects early on, said the people briefed on the
matter, who spoke on the condition they not be named because they were not
authorized to discuss the case. Law enforcement officials also made the
investigation a top priority given that the Department of Homeland Security has
declared the banking system critical infrastructure, requiring additional
protection from digital attacks.

The JPMorgan investigation is being handled at the highest levels of law
enforcement, with the F.B.I. in New York assigning several senior agents to the
matter along with a top prosecutor with the computer crimes division of Mr.
Bharara's office, the people briefed on the matter said.

Thomas Brown, a senior managing director with FTI Consulting and a former chief
of the computer and intellectual property crime unit for Mr. Bharara, said law
enforcement tends to aggressively pursue cases where it has a better chance of
sending a message of deterrence.

''The government has finite resources to deal with cybercrime and as a result
tends to look for cases which can create maximum impact,'' Mr. Brown said.

The intensifying hunt for the JPMorgan hackers comes as the bank, which has said
it spends about $250 million a year on digital security and plans on doubling
that in the future, wrestles every day with securing its vast global network.

An internal assessment of the bank's security found that by the end of 2014 the
bank had made ''significant progress'' in reducing ''severe patch issues'' in
its digital network, but still had critical issues to address. The January
report to the bank's cybersecurity business control committee -- a copy of which
was reviewed by The New York Times -- also noted that one server did not have
the latest antivirus protection, but that it was being upgraded.

Patching holes in the bank's network is critical because hackers exploited such
vulnerabilities to gain access to JPMorgan in the first place. Attackers
breached a server that had not been upgraded with so-called two-factor
authentication, The Times previously reported. Double authentication schemes,
which are now considered industry standard, require a second, one-time password
for employees to gain access to a secure system. Without that second password
requirement, hackers were able to breach a server using the stolen login
credentials for a bank employee.

Once inside, hackers gained high-level access to more than 90 servers, but they
were stopped before they could move customers' financial information to their
servers abroad.

The internal review also noted that JPMorgan recently increased its requirements
for giving people the highest level of access to the bank's network. It did so,
according to the review, to minimize the risk of ''catastrophic technical or
reputational damage to the firm.'' JPMorgan now limits so-called ''high security
access'' to bank employees who must submit to annual credit screenings and
criminal background checks. The bank now also conducts a ''routine review'' to
make sure that high security access is justified for a particular person.

A JPMorgan spokeswoman declined to comment for this article.

Federal authorities said the lack of prosecutions in big breach cases is often a
reflection of the fact that the attackers are cloistered away in countries where
the ability to make arrests is limited.

In May, the Justice Department indicted five members of China's People's
Liberation Army in connection with hacking attacks. None have been apprehended.
And in December, the White House took the unusual step of identifying, and
pledging retaliation against, North Korea for a destructive attack at Sony
Pictures, without filing a criminal case.

''The bad news is that many of these folks are located overseas, and they are
using encryption and servers all over the world,'' said Leslie R. Caldwell, the
assistant attorney general for the criminal division at the Justice Department.
''But the good news is if we are able to jump on the breach early enough, we
have an electronic trail and can get that evidence.''

In many cases, hackers also wait before they use the data they steal to evade
detection.

''We've seen them steal and then store or secrete the data for long periods of
time,'' said Joseph M. Demarest, the assistant director of the F.B.I.'s cyber
division. ''We see them evolve their skills and trade craft and monetizing.''

Federal authorities have had some successes. One of the more notable was the
successful prosecution of Albert Gonzalez for a string of hackings that netted
more than 90 million credit and debit card numbers from TJ Maxx, Heartland
Payment Systems and other companies between 2005 and 2008. Mr. Gonzalez was
convicted and sentenced to more than 20 years in prison.

Still, Mr. Gonzalez was living in the United States, while many digital crimes
are orchestrated by criminals abroad.

The authorities are sometimes forced to wait until suspects travel to places
where an arrest can be made more easily. It took federal prosecutors five years
to extradite Vladimir Drinkman, a Russian national who was charged with working
with Mr. Gonzalez.

Mr. Drinkman was arrested in 2012 while on vacation in Amsterdam, but his
extradition was delayed after the Russian government tried to intervene by
filing its own extradition request with the Dutch courts. In February, Mr.
Drinkman arrived in the United States to stand trial in federal court in Newark
after a Dutch judge approved the United States government's extradition request.

Other Russian nationals charged with hacking have avoided trial altogether.
Aleksandr Kalinin, a Russian national indicted by federal prosecutors in New
York in 2013 in an attack on the Nasdaq stock market and in other hackings,
remains at large.

''Some of the data breaches may have fallen off the radar, but they aren't off
our radar,'' Ms. Caldwell said. ''We have a number of cases where we have
indictments under seal.''

Edward W. Lowery, the head of the Secret Service's criminal investigations unit,
said international cooperation in hacking cases had increased in recent years,
particularly in Western Europe.

But there are still blind spots, said Mr. Lowery, citing ''Eastern European
countries, where law enforcement looks the other way.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/16/business/dealbook/authorities-closing-in-on-ha
ckers-who-stole-data-from-jpmorgan-chase.html

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Authorities investigating a hacking at JPMorgan Chase are
confident a case will be filed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW BURTON/GETTY IMAGES) (B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Must Step Up Capacity for Cyberattacks, Chief Argues

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 621 words


WASHINGTON --  The admiral who directs American cyberforces told a Senate
committee on Thursday that the United States was ''at a tipping point'' where it
needed to increase its ability to conduct cyberattacks, to create a deterrent
against other countries that are attacking it.

The growing American capabilities in cyberweapons are hardly a secret: They were
critical to a yearslong American and Israeli cyberattack on Iran's nuclear
facilities, and descriptions of the placement of ''implants'' in foreign
computer systems -- for surveillance and potential offensive action -- run
through thousands of pages of documents released by Edward J. Snowden, the
former National Security Agency contractor.

But the willingness of Adm. Michael S. Rogers to discuss purely offensive
cyberweapons in his appearance before the Armed Services Committee comes at a
moment when the Obama administration is reluctantly experimenting with how to
discuss the subject in public, much as it gradually began to talk about drone
strikes a few years ago.

Admiral Rogers, who heads both the National Security Agency and its military
cousin, United States Cyber Command, was answering questions about how the
United States could deter attacks like the kind that struck Sony Pictures
Entertainment. President Obama has said publicly that the attack originated in
North Korea.

When pressed, Admiral Rogers said that erecting ever-higher digital fences would
never be enough, and that ''we have got to broaden our capabilities to provide
policy makers and operational commanders with a broader range of options.
Because in the end, a purely defensive reactive strategy will be both late'' and
would become ''incredibly resource-intense.''

''So, I have been an advocate of, we also need to think about how can we
increase our capacity on the offensive side here, to get to that point of
deterrence.''

In interviews as he came into office last year, Admiral Rogers identified
creating some form of deterrence as his highest priority. At the time, he said,
Chinese and other attackers who steal data from American companies ''pay no
price.''

In the case of North Korea, the United States imposed some modest economic
sanctions, and it is unclear whether an attack that slowed the North's Internet
connections was the result of American action or some other kind of action. In
any event, the response was weak enough that many in the Obama administration
question whether the North paid a high enough price.

But as Admiral Rogers attempted to describe to the committee, deterrence in the
digital realm is a complex business; most comparisons to the nuclear age fail.
There are so many different kinds of cyberattackers -- states, businesses,
hackers, teenagers, angry ideologues -- that it would be nearly impossible to
deter them with traditional means, most experts say.

Admiral Rogers himself seemed to be struggling with the analogies at times,
comparing the decisions that national leaders will have to make with those faced
by the Bush administration on the morning of Sept. 11, 2001. At that time the
question was whether the United States would be willing to make ''the decision
that we were going to shoot down, potentially, a civilian airliner that we
thought had potentially become a weapon.''

''I think we need to have that same discussion now,'' Admiral Rogers said.
''We've got to increase our decision makers' comfort and level of knowledge with
what capabilities we have and what we can do.''

The committee chairman, Senator John McCain of Arizona, who has argued for a
robust offensive cybercapability, jumped in to say, ''But right now, the level
of deterrence is not deterring.

''That is true,'' Admiral Rogers responded.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/us/us-must-step-up-capacity-for-cyberattacks-c
hief-argues.html

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 25, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Behind a Veil of Anonymity, Online Vigilantes Battle Islamic State

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1198 words


They use screen aliases like IS Hunting Club, TouchMyTweets and The Doctor. They
troll Twitter for suspected accounts of Islamic State fighters, recruiters and
fund-raisers. Then they pounce.

In what has become a cyber analogy to the battles in Syria, Iraq and elsewhere
between governments and the Islamic State, online vigilantes, some of them with
diverse agendas, have united in a common cause to subvert the militant group's
aggressive use of social media, particularly Twitter.

They expose suspect accounts that they post on blacklists via Twitter, and
encourage other Twitter users to report the accounts to the social media
network's violations department, a prerequisite for suspension or deletion.

''Basically our work not only cripples their ability to spread propaganda, but
also wastes their time,'' said a Twitter vigilante who goes by the screen name
The Doctor.

Like others, The Doctor communicated through private online chats. All asked
that their real identities be withheld for their safety, as many have received
death threats.

Some vigilantes are affiliated with loosely knit hacking organizations like
Anonymous, known more for infiltrating computer networks of governments and
corporations to make political statements or for the ''lulz'' -- the hacker term
for laughs. Others are lone operators.

#Anonymous #GhostSec #OpISIS pic.twitter.com/l2rLuKYZa5 --
DIGITÎ[#x203a]SHÎ[#x203a]DÃ[#x2dc]W (@DigitaShadow) March 13, 2015

But all view groups like the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, as an
insidious threat. More than a few are women, some of whom call themselves
Anonymisses, and some say they spend hours a day online hunting ISIS.

''I do this because the atrocities I see from these ISIS scum on a daily basis
enrage me,'' said a user who identified herself as TouchMyTweets and continued,
'' This is my airstrike.''

Get ready for #12 Miss @f_11_7r and I'll come looking for that one too....I
don't tire either. pic.twitter.com/xVVbdzcDPn -- TouchMyTweets (@TouchMyTweets)
March 23, 2015

A loosely organized effort by computer hacking collectives aimed at disrupting
the Islamic State and other violent jihadist causes began last year after the
extemists posted images of beheaded captives. It gained momentum after the
Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris in January, according to experts who study online
jihadists.

89 Jihad sites #offline & 1,200+ Twitter accounts suspended. #OpCharlieHebdo
pic.twitter.com/9t3ZlMhgbp -- AnonyOpNews (@AnonyOpNews) January 19, 2015

The effort is heavily focused on Twitter, which carries roughly 500 million
messages a day, and has come under intense pressure because the Islamic State
has shrewdly exploited it.

Critics, including cybersecurity experts and some members of Congress, contend
Twitter has done little to stop the abuse. Twitter disputes that.

By some estimates, 70,000 to 90,000 Twitter accounts are used by the Islamic
State to spread images of beheadings and other brutalities, lure recruits and
even relay battle positions -- all with relative impunity because the system is
free, enormous and, to a large extent, according to critics, unsupervised.

''There is a massive usage of Twitter underway by ISIS,'' said Michael S. Smith
II, principal and chief operating officer of Kronos Advisory, LLC, a security
consulting company.

This month Anonymous and two related hacking groups, CntrlSec and GhostSec, have
sought to take matters into their own hands, publicizing Twitter accounts that
they say are operated by the Islamic State in violation of Twitter's policies on
unlawful use. In recent days they posted a list of 9,200 suspect accounts.

#Targets #IceIsis https://t.co/407rOTDyd4 https://t.co/RbgTzF8C8u
https://t.co/E9HixQOh00 -- CtrlSec - 0 (@CtrlSec0) March 24, 2015

Some are calling it the battle of Anonymous vs. ISIS.

''We won't stop spamming ISIS accounts until all members/supporters of ISIS are
off Twitter,'' said a hacker identified by the screen name IS Hunting Club.

The hackers exhort other users to report the accounts to Twitter, and Twitter,
which says it does not censor or proactively monitor message traffic, then
decides whether to terminate the accounts.

When a suspect account is terminated, vigilantes celebrate by posting the
account name and affixing the term ''#TangoDown'' -- the same language used by
antiterrorist commandos when they score a kill.

#TangoDown @safya_7729 with 1673 followers has been suspended #OpAntiISIS
#IceISIS #OpISIS pic.twitter.com/RjtUTVhjkV -- â[#x2dc]¢ The Doctor â[#x2dc]¢
(@iridium_black) March 24, 2015

How many Twitter users are reporting suspect accounts because of this
collaboration is unclear. Whether this vigilantism is significantly suppressing
the use of Twitter by the Islamic State also has yet to be understood.

Asked for comment about the vigilantism, Twitter said in an emailed statement:
''We review all reported content against our rules, which prohibit unlawful use
and direct, specific threats of violence against others.''

But with the increased focus on use by the Islamic State, Twitter has suspended
accounts at the rate of 2,000 per week recently, a company official said on
condition of anonymity.

If the size of a Twitter account's following is any indication, the hacking
group GhostSec has a considerable force of activists behind it, with 6,274 as of
Tuesday. CntrlSec had 2,039.

The Islamic State's own cyberactivists have been anything but passive. They have
threatened Twitter's founder, Jack Dorsey, and his employees with death, posting
ominous messages including a decapitated blue Twitter bird, the company's icon.

People working on behalf of the Islamic State have taken countermeasures like
distributing lists of hackers to help avoid detection and urging followers to
change account names if they suspect an impending complaint.

In late February, jihadist accounts on Twitter began circulating a manual for
bypassing Twitter requirements for the phone numbers and email addresses of
users, the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors Islamic militancy online,
reported a few weeks ago.

J.M. Berger, a nonresident fellow at the Brookings Institution who recently
completed a study of Twitter use by ISIS, said the campaign by vigilantes might
be having some effect, although it was impossible to measure. The recently
posted list of 9,200 ISIS accounts, he said, is ''the biggest catch they've put
down.''

Mr. Smith of Kronos expressed skepticism, asserting that the Twitter system
still has thousands of Islamic State users.

A few weeks ago, senior members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee sent a
bipartisan letter to Twitter's chief executive, Dick Costolo, urging him to
increase efforts to combat groups like the Islamic State. ''Companies need to
ensure that their social media services are not being hijacked for terrorist
use,'' wrote Representative Ed Royce, the committee chairman.

Twitter's general counsel, Vijaya Gadde, responded in a letter, saying that the
company had expanded its mechanisms for terminating accounts that violate its
rules while preserving ''the ability of users to share freely their views --
including views that many people may disagree with or find abhorrent.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/25/world/middleeast/behind-a-veil-of-anonymity-on
line-vigilantes-battle-the-islamic-state.html

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In an image taken from Twitter, a vigilante group boasts of
attacking  and shutting down Islamic State accounts.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 26, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

F.B.I. Still Lags in Countering Evolving Terrorist Threats, Report Says

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT; Matt Apuzzo contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1049 words


WASHINGTON --  The F.B.I. has made great strides since the Sept. 11 attacks but
urgently needs to improve its intelligence capabilities, hire more linguists and
elevate the stature of its analysts to counter the rapidly evolving threats to
the United States, according to a report released on Wednesday.

The report by the F.B.I. 9/11 Review Commission said the bureau had prevented
catastrophic terrorist attacks but needed to improve its ability to collect
information from people and to efficiently analyze it, contending that the
bureau lags ''behind marked advances in law enforcement capabilities.''

''This imbalance needs urgently to be addressed to meet growing and increasingly
complex national security threats, from adaptive and increasingly tech-savvy
terrorists, more brazen computer hackers and more technically capable, global
cyber syndicates,'' the report said.

The 2004 report of the national Sept. 11 Commission and subsequent reviews
called for major changes to the F.B.I., but the report released Wednesday was
far less critical. Rather than a rebuke, it amounts to a status-check on the
F.B.I. transformation that began in 2001.

Today's bureau bears little resemblance to that organization, and some of the
areas cited for improvement are markedly better than they were years ago. For
instance, the 2004 report said that two-thirds of the bureau's analysts were
qualified to perform their jobs. The latest report, by contrast, said, ''The
training and professional status of analysts has improved in recent years.''

And while the report said the F.B.I. needed more translators, it was much less
critical of the bureau's foreign language ability than previous reports were.

Many of the report's recommendations related to issues that the F.B.I.'s
director, James B. Comey, has raised since he took over the bureau in September
2013.

For instance, Mr. Comey has said that one of his biggest priorities is
continuing the F.B.I.'s transformation from a law enforcement agency to an
intelligence operation. Last year, he created a high-level executive position to
oversee a branch division meant to expand the use of intelligence across all
investigations. He has also said that raising the profile of analysts, and
strengthening their relationships with agents, are among his chief priorities.

''I think this is a moment of pride for the F.B.I.,'' Mr. Comey said Wednesday
at a news conference in Washington. ''An outside group of some of our nation's
most important leaders and thinkers has stared hard at us and said, 'You have
done a great job at transforming yourself.' They've also said what I've said
around the country: 'It's not good enough.'''

He added, ''There are a lot of ways you can be even better.''

The review commission was created by Congress in 2014 to assess the bureau's
progress since the attacks. In particular, the panel examined the extent to
which the F.B.I. had put into effect the recommendations of the Sept. 11
Commission.

''Many of the findings and recommendations in this report will not be new to the
F.B.I.,'' the latest report said. ''The bureau is already taking steps to
address them. In 2015, however, the F.B.I. faces an increasingly complicated and
dangerous global threat environment that will demand an accelerated commitment
to reform. Everything is moving faster.''

The principal authors of the report were Bruce Hoffman, a professor of security
studies at Georgetown University; Edwin Meese III, the former attorney general;
and Timothy J. Roemer, a former House member from Indiana and former ambassador
to India.

The report said that to improve its intelligence gathering and analysis, the
F.B.I. needed to have more informants. The panel examined the details of five
F.B.I. counterterrorism investigations. In none of those cases did a
confidential source ''provide actionable intelligence to help prevent or respond
to a terrorist operation,'' the report said.

It did not put all of the blame on the F.B.I., though, saying that budget cuts
had ''severely hindered the F.B.I.'s intelligence and national security
programs.''

Rick Nelson, a former counterterrorism official on the National Security
Council, said that reports like the one released Wednesday were highly effective
in keeping the pressure on the F.B.I. to continue to evolve.

''The transformation after 9/11 will go on for decades,'' Mr. Nelson said.
''There are antibodies at the F.B.I., like any agency, that stand in the way of
change. These reports keep the pressure on the agency to say, 'We're tracking
you.'

''It also provides internal support for the agency to say, 'We have a mandate
for change.' And that helps with getting more money from Congress. The F.B.I.
can point to this report and say if you want us to do more human intelligence,
we will need the money.''

The report said that the F.B.I. had enough linguists in its large offices but
that they were in ''short supply'' in the rest of the country. Often, linguists
use a virtual system to communicate remotely with agents and analysts working on
cases.

''Hiring additional linguists and integrating them should be a high priority,''
the report said.

The panel was particularly critical of how the F.B.I. treats its analysts. It
said that ''despite its stated intentions to address concerns from its
analysts,'' the bureau did not regard them as a ''professional work force'' that
needed to be continually trained and educated. It said analysts needed to ''be
empowered to question special agent's operational assumptions.''

The F.B.I. is far better at sharing information with other government agencies
than it was before the Sept. 11 attacks, the report said. But it needs to
improve how it communicates with local law enforcement authorities and the
private sector.

''Looking ahead, the F.B.I. will be increasingly dependent upon all domestic and
foreign partnerships to succeed in its critical and growing national security
missions -- including against the rapidly evolving cyber and terrorist
threats,'' the report said.

The report highlighted a simmering issue between the F.B.I. and the Justice
Department's national security division. Many in the F.B.I. believe the national
security division ''was too slow in reviewing'' applications for wiretaps, the
report said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/26/us/fbi-911-review-commission-releases-report.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, second from right, speaking
on Wednesday in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN VUCCI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            April 1, 2015 Wednesday

Attack on GitHub Appears to Have Ended

BYLINE: PAUL MOZUR

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 262 words



HIGHLIGHT: The site that hosts code for programmers had been overwhelmed by
traffic that security experts believed came from China&#8217;s Great Firewall.


One of the world's great coding libraries is safe, for now.

As of Tuesday, GitHub, a site that hosts code for programmers, said that a major
attack that seemed to come from the Chinese government had subsided.

For the last week, GitHub had been overwhelmed by traffic that security experts
said originated from China's Great Firewall. The attack marked a change in the
behavior of the filters that block Chinese from viewing foreign websites deemed
sensitive or destabilizing.

Instead of simply blocking sites, the Great Firewall began redirecting traffic
heading for China, and beaming it at GitHub with the intention of overloading
it. Known as a distributed denial of service attack (DDoS), the attack
specifically targeted sites hosted by GitHub that hosted links to sites blocked
in China, including The New York Times.

Though it's unclear why the attacks stopped, the change in tack came just a day
before President Obama authorized financial sanctions against malicious overseas
hackers and companies that knowingly benefit from cyber-espionage.

Analysts said the attack marked a dangerous change in strategy, that threatens
free speech online. Instead of simply blocking traffic entering China, the new
approach aggressively goes after sites outside of China's borders deemed
objectionable by Beijing.

Long in the works, the new policy move by President Obama was unlikely designed
to address attacks like the one on GitHub. Nonetheless, the attacks could prove
a new issue in an already fractious relationship between the United States and
China over cyberattacks.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                            April 1, 2015 Wednesday

To Catch a Hacker

BYLINE: VIKAS BAJAJ

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 460 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Obama has given the Treasury Department power to issue
financial sanctions against hackers. Will it help?


One reason American businesses and the government remain vulnerable to foreign
hackers is that it is incredibly hard to arrest and prosecute those criminals.
Responding to that difficulty, President Obama is giving the Treasury Department
the power to issue financial sanctions against hackers and the people and
businesses that hire them to conduct cyber attacks.

The president's executive order effectively treats people who engage in what the
administration calls "malicious cyber-enabled activities" in the same way it
does terrorists and drug cartels. It tries to cut off their access to the
American financial system and prohibits them from getting visas to come to the
United States.

The president's order could be a good step if it ends up freezing the American
bank accounts of the shadowy hackers in places like North Korea, Russia and
China who regularly mount attacks on American businesses and government
agencies. But it is unclear if American investigators can reliably identify
those bad guys and whether the criminals even have any assets in the United
States that can be frozen.

In a call with reporters earlier today administration officials declined to
discuss if they have any targets they are pursing under the order. They also
wouldn't say how they may have used such authority in past high-profile cases
like the hacking of Sony Pictures late last year and the attacks on the computer
systems of American banks in 2012.

One big question about the order is whether the administration will be willing
to use it to sanction big foreign businesses that it suspects of buying stolen
trade secrets from hackers. What if such a business happens to be owned by, say,
the Chinese government? Would the government risk its diplomatic relationship
with the country by freezing the American bank accounts of that business? To its
credit, the Obama administration indicted five members of the Chinese People's
Liberation Army last year for hacking into the systems of American businesses.

Another concern that civil liberties groups will probably have is that the
administration could end up sanctioning innocent people who get incorrectly
identified by American officials as hackers because of their online activism or
because their computers were taken over by sophisticated criminals.
Administration officials said they would be judicious in their use of their
authority. They also said they would publicly disclose the unclassified evidence
used to issue sanctions under this order. People who are sanctioned can appeal
to the Treasury Department or file a case in any federal district court.

Imposing sanctions is now one tool available to the government in dealing with
cyber attacks. But in many situations, it may not be a particularly useful tool.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 2, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Coding Website Says an Attack, Probably by China, Has Ended

BYLINE: By PAUL MOZUR

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; BITS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 279 words


One of the world's great coding libraries is safe, for now.

As of Tuesday, GitHub, a site that hosts code for programmers, said that a major
attack that seemed to come from the Chinese government had subsided.

For the last week, GitHub had been overwhelmed by traffic that security experts
said originated from China's Great Firewall. The attack marked a change in the
behavior of the filters that block Chinese from viewing foreign websites deemed
sensitive or destabilizing.

Instead of simply blocking sites, the Great Firewall began redirecting traffic
heading for China, and beaming it at GitHub with the intention of overloading
it. Known as a distributed denial of service attack (DDoS), the attack
specifically targeted sites hosted by GitHub that hosted links to sites blocked
in China, including The New York Times.

Though it's unclear why the attacks stopped, the change in tack came just a day
before President Obama authorized financial sanctions against malicious overseas
hackers and companies that knowingly benefit from cyber-espionage.

Analysts said the attack marked a dangerous change in strategy, that threatens
free speech online. Instead of simply blocking traffic entering China, the new
approach aggressively goes after sites outside of China's borders deemed
objectionable by Beijing.

Long in the works, the new policy move by President Obama was unlikely designed
to address attacks like the one on GitHub. Nonetheless, the attacks could prove
a new issue in an already fractious relationship between the United States and
China over cyberattacks.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/04/01/attack-on-github-appears-to-have-ended/

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 8, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Giving Out Private Data for Discount in Insurance

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1317 words


Andrew Thomas's life insurer knows exactly when he arrives at his local gym. The
company is notified when he swipes his membership card, and 30 minutes later, it
checks that he is still there, tracking his location through his smartphone.

The insurance company has a vested interest in keeping Mr. Thomas alive and
well. In return for sharing his exercise habits, his cholesterol level and other
medical information, Mr. Thomas, a 51-year-old medical publisher who lives in
Johannesburg, earns points, which translate into premium savings and other
perks. By staying in good shape, it is less likely that Discovery, his insurer,
will have to pay out his life and disability policies.

''Every Saturday morning, just for playing golf, I get points,'' said Mr.
Thomas, who said he received about 9 percent back on his life insurance premiums
for each of the last five years. ''It is trying to make people live a healthy
lifestyle.''

Now John Hancock will become the first life insurance company to introduce a
similar program for American consumers. The program, being announced Wednesday,
will apply to both term and universal life insurance policies and is being
operated through a partnership with Vitality, a global wellness company that
already works with employers and health insurers in the United States.

The concept -- which has been used in South Africa, where Vitality is based,
Europe, Singapore and Australia -- has the potential to transform the way life
insurance is priced, at least for consumers who are willing to continually share
their health data. But it also raises questions about how that information will
be protected -- and whether it could be used in ways that ultimately work
against a consumer's best interests.

People who sign up will receive a free Fitbit monitor, which can be set to
automatically upload activity levels to the insurer. The most active customers
may earn a discount of up to 15 percent on their premiums, in addition to Amazon
gift cards, half-price stays at Hyatt hotels and other perks.

John Hancock, a division of Canadian insurer Manulife Financial, says it hopes
the program will help reinvigorate life insurance sales, which have stagnated
industrywide for decades. Just 44 percent of households in the United States own
individual policies, according to Limra, a trade group, a 50-year low. Any
product that reminds consumers of their mortality is hard to get excited about,
but industry analysts said that financially strained households, changing
demographics and increasingly complex and expensive products have led to the
decline in sales.

''It has been a slow to no-growth industry for a long time,'' said Michael
Doughty, president of John Hancock Insurance, based in Boston. ''It is crying
out for innovation and for someone to try to reinvent the product to make it
more relevant.''

The new program also upends the traditional approach to life insurance
underwriting, which typically bases its pricing on a detailed but static
snapshot of a person's medical status. Now, John Hancock's term and universal
policies will be priced continuously, at least for consumers who choose the
Vitality program.

John Hancock and Vitality, which is owned by Discovery, said the information
would not be sold and would be shared only with entities that help with the
program's administration, though the aggregate data could be used to inform the
development of new insurance products.

Nonetheless, some specialists expressed privacy concerns.

''All of a sudden, everything you do and everything you eat, depending on which
bits of the information they collect, is sitting in someone's database,'' said
Anna Slomovic, lead research scientist at the Cyber Security Policy and Research
Institute at George Washington University and a former chief privacy officer at
Equifax and Revolution Health.

Of course, buying any life insurance policy requires customers to share detailed
medical histories upfront. But consumers participating in the Vitality program
must be comfortable providing enough information continuously to meet certain
thresholds that will convert into worthwhile savings. That might include the
frequency of workouts, reporting a physical exam or answering sensitive personal
questions: During the last 30 days, how often did you feel so nervous that
nothing could calm you down? Hopeless? Depressed?

''You do not have to send us any data you are not comfortable with,'' Mr.
Doughty said. ''The trade-off is you won't get points for that.''

Participants need to amass 3,500 points to achieve silver status, 7,000 to reach
gold and 10,000 for platinum. Nonsmokers automatically earn 1,000 points, and
people with in-range cholesterol, glucose and blood pressure will receive 1,000
points for each. A ''verified'' standard workout three times a week, or an
advanced workout twice a week, provides another 3,120 points over the course of
a year. Flu shots, 400 points. The clock is reset each year, though 10 percent
of points may carry over.

All customers participating in the program will start by paying a premium priced
at the gold level. That is a discount of about 9 percent for a 45-year-old man
who bought a $500,000 term insurance policy that covered a 20-year period: He
would pay $750 annually, compared with the $825 it would cost outside of the
Vitality program.

So what if he does everything right, but breaks his leg? Or worse, gets a
serious disease like cancer? While those conditions would not directly affect
his rate, if he could not maintain gold status for any reason, he could see
premium increases of 1.1 to 1.6 percent each year. But if he reached platinum
status, his premiums would fall by about 0.30 percent each year.

The program may attract healthier people who have already engaged in these
activities on their own. The strategy also tries to tap into the way humans are
naturally wired: There is generally no immediate tangible benefit to life
insurance, but this program is structured to try to change that.

''People respond far more to immediate gratification than delayed
gratification,'' said Dr. Kevin Volpp, director of the Center for Health
Incentives and Behavioral Economics at the Leonard Davis Institute. (He has done
consulting work for Vitality.)

The number of points assigned to a particular activity is determined by how it
will influence a person's longevity, based on Vitality's internal findings --
and its level of difficulty. ''Stopping smoking is more valuable than one
session of activity,'' explained Alan Pollard, chief executive of Vitality. ''If
something is a complex behavioral change, it will attract more points.''

Vitality's research has found that Americans are generally five years older than
their actual age, after taking into account various health and wellness factors.
All participating policyholders will be given a ''Vitality age,'' which will
help the program set personal guideposts.

''The people who have the time to devote to jumping through all the hoops are
likely to be better off than average, and those healthy enough to do wellness
activities may be unrepresentative of the chronically ill,'' said Frank
Pasquale, a professor at University of Maryland Carey School of Law. ''I believe
that is one reason why there is empirical research severely questioning the
value of wellness programs.''

John Hancock, which operates in all 50 states, said the universal life program
had been approved by insurance regulators in 30 states, while the term program
is available in 20 states; more states are expected to be announced throughout
the year. It said no regulators had declined to approve it yet.

''It changes the paradigm of life insurance,'' Dr. Volpp said. ''In some sense,
it tries to change your insurance into less of a passive vehicle that pays the
bills if something happens, into a more active vehicle to get people to lower
their risk.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/08/your-money/giving-out-private-data-for-discoun
t-in-insurance.html

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Doughty, president of John Hancock Insurance, stretches
in Boston. Hancock will offer  a program that tracks policyholders' medical data
and offers discounts for healthful behavior. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE MAHONEY FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 15, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nokia in Merger Talks as Competition Escalates

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT and DAVID JOLLY; Mark Scott reported from London, and
David Jolly from Paris. Chad Bray contributed reporting from London.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1403 words


LONDON -- It is a paradox of the digital age: Even as smartphones and high-speed
Internet access become more crucial to everyday life and commerce, the makers of
the equipment that underpins those networks can struggle to make money.

Cutthroat competition, particularly between the European and Chinese
manufacturers that now dominate the industry, has kept network equipment costs
low despite the increasingly sophisticated -- and expensive -- research and
development that go into the technology.

That is why two of the industry's biggest players, the Finnish company Nokia and
its French-American rival, Alcatel-Lucent, are in advanced talks toward a merger
that would make the combined companies the world's second-biggest network
equipment maker. Only Ericsson, of Sweden, would be larger.

The Chinese giant Huawei, whose global emergence over the last decade as a
cost-cutting juggernaut has played a role in a wave of industry consolidations,
would slip to third place.

Nokia announced the merger talks on Tuesday morning. Later in the day, the idea
received an apparent nod of support from the French government, which has often
intervened when local companies have become takeover targets for international
competitors.

If completed, the deal would create a company with combined revenues of about
$27 billion and might be better poised to provide telecom hardware and software
to some of the world's largest carriers, including AT&T and Verizon in the
United States, Vodafone and Orange in Europe, and SoftBank in Japan.

But many of those customers have started to cut back. AT&T and SoftBank, for
example, are still catching their breath after investing billions of dollars
over the last decade to upgrade to the latest high-speed networks. And as the
provision of network equipment has increasingly become a commodity business,
manufacturers have been forced to lay off tens of thousands of employees in a
bid to stay afloat.

''The industry is in need of consolidation,'' said Bengt Nordstrom, co-founder
of Northstream, a telecom consulting firm. ''After years of growth, the telecom
industry is now shrinking. A combination of Nokia and Alcatel was bound to
happen at some point.''

Nokia and Alcatel-Lucent are themselves the result of consolidations. Nokia
merged its telecommunications network business with that of the German
industrial conglomerate Siemens in 2006, before buying out Siemens in 2013.
Alcatel and Lucent -- the former equipment arm of AT&T -- merged in 2006, as
both were struggling, and they have trod a fairly rocky path since.

But these were not always troubled companies.

In 1996, when AT&T spun off Lucent, the stock quickly became a Wall Street
favorite, rising to more than $63 a share and surpassing AT&T in market value by
1998. But in 2000, Lucent was caught wrong-footed by a sudden slowdown in demand
for communications equipment and reported a series of disappointing quarterly
results. Its chairman and chief executive was ousted, and the Securities and
Exchange Commission began an inquiry into its accounting practices. The shares
slid to a low of 58 cents in 2002.

Nokia, for its part, was once the world's largest maker of cellphones, but
rapidly lost its position after the likes of Apple and Samsung entered the
smartphone industry. Last year, Nokia completed the sale of its handset business
to Microsoft for roughly $7.2 billion to focus on building network equipment.

''Nokia has the ambitions, and they have the cash from the Microsoft sale,''
said Sylvain Fabre, a telecom analyst at the technology research company
Gartner.

The companies' chief executives -- Michel Combes of Alcatel-Lucent and Rajeev
Suri of Nokia -- met Tuesday afternoon with President François Hollande of
France at the Élysée Palace, and the office of the economy minister indicated it
might support a merger.

While Alcatel-Lucent is incorporated in France, its North American operations,
based around the legacy Lucent business in Murray Hill, N.J., contributed almost
half of its 2014 annual revenue of 13.2 billion euros, or about $14.1 billion.
Europe represented about 22 percent, and Asia just under 20 percent.

France's previous economy minister, Arnaud Montebourg, was known for taking a
critical view of deals that would lead to French companies passing under foreign
control.

This time, however, the state appears to be encouraging a deal. Economy Minister
Emmanuel Macron told reporters on Tuesday that combining the companies ''would
permit the creation of a European champion to take on Chinese competition,''
though the world's largest equipment market is Ericsson.

Mr. Macron, speaking to the news media after Mr. Hollande's meeting with the
company executives, also addressed one of the government's main worries, saying
that he did not expect any jobs to be lost in France.

Alcatel-Lucent's French unions expressed ''concern'' with the prospect of a
merger, in light of job losses that would most likely come with a combination of
companies that each employ more than 50,000 people worldwide. They called on Mr.
Macron to ''be vigilant of the social and industrial consequences, notably on
employment in France.''

Some analysts expressed doubts whether Nokia would be able to successfully
integrate Alcatel-Lucent's existing operations if the French government took an
active role in the proposed merger.

Nokia said the companies were discussing a deal that would most likely include
Nokia offering its own shares in exchange for shares of Alcatel-Lucent.

Nokia shares fell more than 4 percent in Helsinki on Tuesday, while shares of
Alcatel-Lucent jumped 16 percent in Paris.

Nokia and Alcatel-Lucent had held talks before, though they stalled after the
French company announced a major overhaul, including 10,000 job cuts, in late
2013.

In its latest full-year earnings, Nokia reported a marginal increase in its
overall revenues, to ?12.7 billion, while the company's annual net profit rose
to ?3.5 billion -- aided by the sale of its handset sale to Microsoft.

Alcatel-Lucent's revenues in 2014 fell 5 percent, to ?13.2 billion, and the
company reported a yearly loss of ?83 million due to restructuring costs.

Nokia did not say how much it could pay for its French rival. It has a market
capitalization of ?26.6 billion, more than double Alcatel-Lucent's market value.

The potential tie-up would help the combined European telecom manufacturer to
face the growing number of Chinese rivals, which have used their lower
manufacturing costs and strength in their home market to become global telecom
giants in their own right.

In particular, Huawei and another Chinese player, ZTE, have landed a number of
network contracts with large Western operators.

So far, however, Chinese manufacturers -- many of which have connections to the
Chinese government -- have been barred from selling their wares in the United
States over fears that the Chinese may try to use the equipment to commit cyber
warfare, such as electronic spying and network disruption.

Huawei and ZTE deny the accusations.

For Mr. Suri of Nokia, the potential takeover of Alcatel-Lucent represents the
latest challenge after he successfully turned around Nokia's struggling telecom
equipment business.

Faced with significant losses at the unit, Mr. Suri, an Indian citizen who
joined the company in the mid-1990s, announced 17,000 job cuts in 2011. He
subsequently bought out Siemens' stake in Nokia's equipment business in 2013 for
$2.2 billion.

After several years of cost cutting and the deal with Microsoft, Nokia now
relies on its equipment unit, which represents about 85 percent of the company's
annual revenues. Like other equipment makers, the company is focusing on winning
potential European contracts after analysts have predicted a slowdown in how
much carriers in North American and certain Asia markets, including Japan and
China, will spend on new costly equipment.

And in a sign that Mr. Suri may be further doubling down on the equipment
business, Nokia is now in talks to sell its mapping business, Here, which is
valued roughly $2.5 billion. Here competes with the likes of Google Maps to
offer digital mapping services on people's cellphones and in sectors like the
automotive industry, according to two people with direct knowledge of the
matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized
to speak publicly on the matter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/15/business/dealbook/nokia-alcatel-lucent-talks.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rajeev Suri, left, Nokia's chief executive, with Michel Combes,
his counterpart at Alcatel-Lucent, on Tuesday in Paris. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE
WOJAZER/REUTERS) CHART: A Potential New No. 2:  A merger of Nokia and
Alcatel-Lucent would create the world's  second-largest maker of
telecommunications equipment, ahead of the  Chinese company Huawei. (Source:
Gartner)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 16, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iran Is Raising Sophistication and Frequency of Cyberattacks, Study Says

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and NICOLE PERLROTH; David E. Sanger reported from
Washington, and Nicole Perlroth from San Francisco.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1257 words


WASHINGTON --  In February, a year after the Las Vegas Sands was hit by a
devastating cyberattack that ruined many of the computers running its casino and
hotel operations, the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr.,
publicly told Congress what seemed obvious: Iranian hackers were behind the
attack.

Sheldon G. Adelson, the billionaire chief executive of Sands, who is a major
supporter of Israel and an ardent opponent of negotiating with Tehran, had
suggested an approach to the Iran problem a few months before the attack that no
public figure had ever uttered in front of cameras.

''What I would say is: 'Listen. You see that desert out there? I want to show
you something,' '' Mr. Adelson said at Yeshiva University in Manhattan in
October 2013. He then argued for detonating an American nuclear weapon where it
would not ''hurt a soul,'' except ''rattlesnakes and scorpions or whatever,''
before adding, ''Then you say, 'See, the next one is in the middle of Tehran.'
''

Instead, Tehran directed an attack at the desert of Nevada. Now a new study of
Iran's cyberactivities, to be released by Norse, a cybersecurity firm, and the
American Enterprise Institute, concludes that beyond the Sands attack, Iran has
greatly increased the frequency and skill of its cyberattacks, even while
negotiating with world powers over limits on its nuclear capabilities.

''Cyber gives them a usable weapon, in ways nuclear technology does not,'' said
Frederick W. Kagan, who directs the institute's Critical Threats Project and is
beginning a larger effort to track Iranian cyberactivity. ''And it has a degree
of plausible deniability that is attractive to many countries.''

Mr. Kagan argues that if sanctions against Iran are suspended under the proposed
nuclear accord, Iran will be able to devote the revenue from improved oil
exports to cyberweapons. But it is far from clear that that is what Iran would
do.

When Mr. Clapper named Iran in the Sands attack, it was one of the few instances
in which American intelligence agencies had identified a specific country that
it believed was using such attacks for political purposes. The first came in
December, when President Obama accused North Korea of launching a cyberattack on
Sony Pictures. Other United States officials have said that Iran attacked
American banks in retaliation for sanctions and that it destroyed computers at
the oil giant Saudi Aramco in retaliation for the close Saudi ties with the
United States.

The evidence from the Norse report, along with analyses by American intelligence
agencies, strongly suggests that Iran has made much greater use of cyberweapons
over the past year, despite international sanctions. The attacks have mostly
involved espionage, but a few, like the Sands attack, have been for destructive
purposes.

In the report, to be released Friday, Norse -- which, like other cybersecurity
firms, has an interest in portraying a world of cyberthreats but presumably
little incentive in linking them to any particular country -- traced thousands
of attacks against American targets to hackers inside Iran.

The report, and a similar one from Cylance, another cybersecurity firm, make
clear that Iranian hackers are moving from ostentatious cyberattacks in which
they deface websites or simply knock them offline to much quieter
reconnaissance. In some cases, they appear to be probing for critical
infrastructure systems that could provide opportunities for more dangerous and
destructive attacks.

But Norse and Cylance differ on the question of whether the Iranian attacks have
accelerated in recent months, or whether Tehran may be pulling back during a
critical point in the nuclear negotiations.

Norse, which says it maintains thousands of sensors across the Internet to
collect intelligence on attackers' methods, insists that Iranian hackers have
shown no signs of letting up. Between January 2014 and last month, the Norse
report said, its sensors picked up a 115 percent increase in attacks launched
from Iranian Internet protocol, or I.P., addresses. Norse said that its sensors
had detected more than 900 attacks, on average, every day in the first half of
March.

Cylance came to a different conclusion, at least for Iran's activities in the
past few months, as negotiations have come to a head. Stuart McClure, the chief
executive and founder of Cylance, which has been tracking Iranian hacking
groups, said that there had been a notable drop in activity over the past few
months, and that the groups were now largely quiet.

American intelligence agencies also monitor the groups, but they do not publicly
publish assessments of the activity. Classified National Intelligence Estimates
over the past five years have identified Russia and China as the United States'
most sophisticated, and prolific, adversaries in cyberspace.

However, American officials have said that Iran and North Korea concern them the
most, not for their sophistication, but because their attacks are aimed more at
destruction, as was the case with the attack on Sony Pictures. In addition to
the Sands attack last year -- about which Mr. Clapper gave no detail in public
-- Iran has been identified as the source of the 2012 attack on Saudi Aramco, in
which hackers wiped out data on 30,000 computers, replacing it with an image of
a burning American flag.

American intelligence officials say Iran's most sophisticated hackers are
limited in number, but work for both front companies and the government. The
officials are concerned that as destructive attacks become more frequent, the
temptation will rise to launch attacks on what the government calls ''critical
infrastructure,'' like railways, power grids or water supplies.

Cylance researchers, for example, noted that Iranian hackers were using tools to
spy on and potentially shut down critical control systems and computer networks
in the United States, as well as in Canada, Israel, Saudi Arabia, the United
Arab Emirates and a handful of other countries. Their targets have included a
network that connects Marines and civilians across the United States, as well as
networks of oil companies and major airlines and airports.

Norse's researchers also noted attacks from Iran that were directed at so-called
Scada systems -- short for supervisory control and data acquisition systems --
like the kind that the United States and Israel attacked at Iran's nuclear
enrichment center in Natanz, using code that caused about 1,000 centrifuges to
self-destruct.

That strike, often referred to as the Stuxnet attack, may have inspired the
Iranians to begin a cycle of retaliation, a recently disclosed memo from Edward
J. Snowden's trove of National Security Agency documents indicates. Norse says
it saw evidence that Iranian hackers probed the network of Telvent, a company
now owned by Schneider Electric that designs software to allow energy companies
and power grid operators to control their valves and switches from afar.

The company's systems were breached by Chinese military hackers in 2012. Two
years later, Norse said, it witnessed 62 attacks, in a span of 10 minutes, from
an I.P. address in Iran on a Telvent system that provides the foundation for all
of the company's Scada infrastructure.

''This activity,'' Norse researchers wrote, ''might be interpreted as an Iranian
effort to establish cyberbeachheads in crucial U.S. infrastructure systems --
malware that is dormant for now but would allow Iran to damage and destroy those
systems if it chose to do so later.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/16/world/middleeast/iran-is-raising-sophisticatio
n-and-frequency-of-cyberattacks-study-says.html

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 17, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Film, Ex-Officer Talks of Cannibal Fantasies but Says He 'Couldn't Hurt a
Fly'

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1235 words


Months before his arrest in late 2012, Gilberto Valle, then a New York police
officer, sat at his computer, hiding behind fictional online identities and
exchanging messages about abducting, torturing, killing and eating women.

''When you're behind a computer screen late at night, no one knows who you are,
where you are,'' Mr. Valle says in a new documentary film about his case. ''I
became part of this cyber-community, where people are exploring deviant thoughts
and exploring their fetishes.''

''The anonymity,'' he adds, ''makes you try and outdo the other person: Who can
be the sicker one? Who can be the more depraved one? The baby was sleeping. The
mom was sleeping. There was just nothing to do.

''And then you shut the computer off and that's it. I go back to being the
regular me,'' he continues. ''But someone might say the anonymous nature could
also bring out who you really are. In my worst nightmare, I could never guess
that this would have happened.''

There may not have been a more sensational trial in Manhattan in recent years
than that of Mr. Valle, who came to be widely known as the cannibal cop. He was
convicted of kidnapping conspiracy in March 2013 after prosecutors persuaded a
jury that he was plotting actual abductions with others in one of the darkest
corners of the Internet.

The film, ''Thought Crimes,'' which made its premiere on Thursday at the Tribeca
Film Festival and will be shown in May on HBO, presents him for the first time
speaking publicly and at length about his case, which has taken an unusual turn.

In June, the judge, Paul G. Gardephe of Federal District Court, overturned Mr.
Valle's conspiracy conviction, saying the evidence supported his contention that
he was engaged in only ''fantasy role-play.'' The government appealed, asking
that the conviction be reinstated; if that occurs, Mr. Valle could still face a
life sentence. The appeal is to be argued next month.

The film's director, Erin Lee Carr, who began interviewing Mr. Valle on camera
last summer after he was released from prison, said she did not intend for the
film to argue for his guilt or innocence. ''It was and is very important to me
that people don't necessarily know what I think about it,'' Ms. Carr said.

''What I really wanted to do was to present all the facts of the case, the
damning, the enlightening, the tragic -- all of the circumstances that surround
the life of Gil Valle'' and let the audience make up its own mind, added Ms.
Carr, whose father was David Carr, the New York Times columnist who died in
February.

Much of the government's case was built around Mr. Valle's almost unbelievably
lurid and disturbing online messages about cannibalism, like one in which he
described stringing a victim ''up by her feet and cutting her throat.''

''Letting her bleed out then butcher her while she hangs,'' he wrote.

But prosecutors claimed Mr. Valle, who used online identities like Girlmeat
Hunter, took other ''concrete steps,'' such as using the Internet to research
methods of abducting, subduing and torturing victims; using a law enforcement
database to collect information about them; and conducting surveillance. (Mr.
Valle was also convicted of illegally gaining access to the database, which the
defense has appealed.)

Mr. Valle's wife, who reported him to the authorities after discovering his
chats about planning to torture and kill women, including herself, had testified
in court, saying, ''I was going to be tied up by my feet and my throat slit, and
they would have fun watching the blood gush out of me.''

But Judge Gardephe, in a decision overturning the conviction, wrote, ''No one
was ever kidnapped, no attempted kidnapping ever took place, and no real-world,
non-Internet-based steps were ever taken to kidnap anyone.''

Ms. Carr said she made contact with Mr. Valle in fall 2013, when he was being
detained after his conviction. He is often shown in the film at his mother's
residence in Queens, wearing an ankle-bracelet and at times a police T-shirt.

Mr. Valle is frequently shown cooking or eating. At one point, the film displays
some of his electronic messages, such as one that says ''part of me wants to put
her in the oven while she is still alive, but at a very low heat,'' and another
that says ''make some bacon strips off of her belly.'' He is then shown cooking
bacon on the stove.

The film also shows interviews with his parents, who are divorced; his federal
public defender, Julia L. Gatto; a juror; and various psychiatric, legal and
Internet experts. One expert, Lee Rowland, an American Civil Liberties Union
lawyer, says, ''The cannibal cop case really raises the big question: What is
the line between thought and action, right, between fantasy and crime? And it's
so gray.''

Mr. Valle, who was fired from the Police Department upon his conviction, did not
testify at trial and made only brief comments, including an apology, outside the
courthouse. In the film, he appears relaxed and not defensive. There are ''a lot
of myths'' about his case, he says, adding, ''I want everyone to have all the
facts in front of them before they make up their minds.'' He seems at a loss,
though, to explain why he acted as he did.

''I mean, yeah, I had a stressful job, but I don't know how much that played
into all that,'' he says. ''You know, I could have gone out and got drunk. I
could have stayed up and watched TV.'' Perhaps the ''most important thing'' he
got out of the chats, he says, ''was just acceptance.''

''This is the first time I'm really opening up about all kinds of freaky stuff,
you know, cannibalism and bondage. All these years, it's all bottled up. Here, I
had my chance to finally talk to somebody about it.

''It was such a relief to get it off my chest. When you're typing it, you don't
really think about it. You're just sort of in the moment.''

But, he adds: ''I'm incapable of any violence. I couldn't hurt a fly.''

Mr. Valle says that he was a good husband and father and that he did well at
work. His wife has since divorced him, the film says. Mr. Valle claims that just
when he decided to ''delete everything'' from his computer, his wife installed
software that allowed her to monitor his activities and ultimately discover his
writings. ''If I had done it a day sooner,'' he says, ''none of this would have
happened. Isn't that incredible?''

He suggests the government pursued the appeal ''just to save face.''

''They're smart people; they have to know I'm innocent,'' he says. ''They have
to know there's no evidence. They have to know they screwed up.''

The United States attorney's office in Manhattan declined to comment.

The film concludes with Mr. Valle walking outdoors, saying he now can move
around without being recognized, feels more comfortable outside and is thinking
about dating again. (The film shows a Match.com page he apparently set up, which
was later taken down.)

''It's been a long time, you know,'' Mr. Valle says. ''I think sometimes I'm
craving a little, you know, craving some companionship. There's nothing wrong
with that.'' But, he says, if he did go out ''with a girl, at what point in the
dating process do I bring this whole thing up?'' He wonders: She might ''run for
the hills.''

''Some people are going to think I should be locked up for the rest of my
life,'' he adds. ''There's no getting around that. I made a bad mistake, a
really bad mistake.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/17/nyregion/gilberto-valle-ex-new-york-police-off
icer-talks-about-his-cannibalism-fantasies-in-film.html

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gilberto Valle outside Federal District Court in Manhattan last
summer after a judge overturned his kidnapping conspiracy conviction.
Prosecutors are trying to have the conviction reinstated. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL
APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Valle and his mother, Elizabeth Valle, in an image from the  documentary
film ''Thought Crimes,'' to be on HBO in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HBO)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 17, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

China Halts New Policy on Tech for Banks

BYLINE: By PAUL MOZUR and JANE PERLEZ; Paul Mozur reported from Hong Kong, and
Jane Perlez from Beijing.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words


HONG KONG --  China has suspended a policy that would have effectively pushed
foreign technology companies out of the country's banking sector, according to a
note sent by Chinese regulators to banks.

Dated Monday, the letter called for banks to ''suspend implementation'' of the
rules, which have been at the center of a brewing trade conflict between the
United States and China. The rules, put into effect at the end of last year,
called for companies that sell computer equipment to Chinese banks to turn over
intellectual property and submit source code, in addition to other demands.

At stake is billions of dollars of business for major American companies that
make the advanced computing hardware and software that crunches numbers for
banks across China. Trade groups representing companies including Microsoft, IBM
and Apple have complained that such policies are protectionist.

Yet the development is only a small reprieve for American tech companies. The
suspension is temporary as authorities revise the rules. It is unclear how
regulators will change the rules, but industry officials say a new version --
even if it avoids more contentious issues like forcing the disclosure of source
code -- will still be problematic to multinational tech companies.

China's vice minister of finance, Zhu Guangyao, informed Nathan Sheets, the
Treasury's under secretary, of the decision to suspend the rules during a
meeting in Washington, a senior administration official said.

The recent trade debate is part of a wider clash between China and the United
States over online security and technology policy. The United States has accused
Chinese military personnel of hacking American companies to gain commercial
advantages for Chinese companies. And the Chinese maintain that disclosures from
the former National Security Agency contractor Edward J. Snowden of American
online espionage across the globe are reason enough for the country to wean
itself off foreign technology, which may have been tampered with by United
States intelligence agencies.

In the letter, which was reviewed by The New York Times, the China Banking
Regulatory Commission and the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology
said that since the rules were passed, financial institutions and other parties
had ''amendment suggestions.'' The regulations will be reissued after they are
revised, according to the letter.

After a meeting between Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and top Chinese
officials last month, United States officials said that the rules would be
suspended. But this week, a letter signed by American, European and Japanese
trade groups said the policies were continuing, and they called for Beijing to
put in writing that it would stop carrying them out. With the note issued this
week, the Chinese government appears to have done that.

Such backpedaling is rare for Chinese policy makers, yet there is a precedent.
In 2009, China said all computers imported to the country must come with
filtering software called Green Dam-Youth Escort preinstalled. After heavy
international pressure, China suspended the rule indefinitely.

Still, the banking regulations are less likely to share the fate of Green Dam.
Although the Chinese appeared to have backed down on the regulations, China will
most likely use ''overt and covert'' means to favor domestic tech companies over
foreign ones, an American industry official said.

''On the overt side would be to use the cyber-review testing regime, which is in
formation now and where the focus will be on blocking American companies on
security grounds,'' said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

The government will almost certainly use covert means by quietly instructing
Chinese banks not to procure from foreign companies, the official said.

''Most people here believe the Chinese policy will be to boost domestic I.C.T.
manufacturers and kick out foreign companies, particularly American ones,'' said
the official, referring to information and communications technology.

The government may have decided to scuttle the regulations because they were
poorly drafted and contained language about industrial policy that flew in the
face of World Trade Organization rules, the official said.

The Chinese technology rules, which Beijing says are intended to strengthen
online security in the government and critical industries, are the first of a
series of policies expected to be unveiled in the coming year. A proposed
antiterror law that seems to have the backing of China's security apparatus
mandates that foreign companies give up encryption keys or use Chinese
encryption in all devices sold in the country.

Foreign trade groups representing multinationals like Microsoft, IBM and Apple
say the security concerns are a pretext to pass protectionist policies shutting
foreign companies out of one of the world's largest and fastest-growing
information technology markets.

In a statement on Thursday, Josh Kallmer, senior vice president for global
policy at the Information Technology Industry Council, a trade group that
represents 60 tech companies including Microsoft and IBM, said that the rules
suspension was welcome and that he hoped ''this announcement means that Chinese
financial institutions will have full access to the best technology -- whether
made domestically or globally.'' The group wants ''the Chinese government to
embrace a globally leading role in undertaking open and transparent consultative
processes among stakeholders in developing cybersecurity measures,'' he said.

As the United States and China spar over technology concerns, the United States
has also said that telecommunications and computing equipment made by the
Chinese company Huawei could have so-called back doors -- allowing monitoring by
third parties -- making it virtually impossible for Huawei to sell higher-end
networking equipment in the United States. And more recently, President Obama
warned that countries found to be responsible for online attacks against
American companies might be subject to sanctions, a comment that analysts said
was aimed in part at China.

In addition to raising concerns after Mr. Snowden's revelations, high-ranking
Chinese security analysts have called vociferously, in a movement trumpeted in
China's state-run media, for China to get rid of high-end computing equipment
made by companies like IBM and Oracle and used in critical industries like
energy, banking and telecommunications.

''I think the direction is clear,'' said Adam Segal, a senior fellow at the
Council on Foreign Relations. ''There will still be some type of regulation that
in the Chinese mind addresses their security concerns and gives greater
transparency into U.S. technology companies. I don't think that's going to
change.''

Given the overwhelming rhetorical support in China behind initiatives like the
banking rules, the current suspension may simply be part of a broader diplomatic
initiative. China and the United States are scheduled to meet in Washington soon
for the high-level Security and Economic Dialogue, where senior officials from
both sides deliberate on prominent issues. China may have decided that it did
not want to mar that meeting with further complaints from the Obama
administration about the unfair banking regulations, according to the American
industry official.

In September, President Xi Jinping will travel to the United States for his
first visit to the country as leader of China.

Mr. Xi has taken a personal interest in online security as the chairman of a
Communist Party group on the subject. He has openly called for China to become
an ''Internet power'' and take a more active role in the global management of
the Internet. He has set up a new agency, the Cyberspace Administration of
China, to consolidate management over the Internet and technology.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/17/business/international/china-suspends-rules-on
-tech-companies-serving-banks.html

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a meeting last month in the Great Hall of the People in
Beijing were, seated from left, Max Baucus, the American ambassador to China
Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew
Premier Li Keqiang of China
 and the Chinese finance minister, Lou Jiwei. (POOL PHOTO BY PARKER SONG) (B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 21, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Tuesday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 708 words


8:30 P.M. (TCM) MARRIAGE ITALIAN STYLE (1964) Sophia Loren, the subject of this
Turner Classic Movies tribute, stars as an ex-prostitute who tricks her longtime
lover (Marcello Mastroianni) into marrying her instead of a younger woman by
claiming to be dying. But soon enough it becomes evident that she isn't.
Whenever the director Vittorio De Sica joins forces with Ms. Loren, ''something
wonderful happens,'' Bosley Crowther wrote in The New York Times about this
flamboyant Oscar nominee for best foreign-language film. ''The something
wonderful that's happened is the conception and projection of a film so frank
and free and understanding of a certain kind of vital woman -- and man, too --
that it sends you forth from the theater feeling you've known her -- and him --
all your life.'' A short film directed by Ms. Loren's son Edoardo Ponti, ''Human
Voice'' (2014), based on the Jean Cocteau play about a woman's final telephone
conversation with her lover, leads in at 8 p.m.

8 P.M. (13, 49) THE NATIONAL MALL -- AMERICA'S FRONT YARD National Geographic
traces the evolution of the National Mall in Washington, from its conception in
1791 by Pierre Charles L'Enfant to the creation of the Washington Monument and
the Lincoln Memorial to the Mall's use as a place for protest, reflection and
celebration.

8:20 P.M. (Starz Cinema) AFTERNOON DELIGHT (2013) A discontented wife and mother
(Kathryn Hahn) visits a strip club with her husband (Josh Radnor) -- the better
to bring the erotic thrill back to their bedroom -- and gets a lap dance from a
frisky 20-year-old (Juno Temple), then invites her home to work as a nanny in
this Jill Soloway comedy. ''Because this talky, uncinematic movie portrays
bourgeois Los Angeles as peopled by bored, yammering wives whose husbands are
happier playing cards or sports than spending time with them, it is easy to view
them as smarter, wittier, less narcissistic equivalents of 'The Real Housewives
of Beverly Hills' minus cosmetic surgery,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The Times.
''Even so, by the end of 'Afternoon Delight,' you find yourself mulling over a
nagging question: Is that all there is? Could be.''

8:30 P.M. (TV5Monde) MONSIEUR KLEIN (1976) Alain Delon stars as Robert Klein, a
dandyish Roman Catholic art dealer in Paris in 1942 who uses the Nazi occupation
to profit from failing Jewish businesses. Then he discovers that he has been
mistaken for a missing Jew -- and a member of the Resistance -- who is using his
identity in schemes that are even more diabolical. Vincent Canby, writing in The
Times, said that Mr. Delon was ''neither interesting nor mysterious enough to
hold a film like this together.'' But, he said, Joseph Losey's movie was ''a
seductive picture to watch.''

9 P.M. (CW) iZOMBIE Liv (Rose McIver) devours the brain of a murdered computer
hacker and inherits his intense agoraphobia along with his gaming skills.

9 P.M. (TLC) 19 KIDS AND COUNTING The newlyweds Jessa Duggar and Ben Seewald
embark on their European honeymoon -- without their chaperones.

10 P.M. (CBS) CSI: CYBER Agent Ryan (Patricia Arquette) and her team investigate
a high school victim of cyberbullying who has vowed revenge against her
classmates.

10 P.M. (13); 11 P.M. (49) AMERICAN TERRORIST In November 2008, members of
Lashkar-e-Taiba, a militant group often said to be associated with Pakistan's
intelligence agency, carried out an assault on Mumbai that left more than 160
people dead. Among the operatives was David Coleman Headley, an American who had
cased the city for two years. In this follow-up to their 2011 documentary, ''A
Perfect Terrorist,'' the PBS series ''Frontline'' and ProPublica present new
information on surveillance programs that failed to detect and stop the plot;
footage recorded by Mr. Headley on a reconnaissance mission inside the Taj Hotel
before an attack; insights into an assault on a Danish newspaper that he also
planned; and accounts of how he was finally captured.

What's Streaming Now

DEADBEAT Tyler Labine returns as the hapless stoner Pac, who can still see
ghosts in Season 2 of this Hulu original. But romance is brewing with the
recently deceased Sue (Lucy DeVito), and if he helps her reach the afterlife he
might lose her for good. (hulu.com)




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/21/arts/television/whats-on-tv-tuesday.html

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMBASSY PICTURES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            April 22, 2015 Wednesday

At RSA Conference, Computer Security Done Right and Wrong

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1023 words



HIGHLIGHT: At the annual security conference in San Francisco, hot topics
included intelligence agencies making the presence known in Silicon Valley,
adding collaboration to competition among security companies, and why tweeting
about hacking planes is probably a bad idea.


SAN FRANCISCO - The annual RSA security conference here is one of the largest
gatherings of computer security professionals and companies in the world. It is
also an opportunity for complaining and perhaps just a bit of navel gazing.

Where is the accountability? If 2013 was the "Year of the Breach" and 2014 was
the "Year of the Mega-Breach," 2015 may be the year that we run out of
adjectives and start demanding real accountability from security vendors.

"The largest enterprises with the most sophisticated, 'next-generation' security
tools were not able to stop miscreants from making off with millions of dollars,
personal information, and sensitive secrets and damaging reputations," Amit
Yoran, the president of RSA, said in his keynote speech Tuesday.

In the cyber security industry, accountability has been in short supply, but
there are hints of change. Several months ago, WhiteHat Security, the web
security company, said it would start offering clients $250,000 in the event
their website was breached using an attack technique the WhiteHat missed.
Recently, Jeremiah Grossman, WhiteHat's founder, said they had bumped up their
guarantee to $500,000. This marked the first time a security company has done
anything of the sort.

Mr. Grossman said he hoped others would follow suit, and foresaw a world in
which insurance premiums would correlate with the security vendors that
companies use, and one in which underwriters would start suing security vendors
to recoup losses from a breach. "How else are cyber insurers going to recoup
their losses?" said Howard Schmidt, the Obama administration's former cyber
security coordinator. "There needs to be accountability in the industry."

The National Security Agency can forget about that encryption "front door." In a
talk earlier this month at Princeton University, Admiral Michael S. Rogers,
director of the N.S.A., suggested that the intelligence community and Silicon
Valley might reach some sort of technical compromise on the question of whether
intelligence agencies and law enforcement would still have access to the data
that Facebook, Apple, Google and others recently resolved to encrypt.

Adm. Rogers said he was not looking for a "back door" but a "front door" with
"multiple locks - big locks." Government officials are toying with the idea of
key escrow, in which the government might hold onto part of an encryption key,
and a company could hold onto the other. But security experts at the RSA
conference say that, in reality, no such secure mechanism exists.

"Technically speaking, there's a serious misunderstanding about key escrow," Ron
Rivest, one of the inventors of the RSA encryption algorithm said during a
cryptography panel at the conference on Tuesday. "The head of the N.S.A. is
misusing this idea."

Others agreed. "There is no sane argument for weakening encryption," Mr. Yoran
said in an interview. "Period."

Should threat intelligence be free? The latest darlings of the security space
are companies like Norse and iSight Partners that provide threat intelligence to
companies about people behind the attacks. But this year, there were grumblings
that such intelligence should be offered for free.

One chief information security officer said that he paid a subscription fee to a
threat intelligence company, only to find out that some of the data he paid for
had been recycled off his own network. Another big problem, security
practitioners said, is that - not unlike antivirus products - threat
intelligence is inherently reactive. It takes time for security researchers to
find an attack, learn about the bad guys' methods, and package that information
into something useful. By then, it's often too late for a juicy target, like a
bank, to do anything about it.

Nobody argues that threat intelligence is worthless. Some point to the United
Parcel Service, which discovered malware on some of its in-store cash registers
after a government advisory advised companies to check their systems for
point-of-sale malware. The problem, critics say, is that such intelligence
should be dispersed as widely, and as cheaply, as possible.

Should Homeland Security be welcomed in Silicon Valley? In a speech Tuesday, Jeh
Johnson, the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, said his agency
would be opening up an office in Silicon Valley. The goal, Secretary Johnson
said, is threat sharing. Companies like Amazon, Facebook, Google, Microsoft,
CloudFlare and Akamai see as many, if not more, cyber threats traveling through
their networks than government agencies.

The government wants access to that data, but the companies aren't so sure they
want to give the government anything they don't need to, even if the data is
just about hackers methods and malware, even if its anonymized.

Three information sharing bills are currently under consideration on Capitol
Hill, but technologists and some legislators say each bill goes too far. But in
his keynote Tuesday, Secretary Johnson said it was time companies started
sharing threat data with the government and vice verse. "Government doesn't have
all the answers and we definitely don't have all the talent," he said. "It has
to be a partnership."

Who is minding the gap? The biggest buzzword in cybersecurity these days is
"defense in depth," a multilayered approach to security that relies on various
security products from various companies. The problem with this approach,
however, is that hackers are busy exploiting the gaps in these systems to break
into corporate networks. As security vendors battle it out for a slice of the
$665 million that companies spent on data loss prevention last year, security
practitioners say, they should also be fighting less, and talking more.

Is tweeting about hacking planes a bad idea? Chris Roberts, the hacker and
founder of One World Labs, was detained for four hours of questioning at
Syracuse Airport last Wednesday after tweeting about hacking into the flight
Wi-Fi systems to get oxygen masks to deploy. When he tried to board another
United Airlines flight to the RSA Conference on Saturday, he learned the airline
had banned him from its flights.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 22, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Wednesday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 691 words


7:30 P.M. (HBO) SAVING MY TOMORROW ''You are the future generation,'' says
Grace, 10, a member of Plant-to-Planet in Seattle, which plants trees to help
counter carbon dioxide emissions, the most prominent factor in climate change.
''You are the ones who are going to have to deal with this mess that everybody
else behind us has gotten us into.'' Grace is one in a chorus of children
speaking up for the planet in this kaleidoscopic family Earth Day special, the
third of six episodes created with the American Museum of Natural History that
melds science, animation, readings by Alan Cumming, Laura Dern, Tina Fey and
Neil deGrasse Tyson, and music by Pharrell Williams, They Might Be Giants and
Pete Seeger (in a previously unreleased performance) to address the perils of
pollution, oil and gas drilling and climate change. ''The adults clearly aren't
doing enough to stop this,'' says Zoe, 12, ''so we have to take it into our own
hands.''

5:15 P.M. (HBO2) LOST IN TRANSLATION (2003) An American movie star (Bill
Murray), cashing in on his celebrity to make a lucrative ad in Japan, meets a
young woman (Scarlett Johansson) who has been temporarily deserted by her
husband (Giovanni Ribisi) in this comic melodrama written and directed by Sofia
Coppola, who won an Oscar for best original screenplay. As they escape the
confines of the Tokyo Hyatt, something like love ensues. Mr. Murray ''supplies
the kind of performance that seems so fully realized and effortless that it can
easily be mistaken for not acting at all,'' Elvis Mitchell wrote in The New York
Times.

8 P.M. (NBC) THE MYSTERIES OF LAURA Laura (Debra Messing) copes with a personal
crisis while searching for the killer of a teacher's aide and winds up embroiled
in N.C.A.A. madness.

8 P.M. (13, 49) ANIMAL HOMES Humans aren't the only creatures who like communal
dwelling. Puffins in the Hebrides find safety in numbers in colonies of more
than a million inhabitants. Social spiders in Ecuador work together to capture
prey 20 times as large as themselves. And leaf-cutter ants in Costa Rica join
forces to build acre-wide cities. In the conclusion of this ''Nature'' special,
the ecologist Chris Morgan uses animated blueprints and tiny cameras to analyze
the architecture of these dwellings. In ''Invisible Universe Revealed,'' at 9,
''Nova'' commemorates the 25th anniversary of the Hubble Space Telescope by
looking at its development, including the one-millimeter engineering blunder
that almost rendered the project a failure; the five astronauts sent on a repair
mission; and the stunning images that have brought the beauty of the universe
back to Earth.

10 P.M. (MSNBC) JUST EAT IT: A FOOD WASTE STORY The filmmakers Grant Baldwin and
Jenny Rustemeyer examine the effects of food waste on the economy, climate and
human health as they forgo traditional grocery shopping for six months and
instead subsist wholly on food that would otherwise have been discarded.
Afterward the chef Tom Colicchio moderates a discussion with experts including
Emily Broad Leib, director of the Harvard Food Law and Policy Clinic.

10 P.M. (FX) THE AMERICANS Paige (Holly Taylor) gets her first real glimpse into
her parents' lives when she travels to West Germany with Elizabeth (Keri
Russell) to meet her dying mother in this Season 3 finale. Philip (Matthew Rhys)
meanwhile finds solace in a strange place. And Stan (Noah Emmerich) continues to
have a bumpy ride both at work and at home.

10 P.M. (CBS) CSI: CYBER The sisters Patricia and Rosanna Arquette act together
for the first time since 2008 in this episode, in which Agent Ryan helps a woman
deal with the death of her own sister.

10 P.M. (BBC America) BROADCHURCH The saga comes to an end as decisions are
made, truths are revealed and lives are changed in this Season 2 finale.

What's Streaming Now

INEQUALITY AND CLIMATE CHANGE: JOSEPH STIGLITZ AND NICHOLAS STERN IN
CONVERSATION Mr. Stiglitz, the Nobel-winning economist, and Mr. Stern, a
professor at the London School of Economics, debate the effect of economics on
the environment in this discussion, streamed live at 7 p.m. from the CUNY
Graduate Center. (cuny.tv)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/22/arts/television/whats-on-tv-wednesday.html

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY HBO)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 24, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pentagon Announces New Strategy for Cyberwarfare

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1110 words


SAN FRANCISCO --  The Pentagon on Thursday took a major step designed to instill
a measure of fear in potential cyberadversaries, releasing a new strategy that
for the first time explicitly discusses the circumstances under which
cyberweapons could be used against an attacker, and naming the countries it says
present the greatest threat: China, Russia, Iran and North Korea.

The policy, announced in a speech at Stanford University by Defense Secretary
Ashton B. Carter, represents the fourth time in four months that the Obama
administration has named suspected hackers or announced new strategies designed
to raise the cost of cyberattacks.

A previous strategy, released in 2011, was less detailed and only alluded to the
new arsenal of cyberweapons that the Pentagon was deploying. That strategy
talked vaguely about adversaries, naming none.

But President Obama's decision to publicly name North Korea's leaders for
ordering the largest destructive attack on an American target, the announcement
of new sanctions against state-sponsored and criminal hackers, and the
indictment of five members of the People's Liberation Army for attacking
American corporate targets all reflect a sea change in administration policy.

American officials have fumed for years that cyberattacks were largely
cost-free. Now, much as Presidents Truman and Eisenhower struggled to define
circumstances that could prompt a nuclear response from the United States, Mr.
Obama and his aides are beginning to lay out conditions under which the nation
would employ cyberattacks -- either in retaliation for a strike, as an offensive
weapon for conflict or in covert action. They have made no mention of the
central role the United States played in the large cyberstrike against Iran's
nuclear program.

In his speech at Stanford, Mr. Carter revealed that -- like the White House and
the State Department -- the Pentagon found itself the victim of a cyberintrusion
months ago.

''The sensors that guard DoD's unclassified networks detected Russian hackers
accessing one of our networks,'' he said, saying the attack exploited ''an old
vulnerability in one of our legacy networks that hadn't been patched.'' He said
that a ''crack team of incident responders'' had ''quickly kicked them off the
network.''

But administration officials would not say if the attack bore strong
similarities to attacks on the White House and the State Department last year,
which also appear to be of Russian origin -- though the administration has not
named the adversary, as Mr. Carter did on Thursday.

Mr. Carter's comments came during an annual lecture at Stanford named for Sidney
Drell, a physicist and arms control expert -- the defense secretary studied
under him. Mr. Carter admitted that, as a postdoctoral fellow, he often lingered
in the Drell home in hopes the professor's wife ''would invite me in to dinner,
which she usually did.''

He returned to the campus to update strategy to fit the age of probe, thievery
and assault over computer networks. At the core of the cyberstrategy published
by the Pentagon on Thursday was a hierarchy of cyberattacks.

The strategy said that routine attacks should be fended off by companies. The
Department of Homeland Security is responsible for detecting more complex
attacks and helping the private sector defend against them.

But, in a significant declaration, about 2 percent of attacks on American
systems, officials say, may rise to the level of prompting a national response
-- led by the Pentagon and through the military's Cyber Command, which is based
alongside the National Security Agency in Maryland.

''As a matter of principle, the United States will seek to exhaust all network
defense and law enforcement options to mitigate any potential cyberrisk to the
U.S. homeland or U.S. interests before conducting a cyberspace operation,'' the
strategy says.

But it adds that ''there may be times when the president or the secretary of
defense may determine that it would be appropriate for the U.S. military to
conduct cyberoperations to disrupt an adversary's military related networks or
infrastructure so that the U.S. military can protect U.S. interests in an area
of operations. For example, the United States military might use cyberoperations
to terminate an ongoing conflict on U.S. terms, or to disrupt an adversary's
military systems to prevent the use of force against U.S. interests.'' That last
phrase seemed to leave open the door for pre-emptive cyberattacks.

Until now, most American cyberattacks on adversaries have been covert
operations.

Mr. Carter, questioned by Amy Zegart, a political science professor who directs
Stanford's cyberinitiatives, defined a major cyberattack as ''something that
threatens significant loss of life, destruction of property or lasting economic
damage.'' That could cover myriad daily attacks, but Mr. Carter acknowledged
that in the biggest case to date -- the attack on Sony last November -- the
president chose to respond with sanctions on North Korea, ''not in cyberspace.''

At the heart of the diplomatic, economic and threatened military responses is
the concept of deterrence -- something that the United States had a far easier
time establishing in the nuclear arena than it has had in cyberspace, where it
is difficult to establish exactly who launched them.

''Deterrence is partially a function of perception,'' the new strategy says.
''It works by convincing a potential adversary that it will suffer unacceptable
costs if it conducts an attack on the United States, and by decreasing the
likelihood that a potential adversary's attack will succeed. The United States
must be able to declare or display effective response capabilities to deter an
adversary from initiating an attack; develop effective defensive capabilities to
deny a potential attack from succeeding; and strengthen the overall resilience
of U.S. systems to withstand a potential attack if it penetrates the United
States' defenses.''

But as Mr. Carter acknowledged, such a policy is easier to declare than to make
vivid. The head of Cyber Command, Adm. Michael S. Rogers, has often declared
that the price of conducting cyberattacks is simply too low for many countries
to resist.

Mr. Carter also used his speech to announce a new initiative in which the
Pentagon will invest in In-Q-Tel, the intelligence agency's investing arm, and
new programs to allow cyberprofessionals to enter the Defense Department for
short stints rather than rise through the ranks.

Follow The New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and
sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/24/us/politics/pentagon-announces-new-cyberwarfar
e-strategy.html

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter at Stanford on Thursday.  The
Pentagon hopes to instill fear in cyberadversaries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM
WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 27, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

White House Takes Cybersecurity Pitch to Silicon Valley

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1378 words


SAN FRANCISCO --  President Obama's newly installed defense secretary, Ashton B.
Carter, toured Silicon Valley last week to announce a new military strategy for
computer conflict, starting the latest Pentagon effort to invest in promising
start-ups and to meet with engineers whose talent he declared the Pentagon
desperately needed in fending off the nation's adversaries.

Mr. Carter immediately acknowledged, though, the need to rebuild trust with
Silicon Valley, whose mainstays -- like Apple, Google and Facebook (whose new
headquarters he toured) have spent two years demonstrating to customers around
the world that they are rolling out encryption technologies to defeat
surveillance. That, of course, includes blocking the National Security Agency, a
critical member of the military-intelligence community.

''I think that people and companies need to be convinced that everything we do
in the cyber domain is lawful and appropriate and necessary,'' Mr. Carter told
students and faculty at Stanford.

He urged the next generation of software pioneers and entrepreneurs to take a
break from developing killer apps and consider a tour of service fending off
Chinese, Russian and North Korean hackers, even as he acknowledged that the
documents leaked by Edward J. Snowden, the former intelligence contractor,
''showed there was a difference in view between what we were doing and what
people perceived us as doing.''

Mr. Carter's careful appeal was part of a campaign last week by government
officials trying to undo the damage of Mr. Snowden's revelations. While Mr.
Carter got a respectful hearing, Jeh Johnson, the secretary of Homeland
Security, and a group of other government officials ran into a buzz saw of
skepticism at the world's largest conference of computer security professionals,
just 30 miles to the north.

Those officials argued for some kind of technical compromise to allow greater
security of electronic communications while enabling the F.B.I. and intelligence
agencies to decode the emails and track the web activities of suspected
terrorists or criminals. Yet many among the computer security professionals at
the conference argued that no such compromise was possible, saying that such a
system would give Russians and Chinese a pathway in, too, and that Washington
might abuse such a portal.

Not long after Mr. Johnson declared that ''encryption is making it harder for
your government to find criminal activity and potential terrorist activity,''
large numbers of entrepreneurs and engineers crammed into the first of several
seminars, called ''Post-Snowden Cryptography.'' There, they took notes as the
world's best code makers mocked the Obama administration's drive for a
''technical compromise'' that would ensure the government some continued access.

Ronald Rivest, one of the inventors of a commonly used encryption algorithm,
took on the arguments by Mr. Johnson and other senior officials, including John
P. Carlin, the head of the Justice Department's national security division, that
the best minds in Silicon Valley could find a way to ensure legal government
access while still assuring users that communications and data stored in their
iPhones and the cloud are safe.

''There are lots of problems with these ideas,'' Mr. Rivest said. ''We live in a
global information system now, and it's not going to be just the U.S. government
that wants a key. It's going to be the U.K., it's going to be Germany, it's
going to be Israel, it's going to be China, it's going to be Iran, etc.''

It was clear all week that the Snowden revelations, while fading in memory
across much of the country, have not been forgotten in the rapidly growing
computer and encryption communities here.

One of Mr. Johnson's deputies, Phyllis Schneck, projected colorful graphics on a
screen that showed the government's plans for real-time monitoring and blocking
of malware flowing through the Internet, urging private industry to help.

''We want you to make money,'' said Ms. Schneck, a former chief technology
officer at McAffee Inc., known for its virus-protection software. Many in the
crowd, though, said they worried whether the government would turn any
malware-monitoring system to other uses.

Mr. Obama's cybercoordinator, Michael Daniel, who has been trying to preside
over the unwieldy administration debate over encryption rules, was meeting
executives in private and calling in public for ''cybernorms of behavior'' that
could constrain the kind of hackers who attacked American corporations, the
White House, the State Department and the Pentagon. But he acknowledged that
this was an area where the grindingly slow wheels of diplomacy were being
outpaced by technological development.

''The government fears its own obsolescence,'' said retired Adm. Patrick M.
Walsh, who left the Navy in 2012 and is now an executive at iSight Partners, a
cybersecurity firm.

Mr. Carter, in his Stanford talk, noted that past wars were fought state to
state. But in computer conflict, he said, the most sophisticated threats and
weapons are seen by banks, security firms and Silicon Valley companies like
Apple, Google, Yahoo, Twitter and Facebook that serve as conduits for the
world's communications. That is data Washington most needs.

Yet nearly two years after the Snowden revelations, many companies are as
reluctant as ever to give the government any information unless they are
compelled to do so, particularly as they try to convince foreign customers in
global markets that they are doing everything they can to keep Washington at a
distance.

The new defense secretary received what was probably the warmest welcome of
government officials on the tour through Silicon Valley. Mr. Carter, who did
graduate work at Stanford, returned for much of last year, until Mr. Obama
pulled him back to Washington. That time gave him a new appreciation, he said,
for how ill suited the Pentagon's lumbering procurement system is in taking
advantage of new technology and start-ups.

At Facebook, he talked with Sheryl Sandberg, a former colleague from the Clinton
administration, about using social media to connect the troops -- and the
challenges it poses as terror groups become adept at exploiting it. On Friday,
he went to a venture capital firm, Andreessen Horowitz, to meet with the
founders of a series of relatively new ventures.

''He really just wanted to explore how their technologies might be applied to
current problems at the Pentagon,'' said Margit Wennmachers, a partner at the
firm, who joined the session.

During the meetings, Mr. Carter spoke with an executive of Github, an Andreessen
Horowitz portfolio company, which China recently targeted in a cyberattack
intended to keep Western news reports out of the hands of the Chinese public.

Mr. Obama, on a trip to Stanford in February, had expressed sympathy with those
who were striving to protect privacy, even while saying it had to be balanced
against the concerns of the F.B.I. and other agencies that fear ''going dark''
because of new encryption technologies. (Apple says that with its new iPhone
operating system, it has no way to decode data in phones, even if given a court
order.) Mr. Obama's aides say decisions about how to resolve these differences
are still months away.

With so much more data at stake, and attacks so frequent, cryptographers say the
need for encryption is greater than ever.

One proposal, by Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the head of the National Security
Agency, is to develop a split-key system in which companies hold half and the
government, or some outside agent, holds the other half of the key to unlock
encrypted communications. The two would be put together only with approval of a
court. But many computer security experts reject that idea, saying it would
leave too much room for theft and would motivate other governments to require
the same.

''The amount of information that intelligence officials are collecting -- even
if some sources go dark -- is dramatically more than it has been in history,''
Paul Kocher, a cryptographer, said Wednesday. ''The idea that we need to stop
rolling out technology to keep our industries and businesses safe, to keep a few
sources from going dark, is certainly not a trade-off.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/27/us/white-house-takes-cybersecurity-pitch-to-si
licon-valley.html

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 28, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Job for F.B.I. Agent Who Supervised JPMorgan Breach Case

BYLINE: By MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 454 words


A top federal agent who was helping to oversee the criminal investigation into
the hacking attack against JPMorgan Chase last summer is leaving for a job with
a private investigation firm.

Austin P. Berglas is leaving the Federal Bureau of Investigation after nearly 16
years to take a job with K2 Intelligence, a corporate investigations firm. K2 is
expected to announce the hiring of Mr. Berglas, who served in the Army before
joining the F.B.I., on Tuesday.

Mr. Berglas will serve as a senior managing director and head of United States
cyber investigations for the firm.

K2, co-founded by Jules B. Kroll and his son Jeremy, recently announced that it
had received a major investment from the American International Group, the
insurance giant. The Krolls formed K2 after the family sold its corporate
investigations firm Kroll to Marsh & McLennan for $1.9 billion in 2004.

The new firm, which now has about 300 employees working in offices around the
world, is moving to position itself as a leader in digital security. The firm
hopes that in hiring Mr. Berglas, who most recently was the assistant special
agent in charge of cyber investigations for the New York office of the F.B.I.,
will strengthen its reputation in online security investigations and help it
recruit other investigators.

Mr. Berglas's departure from the F.B.I. is not likely to affect the
investigation into the breach of JPMorgan, which resulted in hackers gaining
access to email addresses and phone numbers for 83 million households and small
businesses. For some time now, federal authorities have been confident that they
will be able to identify and file criminal charges against some of the hackers,
possible as soon as next month, said two people briefed on the matter but not
authorized to speak publicly.

The F.B.I. has already been concerned about losing top talent to the private
sector, which can pay big salaries to hire investigators at a time of rising
worry over hackers and data breaches.

In 2013, Mr. Berglas caused a bit of a stir in the hacker world when he told The
Huffington Post that the F.B.I. had effectively neutralized Anonymous, a
confederation of so-called hacktivists, as a source of major online attacks. Mr.
Berglas said a series of arrests the F.B.I. had made of some Anonymous members
had proved to be an effective deterrent.

More recently, Mr. Berglas has taken part in a campaign by the F.B.I. to
encourage United States companies to be more proactive in reporting data
breaches and intrusions by hackers to federal authorities. In his new job at K2,
Mr. Berglas will find himself working on digital security from the other side,
advising companies that either have been breached or are trying to avoid it.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/28/business/dealbook/agent-who-supervised-investi
gation-of-jpmorgan-cyberattack-takes-a-new-job.html

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       April 29, 2015 Wednesday 18:55 EST

The M.&.A. Predators at Michael Milken's Ball;
Breakingviews

BYLINE: JEFFREY GOLDFARB

SECTION: BUSINESS; dealbook

LENGTH: 494 words



HIGHLIGHT: The financial elite at the Milken Institute Global Conference had
many worries. Still, there was optimism about deal-making.


Michael R. Milken's latest ball was notable for its lack of predators.

The financial elite prowling the Beverly Hilton at the behest of Mr. Milken, the
former Drexel Burnham Lambert boss, complained about a broad range of things,
like a slowing China, hacking threats and stock price valuations. Three former
Treasury secretaries lamented a dysfunctional Washington. Among the deal makers
in attendance, however, animal spirits ran unanimously wild.

Sessions at the Milken Institute Global Conference like "Reform in China:
Growing Pains for a Global Power" and "Cyber-Security: Protecting Companies and
Citizens from Assault" lived up to their ominous-sounding billing. Fears about
Greece, Europe, emerging markets and the Federal Reserve's uncharted path out of
its longstanding zero-interest rate policy also wafted throughout the halls and
ballrooms of the same Beverly Hilton where the junk-bond king once hosted his
Predators' Ball in the 1980s.

Even an upbeat Sheryl Sandberg failed to keep the marquee event from
degenerating into a therapy session on American political dysfunction. "Our
world needs America to be America again," said Robert E. Rubin, one of the trio
of former Treasury chiefs on stage with Ms. Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating
officer, who moderated the discussion. "The biggest risks to our relative
position in the world are in Washington," echoed Timothy F. Geithner. Henry M.
Paulson added: "We can't be successful as 4 percent of the world's population if
we're not looking to do business with the other 96 percent."

Deal makers were resoundingly more bullish. There was little "bust" or "risk"
invoked in the "Boom or Bust: Opportunities and Risk in M&A" panel, and far more
use of words such as "robust" and "very optimistic."

Steve Krouskos, a senior EY executive, said 56 percent of about 1,600 C-suite
denizens his firm polled expect to do a deal in the next 12 months, compared
with a typical rate in the mid-30s. Citigroup's investment banking boss, Raymond
McGuire, said: "All the data would suggest that with the confidence level that
exists in the mindsets of C.E.O.s that this is going to continue for a while."
Added his counterpart at Goldman Sachs, David M. Solomon: "At the moment, the
market is rewarding people for buying growth, which creates a virtuous cycle of
more confidence."

Buyout barons, however, fell in with the cautious tone of the conference. The
Apollo Global Management chief executive, Leon Black, for example, said over the
last two years, his firm had sold about four times as much as it had bought and
cautioned that "markets across the board are priced to perfection." TPG's Jim
Coulter said private equity simply would have to play the hand it was dealt: in
his assessment, a pair of sixes. Those are lousy cards against corporate buyers
playing so aggressively.

Jeffrey Goldfarb is United States editor at Reuters Breakingviews. For more
independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 30, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

The M.&.A. Predators at Michael Milken's Ball

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GOLDFARB

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg.

LENGTH: 501 words


Michael R. Milken's latest ball was notable for its lack of predators.

The financial elite prowling the Beverly Hilton at the behest of Mr. Milken, the
former Drexel Burnham Lambert boss, complained about a broad range of things,
like a slowing China, hacking threats and stock price valuations. Three former
Treasury secretaries lamented a dysfunctional Washington. Among the deal makers
in attendance, however, animal spirits ran unanimously wild.

Sessions at the Milken Institute Global Conference like ''Reform in China:
Growing Pains for a Global Power'' and ''Cyber-Security: Protecting Companies
and Citizens from Assault'' lived up to their ominous-sounding billing. Fears
about Greece, Europe, emerging markets and the Federal Reserve's uncharted path
out of its longstanding zero-interest rate policy also wafted throughout the
halls and ballrooms of the same Beverly Hilton where the junk-bond king once
hosted his Predators' Ball in the 1980s.

Even an upbeat Sheryl Sandberg failed to keep the marquee event from
degenerating into a therapy session on American political dysfunction. ''Our
world needs America to be America again,'' said Robert E. Rubin, one of the trio
of former Treasury chiefs on stage with Ms. Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating
officer, who moderated the discussion. ''The biggest risks to our relative
position in the world are in Washington,'' echoed Timothy F. Geithner. Henry M.
Paulson added: ''We can't be successful as 4 percent of the world's population
if we're not looking to do business with the other 96 percent.''

Deal makers were resoundingly more bullish. There was little ''bust'' or
''risk'' invoked in the ''Boom or Bust: Opportunities and Risk in M&A'' panel,
and far more use of words such as ''robust'' and ''very optimistic.''

Steve Krouskos, a senior EY executive, said 56 percent of about 1,600 C-suite
denizens his firm polled expect to do a deal in the next 12 months, compared
with a typical rate in the mid-30s. Citigroup's investment banking boss, Raymond
McGuire, said: ''All the data would suggest that with the confidence level that
exists in the mindsets of C.E.O.s that this is going to continue for a while.''
Added his counterpart at Goldman Sachs, David M. Solomon: ''At the moment, the
market is rewarding people for buying growth, which creates a virtuous cycle of
more confidence.''

Buyout barons, however, fell in with the cautious tone of the conference. The
Apollo Global Management chief executive, Leon Black, for example, said over the
last two years, his firm had sold about four times as much as it had bought and
cautioned that ''markets across the board are priced to perfection.'' TPG's Jim
Coulter said private equity simply would have to play the hand it was dealt: in
his assessment, a pair of sixes. Those are lousy cards against corporate buyers
playing so aggressively.

Jeffrey Goldfarb is United States editor at Reuters Breakingviews. For more
independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/30/business/dealbook/the-ma-predators-at-michael-
milkens-ball.html

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 2, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Action Role of a Lifetime, Often Uncredited

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1297 words


WASHINGTON -- ASKED what he is looking forward to, Michael G. Vickers, who
retired this week as under secretary of defense for intelligence, answered
without hesitation: ''Sleeping.''

Having participated in virtually every significant global crisis of the past
four decades, either as a supporting player or just as often cast in a starring,
if uncredited, role, he has missed a lot of that. ''I get kept awake by
near-term things and long-term things,'' he says.

Most Americans do not even know the job Mr. Vickers is leaving, just days after
his 62nd birthday, even though the Pentagon commands the intelligence
community's largest share of the vast federal budget for spying, about $80
billion, and manages the most intelligence employees, about 180,000 people.

For a man who once practiced infiltrating Soviet lines with a backpack-size
nuclear weapon, Mr. Vickers has a mellow, professorial demeanor. In addition to
Army Special Forces training, he has studied Spanish, Czech and Russian and
holds a doctorate in strategy from Johns Hopkins University. (Of his 1,000-page
dissertation, he says, ''It's a good doorstop.'') His answers to policy
questions are disciplined, cautious and usually organized in two parts, or
three, or more.

So ask: What exactly kept you awake? First, as the military would say, are the
crocodiles closest to the canoe.

''Our immediate threats are terrorism, particularly from global jihadist groups
that want to attack the United States. It is a constant danger,'' Mr. Vickers
said. ''And cyber is now in that category.''

Add the rising Russian challenge to the European order, which Mr. Vickers
categorizes as ''a fairly near-term problem,'' along with ''the things that
could happen on the Korean Peninsula.''

And the over-the-horizon threats?

''When you step back a bit and look at enduring strategic problems,'' he said,
''then you look at the Middle East, where you have terrorism and proxy wars and
the danger of religious wars and dangers of sectarian conflict.'' He warns that
religious and sectarian wars tend to be viciously heartfelt, and therefore
bloody and protracted.

Attention must be paid to what, he predicts, will be this century's most dynamic
region: ''East Asia and the rise of China -- how to engage and manage that
relationship and that with our allies, and keep the peace in that region.''

Each of those regions poses a difficult challenge for American policy makers,
but Mr. Vickers warned of the prospect of more than one exploding
simultaneously, with individual risks turning into a cascade of crises from,
say, Mali to Pakistan or across East Asia.

''The challenge in the current world is that, for the first time since early in
the Cold War, you have more of a risk of crises in multiple regions turning into
broader conflict,'' he said.

DURING the Cold War, Mr. Vickers was a member of the Green Berets assigned to
infiltrate Warsaw Pact borders should World War III break out. His mission:
Detonate a portable nuclear bomb to blunt an attack by the overwhelming numbers
of Soviet tanks.

He was sent to Central America and the Caribbean during the era of small
anticommunist wars, helping to end an airline hijacking and a hostage case
involving Honduran government officials. He was also assigned to what a military
biography euphemistically calls ''contingency operations against the Sandinista
regime in Nicaragua.''

Leaving the Army for the Central Intelligence Agency, he joined the invasion of
Grenada. And after the Marine barracks in Beirut were bombed in 1983, killing
241 United States servicemen, he was given sensitive counterterrorism work in
Lebanon.

As a rising C.I.A. officer, Mr. Vickers was the chief strategist for the largest
covert action in American history, smuggling arms and money to Afghan mujahedeen
battling Soviet invaders in Afghanistan.

After the collapse of communism in Europe, Mr. Vickers took a break in the
policy world, writing white papers on budgets and strategy and how to
restructure the military -- until he was summoned to the Pentagon not long after
the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.

The grim connection was not lost on Mr. Vickers.

Al Qaeda blossomed among those same anti-Soviet ''freedom fighters'' in the
years when Afghanistan, which had received billions of dollars in covert
American assistance during the Soviet occupation, was paid scant attention by
Washington after Moscow's army marched home in disgrace.

''We made a mistake at the end of the Cold War by disengaging from that
region,'' Mr. Vickers said, ''and I don't think we want to do that again.''

FOR the past eight years at the Pentagon, he first managed Special Operations
policy and then intelligence programs. He was former Defense Secretary Robert M.
Gates's handpicked liaison to the C.I.A. for the SEAL Team 6 mission that killed
Osama bin Laden.

Mr. Vickers's efforts contributed to the accelerated expansion of Special
Operations forces -- doubling personnel numbers, tripling their budget and
quadrupling the pace of deployments.

But there is another military truism -- if your favorite tool is a hammer, then
every problem looks like a nail -- and Mr. Vickers is aware of the dangers for
the Special Operations forces.

''For all of the capabilities that S.O.F. has as a force-multiplier, as a
small-footprint, big-impact force, it is not a panacea for all of your strategic
problems,'' he said.

Mr. Vickers's Pentagon tour also witnessed growth in another signature weapon of
the post-9/11 period: unmanned aerial vehicles for surveillance and attack.
Early in the counterterrorism wars, the Pentagon could barely keep half a dozen
drones airborne at one time; the ceiling now is 65.

''The combination of 'armed,' 'precision,' 'reconnaissance' has been one of the
most dramatic innovations,'' he said. ''It has been a critical operational
instrument in the successes we have had against core Al Qaeda, in particular.''

Yet the drone program has come under harsh public scrutiny, especially since
President Obama revealed that a January strike by a C.I.A. drone on a Qaeda
target in Pakistan killed two Western hostages, one of them an American. Mr.
Vickers demurred when asked whether that portion of the lethal drone program now
operated covertly by the C.I.A. should fold under the Pentagon.

But he addressed the broader issue of whether the benefits of killing terrorists
with remotely piloted, pinpoint strikes by drones outweighs the risks of
alienating the public.

''As precise as this instrument is, as important as this instrument is, it is
one tool and it is not enough to bring stability to an area,'' he said. Landing
Hellfire missiles on terrorists does not end terrorism; policy has to address
the underlying local grievances that lead to radicalism, he added.

To strategically defeat adversaries, he said, ''you have to change the postwar
governance to make the victory stick.''

With a résumé that reads like an action-movie character's biography, Mr. Vickers
has been depicted in one film, ''Charlie Wilson's War,'' and drawn into
controversy over another, ''Zero Dark Thirty.'' He was absolved after a two-year
inquiry into whether classified information was leaked to the filmmakers behind
''Zero Dark Thirty.'' Critics had argued that administration officials hoped the
movie could burnish the president's commander-in-chief credibility.

Near the conclusion of his retirement ceremony on Thursday, Mr. Vickers said he
already had a glimpse of his new, quieter life.

He said that when a Pentagon work crew removed a special telephone installed in
his home for after-hours secure communications, he found that his cable
connection was accidentally cut at the same time -- and he had lost all access
to the outside world via Internet and TV.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/02/us/a-secret-warrior-leaves-the-pentagon-as-qui
etly-as-he-entered.html

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MICHAEL G. VICKERS (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             May 6, 2015 Wednesday

Wickr Adds a New Chief Executive and a Nonprofit

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 697 words



HIGHLIGHT: Wickr, a secure messaging app, is turning is splitting into two
entities &#8212; a nonprofit organization that will focus on promoting privacy,
and a business arm that will focus on licensing its encryption protocol to
businesses, like banks and hospitals, that rely on secure payments and
communications.


Wickr, the free messaging app, is scheduled to announce on Wednesday that it is
splitting into two businesses.

Mark Fields, a finance veteran, will take over as chief executive, freeing Nico
Sell, co-founder of Wickr, to take the helm of Wickr's new nonprofit initiative,
the Wickr Foundation, which will promote privacy and encourage teenagers,
dissidents, journalists, and human rights activists to rethink the privacy of
their communications.

Ms. Sell, who helped organize DefCon, the annual hacker convention, and Asylum,
a nonprofit organization dedicated to teaching children how to hack responsibly,
helped found Wickr in 2011 to enable people to send self-destructing messages
that it says are anonymous, private and secure. In the process, her team helped
develop an encrypted messaging protocol that Mr. Fields plans to license to
businesses like hospitals and banks that rely on secure communications.

Wickr would not disclose its pricing strategy or how many users it has, but to
date over one billion messages - including text, voice, video, photos and files
- have been sent by Wickr users in 190 countries.

The start-up caught the eye of several big name venture capitalists. Jim Breyer,
the first to commit money to Facebook from a venture capitalist fund, led a $30
million round of financing last year from his personal venture firm, Breyer
Capital. Other investors have included Gilman Louie, the founder of In-Q-Tel,
the venture capital arm of the C.I.A.;  Thor Halvorssen, president of the Human
Rights Foundation; Richard A. Clarke, a former United States counterterrorism
official; and the Knight Foundation.

As the free messaging app attracts more venture funding, it comes under pressure
to generate real revenue from its anonymous customers. The start-up recently
turned its focus to licensing its technology to businesses, where it can earn
reliable revenue that does not depend on advertising.

In an interview on Monday, Mr. Fields said he would focus on taking Wickr's core
technology to more businesses. Banks, for instance, could use Wickr's technology
to securely store communications for the seven years required by the Securities
and Exchange Commission.

"Messaging is much more than an app," said Ms. Sell. "Our protocol secures
communications of all formats - voice and video and payments. High value
communications are what we're looking to secure of all sorts."

Some security and privacy experts have criticized the app since it was created
four years ago for not making its protocols open source.

Ms. Sell said that, eventually, Wickr plans to make its encryption protocols
open source and has enlisted Whitfield Diffie, one of the inventors of public
key cryptography, to help it get there. In the meantime, Ms. Sell noted that
Wickr has leaned on her relationships with some of the world's top hackers for
constant security audits, though critics note that none of these audits have
been made public.

Increasingly, Wickr faces new competitors like Cyber Dust, Mark Cuban's new
disappearing messaging app, and Yovo, a photo messaging app that thwarts any
effort by a recipient to copy the photo message.

"The biggest reasons why I trust us is that we've been used in the field for the
past four years, in the most hostile areas in the world and no one has died,"
Ms. Sell said.

Ms. Sell argues that Wickr is the only secure messaging app that has not had a
"zero day bug," a term for a previously unknown flaw that allows hackers to
break into a system.

In January, one such bug was found in Silent Text, a Wickr competitor, that gave
hackers the ability to decrypt its messages, steal users' contacts and control
critical functions on its BlackPhone, a device that was marketed as ultrasecure.
Other competitors, like Snapchat, have had significant security problems. And
Wickr has outperformed many of its competitors in rankings like the Electronic
Frontier Foundation's "Who's Got Your Back" evaluation, which ranks consumer
metrics based on various privacy metrics.

"There are a lot of ways you can build trust," Ms. Sell said. "Open -source is
just one of them. We're leading the way in so many other directions and we're
always trying to be better."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 13, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Owner Identified of Site Offering Hackers for Hire

BYLINE: By MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 894 words


He calls himself an ethical hacker who helps companies and individuals fight
back against the bad guys operating online. Over the years, Charles Tendell also
has emerged as a commentator in the news media about the threat posed by
overseas hackers and is a former co-host of an online radio show about security.

But behind the scenes, Mr. Tendell, a Colorado resident and a decorated Iraq War
veteran, started a new website called Hacker's List that allows people to
anonymously post bids to hire a hacker. Many users have sought to find someone
to steal an email password, break into a Facebook account or change a school
grade.

Mr. Tendell, 32, who owns a consulting firm in Denver called Azorian Cyber
Security, confirmed on Tuesday that he was the sole owner of the website. He
said Hacker's List, which began as something of an ''off the cuff idea,'' grew
far faster than he anticipated.

''I never expected it to turn into what it is,'' said Mr. Tendell, a graduate of
the University of Phoenix who became certified as an information systems
security professional and an ethical hacker in 2011. ''I was testing the waters
and wanted to see if it works.''

The verdict is still out on whether Hacker's List, which started in November,
will work as a business. The propensity is for people to use it as a way to
search for hackers willing to break the law as opposed to doing legitimate
online investigations and surveillance.

The website has caused a stir in the online world because of its unusual
approach to matching ordinary people looking to do a bit of private espionage
with so-called hackers-for-hire. The company, which collects a fee for every
completed assignment, has garnered considerable news coverage, including a
front-page article in The New York Times in January, with much of the coverage
focusing on the dubious legality of the requests.

Until now, the identity of the founder of Hacker's List had remained a mystery.
An employee of Hacker's List named ''Jack'' had said on a number of occasions
that the owner was not ready to talk.

The lack of disclosure surrounding Hacker's List is one reason the
hackers-for-hire service has drawn considerable scorn from security consultants,
who say the website is an invitation to illegal and unethical behavior. Some
lawyers have said the owners could be civilly liable for maintaining a service
that permits customers to seek to hire hackers for illegal activities.

Others have wondered if the website is an elaborate online joke or a sting
operation set up by federal authorities.

The website's rules of operation repeatedly note that the service does not
condone illegal activity, but that appears to have done little to stop people
from seeking to hire hackers to carry out tasks that most would say break the
law.

But Mr. Tendell said much of the criticism of Hacker's List was misplaced. He
noted that even if an illegal job were posted by an anonymous user, it would not
necessarily be carried out. He said clearly illegal job postings were removed if
someone complained, but he said what mattered were the jobs that were completed.

''No one is going to complete an illegal project through my website,'' he said.

Still, Hacker's List has had its share of operational hiccups since its debut,
and its website has crashed a number of times. A few more than 4,000 potential
jobs have been posted on Hacker's List, but many of them have not received a bid
from a hacker. Mr. Tendell said about 250 jobs had been completed since the
website went online.

Some hackers have tried to disrupt the service, and more recently the service
has banned hackers who were looking to defraud job posters.

A few days ago, Twitter suspended the Hacker's List account, which automatically
sends out new job postings. Twitter would not comment on the suspension but many
of the account's tweets promoted jobs like ''hack a PayPal account.'' A Twitter
spokesman would not comment on the reason for the suspension. Mr. Tendell said
he did not know why Twitter suspended the account.

Mr. Tendell's role in setting up Hacker's List was unmasked in part by Erik
Solomonson, a blogger who lives in New York and works for a web hosting company.
He decided to do a bit of digging into the formation of Hacker's List. Mr.
Solomonson unearthed an archived domain registration statement for Hacker's List
from October, just before the website went live, that listed Mr. Tendell as the
administrator and contact person for the site.

A few weeks later, Mr. Tendell's name was removed from a revised domain
registration. The name that replaced his was David Harper, who is said to live
in New Zealand and could not be contacted.

The older domain registration for Hacker's List also suggested there might be a
tie-in with Neighborhood Hacker, another online hackers-for-hire firm that is
also based in Colorado. Mr. Tendell said he had done work with Neighborhood
Hacker but was not an owner of that company.

Mr. Solomonson said Mr. Tendell's involvement with Hacker's List pointed to how
difficult it was for consumers to assess the legitimacy of firms that say they
offer legal hackers-for-hire services.

It's inappropriate for someone like Mr. Tendell, who calls himself a ''white hat
hacker,'' to be involved in any way with an operation that potentially is
profiting from illegal activity, Mr. Solomonson said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/13/business/dealbook/owner-of-anonymous-hackers-f
or-hire-site-steps-forward.html

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Tendell, founder of Hacker's List, said he was ''testing
the waters.''

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 13, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Wednesday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 714 words


1:20 A.M. (Starz) BLUE JASMINE (2013) Cate Blanchett, above with Peter
Sarsgaard, won an Oscar for her role as Jasmine French, a Park Avenue matron
fallen on hard times after her husband, Hal (Alec Baldwin), lands in prison for
bilking his clients, leaving her with little more than her pearls, Chanel
jacket, Hermès bag and Louis Vuitton luggage. Destitute, in a manner of
speaking, Jasmine flies first-class to San Francisco to begin life anew with her
sister, Ginger (Sally Hawkins), whose scrappy existence and brutish men Jasmine
can barely stomach without self-medicating with vodka and Xanax. Then she meets
a diplomatic type (Mr. Sarsgaard) with an appreciation for her decorating
talents and designer threads and starts to see light at the end of her dark
tunnel. With intimations of Ruth Madoff and Blanche DuBois, this shattered woman
is ''brilliantly brought to quivering life by Ms. Blanchett,'' Manohla Dargis
wrote in The New York Times, in Woody Allen's ''most sustained, satisfying and
resonant film since 'Match Point.' ''

8 P.M. (13, 49) ANIMAL CHILDHOOD Almost every child leaves home at some point,
even in the animal kingdom. ''Nature'' watches as black bears in Minnesota, ibex
in Israel and elephants in Kenya prepare their offspring for independence. In
''Lethal Seas,'' at 9 on Channel 13 and 10 on Channel 49, ''Nova'' visits a
coral garden in Papua New Guinea to investigate how rising acidity in oceans,
caused by the absorption of carbon emissions, is destroying the skeletons and
shells of marine creatures that form the foundation of life in the world's
waters.

9 P.M. (ABC) MODERN FAMILY Phil (Ty Burrell), Luke (Nolan Gould) and Haley
(Sarah Hyland) force Alex (Ariel Winter) to skip school on senior ditch day.
Claire (Julie Bowen) is puzzled by the reaction of Jay (Ed O'Neill) when she
receives a job offer from a hotel chain. And Gloria (Sofia Vergara) tries to
break up Manny (Rico Rodriguez) and his girlfriend. In ''black-ish,'' at 9:30,
Dre (Anthony Anderson) and Bow (Tracee Ellis Ross) lose it after Junior (Marcus
Scribner) joins a Young Republican Club to impress a girl.

9 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT The squad investigates the
possible kidnapping of a boy (Kaeden Ruparel) whose mother (Brooke Bloom)
received a ransom request after he disappeared from school. Surveillance video
shows he recognized his abductor.

9 P.M. (CBS) CSI: CYBER The team delves into a power failure in Detroit that was
used to camouflage a jewelry store robbery resulting in a death. At 10, Avery
(Patricia Arquette) finds the hacker who released a patient's confidential
information online.

10 P.M. (ABC) NASHVILLE Juliette (Hayden Panettiere) is determined to finish her
album, whatever the cost. Deacon (Charles Esten) hangs on for dear life with
Rayna (Connie Britton), Daphne (Maisy Stella) and Maddie (Lennon Stella) at his
side.

10 P.M. (Pop) SING IT ON Five a cappella groups -- the AcaBelles and All Night
Yahtzee from Florida State University; No Comment from the University of
Illinois; and the Nor'easters and Pitch, Please! from Northeastern University --
croon their hearts out for a spot at the International Championship of
Collegiate a Cappella.

10 P.M. (CNBC) CONSUMED: THE REAL RESTAURANT BUSINESS Five New York restaurants
fight for a slice of a multibillion-dollar industry in this new documentary
series, which begins with a tour of the Meatball Shop empire; Melba's, a Harlem
comfort food spot with national ambitions; and Ann & Tony's, a multigenerational
joint in the Bronx that is struggling to fill seats.

What's Streaming Now

MOONE BOY Chris O'Dowd, at right with David Rawle, plays Sean Murphy, the
imaginary friend of Martin Moone (Mr. Rawle), a schoolboy with a sunny
disposition and a total obliviousness to the opinion of others. Sean lives in
Boyle, Ireland, where Mr. O'Dowd -- who wrote and directed this series's final
six episodes -- grew up. The show may be reminiscent of ''The Wonder Years'' and
''The Goldbergs,'' but ''is more imaginative and detailed than others of its
type, with a loopy idiosyncrasy that trumps synthetic American quirkiness, and
its offhand, seemingly throwaway comic touches come with a dash of Irish
poetry,'' Mike Hale wrote in The Times. (hulu.com) KATHRYN SHATTUCK




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/13/arts/television/whats-on-tv-wednesday.html

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY MERRICK MORTON/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 14, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

CBS Says It Will Cancel Its Long-Running 'CSI' Next Season

BYLINE: By JOHN KOBLIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 654 words


CBS will cancel one of its longest-running and popular shows, ''CSI,'' next
season after a two-hour series finale in late September.

The network made the announcement on Wednesday at a press briefing ahead of its
upfront presentation for advertisers later in the day.

''It's easy to take it for granted and it's easy to forget, but it was one of
the strongest, longest-running dramas in TV history and very important to us as
a network,'' said Kelly Kahl, CBS's vice president for prime time. ''It was one
of the shows that really helped reverse our fortunes and point us in a very
positive direction.''

One of the show's biggest stars, Ted Danson, will move to a spinoff show, ''CSI:
Cyber,'' where he will star alongside a recent Academy Award winner, Patricia
Arquette.

''CSI'' helped make CBS one of the top-rated networks over the last 15 years and
spawned several spinoffs, including ''CSI: Cyber,'' ''CSI: NY'' and ''CSI:
Miami.'' Between the second season of ''CSI'' in 2001 and its sixth season in
2006, it averaged more than 23 million viewers an episode, according to Nielsen.
This season, it is averaging a little more than 11 million viewers, a series
low, and its rating among the crucial 18-to-49-year-old demographic is 2.1, also
a series low.

''CSI'' will join another stalwart from the last decade in retirement: Fox
announced on Monday that ''American Idol'' would be finished next year.

Leslie R. Moonves, chief executive of CBS Corporation, opened the press briefing
on Wednesday by saying, ''I'm probably the oldest guy still doing the upfronts,
but here I am.''

Without skipping a beat, he then quickly went on to defend the network from a
label it can't shake, that CBS is the ''old-fogy network,'' as he put it.

''Gee, CBS has all these old-timer shows,'' Mr. Moonves said. ''Yes, we're going
to retire a couple of shows, but this is a very young schedule, so our future is
fairly well assured in terms of quality.''

At its formal upfront presentation Wednesday afternoon, CBS played up its new
late-night lineup. Stephen Colbert, who is replacing David Letterman,
entertained advertisers and introduced Mr. Moonves from the Carnegie Hall stage.
(The two are becoming fast friends; they also appeared in a taped segment
together, both with long dark beards, humorously suggesting that they just
couldn't stop watching CBS programming.) The network's other late-night host,
James Corden, appeared as well.

''The Big Bang Theory,'' heading into its ninth season, remains the No. 1 comedy
on television, and ''Criminal Minds'' continues to hold its own for CBS. But
some of its shows, like ''Elementary'' or ''Hawaii Five-O,'' have lost momentum.

Two new hit shows, ''NCIS: New Orleans'' and ''Scorpion,'' will return to the
lineup, and will air at 9 p.m., ''NCIS'' on Monday and ''Scorpion'' on Tuesday.
''Survivor,'' a 15-year stalwart of the network, will continue to anchor the
network's 8 p.m. hour on Wednesday. ''The miracle show, the marathon show, it
just keeps going,'' Mr. Kahl said.

CBS is introducing a new drama for its fall lineup, ''Limitless,'' and new
comedies, ''Life in Pieces,'' and ''Angel From Hell.'' ''Angel'' stars Jane
Lynch, formerly of ''Glee.''

The network will also broadcast a guaranteed ratings hit, ''Thursday Night
Football,'' through late October. When its football schedule ends, CBS will move
''The Big Bang Theory'' and ''Life in Pieces'' to Thursday night from Monday
night.

The network is entering the superhero realm with a show it has high hopes for,
''Supergirl,'' which will go into that Monday night slot. It will be the first
time since 1949 that CBS will not have a comedy leading its prime-time schedule
on Mondays, Mr. Kahl said.

''We are often criticized for clinging to the past,'' he said. ''Here, we're
moving forward and we're putting the best shows in the schedule and I don't
think we have to be beholden to a 65-year-old schedule.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/14/business/media/cbs-says-csi-will-end-next-seas
on.html

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ted Danson in a scene from ''CSI: Crime Scene Investigation,''
which will end this fall. Mr. Danson will move to ''CSI: Cyber.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ROBERT VOETS/CBS ENTERTAINMENT, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (News)

                              May 19, 2015 Tuesday

Morning Agenda: Bad Behavior in Finance Persists, Study Says

BYLINE: DEALBOOK

LENGTH: 1649 words



HIGHLIGHT: Bad Behavior in Finance Persists, Study Says | Wall Street Bounces
Back | Years of Complaints Finally Catch Up to Broker | Economic Uncertainty
Rattles Greeks


 BAD BEHAVIOR IN FINANCE PERSISTS, STUDY SAYS  |  In some ways, Wall Street has
cleaned up its act after the 2008 financial crisis, with firms carrying much
less risk and banks increasing their capital requirements. Yet the ethos of the
finance industry remains worrisome, according to a new study, Andrew Ross Sorkin
writes in the DealBook column.

Two years ago, Mr. Sorkin wrote about a study on Wall Street ethics by the law
firm Labaton Sucharow, which often represents whistle-blowers in the finance
industry. That study raised alarms about finance industry insiders' lax
attitudes toward wrongdoing. This year, the University of Notre Dame expanded
the study commissioned by Labaton Sucharow to more than 1,200 traders, portfolio
managers, investment bankers and hedge fund professionals both in the United
States and Britain. The new study's results "appear even more noteworthy today
for the sheer number of individuals who continue to say the ethics of the
industry remain unchanged since the crisis (a third said that, by the way)," Mr.
Sorkin writes.

In the earlier study, the law firm found that a significant number of
respondents (23 percent) said that "they had observed or had firsthand knowledge
of wrongdoing in the workplace." In the study to be released Tuesday, about a
third of the people who said they made more than $500,000 annually said they
"have witnessed or have firsthand knowledge of wrongdoing in the workplace." If
the culture of reckless risk taking hasn't changed much since the financial
crisis, not all the blame should be put on Wall Street, however. "On virtually
every question, those in Britain seem to indicate that ethics problems could be
even more widespread there," Mr. Sorkin writes. The report's authors said,
"Respondents from the U.K. are either more willing to commit a crime they could
get away with - or are more frank about it."

 WALL STREET BOUNCES BACK  |  If the financial crisis didn't change the ethos of
Wall Street, it also didn't make much of a dent in the finance sector as a
whole, Neil Irwin writes in The Upshot. On many measures - the pay gap between
Wall Street and the average worker, office vacancy rates, deal-making fees,
employee numbers and profits - the American financial industry is nearly back to
where it was before the crisis.  "Everybody thought in 2008 it was the end of
the world," said Noah Schwarz, a partner at the executive recruitment firm Korn
Ferry. "It's been a long time, but in the last 18 months or so you've seen a
real shift for the better."

However, Mr. Irwin notes that not everyone agrees that the recovery is for the
better. Last week, the International Monetary Fund released a report arguing
that the financial sector in several major countries, including the United
States, was too large. Also, experts like Stephen Cecchetti, an economist at the
Brandeis International Business School, have found that a very large financial
sector tends to precede weaker growth in productivity. "When pay on Wall Street
is so high relative to the rest of the economy, you're creating incentives for
people to go into that industry that may not be the best for society over all,"
Mr. Cecchetti said.

 YEARS OF COMPLAINTS FINALLY CATCH UP TO BROKER   |  Rooting out bad behavior in
the finance industry takes more than just alerting regulators to fraudulent
activity, as the case of Jerry A. Cicolani Jr. shows, Susan Antilla writes in
DealBook. For Mr. Cicolani, a stockbroker, it took 69 customer disputes filed
over the last 13 years before he was barred from the business. On May 1, he
pleaded guilty to two criminal counts, including one count of selling
unregistered securities. In the meantime, 39 investors lost $7 million,
according to the F.B.I.

Many of the victims place the blame on regulators like the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, the industry-funded regulatory group, which didn't take
any tough action against Mr. Cicolani even though it had looked into the
complaints against him. The New York Stock Exchange also investigated Mr.
Cicolani but didn't sanction him. Last week, Finra announced that it had
revamped its guidelines to increase fines against bad actors and has recommended
more onerous sanctions for fraud or the sale of unsuitable products.

 ON THE AGENDA  |  A number of retailers report earnings today, including
Walmart, Home Depot, TJX and Etsy.  JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley hold their
annual meetings. Marissa Mayer, Yahoo's chief executive, speaks at the JPMorgan
Chase Global Technology, Media and Telecom Conference in Boston at 8:40 a.m.
Nelson Peltz of Trian Fund Management will be speaking at the Electrical
Products Group conference in Florida at 8:15 a.m. Christine Lagarde, the
managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Jacob J. Lew, the
secretary of the Treasury, and George Soros are among the speakers at the
Bretton Woods Committee annual meeting in Washington. Commerce Department data
on housing starts in April is out at 8:30 a.m.

On the Hill: Mr. Lew will preside over a 2:30 p.m. meeting of the Financial
Stability Oversight Council at the Treasury Department, which will also include
Janet L. Yellen, the Federal Reserve chairwoman. The House subcommittee on
financial institutions and consumer credit will hold a hearing titled
"Protecting Critical Infrastructure: How the Financial Sector Addresses Cyber
Threats" at 1 p.m.

 ECONOMIC UNCERTAINTY RATTLES GREEKS  |  Over the past five years, the average
Greek citizen has endured government budget cuts and other austerity measures
demanded by Greece's creditors. Now, Jim Yardley writes in The New York Times,
the country is "reeling from a different condition: economic uncertainty." As
negotiations between Greece and its European creditors drag on, George
Kavvathas, president of one of Greece's largest associations of small-business
owners, said the uncertainty about what comes next has been destructive. He
predicted that 8,500 small businesses would close during the first six months of
this year. "The average person doesn't know if we'll remain in the euro or go to
the drachma," he said. "They don't know what the deal will entail and how bad
the measures will be."

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Endo International to Pay $8.05 Billion for Par Pharmaceutical  |  The deal
would create a specialty pharmaceutical company that would be one of the five
largest generic drug makers based on sales in the United States.
NYT »

Breakingviews: TPG's $8 Billion Drug Sale a Rare Development  |  With the sale
of Par Pharmaceutical, the buyout firm will generate an eightfold return on its
investment in three years.
Breakingviews »

Lane Bryant Parent to Buy Ann Taylor for $2.16 Billion  |  Ascena, the owner of
Lane Bryant and Dressbarn, struck a deal to acquire the parent company of Ann
Taylor and Loft, which had been under pressure to seek a sale.
NYT » | Wall St. Ticks Upward as Investors Consider Deal News 10:00 AMNYT Now

BGC Partners Continues Spree With Deal to Buy Real Estate Firm  |  The brokerage
firm BGC Partners said it had acquired Excess Space Retail Services, a
specialist in helping companies get rid of their unused space.
NYT »

Mongolia and Rio Tinto in Deal to Build Copper Mine  |  The agreement paves the
way to resume a delayed $5 billion copper mine that is expected to underpin
growth of the country and the miner, Reuters reports.
REUTERS

Yahoo C.E.O. Explains Why Merger With AOL Didn't Happen  |  "Some people on the
outside saw similarities between" Yahoo and AOL, Marissa Mayer, Yahoo's chief
executive, said in an interview at a Fortune event on Monday night. "We didn't."

FORTUNE

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Tiger Global to Revamp Management  |  The changes will come as two partners -
Feroz Dewan and Caleb Watts - are set to depart.
NYT »

Icahn's Letter to Apple Illustrated in 3 Charts  |  Carl C. Icahn's 2,200-word
letter to Apple, in which he says the company's shares are extremely
undervalued, can be distilled into three charts created by Quartz.
QUARTZ

Deutsche Bank Said to Put Asia Corporate Finance Heads on Leave  |  Deutsche
Bank has put both its co-heads of corporate finance in Asia on leave, Bloomberg
News reports, citing people familiar with the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

HEDGE FUNDS »

Hedge Funds Rush to Buy Shares in Online Chinese Retailer  |  Hedge funds held
44 percent of the American depositary shares of JD.com, a Chinese retailer, in
the first quarter, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Flipkart Said to Be Valued at $15 Billion After Raising $550 Million  |
Flipkart has raised $550 million from some of its existing investors in a deal
that puts the valuation of the Indian online retailer at about $15 billion, The
Wall Street Journal reports, citing a person familiar with the deal.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

Exchange Operators Worry About an Extra Second  |  Traders and exchange
officials in the United States are concerned that the leap second, which will be
added June 30, may cause problems in trading, The Wall Street Journal reports.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

Supreme Court Bolsters Protections for 401(k) Investors  |  The Supreme Court
ruling said companies managing 401(k) retirement plans had a duty to monitor
investments, The Wall Street Journal reports.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

Bernie Sanders to Propose Taxing Trades  |  Bernie Sanders, the independent
senator from Vermont, is set to propose on Tuesday a tax on stock transactions
to finance tuition at four-year public colleges and universities, Bloomberg News
reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

India Said to Ignore Warnings About Tax on Foreign Funds  |  A dispute with
overseas investors over the imposition of the minimum alternate tax could have
been avoided if the Indian government had acted on warnings from its tax
officials, Reuters reports.
REUTERS

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 30, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Activist Hedge Fund Elliott Hires Chief Operating Officer

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg.

LENGTH: 448 words


Elliott Management, the activist hedge fund run by Paul E.. Singer, has poached
a top Citigroup executive to serve as its new chief operating officer, the firm
announced in an internal memorandum on Friday.

The new executive, Zion Shohet, will oversee functions like relationships with
trading partners, finance and accounting and both physical and cybersecurity,
according to the memo, which was reviewed by DealBook.

The appointment is an infusion of new blood into Elliott, a roughly $25 billion
firm that is known as one of the most prominent activist investors. The hedge
fund has challenged both big companies like the EMC Corporation and, perhaps
more famously, governments like that of Argentina.

Mr. Shohet will sit on the firm's management committee and report to Jon
Pollock, one of the hedge fund's two co-chief investment officers.

He will replace Keith Horn, who announced his plans to leave in March after
spending 12 years at the firm.

Mr. Shohet was most recently the head of Citigroup's global regulatory reform
and implementation group, responsible for leading the bank's responses to the
shifting regulatory environment. He had previously served in roles like
treasurer, a position he held during the financial crisis of 2008.

A spokesman for Elliott declined to comment.

Here's the text of the memo:

We are pleased to announce the appointment of Zion Shohet as Chief Operating
Officer, effective July 13th, 2015. Zion will be responsible for Operations,
Finance and Accounting, IT Infrastructure and Applications, Physical and Cyber
Security, and counterparty relationships. He will serve on the management
committee and report to Jon Pollock, Coâ[#x20ac]Chief Investment Officer. Zion
succeeds Keith Horn, who in March announced his intention to leave Elliott.

Zion joins us from Citigroup, where he served as an Executive Vice President and
Head of the Global Regulatory Reform and Implementation group, overseeing Citi's
firmâ[#x20ac]wide response to financial regulatory reform. In his 14 years at
Citi he held a number of senior positions including COO of the Institutional
Clients Group, Treasurer (during the credit crisis), and Head of Strategy and
M&A.

Before joining Citi, Zion worked in venture capital, where he made investments
in financial services companies, and for McKinsey & Company, where he advised
institutional and retail financial clients on strategy, operations, and
corporate finance. Earlier in his career, he worked for Oliver, Wyman and
Company in retail banking and insurance.

Zion received his JD from Harvard Law School and his BA in economics from
Princeton University.

Please join us in welcoming Zion to Elliott.

Paul Singer and Jon Pollock




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/30/business/dealbook/activist-hedge-fund-elliott-
hires-chief-operating-officer.html

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 4, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

They See Cute People, but Not on an App

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 866 words


In the now classic 1999 movie ''The Matrix'' machines enslave humans for use as
battery-like sources of energy. On the new Netflix series ''Sense8,'' it's
almost as if Tinder has taken control of the planet.

The creators of the ''Matrix'' movies, Andy and Lana Wachowski, have teamed up
with J. Michael Straczynski (''Babylon 5'') to make a transcendental
action-adventure drama with romantic undertones. In ''Sense8,'' an unknown force
defies time and space to connect eight strangers who seem to have only two
things in common: youth and good looks. It's not too much of a stretch to
imagine that an extraterrestrial millennial is using a dating app, moving from
continent to continent, swiping right on eight gorgeous people in alluringly
exotic settings.

On Friday, Netflix will begin streaming the show's 12 episodes, which snake
through Mumbai, Seoul, Chicago, Mexico City, San Francisco, Berlin, Nairobi and
London. Beautifully shot and sublimely silly, ''Sense8'' is slower than ''The
Matrix'' and not nearly as thrilling.

It shares some of the style and sensibility of ''Cloud Atlas,'' the 2012
time-spanning film that the Wachowskis directed with Tom Tykwer. In terms of
television, it's probably closest to ABC's series ''Lost'' and NBC's ''Heroes,''
but more cosmopolitan, with snazzier camera work and a lead character who has
particular resonance at the moment.

Nomi (Jamie Clayton) is a transgender blogger and reformed hacker (she prefers
''hacktivist'') in San Francisco. Like the seven other ''sensates,'' Nomi has a
terrifying vision that causes her to start seeing, feeling and talking to others
in distant places. ''Sense8'' moves from one character to the next in quick
bursts, but in the first few episodes, Nomi's affair with Amanita (Freema
Agyeman), her investment in San Francisco's Pride Celebration and her
estrangement from her family are more deeply explored than the other story
lines.

That makes sense given that Lana Wachowski is transgender (she was known as
Larry when ''The Matrix'' was made). Ms. Clayton is also transgender and,
alongside Laverne Cox from ''Orange Is the New Black,'' among the first such
actresses to play a prominent role on a major television series.

Nomi's voyage of self-discovery and liberation is eloquently told and is
certainly timely, given the growing interest in gender identity, now at a high
boil with Caitlyn Jenner's Vanity Fair cover.

But Nomi's adventures seem to move at a slower tempo and with more intensity
than other back stories, which are revealed in more elliptical narrative
flashes. Eight main characters in eight cities is a lot to introduce, and the
exposition is more effective when it moves fast.

The characters' interconnectivity in some cases is so fluid that one scene
bleeds into the next. But the filmmakers don't use ''bullet time,'' those
slow-motion action sequences made famous by ''The Matrix.'' Instead they
artfully blur the edges of reality. A live chicken that Capheus (Aml Ameen)
receives as payment for bus fare in Nairobi flutters onto the office desk of Sun
(Doona Bae), a businesswoman in Seoul. Guests extol the food at a fancy
engagement party in Mumbai, and in Berlin, Wolfgang (Max Riemelt), in a
postcoital daze with a girlfriend, suddenly has a craving for Indian food.

Their first shared vision opens the show. In what looks like a burned-out
church, a woman named Angel is dying, giving birth or a little of both, while
two sinister males, who come and go like apparitions, coach her like dueling
doulas. Daryl Hannah plays Angel, and that's probably a mistake, because here
the actress has the same startled expression and tangle of damp hair she sported
in ''Splash'' -- her pain could be the prelude to sprouting a mermaid's tail.

They don't know it at first, but the eight men and women who keep seeing Angel
are being hunted. They are also being watched over by a psychic guardian-stalker
named Jonas (Naveen Andrews of ''Lost''), who seems to be on their side in an
otherworldly battle between good and evil -- with perhaps a dash of government
or military-industrial conspiracy in the mix.

Each story line taps into a different cultural cliché. There is Lito (Miguel
Ángel Silvestre), a hammy telenovela star in Mexico City who is gay and
closeted; Riley (Tuppence Middleton), a goth-dressed and disaffected Icelandic
D.J. in London; Will (Brian J. Smith), an idealistic Chicago cop; and Kala (Tina
Desai), an Indian uneasy about marrying the rich fiancé that her parents adore
(her story includes a Bollywood dance scene). Their personalities match their
exotic backdrops, perhaps too neatly, but the fun of ''Sense8'' is the
unsettling juxtaposition of different settings and characters.

It takes a while for their stories to blend. One of the more exciting moments
comes only in the third episode, when a character who has a secret expertise in
martial arts is suddenly transported to a brawl in another part of the world to
assist someone who has taken on a gang of thugs.

The ''Matrix'' was a furnace blast of stylized cyber-violence and adrenaline. As
its title suggests, ''Sense8'' is a slower dip into dreamy conspiracies and
chimerical fellowship.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/04/arts/television/review-sense8-the-wachowskis-n
etflix-series-connects-young-and-cute.html

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sense8: Daryl Hannah keeps flashing before eight characters'
eyes in this Netflix series available Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MURRAY
CLOSE/NETFLIX)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 5, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Harry Dodge

BYLINE: By MARTHA SCHWENDENER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 392 words


Harry Dodge is a transgender artist, and although his current solo show -- his
second for this gallery -- doesn't specifically address his own trajectory or
biography, it meditates seriously, and deliriously, on the fluid nature of
identity and how technology alters bodies and consciousness.

Two sculptures from the ''Consent-not-to-be-a-single-being'' series (all the
works are from 2015) are ecstatically colored consoles -- a little minimalist, a
little SpongeBob SquarePants -- with phallic noses protruding from their roughly
anthropomorphic faces. ''My Glassy Essence (Shame in the Cybernetic Fold)'' is a
more linear sculpture made of plywood, and it includes a photograph of Mr. Dodge
displaying his buff and tattooed postoperative body. Panels in the ''Stencil
Series,'' etched with comments from online forums, function like found
stream-of-cyber-consciousness poems. And ''Love Streams,'' a 13-minute video
featuring the fast-talking Mr. Dodge, with a goatee and wearing an MC5 ''Back in
the USA'' T-shirt, runs through a brief lecture on the Danish physicist Niels
Bohr and quantum physics before ending with a yarn about technological
extensions of the body.

The show's title and its news release add to the crush of ideas. ''The
cybernetic fold'' is a concept drawn from a 1995 essay by the gender studies and
queer theory scholar Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick and the literary critic Adam Frank.
It refers to the period from the late 1940s to the mid-60s when new information
derived from computer science outstripped the technology available to alter the
brain and other life processes. The news release also mentions the philosopher
Rosi Braidotti, whose 2013 book, ''The Posthuman,'' continues her argument for a
nomadic, ''self-styled'' subjectivity that subverts dominant norms and values.

Mr. Dodge's own self-fashioned persona feels a little binary in this context:
the testosterone-addled dude as a counterpoint to voluptuous transgender women
like Laverne Cox or Caitlyn Jenner. (Meanwhile, individuals and activists
championing even more radical postgender and nongender positions wait in the
wings.) Yet with its profusion of ideas and hallucinogenic objects, Mr. Dodge's
show is an exemplary illustration of what it means to exist in the cybernetic
fold of our moment.

Wallspace

619 West 27th Street, Chelsea

Through June 20




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/05/arts/design/review-harry-dodge-meditates-on-id
entity-with-the-cybernetic-fold.html

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''The Cybernetic Fold,'' a solo show at Wallspace by Harry
Dodge, a transgender artist, meditates on the fluid nature of identity.
(PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND WALLSPACE, NEW YORK)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            June 10, 2015 Wednesday

Traffic Hacking: Caution Light Is On

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1432 words



HIGHLIGHT: The threat is increasing that hackers could shut down so-called smart
cities, where network sensors connect traffic, water, waste and air management
systems and the electric grid online.


A year ago, Cesar Cerrudo flew to Washington, strolled over to Capitol Hill and
pulled out his laptop. Then he began to hack the city's traffic system.

The traffic lights - like so many he had tested before in Manhattan and
elsewhere - were wide open to attack. Mr. Cerrudo, an Argentine security
researcher at IOActive Labs, an Internet security company, found he could turn
red lights green and green lights red. He could have gridlocked the whole town
with the touch of a few keys, or turned a busy thoroughfare into a fast-paced
highway. He could have paralyzed emergency responders, or shut down all roads to
the Capitol.

Instead, Mr. Cerrudo approached the company that designs city traffic sensors,
but does not encrypt the traffic running through them, in hopes executives would
fix the security hole. When he was ignored, he blogged about the vulnerability
in hopes that people would wake up to the issue and pressure cities to get it
fixed. "What I found is that cities are filled with security problems that could
have a very direct and physical impact on our lives," Mr. Cerrudo said in a
recent interview.

He is hacking into cities' traffic infrastructure as security flaws in municipal
technology networks are becoming a growing problem. For the last three years,
government officials - and security specialists long before them - have warned
that malicious hackers could shut down so-called smart cities, where network
sensors connect traffic, water, waste and air management systems and the
electric grid online to increase efficiency. As it stands, no comprehensive
system exists for vetting security and responding to cyberattacks at the
municipal level.

Spending on smart city technology is also soaring around the globe. In Saudi
Arabia, $70 million has been poured into a project to build four smart cities.
In South Africa, $7.4 billion has been funneled into a smart city project that
is underway. By 2023, spending on smart cities will reach $27.5 billion,
according to an estimate by Navigant Research. "It's going to be a machine
planet pretty soon," said David Jordan, the chief information security officer
for Arlington County, Va. "They're going to be telling us what to do if nobody
starts paying attention."

Already, incidents involving computer bugs in traffic systems have caused havoc,
with one such bug closing down San Francisco's public train system two years
ago, trapping passengers underground. In 2006, during a labor strike, two Los
Angeles traffic engineers were accused of hacking smart traffic light systems at
only four major Los Angeles intersections. The ensuing gridlock lasted four
days, clogging entries to Los Angeles International Airport and the on ramp to
the Glendale Freeway, and turning major intersections in Studio City and
downtown into parking lots.

Yet the Obama administration, which has called cybersecurity a top priority, has
failed to persuade regulators that the threat to the nation's critical
infrastructure is real.

Cybersecurity legislation stalled in the Senate after Republicans argued that
mandating basic security for the private companies that oversee the nation's
dams, water treatment facilities and the power grid would be too onerous.

After a Republican filibuster, President Obama signed an executive order two
years ago that set cybersecurity recommendations for companies that oversee the
country's critical infrastructure like utilities, dams and bridges. Yet the
order lacked teeth because, without legislation, the recommendations are
voluntary.

That is where hackers like Mr. Cerrudo have stepped in, hoping to illustrate the
extent of the problem by breaking into the systems themselves. He has
demonstrated how 200,000 control sensors for traffic flow in major cities like
New York, San Francisco and Washington were open to attack. Because vendors did
not encrypt the data running through their systems, Mr. Cerrudo could intercept
and alter traffic sensors from 1,500 feet away, or even by drone.

Mr. Cerrudo is also hacking away at public apathy about security issues by using
another tack: He is starting a nonprofit initiative, Securing Smart Cities, that
aims to bring together security researchers and officials in the public and
private sectors to tackle the vulnerabilities in increasingly connected cities,
before another 50 billion devices go online in the next five years.

"This is where everyone lives, including myself, and I am tired of pointing out
the problem without offering a solution," Mr. Cerrudo said.

He and his colleagues are aiming for defenses like encryption and passwords, and
a proper process for patching holes like the ones discovered in traffic sensors.
Ideally, cities will start tracking access to their systems, run regular tests
to look for loopholes and set up emergency response teams that can solicit
vulnerability reports from hackers, coordinate patches and share that
information across cities. They also want to create manual overrides for all
smart city systems, in the event attackers take control.

Some municipalities are paying close attention to the issue. In Arlington
County, Mr. Jordan said his proximity to the Department of Homeland Security and
the Federal Bureau of Investigation made his county's situation unique. He has
put together a "fusion" team of computer forensics specialists at the county
police department, network engineers, and his security vendors at Palo Alto
Networks, Trend Micro and Symantec. He also has an alert system to notify 22
other jurisdictions if his county comes under a cyberattack.

No law or requirement mandates that the nation's other 3,100 or so counties do
the same. In Arlington County, while the law requires that a government official
manage the county's records and archives, no digital equivalent requires one
person to track and monitor for suspicious activity on the networks for traffic,
sewerage or the power grid.

"I don't think the federal government, or the states know the status of cyber in
all those counties," Mr. Jordan said. "Cyber has yet to become a tenet of
government, largely because nobody understands this, and they certainly don't
like it because it's expensive."

Mr. Jordan is working with Mr. Cerrudo and others, including Alan Seow, former
head of cybersecurity preparedness for Singapore, and top security specialists
from Symantec, Kaspersky Labs and Bastille to raise awareness of the increasing
vulnerabilities in cities and counties as more of their critical systems move
online.

"There's been a huge disconnect between those in the security community, who do
all the complaining, and those affected," said Patrick Nielsen, a security
researcher at Kaspersky. "The big goal of this project is to connect those in
the security community with officials in cities to understand what the risks
are, and how to neutralize them."

Security researchers have long been accused of fostering "FUD," an acronym for
fear, uncertainty and doubt, to sell their products. As a result, Mr. Cerrudo
said he and others had purposely set up their initiative as a nonprofit project.
"We are not selling anything," he said. "The technologies are broad, the problem
is huge, and we didn't want to point out problems without offering solutions.
The only way to solve this is going to be collaboration."

The potential for damage, he and others said, has already eclipsed the
hypothetical. Last year, a Russian hacking group, known to researchers as
Dragonfly and Energetic Bear, was found to be probing power networks in the
United States and Europe.

In 2013, the Homeland Security Department acknowledged that the energy industry
became the most-targeted sector for hackers in the United States, accounting for
56 percent of the 257 attacks reported to the agency that year. And last year,
the agency acknowledged in a report that "a sophisticated threat actor" had
broken into a public utility's control system using a simple attack. The
attacker just guessed the password to a system that never should have been
plugged into the Internet in the first place, the agency said. Just how far Mr.
Cerrudo can take his initiative is open to debate. A year after publishing his
findings on traffic sensor research, Mr. Cerrudo tested San Francisco's traffic
light system and found that the city had still not encrypted its traffic sensor
data, leaving the city wide open to attack.

"Every day, cities incorporate a new 'smart' technology, without any testing,"
he said. "What they don't realize is that they are putting citizens and
businesses at risk. If that technology is not protected, people will suffer the
consequences."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 11, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Traffic Hacking: Caution Light Is On

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Bits; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1460 words


A year ago, Cesar Cerrudo flew to Washington, strolled over to Capitol Hill and
pulled out his laptop. Then he began to hack the city's traffic system.

The traffic lights -- like so many he had tested before in Manhattan and
elsewhere -- were wide open to attack. Mr. Cerrudo, an Argentine security
researcher at IOActive Labs, an Internet security company, found he could turn
red lights green and green lights red. He could have gridlocked the whole town
with the touch of a few keys, or turned a busy thoroughfare into a fast-paced
highway. He could have paralyzed emergency responders, or shut down all roads to
the Capitol.

Instead, Mr. Cerrudo approached the company that designs city traffic sensors,
but does not encrypt the traffic running through them, in hopes executives would
fix the security hole. When he was ignored, he blogged about the vulnerability
in hopes that people would wake up to the issue and pressure cities to get it
fixed. ''What I found is that cities are filled with security problems that
could have a very direct and physical impact on our lives,'' Mr. Cerrudo said in
a recent interview.

He is hacking into cities' traffic infrastructure as security flaws in municipal
technology networks are becoming a growing problem. For the last three years,
government officials -- and security specialists long before them -- have warned
that malicious hackers could shut down so-called smart cities, where network
sensors connect traffic, water, waste and air management systems and the
electric grid online to increase efficiency. As it stands, no comprehensive
system exists for vetting security and responding to cyberattacks at the
municipal level.

Spending on smart city technology is also soaring around the globe. In Saudi
Arabia, $70 million has been poured into a project to build four smart cities.
In South Africa, $7.4 billion has been funneled into a smart city project that
is underway. By 2023, spending on smart cities will reach $27.5 billion,
according to an estimate by Navigant Research. ''It's going to be a machine
planet pretty soon,'' said David Jordan, the chief information security officer
for Arlington County, Va. ''They're going to be telling us what to do if nobody
starts paying attention.''

Already, incidents involving computer bugs in traffic systems have caused havoc,
with one such bug closing down San Francisco's public train system two years
ago, trapping passengers underground. In 2006, during a labor strike, two Los
Angeles traffic engineers were accused of hacking smart traffic light systems at
only four major Los Angeles intersections. The ensuing gridlock lasted four
days, clogging entries to Los Angeles International Airport and the on ramp to
the Glendale Freeway, and turning major intersections in Studio City and
downtown into parking lots.

Yet the Obama administration, which has called cybersecurity a top priority, has
failed to persuade regulators that the threat to the nation's critical
infrastructure is real.

Cybersecurity legislation stalled in the Senate after Republicans argued that
mandating basic security for the private companies that oversee the nation's
dams, water treatment facilities and the power grid would be too onerous.

After a Republican filibuster, President Obama signed an executive order two
years ago that set cybersecurity recommendations for companies that oversee the
country's critical infrastructure like utilities, dams and bridges. Yet the
order lacked teeth because, without legislation, the recommendations are
voluntary.

That is where hackers like Mr. Cerrudo have stepped in, hoping to illustrate the
extent of the problem by breaking into the systems themselves. He has
demonstrated how 200,000 control sensors for traffic flow in major cities like
New York, San Francisco and Washington were open to attack. Because vendors did
not encrypt the data running through their systems, Mr. Cerrudo could intercept
and alter traffic sensors from 1,500 feet away, or even by drone.

Mr. Cerrudo is also hacking away at public apathy about security issues by using
another tack: He is starting a nonprofit initiative, Securing Smart Cities, that
aims to bring together security researchers and officials in the public and
private sectors to tackle the vulnerabilities in increasingly connected cities,
before another 50 billion devices go online in the next five years.

''This is where everyone lives, including myself, and I am tired of pointing out
the problem without offering a solution,'' Mr. Cerrudo said.

He and his colleagues are aiming for defenses like encryption and passwords, and
a proper process for patching holes like the ones discovered in traffic sensors.
Ideally, cities will start tracking access to their systems, run regular tests
to look for loopholes and set up emergency response teams that can solicit
vulnerability reports from hackers, coordinate patches and share that
information across cities. They also want to create manual overrides for all
smart city systems, in the event attackers take control.

Some municipalities are paying close attention to the issue. In Arlington
County, Mr. Jordan said his proximity to the Department of Homeland Security and
the Federal Bureau of Investigation made his county's situation unique. He has
put together a ''fusion'' team of computer forensics specialists at the county
police department, network engineers, and his security vendors at Palo Alto
Networks, Trend Micro and Symantec. He also has an alert system to notify 22
other jurisdictions if his county comes under a cyberattack.

No law or requirement mandates that the nation's other 3,100 or so counties do
the same. In Arlington County, while the law requires that a government official
manage the county's records and archives, no digital equivalent requires one
person to track and monitor for suspicious activity on the networks for traffic,
sewerage or the power grid.

''I don't think the federal government, or the states know the status of cyber
in all those counties,'' Mr. Jordan said. ''Cyber has yet to become a tenet of
government, largely because nobody understands this, and they certainly don't
like it because it's expensive.''

Mr. Jordan is working with Mr. Cerrudo and others, including Alan Seow, former
head of cybersecurity preparedness for Singapore, and top security specialists
from Symantec, Kaspersky Labs and Bastille to raise awareness of the increasing
vulnerabilities in cities and counties as more of their critical systems move
online.

''There's been a huge disconnect between those in the security community, who do
all the complaining, and those affected,'' said Patrick Nielsen, a security
researcher at Kaspersky. ''The big goal of this project is to connect those in
the security community with officials in cities to understand what the risks
are, and how to neutralize them.''

Security researchers have long been accused of fostering ''FUD,'' an acronym for
fear, uncertainty and doubt, to sell their products. As a result, Mr. Cerrudo
said he and others had purposely set up their initiative as a nonprofit project.
''We are not selling anything,'' he said. ''The technologies are broad, the
problem is huge, and we didn't want to point out problems without offering
solutions. The only way to solve this is going to be collaboration.''

The potential for damage, he and others said, has already eclipsed the
hypothetical. Last year, a Russian hacking group, known to researchers as
Dragonfly and Energetic Bear, was found to be probing power networks in the
United States and Europe.

In 2013, the Homeland Security Department acknowledged that the energy industry
became the most-targeted sector for hackers in the United States, accounting for
56 percent of the 257 attacks reported to the agency that year. And last year,
the agency acknowledged in a report that ''a sophisticated threat actor'' had
broken into a public utility's control system using a simple attack. The
attacker just guessed the password to a system that never should have been
plugged into the Internet in the first place, the agency said. Just how far Mr.
Cerrudo can take his initiative is open to debate. A year after publishing his
findings on traffic sensor research, Mr. Cerrudo tested San Francisco's traffic
light system and found that the city had still not encrypted its traffic sensor
data, leaving the city wide open to attack.

''Every day, cities incorporate a new 'smart' technology, without any testing,''
he said. ''What they don't realize is that they are putting citizens and
businesses at risk. If that technology is not protected, people will suffer the
consequences.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/06/10/traffic-hacking-caution-light-is-on/

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WARNINGS: Cesar Cerrudo, a security researcher at IOActive Labs,
in Parana, Argentina. He hacks into municipal traffic systems to expose areas of
vulnerability. ''What I found is that cities are filled with security problems
that could have a very direct and physical impact on our lives,'' he said.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANIBAL ADRIAN GRECO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 13, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

There's Nowhere to Hide Away in His Tech Novel

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA ALTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1326 words


A strange thing happened when Joshua Cohen was deep into writing his new novel,
''Book of Numbers.'' It started to come true. He had already written most of the
book, a dense, dizzying story about a struggling novelist named Joshua Cohen who
is hired to ghostwrite the memoir of the shady billionaire founder of Tetration,
a Google-like technology company whose revolutionary mission is to ''equalize
ourselves with data and data with ourselves.''

The fictional Joshua Cohen stumbles across a bombshell when he learns that
Tetration is sharing consumers' search-engine history with government
intelligence agencies. Several years ago, the real Joshua Cohen showed a draft
to a friend, an expert in cyber security and civil liberties who warned him that
a plot twist based on such a revelation might be a bit of a stretch.

Then, in the summer of 2013, Edward J. Snowden, the former intelligence
contractor, leaked hundreds of thousands of classified documents revealing the
extent of the United States government's warrantless surveillance of its
citizens, and the role that communications and technology companies played in
handing over consumer data. Mr. Cohen read in disbelief about a web surveillance
program, XKeyscore, that was not unlike his invented program, called
''autotet.''

He was elated.

''The world made this book true while I was writing it, which of course is the
paranoid's greatest fantasy,'' he said, smoking a cigarette and sipping a glass
of grapefruit juice in his small basement apartment in Red Hook, Brooklyn, one
morning. ''The question now is not, 'Is this true,' but, 'How can we live with
it?' ''

''Book of Numbers,'' a dense, unbridled 580-page epic, is the latest and perhaps
most ambitious entry into a growing literary subgenre that some book critics
have labeled ''The Great American Internet Novel.'' Notable specimens include
Thomas Pynchon's gleefully paranoid tech takedown ''Bleeding Edge''; Dave
Eggers's ominous ''The Circle,'' about a sinister Internet company that comes to
control everything from personal finance and health care to elections; and Peter
Carey's cyber thriller, ''Amnesia,'' which was inspired by WikiLeaks and
features a persecuted computer hacker.

Mr. Cohen, 34, has taken the tech trope even further with ''Book of Numbers,''
which the novelist Adam Ross called ''the single best novel yet written about
what it means to remain human in the Internet Era.'' The narrative explores how
technology permeates every aspect of our daily lives and consciousness, altering
how we construct our sense of self and infecting our speech. (Mr. Cohen's
frequent use of the invented verb ''tetrate'' serves as a reminder that
''Google'' is a relatively new verb.) Technology is no longer something we
simply use, it is something we are used and shaped by. As the novel's shadowy
antihero describes the transaction between the search engine company and its
users, ''All who read us are read.''

The novelist Norman Rush, an admirer of Mr. Cohen, said the ambition and scope
of ''Book of Numbers'' set it apart from earlier fictional works about our
growing dependence on technology. ''It's a theme that's so big, it's daunting,
and it's hard to know how to get at it,'' he said. ''He's a very extravagant
risk-taking writer, and it took that kind of spirit.''

Mr. Cohen said a simple, nagging question provided the spark for the novel.

''What are the basic principles behind these devices that have come to dominate
every aspect of my life?'' he said.

Mr. Cohen, who seems more comfortable on the fringes, and sniffs at M.F.A.
programs -- ''A degree in servitude,'' he called them in a 2010 interview --
doesn't seem at first like the best-equipped person to bridge the divide between
literature and technology. He writes his first drafts in longhand on legal pads.
His book collection, which spills from shelves into neatly organized stacks on
the floor, includes books in German and Hebrew, languages he reads fluently and
has translated. The first sentence of ''Book of Numbers,'' takes aim at tech
adopters, using a crude expletive to tell those who are reading the book on a
screen not to bother. ''I'll only talk if I'm gripped with both hands,'' the
narrator continues.

Mr. Cohen tried to tackle the unwieldy subject from the inside. He read more
than 180 books, including wonky treatises about surveillance and cyber security,
books about the history and architecture of the Internet, and memoirs and
biographies of technological innovators like Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, Alan Turing
and Konrad Zuse, a German computer pioneer (a portrait of Mr. Zuse glares down
from the wall above Mr. Cohen's desk). He visited the National Security Agency's
museum of cryptology. He studied technology patents on Google patent search.

He also learned to write computer code, reading books on Python programming and
taking online classes. ''I was interested in the connections between these
algorithms and language,'' he said.

Early on, he had turned to his friend Ben Wizner, a lawyer at the American Civil
Liberties Union, for feedback. They shared books about surveillance and privacy,
and had intense, alcohol-fueled debates. Mr. Wizner, who ended up representing
Mr. Snowden, said the depiction of the ''surveillance economy'' in ''Book of
Numbers'' was alarmingly accurate, and added that he hoped the book would drive
a more robust discussion about Internet-enabled surveillance.

''There's a frustration on the law and advocacy side about how abstract some of
these issues can seem to the public,'' Mr. Wizner said. ''For some people, the
novelist's eye can show the power and the danger of these systems in ways that
we can't.''

Mr. Cohen grew up in a book-filled house in Atlantic City, N.J., and studied
composition at the Manhattan School of Music. When he was 20, he moved to
Berlin, with money from a music composition prize. ''I was broke, just about as
broke as I am now,'' he said. ''I went with this romantic idea that I would just
write and live on $300 a month.'' To scrape by, he worked as the Central
European correspondent for The Forward, and ghostwrote two memoirs by Holocaust
survivors.

He published his first short story collection, ''The Quorum,'' in 2005, and was
paid ''$50 and beer.'' He made incrementally more, in the three- and four-figure
range, on his next few books. For his 2010 novel ''Witz,'' a dark satire about
the last Jew on earth that was turned down by at least eight major publishers,
he says he received a small advance of around $1,200 from Dalkey Archive Press.

''I've spent a decade entirely broke, published by small presses, read by no
one,'' he said. That is no longer the case. This week, Random House is
publishing ''Book of Numbers,'' which some have compared to sweeping works by
David Foster Wallace and Mr. Pynchon.

''Book of Numbers'' also shares some literary DNA with classic stories by Poe,
Nabokov and Dostoyevsky about doppelgängers and doubles, a theme that Mr. Cohen
felt was ripe for reworking in the Internet age. In the novel, the writer Joshua
Cohen is handpicked to ghostwrite the memoir of Tetration's founder partly
because they have the same name, and he is irked that his famous subject takes
up the first 324 entries on Tetration's search rankings, making his own writing
virtually invisible.

The real Mr. Cohen has been similarly haunted by another writer named Joshua
Cohen, a political philosopher. Once, when Mr. Cohen was giving a reading in
Berlin, a man approached him with five copies of the other Joshua Cohen's
philosophy books to sign. The man could not be reasoned with, so Mr. Cohen
signed them. Occasionally, the other Joshua Cohen gets review copies intended
for Mr. Cohen, or Mr. Cohen gets mistakenly invited to speak at philosophy
conferences.

But Mr. Cohen has started to overshadow his Internet twin in search engine
rankings.

''I'm destroying him on Google, which makes me so happy,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/13/books/nothing-to-hide-and-nowhere-to-hide-it-i
n-joshua-cohens-internet-novel.html

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joshua Cohen imagined a world with extensive surveillance years
ago. (C1)
 JOSHUA COHEN: Author of ''Book of Numbers'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANNY GHITIS FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 13, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

MERS Tarnishes Korean President's Image as Leader

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1109 words


SEOUL, South Korea --  It used to be an often-cited story about Park Geun-hye,
the president of South Korea: When her father, the longtime dictator Park
Chung-hee, was assassinated by his spy chief in 1979, her first reaction was to
ask whether there was any unusual movement by the North Korean military along
the border.

The episode helped build Ms. Park an image as a strong leader who could keep a
clear head in a crisis, and it propelled her to victory in the 2012 election, in
which she became South Korea's first female president.

But that image has come crashing down as Ms. Park's government has fumbled in
its efforts to contain an outbreak of Middle East respiratory syndrome, just a
year after she and her administration were criticized for their response to the
ferry sinking that killed 304 people, mostly teenagers.

With her approval rating plunging, critics and political analysts alike are
questioning her leadership as the country faces pressing issues like a slowing
economy, a national pension system awaiting an overhaul, and nuclear and missile
threats from North Korea.

''She is too slow, too closed, to be able to deliver a timely message to her
people at a time like this,'' said Choi Jin, director of the Institute of
Presidential Leadership in Seoul. ''She has turned out to be the most shut-off
and people-averse president we ever had. I have serious doubts about the rest of
her term.''

Since the first case of the virus, known as MERS, was confirmed in South Korea
on May 20, it has infected 137 other people, including 14 who have died. The
outbreak is the worst reported outside Saudi Arabia, where the disease emerged
in 2012. More than 3,600 South Koreans are being observed for symptoms, and over
2,900 schools are closed.

There are also fears that the outbreak will affect the economy. Once-bustling
shopping districts in Seoul have emptied of the Chinese visitors who are the
biggest source of foreign tourist income for South Korea.

Department stores and theaters say that customers are staying away. On Thursday,
the Bank of Korea cut its interest rate to a record low amid fears that the
economy could slump further.

While the outbreak has exposed failings in the country's public health system,
like overcrowded emergency rooms, Ms. Park's leadership has also been called
into question. Her approval rating, which hovered around 40 percent before the
outbreak, has dropped to 33 percent, according to a survey released by Gallup
Korea on Friday.

Reacting to domestic pressure, Ms. Park on Wednesday postponed a meeting with
President Obama in Washington that had been set for next week.

''Her lame-duck phase is arriving sooner than expected,'' said Kim Ji-yoon, a
political analyst at the Asan Institute for Policy Studies in Seoul, citing
growing questions about her competence. ''I don't think the postponement of her
U.S. trip does anything good, other than making her look inconsistent.''

Even the country's powerful conservative news media, which tends to support Ms.
Park, has begun attacking her amid the MERS outbreak.

Her critics say she failed to recognize a national crisis early on and to
communicate with the people, acting only once popular opinion had turned against
her. They note that she did not convene a meeting of cabinet ministers and
civilian experts on MERS until two weeks after the outbreak began. As many as
five overlapping task forces from different government agencies have sprung up
to deal with MERS, which critics say shows the same lack of efficient leadership
displayed during the ferry crisis.

As new MERS cases emerged, the government was quick to update the numbers with a
few details of individual infections. But it initially kept other vital
information to itself, refusing to publicize the names of hospitals with
infected patients, the route of the disease's spread, or details of what the
government was doing to stop the chain of transmission.

This lack of information ''can easily create anxiety and fear in the public,''
said Peter Ben Embarek, a chief scientist on MERS at the World Health
Organization.

South Korean officials have instead arrested at least eight people, including a
few who circulated the names of hospitals said to have MERS patients, after the
government condemned the spread of ''unconfirmed rumors'' on social media. The
Health Ministry advised people to avoid contact with camels, which one critic,
in a post that went viral on Twitter, said was tantamount in South Korea to
asking people to avoid unicorns.

Ms. Park's image as an aloof leader has been bolstered by her reluctance to face
the news media. Last year, she only held one news conference. This year, too,
she has held only one so far -- in January. She has also been accused of being
imperious with senior officials and of not tolerating dissent.

Official photos often show ministers and presidential staff members
reverentially taking notes while she speaks, which some critics liken to North
Korean generals' trailing their young leader, Kim Jong-un, with note pads.

''Her leadership smacks somewhat of a monarchy,'' said Ahn Byong-jin, a
political scientist at Kyung Hee Cyber University in Seoul. ''You get to wonder
whether she knows what 'being presidential' means.''

Ms. Park's office declined to answer questions or to comment for this article.

Her Saenuri Party remains more popular than the main opposition, which has been
entangled in internal disputes. But Mr. Ahn said Ms. Park's ability to push her
domestic and international agenda could be seriously compromised because her
''political capital would likely run thin'' in the wake of the MERS crisis. The
Saenuri Party may turn its back against the unpopular president before
parliamentary elections next year, he said.

Some political analysts traced Ms. Park's leadership style to her background.
Her father ruled the country with an iron fist for 18 years, and Ms. Park served
as first lady after her mother was assassinated in 1974.

After her father's death, she secluded herself in her Seoul home for almost 18
years before she entered politics during the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis.

She quickly emerged as a darling of conservative South Koreans who hankered for
the charismatic leadership associated with her father. Ms. Park, who never
married, said she was ''married to the nation.''

Behind that image, however, was a leader whose ''mind-set remains stuck in her
father's days, steeped in a hierarchical and closed leadership,'' Mr. Choi, of
the Institute of Presidential Leadership, said. ''What we once praised as her
greatest strengths have turned out her biggest weaknesses.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/13/world/mers-tarnishes-korean-presidents-image-a
s-leader.html

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top, a worker sprayed an art hall in Seoul with
antiseptic
a train rider wore a protective mask
President Park Geun-hye with health care providers at a hospital treating MERS
patients. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEE JIN-MAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
KIM HONG-JI/REUTERS
 PRESIDENTIAL HOUSE VIA YONAP NEWS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                              June 19, 2015 Friday

Google to Remove 'Revenge Porn' Images From Search Results

BYLINE: DINO GRANDONI

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 430 words



HIGHLIGHT: If Google deems an image revenge porn, it will still be accessible to
someone who knows the direct web address of the image. But once delisted from
Google, the image could not be found through the search engine.


There are few types of information that Google isn't busy organizing for its
users. But on Friday, it said it would add another: so-called revenge porn.

The company announced in a blog post that it would soon begin to remove links to
websites hosting revenge porn, or revealing images published online by former
romantic partners without permission from those depicted in the photographs.
This summer, Google will post a form online in which victims of revenge porn can
ask the search engine to remove from its search results a link to a website with
these images.

If Google deems an image revenge porn, it will still be accessible to someone
who knows the direct web address of the image. But once delisted from Google,
the image could not be found through the search engine.

Under federal law, websites generally cannot be held responsible for photos or
other information third parties post to them. But technology companies, heeding
the calls of lawyers and activists, are beginning to act on their own to limit
access to revenge porn images.

In February, Reddit banned revenge porn against the protests of many of its
freewheeling loyalists. In March, Twitter and Facebook, the latter never
friendly to pornography to begin with, explicitly banned users from posting
intimate photos without consent.

In the blog post, Google explained that the decision was consistent with its
current guidelines.

"This is a narrow and limited policy, similar to how we treat removal requests
for other highly sensitive personal information, such as bank account numbers
and signatures, that may surface in our search results," wrote Amit Singhal,
senior vice president of Google's search engine.

Mary Anne Franks,  a professor at the University of Miami School of Law and vice
president of the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative, said she welcomed the policy
change by Google as it will mean fewer victims of revenge porn in the future.
Ms. Franks, an advocate of legislation to outlaw revenge porn, said she has been
advising Google for more than a year on developing an improved policy for
protecting individual's sexual privacy.

"I've been advocating for them to treat sexual information the same way they
treat other forms of sensitive private information," said Ms. Franks.

Google has often been put in the position of removing links from its search
results, whether it wants to or not. Under the Europe Union's "right to be
forgotten" rules, people with connections to Europe can ask the search engine to
remove links to websites containing an individual's name.

Matthew Goldstein contributed reporting.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 20, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Business Briefing; Google to Remove Links to 'Revenge Pornography'

BYLINE: By DINO GRANDONI

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 450 words


There are few types of information that Google isn't busy organizing for its
users. But on Friday, it said it would add another: so-called revenge porn.

The company announced in a blog post that it would soon begin to remove links to
websites hosting revenge porn, or revealing images published online by former
romantic partners without permission from those depicted in the photographs.
This summer, Google will post a form online in which victims of revenge porn can
ask the search engine to remove from its search results a link to a website with
these images.

If Google deems an image revenge porn, it will still be accessible to someone
who knows the direct web address of the image. But once delisted from Google,
the image could not be found through the search engine.

Under federal law, websites generally cannot be held responsible for photos or
other information third parties post to them. But technology companies, heeding
the calls of lawyers and activists, are beginning to act on their own to limit
access to revenge porn images.

In February, Reddit banned revenge porn against the protests of many of its
freewheeling loyalists. In March, Twitter and Facebook, the latter never
friendly to pornography to begin with, explicitly banned users from posting
intimate photos without consent.

In the blog post, Google explained that the decision was consistent with its
current guidelines.

''This is a narrow and limited policy, similar to how we treat removal requests
for other highly sensitive personal information, such as bank account numbers
and signatures, that may surface in our search results,'' wrote Amit Singhal,
senior vice president of Google's search engine.

Mary Anne Franks,  a professor at the University of Miami School of Law and vice
president of the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative, said she welcomed the policy
change by Google as it will mean fewer victims of revenge porn in the future.
Ms. Franks, an advocate of legislation to outlaw revenge porn, said she has been
advising Google for more than a year on developing an improved policy for
protecting individual's sexual privacy.

''I've been advocating for them to treat sexual information the same way they
treat other forms of sensitive private information,'' said Ms. Franks.

Google has often been put in the position of removing links from its search
results, whether it wants to or not. Under the Europe Union's ''right to be
forgotten'' rules, people with connections to Europe can ask the search engine
to remove links to websites containing an individual's name.

Matthew Goldstein contributed reporting.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/06/19/google-to-remove-revenge-porn-images-fr
om-search-results/

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 24, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cold War Without the Fun

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 875 words


Let's see, America is prepositioning battle tanks with our East European NATO
allies to counterbalance Russia; U.S. and Russian military planes recently flew
within 10 feet of each other; Russia is building a new generation of long-range
ballistic missiles; and the U.S. and China are jostling in the South China Sea.
Did someone restart the Cold War while I was looking the other way?

If so, this time it seems like the Cold War without the fun -- that is, without
James Bond, Smersh, ''Get Smart'' Agent 86's shoe phone, Nikita Khrushchev's
shoe-banging, a race to the moon or a debate between American and Soviet leaders
over whose country has the best kitchen appliances. And I don't think we're
going to see President Obama in Kiev declaring, à la President Kennedy, ''ich
bin ein Ukrainian.'' Also, the lingo of our day -- ''reset with Russia'' or
''pivot to Asia'' -- has none of the gravitas of -- drum roll, please --
''détente.''

No, this post-post-Cold War has more of a W.W.E. -- World Wrestling
Entertainment -- feel to it, and I don't just mean President Vladimir Putin of
Russia's riding horses bare-chested, although that is an apt metaphor. It's just
a raw jostling for power for power's sake -- not a clash of influential ideas
but rather of spheres of influence: ''You cross that line, I punch your nose.''
''Why?'' ''Because I said so.'' ''You got a problem with that?'' ''Yes, let me
show you my drone. You got a problem with that?'' ''Not at all. My cyber guys
stole the guidance system last week from Northrop Grumman.'' ''You got a problem
with that?''

The Cold War had a beginning, an end and even a closing curtain, with the fall
of the Berlin Wall. But the post-post-Cold War has brought us full circle back
to the pre-Cold War and the game of nations. There was a moment when it seemed
as though it would all be otherwise -- when it seemed that Arabs and Israelis
would make peace, that China would evolve into a more consensual political
system and that Russia would become part of Europe and the G-8. That was a
lifetime ago.

Now Western reporters struggle to get visas to China, no American businessman
with a brain takes his laptop to Beijing, Chinese hackers have more of your
personal data now than LinkedIn, Russia is still intent on becoming part of
Europe -- by annexing a piece here and a piece there -- and the G-8 is now the
G-1.5 (America and Germany).

When did it all go sour? We fired the first shot when we expanded NATO toward
the Russian border even though the Soviet Union had disappeared. Message to
Moscow: You are always an enemy, no matter what system you have. When oil prices
recovered, Putin sought his revenge for this humiliation, but now he's just
using the NATO threat to justify the militarization of Russian society so he and
his fellow kleptocrats can stay in power and paint their opponents as lackeys of
the West.

NATO's toppling of the Libyan leader Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Arab Spring and the
Moscow street protests that followed rattled Putin, said Sergei Guriev, the
noted Russian economist now based in Paris. ''Putin understood that he lost the
Russian middle class and so he started to look for legitimacy somewhere else''
-- in hypernationalism and anti-Americanism.

But Guriev makes an important point. ''If not for the Western sanctions on
Russia, East Ukraine would already have been part of Russia today,'' he said,
adding that there is nothing Putin fears more than Ukraine succeeding in
diminishing corruption and building a modern economy that would be everything
Putin's Russia is not. Guriev is worried, though, that the anti-Western
propaganda Putin has been pumping into the veins of the Russian public will have
a lasting effect and make his successor even worse. Either way, ''Russia will be
a big challenge for your next president.''

The Chinese leadership is not as dumb or desperate as Putin -- and needs access
to U.S. markets more -- so, for now, China's leaders still behave with some
restraint in asserting their claims in the South China Sea. But the fact is, as
the Asia expert Andrew Browne noted in The Wall Street Journal, ''the U.S.-China
relationship has lost its strategic raison d'être: the Soviet Union, the common
threat that brought the two countries together.'' They have not forged a new
one, like being co-managers of global stability.

In short, the attraction of the U.S. economy and the bite of U.S. sanctions are
more vital than ever in managing the post-post-Cold War game of nations,
including bringing Iran to nuclear talks. We may be back to traditional
geopolitics, but it's in a much more interdependent world, where our economic
clout is still a source of restraint on Moscow and Beijing. Putin doesn't
disguise his military involvement in Ukraine for nothing; he's afraid of more
U.S. banking sanctions. China doesn't circumscribe its behavior in the South
China Sea for nothing; it can't grow without exporting to America. It's not just
our guns; it's our butter. It's why we should be expanding U.S.-shaped
free-trade deals with Asia and Europe, and it's why the most important source of
stability in the world today is the health of the U.S. economy. We can walk
softly only as long as we carry a big stick -- and a big wallet.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/24/opinion/cold-war-without-the-fun.html

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 24, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Reasons to Be Paranoid

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 788 words


Occupy Wall Street, the protest movement that erupted in 2011, didn't do much to
curb the financial industry. It didn't die out, though. It went Hollywood.

''Mr. Robot,'' an intriguing new series that debuts on Wednesday on the USA
Network, is a case in point: a cyber-age thriller infused with a dark, almost
nihilistic pessimism about the Internet, capitalism and income inequality. And
that makes it kind of fun.

The show pits a vigilante hacker, Elliot (Rami Malek), against a ruthless
multinational conglomerate, E Corp, run by, as Elliot puts it, ''the top 1
percent of the top 1 percent who play God without permission.'' Elliot
visualizes the corporate logo as Evil Corp.

This is not the first television series to hack the hackers, so to speak. There
are digital dissidents all over the place, including a gifted but deeply weird
hacker who befriends one of the heroes of ''American Odyssey,'' an underrated
NBC thriller whose season ends on Sunday, and a transgender blogger and reformed
hacker who calls herself a ''hacktavist'' on the Netflix series ''Sense8.''
''The Good Wife,'' on CBS, features a hip billionaire who made his fortune with
ChumHum, an Internet search engine. The CBS series ''Person of Interest'' is a
paean to surveillance paranoia, pairing a handsome former C.I.A. operative with
an eccentric billionaire software nerd to fight shadowy high-level conspirators.
And the name of the latest ''CSI'' spinoff says it all: ''CSI: Cyber.''

''Mr. Robot,'' however, takes the topic even further: The lonely, alienated
computer whiz is the hero, not a secondary character, and his solitary battle
against, among other things, corporate greed and corruption is at the core of
the show. (He also hates debt of all kinds -- credit card, third world and
college.)

Millennial bohemians are a familiar cultural type, but Mr. Malek, who was in the
''Night at the Museum'' movies and the HBO mini-series ''The Pacific,'' is both
touching and unnerving as a brilliant misanthrope in a hoodie. Elliot is a
little like a computer-age version of Travis Bickle from ''Taxi Driver,'' a
loner who is paranoid -- even about his own sanity -- and can barely speak to
strangers or even friends. Mostly, he vents his darker thoughts in one-way
conversations to an imaginary friend.

When his therapist, Krista (Gloria Reuben), asks him why he feels so alienated,
Elliot remains mute, but in his head, he gives her a long, sardonic answer.
''Oh, I don't know, is it that we collectively thought that Steve Jobs was a
great man even when we knew he made billions off the backs of children?'' His
mind flashes on an image of young Chinese women on an assembly line, then he
moves on to rant about the inane conformity of social media and the illusion of
democracy in a system enslaved by money and materialism.

By day, Elliot works as a programmer at a cybersecurity company whose major
client is E Corp; it's a job that he found through a childhood friend, Angela
(Portia Doubleday). Elliot has a thing for Angela, but she has a handsome,
ordinary boyfriend, Ollie (Ben Rappaport), who says things like ''I don't need
this kind of negativity in my life.''

In his off hours, Elliot has some scary vices, including hacking into and
searching the emails and caches of strangers and even his friends.

Elliot's technical prowess leads him to strange coded evidence of dueling
conspiracies: an off-the-grid secret cell of anarchist hackers (led by Christian
Slater) who want to recruit Elliot to their cause, and a cabal of powerful
business tycoons who seem in control of the global flow of information. One E
Corp executive, in particular, seems to understand how computers actually work:
Tyrell (Martin Wallstrom), a young, icy-eyed nemesis.

On the other hand, it could all be a figment of Elliot's imagination.

USA has a habit of teaming two handsome but disparate male characters to
infiltrate and subvert an affluent milieu. Its ''Royal Pains'' is about a doctor
who falls afoul of the medical establishment and ends up working as a concierge
doctor in the Hamptons, alongside his irresponsible, sybaritic brother.
Similarly, ''Suits,'' set in a cutthroat law firm, has a hero, a suave hotshot,
who recruits a brainy legal savant without a law degree to help him win cases
and climb the career ladder.

''Mr. Robot'' adapts the formula for a more cynical, anti-establishment moment.
Elliot doesn't have a buddy, and he doesn't want conventional success; he wants
conventions to fail. When a female friend asks him why he doesn't do social
media Elliot explains, ''I'm not on Facebook because I hate Facebook.''

She looks aghast and replies, ''That's crazy.''

Elliot could be crazy or the sanest person in the room.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/24/arts/television/review-in-mr-robot-even-the-pa
ranoid-may-have-enemies.html

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mr. Robot: Rami Malek in this USA series, starting Wednesday.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SARAH SHATZ/USA NETWORK) (C1)
 Christian Slater, left, and Rami Malek in ''Mr. Robot'' on the USA Network.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER KRAMER/USA NETWORK) (C2)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 29, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Preventing a Space War

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 500 words


Of all the places where conflict could erupt, space might seem the least likely,
except in movies. But increasingly, it is becoming a contested environment
posing new dangers.

The United States sees this as a vital security issue. ''Potential adversaries
understand our reliance on space and want to take it away from us,'' a senior
Pentagon official, told Congress in March. And while everything from control of
nuclear weapons to weather forecasting to cellphone use could be affected, the
United States ''is not adequately prepared for a conflict'' in space with
countries like China and Russia, he acknowledged.

The specific concern is the security of thousands of satellites and vehicles,
like the international space station, that orbit Earth. America has long
dominated space, but many other nations also have valuable assets in orbit.

Satellites enable the Pentagon to locate enemies on the battlefield, verify arms
control treaties and ensure early warning if an adversary targeted the country
with an intercontinental ballistic missile.

In the Cold War, the United States and Russia engaged in limited testing of
antisatellite, or ASAT, weapons. Now China, and to a lesser extent Russia, are
actively developing such offensive capabilities, including jammers, lasers and
cyber weapons that could damage satellite operations.

A turning point came in 2007 when China conducted its first successful ASAT test
by blowing up one of its own weather satellites. The hit unleashed more than
3,000 pieces of debris into space and fed suspicions about China's intentions.
Suggestions by Chinese experts that, in a conflict over Taiwan, Beijing might be
able to shoot down an American early warning satellite only deepened American
concerns.

Preventing conflicts in space will require more diplomacy. China, which has
shown little interest in focusing on the issue, agreed last week during talks in
Washington to hold regular discussions on space cooperation and avoiding
satellite collisions. Some concrete progress on these issues would be helpful
when President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China hold a summit meeting in
the fall.

China and Russia have proposed a legally binding treaty that would ban the use
of force or weapons in space, but most experts consider such a pact
unverifiable. A more practical course would be for them to work with the United
States and the European Union to establish norms for responsible behavior,
including not to test ASAT weapons. A United Nations-convened meeting planned
for July should aim to approve a code of conduct proposed by the Europeans,
whether or not Russia and China sign on.

The Obama administration is ready to invest more in defensive measures.
Officials say an additional $5 billion will be spent over five years on projects
like anti-jamming technologies. The Pentagon is also looking to build satellites
with greater resiliency. All of the major powers have much to lose if the
potential for conflicts in space escalates further.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/29/opinion/preventing-a-space-war.html

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDREW HOLDER)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 5, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paris When It Sizzles

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words


PARIS -- THE  turquoise tranquillity of the Côtes d'Azur was rocked a couple of
times during the Cannes Lions Festival, the advertising world's rosé-soaked
answer to the Cannes Film Festival.

Al Gore snubbed Monica Lewinsky. Lewinsky, who was giving a speech for Ogilvy &
Mather about how she became ''patient zero'' in the cyberbullying epidemic, was
slated to sit in a V.I.P. box with the former vice president, who got an award
for being a good brand.

But her invite got yanked.

The contretemps was a reminder that Gore's prissy attitude toward l'affaire
Monica helped cost him the election, because he was so angry at Bill Clinton
that he leashed the Big Dog, curtailing the president's campaigning, even in the
South. If Al had been less eager to put baby in a corner, there would have been
no phony action on Iraq and plenty of action on melting glaciers.

Monica's main bullies were not of the cyber variety. The Internet was just
getting up and running. Her chief bullies were flesh and blood, a raffish
president and feminist first lady who are now vying to be a feminist president
and raffish first lad. They're the ones who tried to paint her as a
''narcissistic looney toon,'' as Hillary put it to her friend Diane Blair.

Sidney Blumenthal, Hillary's Doberman and email correspondent, led the sliming
of Monica as a fantasist and stalker. Hillary's friends do not regard Monica as
a victim, but a predator. They think she let herself in for trouble when she
took up with a married president who was a magnet for right-wing bullies.

Yet, as Hillary's advisers said, being the victim of the Monica mess gave
Hillary the impetus, and public good will, to start her own political rise.

In her speech at Cannes, Monica did say it hurt to be called ''That Woman.'' But
other than that reference to Bill Clinton, she sticks to anonymous cyberbullies,
which may be prudent, with Hillary out on the trail. And even if it's a dodge,
it's nice to see the 41-year-old move out of her self-imposed exile, looking
lovely, acting gracious and speaking out for a good cause.

The other ruckus on the Riviera came when the ''influencers'' tried to get out
of town while French taxi drivers were striking, blocking airports, burning
tires, smashing windows and harassing Uber drivers. They were protesting
competition from the cheapest and least regulated Uber service, UberPop, which
is illegal in France. (Two Uber executives were indicted there last week.)

In Cannes, the Uber app also included helicopters, so the well-heeled media
barons, fearing No Exit, began summoning choppers to go to the airport, with
surge pricing at 800 euros.

France has been going through a heat wave and a rough time. A poll Thursday in
Libération, a left-leaning newspaper, even showed a surprisingly strong yearning
for Dominique Strauss-Kahn, recently acquitted of pimping charges.

Headlines railed about ''Espionnage Américain,'' the news that America has spied
on three French presidents. The Greek debt crisis threatens to erode the
European dream. An ISIS fanatic at an American-owned factory in Lyon killed his
French boss and displayed his head on the gate, as ISIS terrorists also hit
Tunisia and Kuwait. It was a chilling echo of the Charlie Hebdo massacre. As
America unwinds the Patriot Act, the French have been putting sweeping Big
Brother security measures in place, legalizing phone tapping and email
interception.

Although strikes come and go here, the violence of the Uber brawl seemed to
shock even the French. While commentators deplored the thuggery of some
cabdrivers, they deplored ''L'uberisation'' even more. ''The uberisation of the
economy is a godless and lawless development model,'' wrote Jean-Michel
Bouguereau in La République des Pyrénées.

Yves Théard in Le Figaro warned that ''the invasion of the digital economy''
risked loosening the screws of the French economic model, with its emphasis on
workers' rights and social protection, ''one by one.'' Yves Dusart in the
newspaper L'Est Républicain, summed up, ''The French model, snug in its padded
jewelry box, is cracking.''

What startled France, a country where the customer is always wrong, was the
revolt of the taxi rider. For the last half year, many have turned away from
cabs, loving the convenience of Uber and the way the drivers would open doors
and not have the meter prematurely racking up the tab.

The French were stunned to learn that the fifth floor of the American Embassy, a
few doors from the Élysée Palace, was a trompe l'oeil design hiding what they
call the ''big ears'' of eavesdropping equipment pointed at François Hollande
(and his actress girlfriend, Julie Gayet, who is stealthily hanging out at the
Élysée).

''It's a little bit like an invited guest whom you've surprised looking into the
bedroom through a keyhole,'' huffed Laurent Joffrin in a signed editorial in
Libération, concluding the only way to deal with this ''stain'' by a
''condescending ally'' against the rules of good conduct was to give asylum to
''the courageous whistle-blower,'' Edward Snowden.

French officials, pleased with the successful collaboration of the French and
the U.S. against jihadists in Africa, Libya, Mali and Syria, were more inclined
to treat the wiretapping as an old story. (Though Libération denounced that as
hypocritical, ''a case of Tartufferie.'')

I visited the Foreign Ministry at the Quai d'Orsay -- bristling with emergency
meetings on terrorism -- to check on the status of French-American relations.

Amid the troubles besetting tourists coming to France, the ministry website had
warnings for French tourists going to America: Do not act too ''Latin,'' with
sexual behavior and jokes, and ''keep calm in all circumstances,'' given
America's scorn for gun control, which the French find incomprehensible. They
were also advised not to make any aggressive gestures at the police.

Romain Nadal, a charming ministry spokesman, was eager to assure me that the
''strong love story'' between the countries had not soured. He shook his head at
Courtney Love's angry tweet that the Uber ferocity had made Paris more dangerous
than Baghdad.

Nadal, now 47, fondly reminisced about a Greyhound bus trip he took around
America when he was 18. ''I went to Tallahassee,'' he said proudly. ''We love
the contrast. We love Death Valley.

''What I was always surprised at is, the American people are more friendly than
the French people and, in a certain way, more Latin than us,'' he said.
''They're closer to the south of France than the north. Here in Paris, people
are more cold.''

He enthused about American movies, praising the talent of ''the Brothers
Cohens,'' and Sean Penn (which he pronounced ''Champagne'').

He said the French are very attentive to the racial debate in America, because
they have melting-pot tensions as well. ''We know the fight for the civil
rights, the movie of this man working in the White House, Forest Whitaker.''

Despite the disgust over his ''big ears'' ---- the ones at the embassy --
President Obama is popular. ''For us,'' Nadal said, ''it's a miracle, it's a
dream, a black man ruling the United States, not just any country, but one that
means a lot to us.

''If we criticize the States, it's because we love the States. But we love a
certain representation of the States. We love Lincoln. We love Kennedy. We love
Roosevelt and the New Deal. We love the Founding Fathers. We love the
creativity. We don't like the rifle association.''

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/05/opinion/sunday/maureen-dowd-paris-when-it-sizz
les.html

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Taxi drivers on strike burned tires during a national protest
against Uber in Marseille, France, last week. The drivers blocked road access to
airports and train stations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEAN-PAUL PELISSIER/REUTERS) (SR9)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                             July 8, 2015 Wednesday

When Computers Go Down, It's Not Always a Hack

BYLINE: VIKAS BAJAJ

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 345 words



HIGHLIGHT: We&#8217;re too quick to blame hackers for failures like the one that
disrupted trading on the New York Stock Exchange.


In the immediate aftermath of terrorist attacks like the 2011 massacre in Oslo
and the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, many people mistakenly jump to the
conclusion that the perpetrators are Islamic fundamentalists. Increasingly,
something similar seems to be happening with technical failures: If an important
computer system goes down somewhere, many people suspect that it was the result
of a hacking attack that originated in China, Russia or North Korea.

This tendency was apparent earlier today after a series of high-profile computer
problems temporarily disrupted United Airlines flights, trading on the New York
Stock Exchange and the home page of The Wall Street Journal. Speculation that
the three events might have been related and were caused by a cyber attack was
rife online and even prompted unnamed federal officials to tell reporters that
there was no evidence to suggest malicious activity.

It is only natural that people jump to conclusions about the causes of computer
failures, just as they do with terrorist attacks. After all, hackers have
successfully broken into and stolen information from businesses like Sony and
Target and government agencies like the Office of Personnel Management and the
White House.

But it bears repeating that our assumptions can be quite flawed, especially when
they are based on a series of random observations. A recent tally by New
America, a research organization, found that white supremacists, anti-government
fanatics and other non-Muslim extremists carried out most of the lethal attacks
in the 14 years since Al Qaeda attacked the United States in 2001.

In the digital world, hacking certainly is a big problem. But large computer
systems used by businesses, governments, universities and other organizations
fail all the time because of programming errors and other technical problems. In
fact, hackers often get access to computer networks through such
vulnerabilities. If anything, recent technical failures are an important
reminder that we are increasingly reliant on systems that can be quite unstable
and insecure.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 10, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hacking Exposed 21 Million in U.S., Government Says

BYLINE: By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS; Michael D. Shear and Michael S. Schmidt
contributed reporting from Washington, and Nicole Perlroth from San Francisco.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words


WASHINGTON --  The Obama administration on Thursday revealed that 21.5 million
people were swept up in a colossal breach of government computer systems that
was far more damaging than initially thought, resulting in the theft of a vast
trove of personal information, including Social Security numbers and some
fingerprints.

Every person given a government background check for the last 15 years was
probably affected, the Office of Personnel Management said in announcing the
results of a forensic investigation of the episode, whose existence was known
but not its sweeping toll.

The agency said hackers stole ''sensitive information,'' including addresses,
health and financial history, and other private details, from 19.7 million
people who had been subjected to a government background check, as well as 1.8
million others, including their spouses and friends. The theft was separate
from, but related to, a breach revealed last month that compromised the
personnel data of 4.2 million federal employees, officials said.

Both attacks are believed to have originated in China, although senior
administration officials on Thursday declined to pinpoint a perpetrator, except
to say that they had indications that the same actor carried out the two hacks.

The breaches constitute what is apparently the largest cyberattack into the
systems of the United States government, providing a frightening glimpse of the
technological vulnerabilities of federal agencies that handle sensitive
information. They also seemed certain to intensify debate in Washington over
what the government must do to address its substantial weaknesses in
cybersecurity, long the subject of dire warnings but seldom acted upon by
agencies, Congress or the White House.

''This incident that we are talking about today is unfortunately not without
precedent,'' said Michael Daniel, the White House cybersecurity coordinator.
''We have to raise our level of cybersecurity in both the private sector and the
public sector.''

In a conference call to detail the grim findings and announce the agency's
response, Katherine Archuleta, the director of the Office of Personnel
Management, said that she would not resign despite calls from members of
Congress in both parties for her dismissal.

''I am committed to the work that I am doing at O.P.M.,'' she said. ''We are
working very hard, not only at O.P.M. but across government, to ensure the
cybersecurity of all our systems, and I will continue to do so.''

She announced new security measures that would be installed at the agency as
well as free credit and identity theft monitoring for the victims of the breach,
although she said there was ''no information at this time to suggest any misuse
or further dissemination of the information that was stolen from O.P.M.'s
system.''

Even so, national security officials have acknowledged the seriousness of the
intrusion. Before the scope was made public on Thursday, James B. Comey, Jr.,
the director of the F.B.I., called the breach ''a very big deal,'' noting that
the information obtained included people's addresses; details on their
neighbors, friends and relatives; their travel destinations outside the United
States; and any foreigners they had come into contact with.

''There is a treasure trove of information about everybody who has worked for,
tried to work for or works for the United States government,'' Mr. Comey said
during a briefing. ''Just imagine you are an intelligence service and you had
that data, how it would be useful to you.''

Administration officials said it was the personnel office's work to modernize
its computer systems that first led it to detect the breach.

In April, the agency informed the Department of Homeland Security that it had
found an intrusion, and the department went to work with the F.B.I. to learn
more, said Andy Ozment, a top cybersecurity official at Homeland Security. That
inquiry, he said, revealed that the intruder had broken into a network at the
Interior Department that held a personnel office database, leading to the theft
of records of 4.2 million current and former federal employees. It also found
that there had been a computer intrusion at the personnel office itself, leading
to the much larger trove of background check records.

Mr. Ozment said the hacker in both cases gained access to the computer systems
''via a compromised credential of a contractor.''

The debacle has touched off a scramble by federal officials to bolster the
security of their networks. Tony Scott, the government's chief information
officer, said every agency was racing to make improvements, including the use of
basic tools like two-factor authentication that requires anyone with the
password to a system to use a second, one-time password to log in from an
unrecognized computer.

''This is important work across all of the agencies of the federal government to
make sure that we greatly enhance the cybersecurity profile of the U.S.
government as a whole,'' Mr. Scott said.

But that effort comes after almost two decades of warnings from government
auditors and other internal investigations into the vulnerabilities in federal
agency networks. ''There's still much that agencies need to do that they are not
doing to protect their systems,'' said Gregory C. Wilshusen, the director of
information security issues at the Government Accountability Office, which has
conducted cyber audits for almost two decades.

Warnings from auditors about serious vulnerabilities are often ignored by agency
officials, he added. ''That's been a recurring theme. They believe they've taken
corrective actions, but when one goes back to check, we find that they
haven't.''

The revelations quickly prompted calls for the ouster of Ms. Archuleta, whose
agency had been warned in a series of reports since 2007 about the many
vulnerabilities on its antiquated computer systems.

Representative Jason Chaffetz, Republican of Utah and the chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said Ms. Archuleta and her top
technology official should resign or be removed.

''Their negligence has now put the personal and sensitive information of 21.5
million Americans into the hands of our adversaries,'' Mr. Chaffetz said. ''Such
incompetence is inexcusable.''

The criticism was bipartisan. Senator Mark W. Warner, Democrat of Virginia, also
called on Ms. Archuleta to step down.

''The technological and security failures at the Office of Personnel Management
predate this director's term, but Director Archuleta's slow and uneven response
has not inspired confidence that she is the right person to manage OPM through
this crisis,'' Mr. Warner said in a statement.

That attackers were able to compromise the agency using a contractor's
credentials is unacceptable, security experts say, given the wide availability
of two-factor authentication tools, which have become standard practice,
particularly since a cyberattack at Target nearly two years ago, when hackers
managed to break into the retailer's system using the credentials of a heating
and cooling contractor.

''A second offense is more unacceptable than the first,'' said Suni Munshani,
the chief executive of Protegrity, a data security company. ''The O.P.M. and
government agencies need to get their act together and better protect the
information of their employees and citizens.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/10/us/office-of-personnel-management-hackers-got-
data-of-millions.html

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 17, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Saudi Obsession With Politics and Religion

BYLINE: By BEN HUBBARD and MAYY EL SHEIKH; Reporting was contributed by Hwaida
Saad from Beirut; Karam Shoumali from Istanbul; Salman Masood from Islamabad,
Pakistan; Mujib Mashal from Kabul, Afghanistan; and Suhasini Raj from New Delhi.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1797 words


BEIRUT, Lebanon --  For decades, Saudi Arabia has poured billions of its oil
dollars into sympathetic Islamic organizations around the world, quietly
practicing checkbook diplomacy to advance its agenda.

But a trove of thousands of Saudi documents recently released by WikiLeaks
reveals in surprising detail how the government's goal in recent years was not
just to spread its strict version of Sunni Islam -- though that was a priority
-- but also to undermine its primary adversary: Shiite Iran.

The documents from Saudi Arabia's Foreign Ministry illustrate a near obsession
with Iran, with diplomats in Africa, Asia and Europe monitoring Iranian
activities in minute detail and top government agencies plotting moves to limit
the spread of Shiite Islam.

The scope of this global oil-funded operation helps explain the kingdom's alarm
at the deal reached on Tuesday between world powers and Iran over its nuclear
program. Saudi leaders worry that relief from sanctions will give Iran more
money to strengthen its militant proxies. But the documents reveal a depth of
competition that is far more comprehensive, with deep roots in the religious
ideologies that underpin the two nations.

The documents indicate an extensive apparatus inside the Saudi government
dedicated to missionary activity that brings in officials from the Foreign,
Interior and Islamic Affairs Ministries, the intelligence service and the office
of the king.

Recent initiatives have included putting foreign preachers on the Saudi payroll,
building mosques, schools and study centers, and undermining foreign officials
and news media deemed threatening to the kingdom's agenda.

At times, the king got involved, ordering an Iranian television station off the
air or granting $1 million to an Islamic association in India.

''We are talking about thousands and thousands of activist organizations and
preachers who are in the Saudi sphere of influence because they are directly or
indirectly funded by them,'' said Usama Hasan, a senior researcher in Islamic
studies at the Quilliam Foundation in London. ''It has been a huge factor, and
the Saudi influence is undeniable.''

While the documents do not show any Saudi support for militant activity, critics
argue that the kingdom's campaign against Shiites -- and its promotion of a
strict form of Islam -- have eroded pluralism in the Muslim world and added to
the tensions fueling conflicts in Iraq, Syria, Yemen and elsewhere.

The Saudi government has made no secret of its international religious mission,
nor of its enmity toward Iran. But it has found the leaks deeply embarrassing
and has told its citizens that spreading them is a crime.

It said last month that the documents were related to an electronic attack in
March on the Foreign Ministry that was claimed by the Yemeni Cyber Army, a
little-known group believed to be backed by Iran. WikiLeaks mentioned the attack
when it released the documents.

While Saudi Arabia says some documents were fabricated, many contain correct
names and phone numbers, and a number of individuals and associations named in
them verified their contents when reached by reporters from The New York Times.

The trove mostly covers the period from 2010 to early 2015. It documents
religious outreach coordinated by the Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, an
interministerial body that King Salman dissolved in a government overhaul after
his ascension this year.

The Foreign Ministry relayed funding requests to officials in Riyadh, the
Interior Ministry and the intelligence agency sometimes vetted potential
recipients, the Saudi-supported Muslim World League helped coordinate strategy,
and Saudi diplomats across the globe oversaw projects. Together, these officials
identified sympathetic Muslim leaders and associations abroad, distributed funds
and religious literature produced in Saudi Arabia, trained preachers and gave
them salaries to work in their own countries.

One example of this is Sheikh Suhaib Hasan, an Indian Islamic scholar who was
educated in Saudi Arabia and worked for the kingdom for four decades in Kenya
and in Britain, where he helped found the Islamic Sharia Council, according to a
cable from the Saudi Embassy in London whose contents were verified by his son,
Mr. Hasan of the Quilliam Foundation.

Clear in many of the diplomatic messages are Saudi fears of Iranian influence
and of the spread of Shiite Islam.

The Saudi Embassy in Tehran sent daily reports on local news coverage of Saudi
Arabia. One cable suggested the kingdom improve its image by starting a
Persian-language television station and sending pro-Saudi preachers to tour
Iran.

Other cables detailed worries that Iran sought to turn Tajikistan into ''a
center to export its religious revolution and to spread its ideology in the
region's countries.'' The Saudi ambassador in Tajikistan suggested that Tajik
officials could restrict Iranian support ''if other sources of financial support
become available, especially from the kingdom.''

The fear of Shiite influence extended to countries where Muslims are small
minorities, like China, where a Saudi delegation was charged with ''suggesting
practical programs that can be carried out to confront Shiite expansion in
China.'' And documents from the Philippines, where only 5 percent of the
population is Muslim, included suggested steps to ''restrict the Iranian
presence.''

In 2012, Saudi ambassadors from across Africa were told to file reports on
Iranian activities in their countries. The Saudi ambassador to Uganda soon filed
a detailed report on ''Shiite expansion'' in the mostly Christian country.

A cable from the predominantly Muslim nation of Mali warned that Iran was
appealing to the local Muslims, who knew little of ''the truth of the extremist,
racist Shiite ideology that goes against all other Islamic schools.''

Many of those seeking funds referred to the Saudi-Iranian rivalry in their
appeals, the cables showed.

One proposal from the Afghan Foundation in Afghanistan said that it needed
funding because such projects ''do not receive support from any entities, while
others, especially Shiites, get a lot of aid from several places, including
Iran.''

Reached in Kabul, the Afghan capital, one of the center's founders, Wakil Ahmad
Mutawakil, acknowledged that the group had appealed for Saudi funding but said
that it had received none.

The kingdom has at times interfered directly with Iran's outreach.

From 2010 to 2013, it tried to force an Iranian Arabic-language satellite
television station, Al Alam, off the air. These efforts included issuing royal
decrees aimed at stopping the broadcast, pressuring the Riyadh-based satellite
provider Arabsat to drop the channel, and using ''technical means'' to weaken
the channel's signal so it did not reach Bahrain and eastern Saudi Arabia, where
Shiites complain of discrimination by their Sunni monarchs.

A Beirut-based manager of Al Alam acknowledged that the channel had faced Saudi
pressure since 2010, which had succeeded in getting two Arab satellite providers
to drop the channel.

''We are broadcasting normally'' via European satellites, the manager said,
speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss private company matters. ''The
only disruption we have is when we broadcast a show about Bahrain.''

Some of the cables reported on seemingly mundane events.

The Saudi Embassy in Sri Lanka reported a meeting between the Iranian ambassador
and a group of religious scholars, noting that it began at 7:30 p.m.

Elsewhere, the kingdom intervened against foreign officials it perceived as
threats.

After the president of the International Islamic University of Islamabad in
Pakistan, Mumtaz Ahmad, invited the Iranian ambassador to a cultural week on
campus, the Saudi Embassy called Mr. Ahmad to express ''its surprise,''
according to one cable, suggesting that he invite the wife of the Saudi
ambassador instead.

Mr. Ahmad refused to disinvite the Iranian ambassador, so Saudi diplomats
suggested having Suliman Aba al-Khail, a Saudi academic with a position in the
university's administration, convene a board meeting and ''choose a president
for the university who is consistent with our orientation,'' the cable said.

A faculty member at the university said that Mr. Ahmad, a political science
professor with a doctorate from the University of Chicago, had clashed with
conservative faculty members for trying to reduce Saudi influence on campus.

After Mr. Ahmad resigned as president in 2012, the Saudi ambassador worked with
the president of Pakistan at the time, Asif Ali Zardari, to have a Saudi citizen
named as university president, according to the faculty member.

''In the end they won,'' said the faculty member, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity so as not to anger his employer.

Saudi Arabia has long invested in training foreign preachers, providing
scholarships to international Muslim students to study Shariah at Saudi
universities. The documents show that the kingdom gives some of them government
salaries to work in their home countries. The cables named 14 new preachers to
be employed in Guinea and said contracts had been signed with 12 others in
Tajikistan.

Another cable said the Foreign Ministry was studying a request from an Islamic
association near the Iranian border in Afghanistan to pay local preachers to
spread Sunni Islam.

Some of the costliest projects were in India, which Saudi Arabia sees as a
sectarian battleground.

Cables indicated that $266,000 had been granted to an Islamic association to
open a nursing college; $133,000 had been used for an Islamic conference; and
another grant went to a vocational training center for girls.

King Abdullah, who died in January, signed off on a $1 million gift to the Khaja
Education Society, and a smaller amount went to a medical college run by Kerala
Nadvathul Mujahideen.

A member of the first group, Janab Moazam, confirmed that it had been granted
the money and said that half had already been delivered. An official from the
second group, Abdullah Koya Madani, confirmed that the group had received Saudi
funding.

Even humanitarian relief is sometimes sectarian. In 2011, the Saudi foreign
minister requested aid for flood victims in Thailand, noting that ''it will have
a positive impact on Muslims in Thailand and will restrict the Iranian
government in expanding its Shiite influence.''

Elsewhere, Saudi Arabia sees its religious work as a way to improve its
reputation. The Saudi ambassador to Hungary requested $54,000 per year for an
Islamic association as well as for authorization to found a cultural center. O
ne cable said such aid would undermine extremism and ''play a positive role in
portraying the beautiful and moderate image of the kingdom.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/17/world/middleeast/wikileaks-saudi-arabia-iran.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An image of King Salman of Saudi Arabia, who ascended in
January, on a Riyadh street in May. (A1)
An image of King Salman outside a photo studio in Riyadh in May. Saudi Arabia
says that some of the documents released by WikiLeaks were fabricated.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOMAS MUNITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A Saudi oil field. The country has poured billions of its oil dollars into
Islamic organizations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HASAN JAMALI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A11)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 18, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Amazon Says Prime Day Beat Black Friday in Sales Numbers

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 467 words


Despite a much-derided  product lineup and clunky wait-lists, Amazon said on
Friday that it sold more products during its Prime Day sale this week than Black
Friday last year, and that more new members tried its Prime subscription service
than on any single day in the retailer's 20-year history.

''Hundreds of thousands'' of new members signed up for Amazon Prime during the
one-day sale on Wednesday, Greg Greeley, the company's vice president for the
subscription service, said in a release. That adds to an estimated 40 million
members Amazon had attracted so far to Prime, which offers free shipments on
many goods for an annual $99 fee.

Eager Prime Day shoppers in the United States made its Fire TV Sticks ''the
fastest-selling deal on an Amazon device ever,'' the company said.

Amazon said it also sold 47,000 televisions on its United States site, a spike
of 1,300 percent compared with the same day last year, and 41,000 Bose
headphones compared with just eight the previous Wednesday.

''Going into this, we weren't sure whether Prime Day would be a one-time thing
or if it would become an annual event,'' Mr. Greeley said. After Prime Day's
results, he said, ''we'll definitely be doing this again.''

Independent data confirmed the sales surge. ChannelAdvisor, which tracks
third-party sales on Amazon, said that Amazon's sales on Wednesday jumped 93
percent in the United States and 53 percent in Europe compared with the same day
of the week last year.

But neither Black Friday nor this week's Prime Day are Amazon's biggest-grossing
sales days. According to ChannelAdvisor, Amazon recorded far higher sales on the
Monday after Thanksgiving last year, which has come to be known as Cyber Monday.

Still, the Prime Day sales numbers ''are impressive, considering it didn't even
exist last year,'' said Sarah O'Dea of ChannelAdvisor.

An Amazon spokeswoman, Ana Rigby, confirmed that Cyber Monday was its biggest
shopping day of the year, but declined to disclose any sales figures for that
day.

The event, commemorating Amazon's 20th anniversary, was a bid by Amazon to add
more users to its Prime membership base.

Though Amazon remains the undisputed leader in e-commerce, other retail giants
have increased efforts to steal away shoppers, including Walmart, which this
year started offering unlimited shipping for $50 a year.

Walmart had a sale of its own on Wednesday. Popular deals included a $399.99
deal for a 32-gigabyte Apple iPad Air and $12.35 dolls of characters from
Disney's ''Frozen'' movie.

On Amazon, the day's best-selling item in the United States was ''The Lord of
the Rings: The Motion Picture Trilogy'' DVD. Top sellers in other countries
included a Lenovo touch-screen notebook (Britain), a green smoothie mix (Japan)
and Croc sandals (Germany and Austria).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/18/business/amazon-says-prime-day-outdid-black-fr
iday-in-unit-sales.html

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Amazon fulfillment center in California. The company said
''hundreds of thousands'' signed up for Prime on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 18, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Summer Camp, N.S.A.-Style: There's a Lot Less Hiking Than Hacking

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS FANDOS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1194 words


ARLINGTON, Va. -- This is not your typical summer sleepaway camp.

Bonfires and archery? Try Insecure Direct Object References and A1-Injections.

The dozen or so teenagers staring at computers in a Marymount University
classroom here on a recent day were learning -- thanks to a new National
Security Agency cybersecurity program that reaches down into the ranks of
American high school and middle school students -- the entry-level art of
cracking encrypted passwords.

''We basically tried a dictionary attack,'' Ben Winiger, 16, of Johnson City,
Tenn., said as he typed a new command into John The Ripper, a software tool that
helps test and break passwords. ''Now we're trying a brute-force attack.''

Others in the room stumbled through the exercise more slowly, getting help from
faculty instructors who had prepped them with a lecture on the ethics of
hacking. In other words, they were effectively told, do not try this at home.

''Now, I don't want anybody getting in trouble now that you know how to use this
puppy,'' Darrell Andrews, one of the camp's instructors, warned loudly. ''Right?
Right?'' he added with emphasis.

As campers around the country sleep under the stars and dive into mountain
lakes, 1,400 youths have packed their overnight bags or lunchboxes for a very
different experience.

They are attending dozens of free overnight and day camps across the country
supported by the N.S.A., better known for its bulk collection of Americans'
phone records and its spying on foreign leaders. Like the C.I.A. and other elite
intelligence agencies, the N.S.A. has for decades recruited on college campuses
and run collegiate programs, but this summer the agency is making sure that
middle- and high-school-age students -- and some teachers, too -- are learning
how to hack, crack and defend in cyberspace.

The goal of GenCyber, as the summer camp program is called, is to catch the
attention of potential cybersecurity recruits and seed interest in an exploding
field as more and more of the nation's critical transactions, from warfare to
banking, move into the realm of cyberspace.

N.S.A. officials say building the next generation's cyberspace work force is a
matter of national security, as a string of massive breaches at the federal
Office of Personnel Management and private companies have highlighted. Studies
anticipate the need to fill hundreds of thousands of new cybersecurity jobs in
coming years.

That includes jobs with the N.S.A., which has its own worries about filling
recruitment quotas these days because of increased competition from
higher-paying private companies and bad publicity after Edward J. Snowden, the
former N.S.A contractor, leaked a trove of classified documents showing the
agency's surveillance programs as far more extensive than most Americans knew.

''These kids are the ones that are going to be building the next products that
we all rely on, the things we can't even imagine will exist in the future,''
Steven LaFountain, the head of the N.S.A.'s in-house College of Cyber and the
leader of the camp program, said in an interview at the N.S.A.'s heavily
fortified headquarters in Fort Meade, Md.

''If they have just a little bit more understanding of security when they're
doing that,'' he said, ''I think it will make the products that much better.''

With the help of a seed grant from the National Science Foundation, the agency
started a small pilot program under Mr. LaFountain's direction last year,
sponsoring six camps at colleges and universities.

This summer it has expanded to 43 camps, and about half of the 1,400 students
are girls.

Mr. LaFountain hopes the program will grow to 200 camps in all 50 states by
2020.

So far there has been strong interest, he said, given the long waiting lists for
the camps this year.

The N.S.A. gives each camp loose guidelines, but largely leaves it up to the
colleges and universities and the instructors running them to decide which
topics and exercises to cover. Unlike other popular programming and engineering
camps, though, the N.S.A. also mandates that GenCyber camps be offered free of
charge.

At California State San Bernardino, where there is an N.S.A. camp open only to
local Girl Scouts, campers will build, program and fly drones. Campers at
Norwich University in Vermont will put together their own computers.

And here at Marymount University, where campers are staying in dorms for their
two-week program, visits to the N.S.A. and a security operations center break up
classroom time.

The idea -- and the challenge -- of the camp, according to its head, Diane
Murphy, a professor of information technology at Marymount, is to first teach
students how to hack, so they can understand and defend against attackers they
might encounter in cyberspace.

''It's a fine balance for me as a teacher, because you have to teach them some
of the hacking techniques, and layer that in with an ethical discussion,'' Ms.
Murphy said in an interview before camp began.

''They are most interested in the attacking things.''

A packed schedule of activities -- lectures on network forensics, student
presentations on protecting private accounts, and what turned out to be a
high-volume debate on the ethics of Mr. Snowden and WikiLeaks -- drive critical
points home.

''One of the things you have to discuss -- since you are going to rule the world
in a couple years -- is, is this good or bad?'' Ms. Murphy said she repeatedly
tells campers.

Mr. LaFountain said the agency would not make sales pitches to campers, but
hoped that the work of the agency would be enough to lure them into the field.

''We're not trying to make these camps something to make people pro-N.S.A. or to
try to make ourselves look good,'' he said. ''I think we'll look good naturally
just because we're doing something that I think will benefit a lot of students
and eventually the country as a whole.''

Back at Marymount, a group of campers crowded around a lunch table did not seem
all that concerned about the spy agency's reputation.

They said they were just happy to get to stay on a college campus with other
tech-savvy students their own age while learning skills their high schools back
home were not ready to teach.

''I'd definitely take this camp over a basketball camp,'' Garvan Vines, 15, of
Bowie, Md., said as he finished a bite of a sub sandwich. He said he was trying
to decide between a career in cybersecurity and one in programming, so he hoped
that the camp, his second GenCyber camp of the summer, would offer a good
sampling of those alternate paths.

Besides, he said, ''at basketball camp they are mostly just giving you the same
instructions over and over.

''This is, like, progressive.''

Andy Lieu, 17, of Denver, picked up where his lunchmate left off.

''At a basketball camp, everyone's trying to better themselves,'' he said.
''Here you have to collaborate and work as a group.''

Others around the table nodded in agreement, including Allyssia Dela Cruz, 15,
who was in her second year at cybercamp.

''To be honest, if you were to ask,'' she said, ''I think most people here spend
more time on the computer than playing sports anyway.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/18/us/nsa-summer-camp-hacking-cyber
-defense.html

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As campers elsewhere enjoyed summer swims, those at a camp in
Arlington, Va., sponsored by the National Security Agency dove into
cybersecurity. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 19, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths PHILLIPS, VICTOR DUZERAH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 593 words


PHILLIPS--Victor Duzerah, Jr Loving husband of seventy years to Grace
(Frysinger), devoted father to Vic, Minta, and Stone, died peacefully July 11th
in Greensboro, NC. He is remembered by family and friends for his kindness,
generosity, humility and intellect. First and foremost, Victor was a family man,
always providing loving care and encouragement. Deflecting attention from
himself, he focused on others' pursuits.

His introspective shyness and quiet thoughtful nature delighted in Grace's
gregarious ways. A classic case of "opposites attract" sustained a long
marriage. Known for his dry wit and cluttered desk, Victor was once asked by
"neatnik" Grace why he never learned to "clean up after his own mess," an early
lesson taught to her kindergarten students. He replied, "I never went to
kindergarten." Last year, as Grace's progressive dementia necessitated memory
care in separate quarters, Victor visited her three times daily-- his life's
purpose. Born on New Year's Day, 1919 to Victor and Annie Phillips, Victor Jr.
grew up fourth of six children on a farm near Waxahachie, TX. A child of the
Great Depression, he learned early lessons in self- sufficiency, discipline and
empathy. Childhood years spent without electricity inspired his lifelong
interest in electronics. Early on, Victor built his own crystal radio set, hi-fi
stereo, even a television. His gifted mind thrilled at the beauty of calculus
and the power of words. He enjoyed classic literature, daily crossword puzzles
and e-mailing favorite wordlists to his grandchildren. At 63, he joined the new
computer revolution. Well into his 80's, he was the go-to-man for all things
cyber for his children and digitally-challenged friends. Following coronary
by-pass surgery at age 70, he embraced exercise. He took diurnal walks,
undeterred by inclement weather. With increasing age, he switched his daily
routine to a NuStep machine, pedaling until the week he died. Victor was also an
early champion of psychotherapy, talking openly of its life-enhancing benefits
in managing his anxiety, helping to de-stigmatize mental health care for others.
An Army Veteran of World War II, Victor sustained a shrapnel injury in the
Battle of the Bulge resulting in lifelong paralysis of his right arm. He talked
about this significant life change in a 1997 father-son interview on Dateline
NBC. In a body cast, he married Grace, June 5th, 1945. Victor attended the
University of Texas, Austin, Chemical Engineering, BS, and Chemistry, MA, 1951.
He was a Monsanto chemical engineer, 1950-1982. In 1965, the family moved from
Texas City, TX to suburban St. Louis, where Victor was a founding member of St.
Martin's Episcopal Church in Ellisville, MO. Former rector Howard Park remembers
him for his unfailing humor and unwavering gratitude for the gift of divine
grace. Rev. Park noted Victor's formulation of a guiding spiritual principle,
"Grace is the solution in which faith can grow." Victor is survived by his wife,
Grace, three children, Victor D. Phillips, III, PhD of Milwaukee, WI (wife Mai),
Minta Phillips, MD of Julian, NC and Stone Phillips of New York, NY, Broadcast
Journalist (wife Debra), five grandchildren, Anisa Asakawa (husband Nick),
Streeter, Catherine, Ben, Chiara, two cousins, five nieces and three nephews. A
memorial service will be held at St. Martin's Church, 11am, August 29th, 2015.
In lieu of flowers, please send memorial donations to The Alzheimer's Foundation
(www.alzfdn.org) or Fisher House supporting wounded veterans and their families
(fisherhouse.org). 1/3

URL:

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 21, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Festival With a Widow, a Pope and a 'Girl'

BYLINE: By LAURA COLLINS-HUGHES

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 731 words


Has your deceased beloved adopted a telltale moniker along the lines of Old
Bones? Are his new friends writhing, leaping creatures whose gossamer garments
have a certain shroudlike quality? Has he taken to menacing you from beyond the
grave?

Yes to all? It's time then, dear, to stop hanging around the cemetery, leaving
those love notes and bouquets. You can do better!

Evidently no one has mentioned this to Constance (Melanie Stone), the young
widow in the guitar- and saxophone-driven ''Deep Love,'' by Garrett Sherwood,
Ryan Hayes and Jon Peter Lewis, an offering at the New York Musical Theater
Festival. When Constance's sad heart stirs for Friedrich (Mr. Sherwood), who has
a tormented indie-rocker vibe and a slightly sandpaper voice, Old Bones (Mr.
Lewis, a veteran of ''American Idol'' and ''The Voice'') threatens them both,
and still she won't tell him it's over.

With an elegantly simple set by David Goldstein, 19th-century costumes by Bree
Perry and skull-face makeup by Ariel LaFontaine, this is a polished show with
pop ambitions. Directed by Michael Rader and Mr. Lewis, it's billed as a rock
opera and almost entirely sung through. It makes fine use of dance
(choreographed by Ray Mercer), particularly in a dream ballet that gives us a
necessary sense of Constance and Old Bones when he was alive.

But ''Deep Love'' (continuing through Friday) falters in Act II, devolving into
a death-fetish pageant with much wielding of a pointy knife and a shiny ax, and
too little reason for us to care. As for the extended catfight between Constance
and Friedrich's ex, Florence (Amy Whitcomb, also a ''Voice'' alum), it's very
well sung. It's also just plain trite.

''Pope! An Epic Musical'' (through Tuesday) begins jauntily, on a comic-book
comedy note. Our hero? The clean-cut, youthful Pope -- that's both his given
name and his dream job -- winningly played by Sam Bolen with aw-shucks
sincerity. ''All my life I had one goal: having the Catholics in my control, and
figuring out if women have souls,'' he sings. ''Oh, I really hope that I can be
pope!''

A fun-loving sendup directed by Peter Flynn, it has a catchy pop-and-choral
score by Christopher Pappas and book and lyrics by Justin Moran. Its strong
principals include Britney Coleman as Mary Elizabeth, Pope's childhood best
friend; Ken Land as Pope's nemesis, the archbishop; and Dylan S. Wallach as
Dexter, the cocky journalist who's held a grudge against Pope since their high
school prom.

Mr. Moran mostly avoids the obvious jokes about Roman Catholicism, and the
musical doesn't consider a nun's habit a laugh line. Its visual gags, one
involving a rose window, are more clever than that. But the show needs shaping
and sharpening. After its promising start, it goes dull for a while, then perks
up only fitfully.

''Summer Valley Fair,'' a poignant and delicate musical by Dylan Frederick,
closed on Sunday, and I almost didn't see it because the show description in the
festival materials made it sound cheesy and bland. Not so. Directed by Taylor
Norton, this is a strange and beautiful piece about escaping the desolation of
life spent in an electronic glow.

At its center is an intensely solitary 16-year-old girl, played by Mr.
Frederick. Our nameless heroine has spent the past two years mourning the sudden
end to her best-and-only friendship with Ciara Jones (Oriana Lada) -- with whom
the nameless girl, not incidentally, is in love. She holes up in her bedroom,
writing songs on her laptop and pretty much cyber-stalking her old friend. But
our heroine lives in her own head; she's no threat to anyone but herself.

And that music? Sometimes sung a cappella, sometimes with electronic backing,
it's urgent and suffused with loneliness even when all three members of the fine
cast -- which also includes the very funny Barrett Riggins -- blend their voices
in gorgeous harmonies.

It's not always clear how much of the action, which gets the girl out of the
house and into a summer job at the local fair, is imagined. But that doesn't
especially matter, just as it quickly ceases to matter that Mr. Frederick, a
graduate student at the Yale School of Drama, looks nothing like a high school
girl.

So here's to the serendipity of festival-going. You never know, you know?

The New York Musical Theater Festival continues at various locations through
Monday; 866-811-4111, nymf.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/21/theater/review-new-york-musical-theater-festiv
al-includes-deep-love-and-pope.html

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jon Peter Lewis, center, in ''Deep Love,'' at the Alice Griffin
Jewel Box Theater and part of the New York Musical Theater Festival. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY JEREMY DANIEL)
 Oriana Lada in the musical ''Summer Valley Fair.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLAIRE
EDMONDS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 22, 2015 Wednesday
                        The International New York Times

Destroying Cultural Heritage

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg.

LENGTH: 878 words


Re ''Vandalizing Yemen'' (Review, June 27): Lamya Khalidi chronicles yet more
devastation of cultural heritage in the Middle East, not only by nonstate actors
like the Islamic State, but also by recognized governments, including Syria and
Saudi Arabia, both of which are parties to the 1954 Hague Convention on the
Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. This convention
requires ''refraining ... from any act of hostility directed against'' cultural
property unless ''military necessity imperatively requires ... a waiver.''

Both the Assad regime in its recent bombing of the Ma'arra Mosaic Museum and the
Saudi bombing of the Dhamar Regional Museum and cultural sites in Yemen seem to
display a blatant disregard for cultural heritage and for their legal
obligations under this convention. It is time for Unesco to take concrete action
by asking the International Court of Justice for an advisory opinion on the
nature of war crimes committed through the destruction of cultural property in
the current Middle East conflicts.

Patty Gerstenblith, Chicago

The writer is the director of the   Center for Art, Museum and Cultural Heritage
Law at the DePaul University College of Law.


Use Assad's army to fight ISIS

Re ''Cameron rethinks action against ISIS'' (News, July 3): Would the chances of
peace in Syria be better if we were to work with President Bashar al-Assad?
Everyone appears to agree that only boots on the ground can eradicate the
Islamic State in Syria. The possibility that those boots could be worn by Syrian
soldiers shouldn't be dismissed out of hand. If there were a cease-fire between
Mr. Assad and moderate rebels, then the Syrian Army, possibly boosted by certain
rebels and American firepower, could destroy the Islamic State at home, making
it much easier to deal with its forces elsewhere. The prospect of peace in Syria
also offers the hope of greatly reducing the stream of desperate migrants
flowing out of Libya.

Brendan O'Brien,  London


Europe's secular construct

Re ''A burqa ban in Berlin?'' (Opinion, July 7): Anna Sauerbrey suggests that
secular Europe's idea of ''freedom from religion'' should rather be ''freedom to
practice faith.'' One is certainly free to practice one's religion at home. But
secular Europe has emerged from the restraints, laws, rules and impositions of
religion when it comes to society at large. One need only look at the Middle
East and the tribal wars to see how far secularism has progressed. Why is it a
good thing to bring religion back into Europe? If Muslims choose to live in
Western secular society, it is they who should try to understand and accept the
secular viewpoint, not the other way around.

Ellen Shire Gagnac-sur-Cère, France

Kudos to Betul Ulusoy. I would think that any intelligent person who saw this
young Muslim woman wearing a head scarf as part of Berlin's city administration
would cheer, because she is so clearly signaling that she represents an
increasing number of young women who are not submissive. They are acknowledging
their religion in much the same way as a Catholic would by wearing a cross on a
chain around her neck.

Sandra Sizer, Boston


A whitewash for the ages

Re ''To each age its inequality'' (Opinion, July 10) by Ian Morris: I don't know
which is worse -- economists who write as if ''the economy'' is a living and
rational and self-correcting entity unto itself, or historians who write as if
different historical or historical-economic ''ages'' have their own
characteristics and driving forces that are somehow independent of those of
other ages, and, more to the point, independent of what makes us humans what we
are and why we do the things we do in the way we do.

What Mr. Morris avoids talking about, but which needs to be talked about, are
such things as bad intentions, cupidity, ignorance (limited knowledge and
understanding), indifference to others, feelings of superiority or of special
privilege or justification in what we do, and feelings of being impervious to
outside constraints. In not talking about us the way we are, he in effect
whitewashes all that by trumping it with the idea that ages of history seek
their own best working levels by some inner intelligence.

Warren Rose,  Miami


Me and you over dinner

Re '''You' is the new 'me''' (Opinion, July 15): Pamela Druckerman's hope that
the age of social networks is improving us by giving us glimpses of  each
other's thoughts and activities deserves skepticism. Psychology and neuroscience
agree that compassion and insight develop through attention, intention and
relationship. Social media tends to distract us and give us a superficial
version of relationship, and occasional reinforcement of our best aspirations.
Hypothetically, we can choose to use social networks in positive ways, but the
medium is the message. Relationship and the mind itself cannot be reduced to
text and image, tweet and share, though research shows these to be sticky and
addictive. Indeed, we are more than our opinions.

Ms. Druckerman passively subscribes to cyber-solutionism: that everything can be
improved with technology. Call me a Luddite, but I'll take a deep conversation
over a jug of wine, a meal and thou any day.

Ravi Chandra,  San Francisco




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/22/opinion/destroying-cultural-heritage.html

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 25, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Military Cutbacks Make Sense

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 562 words


The Army's plan to cut 40,000 troops, as well as 17,000 civilian employees, over
the next two years is unsettling many American communities. Congressmen and
senators in the affected districts are railing against the reductions and
insisting they will fight to reverse them. But the cutbacks are a sensible and
necessary move, and they should not come as a surprise since it was Congress
that approved big cuts in federal defense spending.

Plans to shrink the active duty force to 450,000 troops from 490,000 have been
known since February 2014 when Chuck Hagel, then the secretary of defense, made
the proposal as part of his 2015 military budget. By 2017, the Army, which had
490,000 troops before the Sept 11 attacks and reached 570,000 troops during the
Afghan and Iraq wars, will decline to its lowest level since World War II.

The latest troop cuts are causing a stir because the Army recently announced the
domestic bases that will be affected, with Fort Benning, Ga., and Joint Base
Elmendorf-Richardson, Alaska, among those taking the hardest hits. Army
officials say those two bases will each lose 3,000 soldiers.

The United States has routinely drawn down and restructured the Army after major
conflicts. The Army National Guard and Reserves, which played an important role
in Iraq and Afghanistan, ensure that there will be another half million forces
available for deployment in an emergency. The Marines add nearly 200,000
additional forces to the mix. Even with a smaller Army, America's defenses will
remain the world's most formidable, especially given increased investment in
specialties like special operations and cyber warfare.

A big driver of the troop cuts is the 2011 Budget Control Act, which mandated
strict spending limits on defense and domestic programs over a decade.

Now Republicans, who control Congress, and hawkish Democrats are pretending to
adhere to those restraints by insisting on harmful cuts to domestic programs
while using a war-fighting slush fund to give the Pentagon some of what it
wants.

If the budget restrictions are not lifted, the Army will be reduced further to
420,000 troops by the end of the 2019 fiscal year, and Army officials say that
further cuts would leave them unable to meet their obligations. But many experts
believe the Army can do its job even if it declines to 420,000 troops, and
Congress can save billions if it approves a new round of base closings for a
military that maintains at least 20 percent more real estate than it needs.

The reductions in troops and civilian staffing will be difficult for those who
lose their jobs and for the communities that depend on military bases. The Army
has programs that can help ease the transition, including special incentives for
troops to retire early. Christopher Preble, a vice president of the Cato
Institute, a think tank, says his research shows that many communities where
bases are closed and troop levels are reduced ''do adapt and recover,'' and many
eventually emerge with ''a robust and more diversified economic base.''

President Obama and Congress need to make sure the Army is well positioned to do
its job, but that does not mean maintaining bases and a level of troops that go
beyond what the country needs and can afford.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/25/opinion/military-cutbacks-make-sense.html

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM LAHAN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (News)

                             July 28, 2015 Tuesday

Morning Agenda: Executive Strategy at Bank of America

BYLINE: AMIE TSANG

LENGTH: 2062 words



HIGHLIGHT: Thwarting the Quick Buck | Bigger is Better in Pharmaceuticals |
Greek Preparations for Euro Exit


 EXECUTIVE STRATEGY AT BANK OF AMERICA  |  Bruce Thompson, Bank of America's
former chief financial officer, had taken a victory lap just days before he was
ousted from his job. His departure stunned investors, Julie Creswell and Michael
Corkery report in DealBook. "I haven't spoken to anyone who isn't surprised,"
said Mike Mayo, a CLSA banking analyst, who has a sell rating on the bank. "It's
a head-scratcher."

The move has also highlighted the burden on the chief executive Brian T.
Moynihan, who is under ever greater pressure to expand the bank while
integrating disparate businesses and personalities. Executives at other banks
were able to bolster profits more easily by shedding businesses and cutting
costs, but Mr. Moynihan was stuck managing the enormous financial and legal
fallout from two transformational mergers undertaken by his predecessor: the
acquisitions of the mortgage lender Countryside and the investment banking giant
Merrill Lynch.

Bank of America's stock performance has lagged that of other megabanks,
including JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Wells Fargo. It has taken more than $70
billion in charges to pay legal fines, settlements and penalties related to its
consumer mortgage business.

An embarrassing $4 billion error in its books also caused regulators to delay a
promised stock-buyback plan. People briefed on the matter have said that Mr.
Thompson, who was widely seen as a successor to Mr. Moynihan, saw his star dim
after the accounting miscalculation. With Mr. Thompson gone, there is no clear
successor to Mr. Moynihan. Thomas K. Montag, the chief operating officer and
head of the investment bank, is not considered a likely candidate.

"I think Moynihan has done a reasonably good job of dealing with the legacy
issues, but I don't think he gets the same respect as some of his peers and my
question is, is he the right guy going forward?" asked Jonathan Finger, a
partner at the Houston-based Finger Interests, which owns about 900,000 shares
of Bank of America.

THWARTING THE QUICK BUCK  |  While there has been plenty of agitation over
Hillary Rodham Clinton's emails, there has been less focus on her ideas to
transform Wall Street and corporate America. If Mrs. Clinton becomes president,
her plans could radically change the way investors and chief executives behave,
Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the DealBook column.

As part of her efforts to end investors' obsession with short-term results, Mrs.
Clinton wants to introduce a "six-year sliding scale" for capital gains taxes.
Individuals in the top bracket would pay ordinary income tax of 39.6 percent on
the sale of investments in the first two years. The rate would decrease over the
next four years to the current capital gains rate of 20 percent.

Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of the $4 trillion asset manager
BlackRock, has proposed something similar. He has suggested applying capital
gains treatment only after three years, then decreasing the tax rate each year
after that, potentially dropping to zero after 10 years.

Creating incentives for investors, chief executives and board directors to be
less focused on quarterly profits and immediate stock prices should be a boon to
the economy, Mr. Sorkin writes. "From a political perspective, it's hard to
argue with - it's about as safe as they come." Even the activist investor Carl
C. Icahn has said, "She is onto something."

However, Mrs. Clinton has also stepped into riskier territory, hinting that she
would consider the argument that stock buybacks could be considered stock
manipulations. While that might resonate politically for some in the Democratic
Party, Mr. Sorkin notes, it is likely to be a step too far.

BIGGER IS BETTER IN PHARMACEUTICALS  |  Teva's $40.5 billion acquisition of
Allergan's generic drug business is its entry into the pharmaceutical arms race,
Michael J. de la Merced writes in DealBook. The drug industry has seen a surge
in acquisitions in recent years as manufacturers have sought to plug holes in
their product portfolios and grow. The purchases have given big drug companies
access to new drugs  in late-stage development, meaning they have new treatments
without having to engage in the lengthy and often expensive process of research.

Acquisitions also help pharmaceutical companies maintain negotiating leverage
when their partners grow. The five biggest American health insurers may shrink
to three if two big mergers announced this month are approved, and hospital
systems have been merging too.

As such, big drug makers with ample cash reserves are on the hunt. Pfizer,
AbbVie and Allergan could all start pursuing acquisitions. Teva dropped its
attempted takeover of Mylan, which has been trying to buy Perrigo, an Irish drug
maker, for $34 billion. But Neil Unmack at Breakingviews writes that, "A faster,
cleaner deal with Allergan should let Teva deleverage more quickly, paving the
way for more deals."

ON THE AGENDA  |  The Committee on Financial Services hearing titled "The
Dodd-Frank Act Five Years Later: Are We More Prosperous?" starts at 10 a.m.
Twitter will release second-quarter earnings after the market closes and will
discuss the results at 5 p.m. BP hosts a results webcast at 9 a.m. Pfizer will
discuss results for the second quarter at 10 a.m. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of
house prices will be released at 9 a.m., followed by The Conference Board's
report on consumer confidence at 10 a.m.

GREEK PREPARATIONS FOR EURO EXIT  |  The Greek government is facing fresh
criticism over secret preparations that would have allowed the country to leave
the euro, Jack Ewing and Niki Kitsantonis report in The New York Times. In a
recording released on Monday, Yanis Varoufakis, Greece's former finance
minister, detailed a contingency plan to create an alternative banking system
that could switch to a new currency. Mr. Varoufakis said Prime Minister Alexis
Tsipras of Greece had authorized the preliminary plan, but did not allow the
final plan to be put into action.

Opposition members of Parliament have called for an investigation, putting
pressure on Mr. Tsipras, who has relied on opposition support to pass
legislation demanded by creditors.

Mr. Varoufakis has defended himself in an Op-Ed in The Financial Times. "While I
understand the press's excitement emanating from elements of that exchange, such
as having to consider unorthodox means of gaining access to my own ministry's
systems, there is only one matter of significance from a public interest
perspective. There is a hideous restriction of national sovereignty imposed by
the troika of lenders upon Greek ministers who are denied access to departments
of their ministries pivotal in implementing innovative policies."

|  Contact amie.tsang@nytimes.com

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Hikma Pharmaceuticals to Buy Generic Drug Maker Roxane  |  Hikma Pharmaceuticals
agreed to pay about $2.65 billion in cash and shares for Boehringer Ingelheim's
generic drugs business in the United States.
NYT »

Honeywell International to Buy Elster for $5.1 Billion  |  The deal came three
years after Elster, which manufactures water and gas meters, was acquired by
Melrose Industries for about $2.3 billion.
NYT »

McGraw Hill Financial Buys SNL Financial for $2.2 Billion  |  The deal by the
owner of Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and S&P Capital IQ is expected to
strongly complement S&P Capital IQ's offerings in banking and insurance and
expand the analytics and capability of its Platts business serving energy
markets.
NYT »

Alstom Shells Out Again to Keep GE Deal on Track  |  Alstom is to accept
(EURO)300 million, or $333 million, less than agreed for its power turbines unit
from General Electric as a contribution to the U.S.-based buyer's efforts to win
antitrust clearance in Europe.
NYT »

Gambling Firm GVC Raises Offer to $1.6 Billion for Rival Bwin.party  |  The
online gambling firm GVC Holdings returned on Monday with a new 1 billion-pound,
or $1.55 billion, bid for its rival Bwin.party Digital Entertainment, looking to
trump a recently accepted offer from 888.
NYT »

Zurich Insurance Examining Bid for RSA of Britain  |  One of Europe's largest
insurers, Zurich said it made its interest public in response to "market
speculation" that it was considering an offer for RSA Insurance Group.
NYT »

BHF Kleinwort Benson Reviews Fosun Takeover Offer  |  The Belgian owner of
Kleinwort Benson, one of the City of London's oldest names in banking, has
formed a boardroom committee to review what it believes is a hostile (EURO)675
million takeover offer from China's Fosun International.
THE FINANCIAL TIMES

Delta Air Lines to Buy Stake in China Eastern  |  Delta Air Lines will spend
$450 million for 3.55 percent of China Eastern Airlines, extending the company's
strategy of taking minority stakes in overseas carriers to strengthen its
international business.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

Zegona Buys Spain's Telecable for $706 Million in First Deal  |  An investment
vehicle set up by two former Virgin Media executives bought the Spanish cable
operator Telecable for $706 million including debt on Monday, putting it at the
center of Spain's telecom sector.
NYT »

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Cyber Insecurity: Hacking Back  |  "I'm terrified of what some banks, not
necessarily U.S. banks, but some international banks do to dissuade attackers,"
says John Strand, a cyber security expert.
THE FINANCIAL TIMES

PRIVATE EQUITY »

Private Equity Firms Raise Funds in Brazil Despite Challenges  |  Hamilton Lane,
a private equity firm, is said to be raising its second fund of funds from
Brazilian investors.
NYT »

K.K.R. Bets on Irish Housing Revival  |  K.K.R. is to team up with an Irish
government fund to lend to home builders.
THE FINANCIAL TIMES

HEDGE FUNDS »

Carlyle Hedge Fund Warning  |  Carlyle Group's $4.9 billion hedge fund firm,
Claren Road Asset Management, faces the prospect of investor withdrawals after
an influential consultant advised clients to pull their money, The Wall Street
Journal reports, citing people briefed on the matter.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Secret I.P.O. Filings Feed Deal Frenzy  |  Many United States companies secretly
seek to go public, but those that file confidentially face very different fates
when their filings spark interest from prospective acquirers.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

Gloo Networks to List on AIM, Seek Media Sector Deals  |  Gloo Networks, an
acquisition vehicle aimed at the media sector, is to list on London's AIM and
will seek companies worth up to 1 billion pounds, the company said Tuesday.
NYT »

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Stripe, Digital Payments Start-Up, Raises New Funding and Partners With Visa  |
The San Francisco-based digital payments start-up now has a $5 billion valuation
and a partnership with Visa to help it compete.
NYT »

Goldman Sachs Bets on Indian Furniture Start-Up  |  The investment bank is
leading a $100 million investment in Pepperfry.com, an Indian online furniture
marketplace, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing a person familiar with the
situation.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

Chinese Markets Uneasy After Huge Sell-Off  |  Shanghai's main share index fell
sharply early on Tuesday but ended down just 1.7 percent after the government
pledged to support the market.
NYT » | Guide to China's Market Turmoil

The World Wide Web, the New Frontier in Fraud  |  Online crime poses tough
challenges for prosecutors, in which identifying defendants, let alone linking
them to criminal activity, is proving hard.
White Collar Watch »

Manhattan D.A.'s Office Appeals Goldman Programmer Case  |  Cyrus R. Vance Jr.'s
office is appealing a state judge's ruling that overturned a jury verdict
convicting Sergey Aleynikov, a former Goldman programmer.
NYT »

Goldman to Pay $1.8 Million for Auditing Failures  |  The bank's clearing and
execution unit failed to send "a substantial number" of details about orders to
a Financial Industry Regulatory Authority auditing system over seven years, the
regulator said.
Reuters

Lawyer Emails Put Visa and MasterCard Settlement at Risk  |  The discovery of a
trove of emails between two opposing lawyers who are also close friends is
threatening to scuttle a $6 billion class-action antitrust settlement between
Visa, MasterCard and millions of merchants.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 30, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

So Human, Only Better

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; OPTICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words


In a recent episode of the AMC drama ''Humans,'' Toby Hawkins, a randy
adolescent, engages in a bit of unseemly groping, reaching for Anita, the
humanoid family housekeeper. When she turns him away, he glowers, asking her
sourly, ''Why do you have to be so fit?''

Or for that matter, so adroit in anticipating her employers' every whim and
errant impulse? Given her uncanny sensitivity, you might even suspect that Anita
has a mind of her own.

She is but the latest in a procession of weirdly competent and oddly seductive
androids who have been marching onto our home screens, looming larger than life
at the multiplex and, just as unsettlingly, insinuating themselves into the
world of style.

Fashion has been especially quick to seize on the notion that robots are
slicker, more perfect versions of ourselves. In the last few months alone,
androids have filtered into the glossies and stalked the runways of designers as
audacious as Thom Browne and Rick Owens, and of inventive newcomers like David
Koma, who riffed on fembot imagery in his fall 2015 collection for Mugler,
sending out models in frocks that were patterned with soldering dots and faux
computer circuitry.

Formidable and preternaturally glamorous, those models and their synthetic
pop-culture kin may well inspire envy and a covert urge to merge with the
machine. But they also spawn the kind of dread that's been rivaled of late only
by the walking dead.

Sleeker, smarter and more coolly efficient than their human counterparts, these
next-generation bots (played by flesh-and-blood humans) boast advanced motor
skills, superhuman consciousness and even subtle facial tics that mimic those of
their makers.

What's more, they're better looking. In ''Humans,'' the so-called synths were
conceived to look like ''almost-perfect humans,'' said Vickie Lang, who created
their hair and makeup. The fastidiously groomed synth women ''never touch their
hair,'' she said. ''Their skin is a little silicone-y.''

In contrast, their masters seem as chaotically thrown together as week-old bed
linens. ''We left them a little disheveled,'' she said.

Hard-put to compete, a rumpled police detective in the series is driven to moan
distractedly: ''I'm an analog man in a digital age. I'm redundant.''

His remark encapsulates the persistent anxiety being mined by the filmmakers of
''Ex Machina,'' in which a comely android (Alicia Vikander) outmaneuvers her
creator; ''Terminator Genisys'' and ''Mad Max: Fury Road,'' in which the
fearsome Imperator Furiosa (Charlize Theron) vanquishes her enemies with a
robotically wired prosthetic arm.

Similar fears, coupled with a rising fascination, have been tapped in a wave of
young-adult fiction, notably ''The Lunar Chronicles,'' the Marissa Meyer fantasy
series detailing the adventures of a cyber-Cinderella.

Pure sci-fi? Not necessarily. As Sidney Perkowitz, a physicist and the author of
''Digital People: From Bionic Humans to Androids,'' wrote in an email, ''the new
angle is the growing realization that robots could become more than barely smart
enough to do simple tasks (remember when Roomba was a big deal, just for its
ability to clean floors without human guidance?)''

These days, he added, ''their chips meet a true cognitive challenge by solving
complex and shifting situational problems in real time.'' The upshot:
''Artificial brains could become plenty smart enough to handle all of a robot's
physical actions.''

And usurp human functions, as well. In a sense, synthetics that look like
people, think like people and even ''feel'' the way that people do, reading
emotions and simulating human empathy, already exist.

Pepper, a silicone humanoid manufactured by SoftBank Robotics Corp., and billed
as ''the world's first emotional robot,'' is a novelty home companion with
coin-dot eyes and articulated limbs, and carries a price tag of $1,600. The
costly but friendly machine sold out within one minute of its introduction in
Japan in June.

''Some people think robots will be better at basically everything, maybe even
creativity,'' said Martin Ford, the author of ''Rise of the Robots, Technology
and the Threat of a Jobless Future.''

In his book he speculates that rising up alongside a new generation of
worker-bots overhauling the economy may be an army of artist-bots that can act
or make music. ''Humans,'' he suggested in an interview, ''seem destined not to
be competitive at all.''

Some members of the fashion tribe have already assigned mere mortals a kind of
B-list status. In a Steven Klein photo shoot in the current Vogue, drones hover
overhead, seeming to spy on a party of human models cavorting in a field. For
the March issue of W magazine, he portrayed the designer Jason Wu wrapped in the
arms of a tin man.

In other images, Mr. Klein's robots tended to be more lifelike, shown about to
copulate or otherwise merge with their human partners in settings as alienating
and austere as a surgery. They comment on fashion's willful embrace of artifice,
and as Mr. Klein said, on the dehumanizing aspects of digital manipulation in
photography, which, he said, ''has removed more and more the feeling of skin
against skin.''

Fashion's romance with synthetics has antecedents in the design output of
Riccardo Tisci of Givenchy, Donatella Versace and Karl Lagerfeld, each of whom
at various times has made reference to the 1927 science fiction spectacle
''Metropolis,'' that movie's mechanized central figure whipping her followers
into frenzied revolt. Other frequent points of reference include the 1982 movies
''Tron,'' which inspired Mr. Browne, among others, and ''Blade Runner,'' which
continues to spawn scores of fashion shoots.

More whimsical interpretations of a resurgent trend include a Rodarte collection
last year, in which a series of dresses was patterned with ''Star Wars'' robot
stills.

A phalanx of giant techno tin men dominated an installation last spring in the
windows of Bergdorf Goodman. Neither menacing nor particularly friendly, ''they
were oversize toys, really,'' said David Hoey, the store's senior director for
visual presentation, ''each with a different personality, disposition and story
to tell his robot psychiatrist.''

The choreographer Blanca Li emphasized her automatons' toylike aspects in a
performance last spring at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. Featured players in
her ''Robots'' show were toddler-size animatronic figures and dancers shod in,
of all things, Louboutin pumps.

Fashion, said Ms. Li, who has collaborated in the past with the designer
Azzedine Alaïa, was integral to the performance, expressive of the spirit of the
hour.

''More and more we are interacting with all kinds of machines,''' she told a
Style.com writer at the time. Her ultimate goal: ''that we forget even for one
second that this was a machine.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/30/fashion/fashion-finds-a-more-perfect-model-rob
ots.html

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gemma Chan plays Anita Hawkins, a ''synth'' housekeeper, on the
AMC drama ''Humans.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DES WILLIE/KUDOS/AMC/C4) (D1)
Above, Lara Stone in W magazine
center, robots in a Bergdorf Goodman window
top right, Charlize Theron in ''Mad Max: Fury Road''
Alicia Vikander in ''Ex Machina.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVEN KLEIN FOR W MAGAZINE
RICKY ZEHAVI
JASIN BOLAND/WARNER BROS. PICTURES
LIAM DANIEL/A24)
Above, from left, David Koma's collection for Mugler, with soldering dots and
computer circuitry
 a Rick Owens model dressed as an android and one by Thom Browne. (PHOTOGRAPHS
BY NOWFASHION) (D4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 1, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Decides to Retaliate Against China's Hacking

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1392 words


The Obama administration has determined that it must retaliate against China for
the theft of the personal information of more than 20 million Americans from the
databases of the Office of Personnel Management, but it is still struggling to
decide what it can do without prompting an escalating cyberconflict.

The decision came after the administration concluded that the hacking attack was
so vast in scope and ambition that the usual practices for dealing with
traditional espionage cases did not apply.

But in a series of classified meetings, officials have struggled to choose among
options that range from largely symbolic responses -- for example, diplomatic
protests or the ouster of known Chinese agents in the United States -- to more
significant actions that some officials fear could lead to an escalation of the
hacking conflict between the two countries.

That does not mean a response will happen anytime soon -- or be obvious when it
does. The White House could determine that the downsides of any meaningful, yet
proportionate, retaliation outweigh the benefits, or will lead to retaliation on
American firms or individuals doing work in China. President Obama, clearly
seeking leverage, has asked his staff to come up with a more creative set of
responses.

''One of the conclusions we've reached is that we need to be a bit more public
about our responses, and one reason is deterrence,'' said one senior
administration official involved in the debate, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity to discuss internal White House plans. ''We need to disrupt and deter
what our adversaries are doing in cyberspace, and that means you need a full
range of tools to tailor a response.''

In public, Mr. Obama has said almost nothing, and officials are under strict
instructions to avoid naming China as the source of the attack. While James R.
Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, said last month that ''you
have to kind of salute the Chinese for what they did,'' he avoided repeating
that accusation when pressed again in public last week.

But over recent days, both Mr. Clapper and Adm. Michael S. Rogers, director of
the National Security Agency and commander of the military's Cyber Command, have
hinted at the internal debate by noting that unless the United States finds a
way to respond to the attacks, they are bound to escalate.

Mr. Clapper predicted that the number and sophistication of hacking aimed at the
United States would worsen ''until such time as we create both the substance and
psychology of deterrence.''

Admiral Rogers made clear in a public presentation to the meeting of the Aspen
Security Forum last week that he had advised President Obama to strike back
against North Korea for the earlier attack on Sony Pictures Entertainment. Since
then, evidence that hackers associated with the Chinese government were
responsible for the Office of Personnel Management theft has been gathered by
personnel under Admiral Rogers's command, officials said.

Admiral Rogers stressed the need for ''creating costs'' for attackers
responsible for the intrusion, although he acknowledged that it differed in
important ways from the Sony case. In the Sony attack, the theft of emails was
secondary to the destruction of much of the company's computer systems, part of
an effort to intimidate the studio to keep it from releasing a comedy that
portrayed the assassination of Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader.

According to officials involved in the internal debates over responses to the
personnel office attack, Mr. Obama's aides explored applying economic sanctions
against China, based on the precedent of sanctions the president approved
against North Korea in January.

''The analogy simply didn't work,'' said one senior economic official, who spoke
on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal White House deliberations.
North Korea is so isolated that there was no risk it could retaliate in kind.
But in considering sanctions against China, officials from the Commerce
Department and the Treasury offered a long list of countersanctions the Chinese
could impose against American firms that are already struggling to deal with
China.

The Justice Department is exploring legal action against Chinese individuals and
organizations believed responsible for the personnel office theft, much as it
did last summer when five officers of the People's Liberation Army, part of the
Chinese military, were indicted on a charge of the theft of intellectual
property from American companies. While Justice officials say that earlier
action was a breakthrough, others characterize the punishment as only symbolic:
Unless they visit the United States or a friendly nation, none of them are
likely to ever see the inside of an American courtroom.

''Criminal charges appear to be unlikely in the case of the O.P.M. breach,'' a
study of the Office of Personnel Management breach published by the
Congressional Research Service two weeks ago concluded. ''As a matter of policy,
the United States has sought to distinguish between cyber intrusions to collect
data for national security purposes -- to which the United States deems
counterintelligence to be an appropriate response -- and cyber intrusions to
steal data for commercial purposes, to which the United States deems a criminal
justice response to be appropriate.''

There is another risk in criminal prosecution: Intelligence officials say that
any legal case could result in exposing American intelligence operations inside
China -- including the placement of thousands of implants in Chinese computer
networks to warn of impending attacks.

Other options discussed inside the administration include retaliatory
operations, perhaps designed to steal or reveal to the public information as
valuable to the Chinese government as the security-clearance files on government
employees were to Washington.

One of the most innovative actions discussed inside the intelligence agencies,
according to two officials familiar with the debate, involves finding a way to
breach the so-called great firewall, the complex network of censorship and
control that the Chinese government keeps in place to suppress dissent inside
the country. The idea would be to demonstrate to the Chinese leadership that the
one thing they value most -- keeping absolute control over the country's
political dialogue -- could be at risk if they do not moderate attacks on the
United States.

But any counterattack could lead to a cycle of escalation just as the United
States hopes to discuss with Chinese leaders new rules of the road limiting
cyberoperations. A similar initiative to get the Chinese leadership to discuss
those rules, proposed by Mr. Obama when he met the Chinese leader at Sunnylands
in California in 2013, has made little progress.

The United States has been cautious about using cyberweapons or even discussing
it. A new Pentagon strategy, introduced by the secretary of Defense, Ashton B.
Carter, in the spring, explicitly discussed retaliation but left vague what kind
of cases the United States viewed as so critical that they would prompt that
type of retaliation.

In response to the Office of Personnel Management attack, White House officials
on Friday announced the results of a 30-day ''cybersecurity sprint'' that began
in early June after the federal personnel office disclosed the gigantic theft of
data.

Tony Scott, the government's chief information officer, who ordered the review,
said in a blog post that agencies had significantly ramped up their use of
strong authentication procedures, especially for users who required access to
sensitive parts of networks.

By the end of the 30th day, officials said that more than half of the nation's
largest agencies, including the Departments of Transportation, Veterans Affairs
and the Interior, now required strong authentication for almost 95 percent of
their privileged users.

For Mr. Obama, responding to the theft at the Office of Personnel Management is
complicated because it was not destructive, nor did it involve stealing
intellectual property. Instead, the goal was espionage, on a scale that no one
imagined before.

''This is one of those cases where you have to ask, 'Does the size of the
operation change the nature of it?' '' one senior intelligence official said.
''Clearly, it does.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/01/world/asia/us-decides-to-retaliate-against-chi
nas-hacking.html

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 6, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cybersecurity Bill Is Latest to Be Delayed in Senate

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 830 words


WASHINGTON --  The Senate headed into its August recess on Wednesday without
voting on a cybersecurity bill, adding it to a contentious to-do list for
September that includes a push to disapprove the Iran nuclear deal and a
spending fight mired in abortion politics.

The delay of the cybersecurity bill followed a pattern that has marked the
Senate since the Republicans took control this year. Senator Mitch McConnell of
Kentucky, the majority leader, has struggled to accelerate the legislative track
while still permitting members of both parties to amend bills on the floor, as
he has repeatedly promised to do.

In addition, Republicans' return to the thorny abortion debate -- this time by
inserting a bill to defund Planned Parenthood into the calendar ahead of the
cybersecurity measure -- left too little time to finish the computer security
legislation. Presidential politics has also frequently played a part, with four
Republican senators set to participate in primary debates on Thursday.

Mr. McConnell tried this summer to attach the cybersecurity measure to a broader
defense bill as a way to mousetrap Democrats into voting for it, but that effort
failed. Mr. McConnell then went on to other legislative matters, including a
major trade package. When the Senate finally turned to the cybersecurity bill,
Mr. McConnell could not get an easy agreement on amendments, which further
delayed the action, as did objections from some privacy advocates.

Negotiating amendment deals may have slowed legislation far more than Mr.
McConnell anticipated when he took the Senate's reins, even though he repeatedly
used filibuster tactics based on amendment disagreements to block legislation
when he was in the minority. He promised to deliver a different culture while in
the majority, but getting consent among 100 senators is no easier for him than
it was for his predecessor, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada.

This has sometimes produced dire results for Congress. A fight over changes to
the Patriot Act -- led by Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, who wanted a long list
of amendments -- led to a short-term expiration of the law.

Few senators wanted to stick around beyond Wednesday, noting that the House was
long gone. But senators in both parties said they feared that another
cyberattack could hit the government or the private sector while they were home
for the monthlong break. ''There should be concern about that,'' said Senator
Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri. Should there be a major attack in August, he
said, voters could wonder ''why government didn't try to do something to prevent
it.''

In April, the House passed a measure that would push companies to share access
to their computer networks and records with federal investigators. Neither the
House legislation nor the bill to be considered by the Senate would have
prevented attacks such as the recent theft of the personal information of more
than 20 million Americans from the Office of Personnel Management.

But the House measure was the legislative branch's most aggressive response yet
to a spate of private-sector computer attacks, including a major breach at Sony
Pictures Entertainment, the exposure of credit card numbers of tens of thousands
of Target customers, and the compromising of personal records of millions of
people who did business with the health insurer Anthem.

''Our nation has unparalleled strength,'' said Senator Susan Collins, Republican
of Maine, who has been working for years to get a cybersecurity bill out of the
Senate. ''But cyberspace allows much weaker adversaries to target our people,
our economy and our military.'' She added, ''We already know many of the steps
necessary to reduce the likelihood of a cyber 9/11, yet many of these actions
have not yet been taken in either the government or in the private sector.''

Republican control of Congress has not led to uniform policy prescriptions, and
Republican infighting has often produced the biggest legislative headaches for
Mr. McConnell. That was demonstrated last week when the House and the Senate
could not agree on a long-term bill to pay for repairs to the nation's crumbling
roads and bridges, and punted for well over the 30th time with a three-month
extension of financing for the program.

While Congress achieved many major accomplishments this year, including the
final broad revisions to the Patriot Act, a new formula for paying doctors under
Medicare, and two bills that may be reconciled to fix the No Child Left Behind
law, other legislation continues to be hard-fought.

On the horizon is a budget battle that some Republicans said could lead to a
government shutdown if Congress does not move to take away money from Planned
Parenthood. Congressional leaders hope to at least pass a temporary funding
measure before an address by Pope Francis to a joint meeting of Congress on
Sept. 24.

''It takes a long time to do things in the Senate,'' Mr. McConnell said to
reporters last week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/06/us/politics/cybersecurity-bill-is-latest-to-be
-delayed-in-senate.html

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 22, 2015 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

Phone Encryption: Balancing Privacy and Protection

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg.

LENGTH: 1045 words


To the Editor:

Re ''When phone encryption blocks justice'' (Opinion, Aug. 12) by Cyrus R. Vance
Jr., François Molins, Adrian Leppard and Javier Zaragoza: This article paints an
inaccurate picture of the need for and value of whole disk encryption. Disk
encryption addresses an immediate threat that everyone faces every day: theft. A
pickpocket might steal my phone, but encryption ensures that thieves cannot
steal my entire personal and professional life as well. Nobody should have to
worry that their intimate secrets will be revealed because they left their phone
in a cab. My employer requires me to encrypt any phone, tablet or laptop
containing work-related data in order to protect business secrets. These are not
marginal benefits, but very real protections that are widely demanded by the
general public.

The authors also miscast the impact on law enforcement. Most phones will, by
default, back up data to the cloud, where it is easily accessed with a warrant.
It is certainly possible that criminals will disable that feature, but it is
equally possible that criminals will use third-party encryption software.
Regulation cannot prevent the use of encryption by criminals, but it can limit
the public's ability to protect themselves from crime.

Benjamin Kreuter, Jersey City, N.J.

To the Editor:

Encryption -- the scrambling of data so that only a sender and the intended
recipient can access and understand it -- offers individuals worldwide critical
protections in an age of rampant cyber crime. There is no doubt that every
reader of your newspaper already uses it: It is how we securely communicate with
our banks, our doctors, our insurance companies and much more. But it has deeper
value as well. Encryption is how human rights activists communicate worldwide in
order to avoid government repression. It allows religious and ethnic minorities
to communicate securely in the face of majority attacks. It even enables law
enforcement to conduct investigations securely.

Not only is encryption vital for privacy, opinion and expression, but it has
posed few barriers to law enforcement, based on United States Justice Department
statistics. In fact, in the digital age, law enforcement officials have all the
tools of metadata collection, geo-location and traditional physical surveillance
and police work to do their job well. The focus on encryption is often a canard
that distracts from police and intelligence failures. What the writers propose,
moreover, would undermine security for everyone, not just the alleged criminals.

My report for the United Nations Human Rights Council, presented in June,
highlights how international human rights law protects online encryption and
anonymity tools precisely because they enable a zone of privacy for individuals
to exercise their rights to freedom of opinion and expression.

David Kaye, Los Angeles

The writer is the United Nations special rapporteur on the freedom of opinion
and expression.

To the Editor:

Citing sufficient examples to worry any responsible citizen, the writers argue
that encryption upsets the delicate balance that our legal system strikes
between privacy and protection. The authors suggest no particular solution, but
imply that legislators should weaken encryption, perhaps limiting its use or
crippling it with a government backdoor.

Such a solution would be misguided. Legislation cannot stop individuals from
jail-breaking devices and installing full encryption. Outlawing encryption would
guarantee that only outlaws would benefit from the protection it affords.
Encryption is a defensive technology. Strong information security practices make
society safer, protecting confidential information from theft and sensitive
infrastructure from breaches. If anything, legislators should follow industry's
example, and encourage encryption's widespread adoption.

Fighting crime must rely on proactive policing and boots-on-the-ground detective
work. Criminals can rape and murder without smartphones; law enforcement must be
prepared to respond to cases that lack a convenient digital trail. Let the
public and private sectors continue to develop creative solutions to the
challenges of modern crime prevention. Let law-abiding citizens benefit from the
technology that best secures their Fourth Amendment rights.

Philip Kalikman, New York

To the Editor:

The information that is stored on our phones -- a complete archive of our text
communications and a photographic record of our lives, just for starters -- was
never available to law enforcement in the past, simply because it wasn't
recorded. Giving law enforcement or other government agencies access to this
data is giving them a new and extremely powerful tool. Unless it is absolutely
necessary, I don't believe that we should hand government agencies what amounts
to a more detailed file on each of us than the most assiduous secret police of
the 20th century could have dreamed of. With crime at historical lows in the
United States, it is very hard to argue that such a necessity exists.

Sam Clearman, New York

To the Editor:

Prosecute ISIS for Atrocities

To the Editor:

Re ''ISIS enshrines a theology of rape'' (News, Aug. 14): As an American-Muslim
lawyer with a focus on international human rights law, I cringed and grew
increasingly angry while reading this report. Not only is systematic rape a mass
human rights violation that international tribunals have declared and prosecuted
as a crime against humanity, it also severely violates Islamic law on every
level. It is heartbreaking and frustrating, not only to myself but likely to the
majority of the world's Muslims, that a disgusting, political organization is
attempting to justify its horrific acts by pointing to the Quran and Islamic
thought.

This is another level of the war on terrorism and we must unite to stop these
crimes. This fight should include involvement by international organizations and
international criminal courts to prosecute the criminals and provide immediate
assistance and aid to the victims. Outraged nations should pressure
international organizations and the affected countries' leaders to act
immediately. And Muslims around the world should speak out against these
atrocities.

Kinza Khan, Schaumburg, Ill.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/22/opinion/phone-encryption-balancing-privacy-and
-protection.html

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 23, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Among the Merry Men

BYLINE: By RICK RIORDAN.

Rick Riordan's latest novel, ''The Sword of Summer,'' will be published in
October.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 793 words


SHADOWS OF SHERWOODA Robyn Hoodlum Adventure By Kekla Magoon355 pp. Bloomsbury.
$16.99. (Middle grade; ages 8 to 12)  Modernizing legends can be a tricky
business. One must find the resonance between ancient and contemporary, blending
incongruous elements in a way that seems not only right but inevitable: telling
the story of a founding father with hip-hop lyrics, as in ''Hamilton,'' or
presenting the myth of Theseus in the milieu of reality television as in ''The
Hunger Games.'' Kekla Magoon manages a similar feat of legerdemain in ''Shadows
of Sherwood,'' her compelling reboot of the Robin Hood myth.

In an alternate present, in the city-state of Nott City, 12-year-old Robyn
Loxley is an accomplished gymnast and an amateur tinkerer in electronics. One
night, while she sneaks out to raid the local salvage yard for parts, Governor
Ignomus Crown stages a brutal coup d'Ã©tat, rounding up and ''disappearing'' all
members of Parliament and their families. Robyn alone escapes the purge. Hunted
by the military police, unsure of her parents' fate, she is forced to flee to
the nearby district of Sherwood with its hardscrabble neighborhoods, tent cities
and forests. So begins her transformation into Robyn Hoodlum.

The narrative will keep young readers turning pages with its breathlessly short
chapters, ample derring-do and engaging central mystery about Robyn's destiny as
it relates to an ancient prophecy called the moon lore. Along the way, we are
treated to car chases, buried treasure, secret hide-outs, and brazen acts of
thievery for all the right reasons.

You don't have to be familiar with Robin Hood's Merry Men to enjoy the
supporting cast, but Magoon delightfully Â­reimagines the identities of Friar
Tuck, Will Scarlet and Maid Marian. The young minister Tucker lives in the
abandoned Nottingham Cathedral, where he writes history treatises and offers
sanctuary to fugitives. He is also not above knocking out the occasional
policeman. ''Some days it's easier to preach than to practice,'' he tells Robyn
dryly. The spiky-haired teenage rebel Scarlet serves as Robyn's cyber-hacker
when she is not borrowing Robyn's equipment without permission. KindÂ­hearted
Merryan, Governor Crown's niece, volunteers to help at Sherwood Clinic and
becomes Robyn's most unlikely, most potentially dangerous ally. ''Anyone can
decide to be different from their family,'' Merryan insists. Robyn must
determine whether she can trust that assertion.

Like the original Robin Hood, Robyn Loxley straddles disparate worlds. A child
of privilege, she rises to become a champion of the poor. As the biracial
daughter of one of Parliament's few dark-skinned members, Robyn experiences the
insidious connection between race and power. In one chilling scene, Robyn
recalls meeting Ignomus Crown, the soon-to-be dictator, at a government
function. When she asks Crown how he knows her father, Crown answers: ''He
stands out in a room like this, don't you think?'' Robyn, defiant, thinks to
herself that her father would stand out in any room for his intelligence,
popularity and charisma. ''But she knew enough to know Crown didn't mean those
things. He was referring to Dad's dark skin.'' Robyn's racial identity becomes
an elegant expression of one of the book's central themes -- that darkness and
light, while perceived as antagonists, are in fact symbiotic partners.

Most appealingly, our protagonist takes on the persona of Robyn Hoodlum not
because she wants fame for her exploits, but because she wants to spare the
people of Sherwood from being punished for her actions. This is not Errol
Flynn's swaggering celebrity outlaw, but rather a dispossessed girl who
improbably becomes the face of a popular resistance movement.

When people begin seeing her as the fulfillment of the moon lore, Robyn is
incredulous that an ancient prophecy could apply to her. The local wise woman
Eveline explains that Robyn is not the first child of the prophecy, nor will she
be the last. ''The verses have come true before, and they will come true again.
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. The moon lore does not seek to predict, but
to explain. .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. Our world turns in circles.''

Literature also turns in circles. Certain archetypes and legends speak more
powerfully to certain generations. The main issue Magoon explores in ''Shadows
of Sherwood'' -- that law and justice are not always the same thing -- is as
timely for 21st-century America as it was for Merry Olde England. Robin Hood is
an appropriate hero for our time, and Robyn Hoodlum is a welcome Â­iteration of
the legend.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday.                           Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/23/books/review/shadows-of-sherwood-a-robyn-hoodl
um-adventure-by-kekla-magoon.html

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kekla Magoon (PHOTOGRAPH BY KERRY LAND)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                           August 26, 2015 Wednesday

The 2016 China-Bashing Race

BYLINE: CAROL GIACOMO

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 564 words



HIGHLIGHT: Scott Walker and Donald Trump are eager to criticize China, but they
don&#8217;t have any smart analysis to offer.


When it comes to foreign policy, American presidential candidates have often
found it easy, even beneficial, to criticize China. In recent decades, China's
growing economic, military and political clout has generated concern among many
voters in this country. Frankly, there has been plenty to criticize, including
Beijing's reprehensible treatment of its own citizens.

But as the current crop of candidates is proving, just because they can lambast
China doesn't mean they have any smart analysis or creative policies to offer.
In fact, a lot of the broadsides and suggestions have been nonsensical,
chest-beating exercises that if followed through could be damaging to American
interests.

One mind-boggling proposal came from the Republican candidate Scott Walker who
on Monday said President Obama should show "some backbone" by canceling next
month's state visit to the White House by President Xi Jinping of China. Citing
the Chinese economic turmoil that has upended international markets, the
Wisconsin governor asked "why would we be giving one of our highest things a
president can do - and that is a state dinner for Xi Jinping, the head of China
- at a time when all of these problems are pending out there?" He argued that
such invitations should be reserved for American allies and supporters and
asserted that China and other countries would "respect" the United States if the
invitation were revoked.

In fact, most of the world would find it disrespectful and stupid if an
invitation to the leader of one of the largest economies was withdrawn,
especially at a time when the American and Chinese presidents need to be
consulting on the economic turmoil as well as other challenges, including
climate change, cyber attacks, North Korea and the South China Sea.

Mr. Walker has been lagging in the polls, so maybe taking on China was a way to
get some attention. But it could backfire: As The Washington Post reported on
Wednesday, his tough talk could hurt his relationship with farmers in Iowa who
export billions of dollars in soybeans to China, and with the state's governor,
Terry Branstad, who is friendly with Mr. Xi and introduced him to Mr. Walker on
a trade mission to China in 2013.

Donald Trump, the Republican front-runner, didn't need the publicity boost, but
he took to social media after the Dow plummeted 1,000 points on Monday to blame
the rollercoaster on the fact that the United States is too closely tied to
China. "Markets are crashing - all caused by poor planning and allowing China
and Asia to dictate the agenda. This could get very messy! Vote Trump," he
tweeted.

The wealthy mogul has long been a China-basher, accusing the country of
manipulating its currency while sucking jobs and money out of the United States.
He claims he will get those jobs and money back but so far hasn't put forward a
credible plan to do that, or address any of the other challenges the two
countries face. It's hard to imagine how the United States could plausibly
separate itself from China's economy in a globalized world, as Mr. Trump
suggests, or why it would want to.

China and American policy toward China, including possible responses to
Beijing's aggressive maritime grab in the South China Sea, should be major
issues in the 2016 campaign. For such debate to have real value, the candidates
are going to have to raise the discourse far above what we have seen so far.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 26, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Wednesday

BYLINE: By ALEC M. PRIESTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 696 words


5:45 P.M. (IFC) SNAKES ON A PLANE (2006) The F.B.I. agent Neville Flynn (Samuel
L. Jackson) is escorting a witness on a flight to Los Angeles to testify against
the murderous gangster Eddie Kim (Byron Lawson). Kim makes sure that a lot of
snakes are hidden in the plane's cargo hold and that a pheromone is present that
provokes them to attack. When the snakes slither into the cabin, Agent Flynn
must leap into action. ''There are snakes and smoke, giggles and shrieks,
slamming edits and lots of goosy, lurch-in-your seat moments,'' Manohla Dargis
wrote in The New York Times. ''Mostly, of course, there are snakes and Sam. At
once hard-working and hardly working, Mr. Jackson turns in one of his customary
performances, meaning that he glowers, barks and periodically unleashes a
13-letter epithet the way only he can.''

8 P.M. (CW) AMERICA'S NEXT TOP MODEL The modeling hopefuls honor war heroes with
a photo shoot. One model locks herself in a bathroom in distress over a new
look.

8 P.M. (Travel) THRILL FACTOR The thrill-seeking hosts Kari Byron and Tory
Belleci go to Las Vegas to jump off a casino's roof. At 8:30, they visit Six
Flags Magic Mountain to try a ride described in apocalyptic language.

10 P.M. (ABC) CELEBRITY WIFE SWAP Kellie Williams, who portrayed Laura Winslow
on ''Family Matters,'' trades places with CeCe Peniston, the singer.

10 P.M. (ID) SWAMP MURDERS A teenage member of the Lakota Tribe is found dead in
the Missouri River in South Dakota, and detectives are stymied by the ensuing
racial tensions.

10:01 P.M. (USA) MR. ROBOT Elliot (Rami Malek) is haunted by a hack from his
past in this season finale. In The Times, Alessandra Stanley called this series
''a cyber-age thriller infused with a dark, almost nihilistic pessimism about
the Internet, capitalism and income inequality.''

10 P.M. (TV Land) THE JIM GAFFIGAN SHOW Jeannie (Ashley Williams) invites Father
Nicholas (Tongayi Chirisa), a priest, to accompany Jim (Jim Gaffigan) to his
appearance on ''The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon.'' The episode guest
stars Macaulay Culkin, Mr. Fallon and Questlove.

10 P.M. (VH1) TWINNING In this reality series, 12 sets of twins compete for
$222,222.22. This episode features Adam and Cory's ''twinipulation'' of other
contestants, which is complicated when they are caught.

10 P.M. (MAX) DISTURBIA (2007) In this ''Rear Window'' reboot, directed by D. J.
Caruso, a high school student, Kale (Shia LaBeouf), becomes moody and agitated
after his father dies in a car crash. After punching a teacher, Kale is
sentenced to house arrest and spends his time watching television and playing
video games until his mom (Carrie-Anne Moss) pulls the plug on his electronics.
He then begins to spy on his neighbors with a video camera and becomes
suspicious of the guy living next door. '' 'Disturbia' will never be accused of
undue originality, but its adherence to genre conventions works in its favor,''
A. O. Scott wrote in The Times. ''Instead of manufacturing elaborate, ridiculous
plot twists or imposing overwrought psychological melodrama on a basically
absurd premise, Mr. Caruso and the screenwriters, Christopher Landon and Carl
Ellsworth, opt for efficient, clever B-movie execution. There are no big
surprises, but the jumps and jolts are well timed.''

WHAT'S STREAMING NOW

ENEMY OF THE STATE (1998)As Congress prepares to vote on a bill that would
expand surveillance abilities, a congressman (Jason Robards) who opposes it is
murdered by a National Security Agency assassin (Barry Pepper) in this film
directed by Tony Scott (''Top Gun,'' ''Man on Fire''). A nature photographer
(Jason Lee) accidentally captures the murder. He relays the information to an
acquaintance, Dean (Will Smith), without Dean's knowledge, and is promptly run
over by a truck while fleeing the N.S.A. Not surprisingly, Dean is then pursued
by the N.S.A. ''The film's juxtapositions, sharp angles, jump cuts and aerial
surveillance shots (à la the gulf war) have a rhythm that suits the material,''
Janet Maslin wrote in The Times. ''And Mr. Scott avoids touches of overkill,
like pumped-up emotional heft or an overlay of musical schmaltz.'' (hbogo.com)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/26/arts/television/whats-on-tv-wednesday.html

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW LINE PICTURES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 29, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Weakening Yet Still Aggressive, China Poses Test for U.S. Presidential
Candidates

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1295 words


For two decades, American politicians have been escalating their rhetoric about
how to confront a rising China, one that grabs territory in the South China Sea,
vacuums up American jobs and mounts cyber attacks on the United States.

But now both Republicans and Democrats face a different challenge: how to deal
with a weakening China, whose behavior may be as aggressive as always, but whose
faltering market poses an entirely different threat to American investors,
companies and workers -- one that cannot be solved by sanctions, military
buildups in the Pacific and threats of retaliation.

China-bashing is not as simple as it used to be.

Republican candidates -- led by Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who on Friday
described China as ''a rising threat to our economic interests'' and ''a growing
danger to our national security'' -- see a chance to cast President Obama as
weak and untroubled by the possibility that a new power could gradually displace
American influence. They see his lack of response to the theft of data of about
22 million Americans from the federal Office of Personnel Management, which
government officials have concluded to have originated in China, as the latest
evidence of that.

But if crafting a workable approach to China has been difficult for Mr. Obama,
who once erupted in the Situation Room because he had no leverage to change
Chinese behavior, it is as tricky for the candidates who wish to succeed him. It
is one thing to describe the rising-power problem, and another to find a
convincing approach to addressing it.

Most have not tried. Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin recently called for the
cancellation of next month's state visit by President Xi Jinping. But in 2013,
he did what most governors do: He traveled to China, promoted Wisconsin products
there, hailed the importance of the Chinese market for American firms and had
his photo taken with Chinese leaders. Former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas was there
last September advertising his state as a business-friendly climate for Chinese
investors.

Donald Trump Jr., the candidate's son, has been put in charge of new investments
for the Trump hotel empire, including, according to the group's website, deals
in mainland China. When his father suggested the other day that the state dinner
for Mr. Xi should be replaced by a McDonald's hamburger, the Chinese must have
been tempted to point out that they need no introduction to such American fare.
There are more than 2,000 McDonald's in China, including some a very short walk
from Mr. Xi's official residence.

In a speech in South Carolina on Friday, Mr. Rubio presented a familiar list of
grievances with Mr. Xi's government: a ''campaign to push America out of Asia'';
the development of ''weapons that threaten our bases and naval assets'' (the
Chinese say the same about the United States.); and an effort ''to make the 21st
century a Chinese Century'' (though American politicians have no compunctions
about calling it an ''American Century'').

He talked at length about Chinese efforts to round up human rights activists,
oppress Christians, detain dissidents and control the Internet. ''This is a
disgrace,'' he concluded. ''And we must stand against it.''

But his problem was also familiar: As Hillary Rodham Clinton put it early in her
time as secretary of state, in a confidential conversation later published by
WikiLeaks, ''How do you talk toughly to your banker?''

Mr. Rubio struggled with answers. He said engagement, yet his solutions sounded
a bit like Mr. Obama's. He called for ending sequestration on the Pentagon
budget so more planes and ships could be devoted to Asia. Specifically he
promised to build two Virginia-class submarines per year, deploy ''new
long-range precision strike systems,'' deploy more missile defenses and protect
satellites and other space-based systems from Chinese attack. He will find many
of those in the current Pentagon long-range plan.

Mr. Rubio stepped carefully when it came to calling for ''aggressive
retaliation, which would hurt us as much as them.'' Instead he said the United
States should reinforce ''our insistence on free markets and free trade. This
means immediately moving forward with the Trans-Pacific Partnership and other
trade agreements that strengthen strategic ties with our partners in Asia.'' Mr.
Obama would argue that is exactly what he is attempting.

Mr. Rubio seemed to sense the dilemma of figuring out whether a strong China or
a weak one is the harder problem for the next decade.

''We tend to exaggerate their capacities in both directions,'' said Kurt M.
Campbell, who served as assistant secretary of state for East Asia under Mrs.
Clinton and who still advises her on Asia and foreign policy. ''There was the
10-foot-tall-ism, where we focused too much on their strengths,'' said Mr.
Campbell, who now runs the Asia Group, a consultancy. ''Now we have to avoid
spending too much time on their weaknesses.''

Rightly or wrongly, Mrs. Clinton is considered to be more confrontational with
the Chinese than Mr. Obama, after a famous flare-up with her Chinese counterpart
over the country's territorial claims.

As a result, the Republicans know that if Mrs. Clinton emerges as the Democratic
nominee, it will be difficult to cast her as soft on China. A bigger problem may
be in their own party. The American opening to China was a Republican
president's project. It is considered one of the greatest accomplishments of
Richard M. Nixon's checkered presidency, and today's mainline Republican foreign
policy establishment takes a very nuanced view of balancing Chinese power.

Whoever emerges from the scrum of 17 Republican candidates will seek the wisdom
-- and the endorsement -- of Henry A. Kissinger, Mr. Nixon's national security
adviser and secretary of state, and at 92 still the party's greatest foreign
policy mind. The architect of the American relationship with Beijing, who four
years ago published a book on America's dealings with China, is not one to call
for cutting off relationships with Beijing.

Neither is former President George W. Bush. Shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks,
he traveled to Beijing and got the Chinese to support his counterterrorism
agenda -- which the Chinese immediately exploited as a justification for
crackdowns on the ethnic Uighur population, which is largely Muslim. But Mr.
Bush viewed the visits of Chinese leaders to his Texas ranch as critical to his
effort to contain North Korea, and always described the relationship between
China and the United States as ''complicated.''

It is a tricky moment for the Obama administration as well. Mr. Obama's national
security adviser, Susan E. Rice, is in Beijing to meet Mr. Xi and sort through
the agenda for his state visit to Washington next month. Ms. Rice's agenda is to
figure out how to find common ground -- on the Iran nuclear agreement, climate
change and renewed threats from North Korea -- while not appearing to back down
on the territorial claims or the cyberattacks on the United States from China.

The dynamic will become more complicated when Mr. Xi arrives in the United
States. Battered by an economic crisis he did not see coming, Mr. Xi ''is likely
to want to show he is not vulnerable, and not weak,'' Mr. Campbell said.

''He comes to Washington wanting respect, and I do not believe we will see
particular lines of easing on maritime issues and cyberintrusions,'' he added.
But with global economic stability at stake, Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi have a strong
interest in demonstrating to the markets that they can work together and ignore
the din of a campaign.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/29/us/politics/chinas-vulnerability-is-a-test-for
-us-presidential-candidates.html

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, President Xi Jinping
of China and Gov. Terry E. Branstad of Iowa in Beijing in 2013. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ANDY WONG/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Why We Love Crime

BYLINE: By CHARLOTTE GORDON.

Charlotte Gordon's most recent book is ''Romantic Outlaws: The Extraordinary
Lives of Mary Wollstonecraft and Her Daughter Mary Shelley.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 905 words


MURDER BY CANDLELIGHTThe Gruesome Crimes Behind Our Romance With the Macabre By
Michael Knox Beran265 pp. Pegasus Crime. $27.95.  Murder. Dismemberment. Rape.
Cannibalism. Jack the Ripper. The Newtown shooter. Why are we fascinated by
murders and murderers, by acts of evil and those who perpetrate them?

Tabloids, biopics and even dignified, well-researched accounts of serial
murderers indulge our appetite for real-life horror, dishing up the lurid
details -- the mutilated body, the serving woman found bleeding on her pillow,
the severed head floating downriver -- and sell millions of copies. But these
works usually leave the central, most troubling questions unanswered. Not only
the obvious ones: Why did the murderer commit this crime? Why did he (usually it
is a he) torture his victims or saw their corpses into pieces? But also the less
obvious ones, the ones we may not want to think about: Why do we read these
stories? Why are we drawn into the murder chamber? Wouldn't it make more sense
if we turned our backs, refusing to immerse ourselves in example after example
of cruelty?

This conundrum is precisely what most murder mysteries fail to answer, as
Michael Knox Beran explains in his fascinating new book, ''Murder by
Candlelight: The Gruesome Crimes Behind Our Romance With the Macabre.'' Just as
no back story of abuse can fully explain the genesis of a Son of Sam or a
Charles Manson, so too modern science and social theory are, he believes, ill
equipped to explore our preoccupation with horror, the nonmurderers' fascination
with the murderer, the innocent bystander's obsession with the guilty. Beran
asks us to consider our own hearts of darkness, why we're obsessed with murder
stories, why this obsession matters, and what it suggests about us as a culture
and a species.

These are challenging and complicated questions, and also questions that might
bog a book down. But this isn't the case with Beran's witty and engaging
narrative. Far from being a dry academic treatise, ''Murder by Candlelight'' is
at once psychological thriller and philosophical meditation, murder mystery and
literary analysis, written in elegant and pointed prose. Beran frames his
arguments within a recounting of some of the most notorious murders of the 19th
century, exploring how and why these tales are so fascinating. In one skillfully
wrought volume, he cleverly feeds our appetite for horror even as he probes this
appetite. He lets us contemplate our fascination at the same time we're
experiencing it, watching as he explores its origins philosophically,
historically and psychologically.

To begin with, he insists, great murders need great murder writers. Quotidian
prose, dry facts, sociological and/or economic analyses, medical explanations of
perversions or disorders -- none of these can get at the heart of horror. To
understand why murderers murder, we need to consult the great 19th-century
authors, using the likes of Thomas De Quincey, Thomas Carlyle and Sir Walter
Scott as our guides. These Romantic prose artists wrote about killings that
occurred during what Beran terms the golden age of murder, the period between
1811 and 1837. ''It is less the quality of the crimes,'' Beran writes, with
characteristic perspicacity, ''than the attitude of the age which determines the
gruesomeness of its murders.'' On a mission ''to understand the nature of evil
and to reinstate it in all its dark majesty'' as a fact of human nature, the
Romantics were fascinated by ''the horror that moves the soul.'' De Quin­cey
argued that only through ''sympathy'' can we see, as Beran puts it, ''how
certain killers, craving an intoxication they could experience in no other way,
murdered over and over again precisely in order to intensify an existence which
would otherwise have seemed to them insipid.''

Other eras have had their own terrible crimes and chroniclers, but the
19th-­century masters, in Beran's view, are extraordinary because they aren't
afraid to enter the terrible inner world of the killer. They tap into our
unconscious capacity for cruelty by employing the Romantic tools of empathy and
imagery, ''the language of the poets.'' He believes that in our own time, on the
other hand, murder has been ''antiseptically reduced to a problem of social
science.''

''It is very hard to look, closely and steadily, at something that is really
appalling,'' Beran writes, ''if you haven't in the back of your mind a
compensatory idea of goodness to buck you up.'' Without the hope of what he
terms an ''arch-­goodness,'' it's almost impossible to tolerate the idea of
absolute evil, and this points to the ultimate shallowness of modern conceptions
of murder. By turning murder into a puzzle to be solved or a socioeconomic issue
that can be fixed, we have trivialized and defanged our understanding of evil.

No matter how far we advance technologically, we're still stuck with human
nature. In a fascinating conclusion, Beran argues that the utopian visions of
Silicon Valley, ''where the cyber moguls are busy planning to live forever, or
failing that, for 500 years,'' are ''likely to breed new forms of Gothic
horror.'' Reason and science can't whitewash the human soul. In a hundred years,
no matter how perfect our homes and our vehicles, no matter how long our life
spans, we will still unfailingly and inevitably be human -- a conclusion that
''Murder by Candlelight'' exhorts us to remember.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/30/books/review/murder-by-candlelight-by-michael-
knox-beran.html

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph Myers about to kill his wife in Sheffield, 1864
 from The Illustrated Police News. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 1, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Insights, and Redactions, in Release of Latest Batch of Clinton's Emails

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT; Michael D. Shear contributed
reporting from Washington, and Amy Chozick, Maggie Haberman and Steve Eder from
New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1331 words


WASHINGTON --  Chelsea Clinton warned her parents that international relief
efforts in Haiti were a disaster and that major changes were needed in a memo
released on Monday that offered a rare window into her role in America's most
prominent political family.

''To say I was profoundly disturbed by what I saw -- and didn't see -- would be
an understatement,'' Ms. Clinton wrote in a memo addressed to ''Dad, Mom'' and
attached to an email she sent while her mother was secretary of state and her
father was leading relief efforts for the 2010 earthquake in Haiti. ''The
incompetence is mind numbing.''

Reporting back on a four-day trip to Haiti, Ms. Clinton added, ''If we do not
quickly change the organization, management, accountability and delivery
paradigm on the ground, we could quite conceivably confront tens of thousands of
children's deaths by diarrhea, dysentery, typhoid and other water-related
diseases in the near future.''

The message hinted at the largely hidden role the former first daughter has
played over the years as an agent and adviser to her famous parents, ''an
invisible soldier,'' as she described herself in that memo. With her mother now
back on the presidential campaign trail, Chelsea Clinton has been increasingly
in the spotlight as she has exercised oversight over the family foundation and
taken a more visible place in the family's quest to return to the White House.

The memo was one of 4,368 documents totaling 7,121 pages, posted online Monday
night by the State Department as part of a monthly disclosure ordered by a court
after the revelation that Hillary Rodham Clinton had used a private email server
while she was secretary of state. The department initially said it had redacted
information from roughly 150 emails because they contained sensitive
information, then reduced that estimate to 125.

The information was deleted because ''confidential'' materials -- the lowest
classification of government intelligence -- had been discovered in the
correspondence. None of the documents were marked classified at the time they
were sent, said Mark Toner, a spokesman for the State Department.

According to an executive order signed by President Obama in 2009,
''confidential'' information ''reasonably could be expected to cause damage to
national security'' if disclosed to the public. But classifying government
information is more of an art than a science, often relying on judgment calls by
examiners.

Steven Aftergood, who directs the Project on Government Secrecy for the
Federation of American Scientists, said that if the information had been derived
from intelligence sources and methods, ''it would certainly be classified at a
higher level than confidential.''

Reince Priebus, chairman of the Republican National Committee, said the latest
information about the classifications underscored concerns about Mrs. Clinton's
conduct. ''On hundreds of occasions, Hillary Clinton's reckless attempt to skirt
transparency laws put sensitive information and our national security at risk,''
he said.

Among the redacted emails posted Monday were a message from Jake Sullivan, a top
adviser to Mrs. Clinton, about Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister,
and all of her response except the words, ''Can you run the traps.'' Another
email she sent to Mr. Sullivan had the subject ''Gaza'' but was deleted except
for a reference to a memorandum of conversation: ''Pls see the memcon for
details.''

The messages, though, contain plenty of other insights into Mrs. Clinton's
circle in those days, especially missives from Sidney Blumenthal, a longtime
outside adviser who provided sometimes blunt assessments of domestic and
international politics.

In one, Mr. Blumenthal offered a caustic assessment of Speaker John A. Boehner,
who he said was ''despised'' by younger, more conservative Republicans. ''They
are repelled by his personal behavior,'' Mr. Blumenthal wrote. ''He is louche,
alcoholic, lazy, and without any commitment to any principle.''

In another, he forwarded a memo from David Brock, a pro-Clinton political
activist, with the subject line ''Memo on Impeaching Clarence Thomas,'' the
Supreme Court justice, suggesting new evidence conflicting with Mr. Thomas's
testimony during his confirmation hearings.

The emails underscore that Mrs. Clinton was acutely interested in remaining
current on political developments and any reports of upheaval at the White
House. Aides sent her a column criticizing Mr. Obama as having a ''righteous
self-regard'' and a story about rumors of a staff shake-up in the West Wing.

At 11:16 one night, she emailed Mr. Sullivan to find out about the White House
reaction to a Rolling Stone story featuring criticism from Gen. Stanley A.
McChrystal and his staff. On another occasion, Mrs. Clinton's aides fretted
about whether the White House had leaked undisclosed information to a reporter,
but Philippe Reines, a senior adviser, said, ''There's no way they'd handle you
that way.''

Mrs. Clinton also displayed a sense of humor. When her aide, Cheryl D. Mills,
sent her a news story about someone robbing a Virginia bank wearing a Hillary
Clinton mask, the real Hillary Clinton responded: ''Should I be flattered? Even
a little bit?''

She went on: ''And, as for my alibi, well, let's just say it depends on the snow
and the secret service.''

Her lawyer, David E. Kendall, copied on the email chain, added that he had done
research and other robbers had used masks of Richard M. Nixon, George W. Bush
and Ronald Reagan. ''We appear to be the first Democrat, however,'' he wrote.

Mr. Blumenthal was not the only outside adviser offering his thoughts. Mark
Penn, her former 2008 campaign strategist, told her that she was not being
forceful enough in responding to and condemning the WikiLeaks breach of State
Department cables.

''For what it is worth,'' he wrote, ''I think you need to order a full scale
review and upgrading of the cyber security of the state department
immediately.''

The security of her own email, of course, has since become an issue and some of
the messages foreshadow that. In one exchange, a department official evidently
tried sending her a message to what would have been her State Department address
had she used one, only to have it bounce back, so the official called in the
department's Help Desk.

In another instance, Mrs. Clinton, frustrated that she had not heard back from
an aide, sent an email to the aide's personal address and the two engaged in a
long exchange about whether the State Department filters were screening out the
secretary's messages to department addresses.

Other messages suggested the oddities of life as secretary of state. In one
message with the subject line ''Gefilte fish,'' Mrs. Clinton wrote aides,
''Where are we on this?'' (It turns out to refer to a dispute over customs
duties for carp being sent to Israel in time for the Jewish holidays.)

In some cases, aides sent Mrs. Clinton messages cheering her on. ''I for one
loved that you finally called out the ogrish males on your staff who roll their
eyes at womens issues and events,'' Mr. Reines wrote. ''But fyi, I'm pretty sure
I saw'' and here a name was redacted ''roll their eyes at the very moment that
you were obviously referring to them.''

Still, others were more willing to be critical. Chelsea Clinton, for instance,
wrote her to complain about the State Department web site.

''To my favorite secretary of state - i have a complaint about the website i
cant see video of your talks or q&a sessions - only the text!'' Ms. Clinton,
writing under the code name ''Diane Reynolds,'' told her mother. ''i think there
should be links to the news' versions if there is not state-created footage.''

The State Department said that, after Monday's release, a quarter of Mrs.
Clinton's emails have been made public.

Follow The New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/01/us/politics/state-department-redacts-material-
deemed-sensitive-in-hillary-clintons-emails.html

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hillary Rodham Clinton campaigning in Iowa in August. The state
department said it redacted information from roughly 125 of her emails because
of sensitive information. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 3, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Return of a Dreaded Question: 'Do You Make Money?'

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1060 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- A funny thing happened to Orion Hindawi while he was raising
$120 million for his cybersecurity start-up last month: Investors asked him
about profits.

A year ago, Mr. Hindawi raised $90 million, followed by an additional $52
million this year from the Silicon Valley venture firm Andreessen Horowitz.
Investors were willing to place a $900 million valuation on his company, called
Tanium, without so much as a glance at revenue or profit margin.

This time, not so. As he made the rounds with investors like Institutional
Venture Partners and T. Rowe Price, Mr. Hindawi said, he was asked to show sales
and profit margins. ''A lot of the funders we spoke with are starting to get
really scared,'' he said. ''This time the questions were, 'Is this a sustainable
business? Do you guys actually make money?' ''

That sudden dose of skepticism about cybersecurity start-ups, which as a group
recorded record investments last year, may be a harbinger of change across the
entire technology sector. With global stock markets struggling, investors may be
ready to move away from the focus on growth over profits of the last few years.

If that shift proves to be more than a blip, it will represent a sharp
turnabout. Cybersecurity entrepreneurs in recent years have had an easy time
raising money as breaches at the nation's largest companies and government
agencies have become front-page news.

In 2014, American venture capitalists poured $1.77 billion, a record amount,
into private security start-ups, topping the previous record of $1.62 billion
invested in 2000, at the height of the dot-com bubble, according to Dow Jones
VentureSource.

''There was a big rush to fund cyber companies over the past 12 to 24 months,''
said David Cowan, a partner at Bessemer Venture Partners. ''But now there's a
sense that there are many, many out there already and a good story is not enough
to attract capital anymore.''

And there are too many companies trying to do the same thing: identify
''anomalous'' behavior on computer networks and respond to attacks in real time,
Mr. Cowan said.

''That pretty much sums up 95 percent of the companies raising money at the RSA
show,'' he said, referring to the giant RSA cybersecurity conference held in San
Francisco in April. ''If that's what you're promising and you think you've found
a really sexy value proposition, guess what -- it's not that sexy when the room
is full of people just like you.''

If interest from venture firms is any indication, Tanium must still be sexy. The
Emeryville, Calif., company's technology can test the millions of computers that
are attached to corporate networks, ask them questions, and patch them or shut
them down in seconds, if need be.

Tanium has been profitable since shortly after it started working with customers
in 2012 (it was founded in 2007). Mr. Hindawi and his father, David, were not
initially interested in raising venture capital, but the value Andreessen
Horowitz was willing to put on their company and the business connections the
venture firm could provide were too good to ignore.

Still, Mr. Hindawi said he was surprised that venture capitalists were willing
to place a $900 million valuation on a young company without so much as a glance
at revenue or margin.

''Up until a year ago, nobody cared that we were cash flow positive,'' he said.
''None of those things factored in. They basically said, 'We don't really care.
What's the growth rate?'''

The diligence he encountered during the company's latest funding round was
almost a relief, he said, maybe an indication that some semblance of sobriety
had returned to tech funding.

But it may be just a semblance. Mr. Hindawi turned away $400 million in cash
offers in the latest round. The investors who made the cut -- Institutional
Venture Partners, TPG Growth and T. Rowe Price -- valued Tanium at $3.5 billion,
nearly four times the $900 million valuation it received last year and double
the $1.75 billion valuation that Andreessen Horowitz gave it last March,
according to two people familiar with the deal who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because the terms were confidential.

Tanium did not need the cash, Mr. Hindawi conceded, but he chose to raise money
now, in part, because word that he had recently turned down an acquisition offer
sent investors flocking to the company's door -- and a quarter-billion dollars
in the bank would help it survive if a downturn hit.

''I never want to raise money again,'' Mr. Hindawi said. ''If there's a market
downturn or a 'black swan' occurs, I want to make sure we cross that bar.''

Saving up cash from private investors may also be wise because the public
markets have not been kind to security companies lately.

So-called next-generation security companies like FireEye, the company that owns
Mandiant; Palo Alto Networks; Qualys; and Splunk have all experienced sharp
drops in their share prices. Qualys's stock is down to a little over half the
$55 it traded at last May, Palo Alto Networks' stock is down nearly 17 percent
since July, Splunk's stock is down 20 percent since July, and FireEye's stock,
which reached a high of $85.64 last year, now hovers under $40.

Those slides could continue with recent market volatility. On Tuesday, the
tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index dropped 2.94 percent for the day. It recovered
on Wednesday, but is still down 9 percent from its recent high in July. The Dow
Jones industrial average, a popular gauge of the broader market, has tumbled 10
percent since July.

With the risk of a downturn growing, Tanium is not the only security start-up
putting money away for a rainy day. Crowdstrike, which runs cyberthreats through
a powerful cloud computing system, received $100 million from Google Capital in
July, for example.

George Kurtz, the company's chief executive, said the investors from Google were
not just throwing money around. They spent a lot of time with Crowdstrike's
customers, to understand the technology before investing.

Mr. Kurtz said he learned from the dot-com crash that it is better to give up a
little ownership stake in return for investment dollars that can turn into a
safety cushion if business turns bad.

''I've never seen a company go out of business from dilution, but I have seen
companies go out of business because they didn't raise enough money,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/03/technology/scrutiny-of-security-start-ups-may-
signal-shift-in-venture-funding.html

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David and Orion Hindawi at Tanium, a security company. Last
year, investors valued Tanium at $900 million without examining its revenue and
profit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TALIA HERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Minneapolis Fighting Terror Recruitment

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA CAPECCHI and MITCH SMITH; Christina Capecchi reported from
Minneapolis, and Mitch Smith from Chicago.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 753 words


MINNEAPOLIS --  This city's struggle with terrorism recruitment showed itself on
two fronts Wednesday. In the morning, a Somali-American teenager admitted in
court here that he had tried to flee the country and join the Islamic State.
Hours later, federal prosecutors and some leaders among the region's large
Somali population announced about $1 million in funding for programs meant to
combat just that type of radicalization.

''We are the solution. It has to come from us,'' said Abdi Warsame, a
Minneapolis City Council member of Somali descent. ''Yes, we're working with the
Department of Justice. It's our friend.''

Law enforcement officials and some Somali leaders said the new programs were a
way to stop extremism long before an arrest became necessary. Big Brothers Big
Sisters will start a mentoring project for young Somalis, grants will be awarded
to community groups, and an education and work-force resources center will open
in a neighborhood where many Somalis live.

But other Somali-Americans, fearing more indictments and wary of police
surveillance, said they were skeptical of the government's role in the projects

''The shadows of the U.S. Attorney's Office are already covering these
programs,'' said Jaylani Hussein, who is executive director of the Minnesota
chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations. ''That will create a great
deal of mistrust.''

Wednesday's announcement came after a year of talks between civic groups, law
enforcement and Somali-Americans, which occurred as a number of cases involving
young terror suspects wound their way through the federal courts in Minnesota.
One of those defendants, Hanad Musse, pleaded guilty on Wednesday to conspiracy
to provide material support to a foreign terrorist organization. Mr. Musse faces
up to 15 years in prison. Prosecutors said Mr. Musse, 19, and other young men
from Minnesota had tried unsuccessfully to travel to Syria to join the Islamic
State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. Other cases are pending.

Andrew Luger, the state's top federal prosecutor, said investigations into
terrorism recruitment would continue, but that he hoped young people would be
dissuaded from extremism. Mr. Luger said meetings with Somali clergy and parents
had brought calls for mentoring programs to help steer troubled teenagers away
from terrorist recruiters.

''They told me that they need these tools,'' Mr. Luger said. ''They need to know
that law enforcement is on their side to address this long before it becomes a
law enforcement'' problem.

Mr. Luger's announcement came as part of a Justice Department pilot program to
stop terrorist recruitment by engaging with community members. Boston and Los
Angeles are also part of the project. The approach is relatively new in the
United States, but leaders on all sides agree the stakes are high. Federal
prosecutors have charged more than 20 people in Minnesota in relation to Al
Shabaab, an African terrorist organization. At least 10 more have been charged
with supporting the Islamic State, which has been accused of slaughtering
countless Christians, Yazidis and fellow Muslims in seeking to establish a
Middle Eastern ''caliphate.''

''We don't have a choice,'' Mr. Luger said in an interview. ''Minnesota has a
terror recruiting problem. We have seen far too many of our young men and young
women go off to a foreign country to fight with terrorists.''

Lorenzo Vidino, the director of the Program on Extremism at George Washington
University's Center for Cyber and Homeland Security, said some Western European
nations had found success by using community groups, instead of government
programs, to prevent radicalization.

''The lighter the footprint of the government, the better,'' Dr. Vidino said.

In Minnesota, a private organization with experience in the Somali community
will award about $500,000 in grants, not the government itself.

The money will come from a mix of government funds and corporate donations.

But as young Somalis continue to appear in federal court on terror charges,
local clergy have been split on how much to trust the prosecutor's office and
the new programs.

''It's offensive to our community,'' Hassan Jama, a Minnesota imam, said. ''It's
singling us out.''

But Abdisalam Adam, an imam here who spoke at a news conference with Mr. Luger,
encouraged Somalis to be open-minded about the programs.

''A healthy skepticism is fine,'' Mr. Adam said, ''but we haven't seen anything
to make us to be fearful and suspicious of government.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/10/us/minneapolis-fighting-terror-recruitment.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           September 14, 2015 Monday

Daily Report: New Week, New Tech Conference

BYLINE: PUI-WING TAM

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 239 words



HIGHLIGHT: This week in tech involves another big conference, Salesforce&#8217;s
Dreamforce event. At the same time, security start-ups are getting ever more
sophisticated.


It's the season for tech events and conferences.

Late last month, the virtualization company VMware held its giant conference in
San Francisco. Last week, Apple hosted a product event in San Francisco to
introduce its newest iPhones, iPads and Apple TV. This week, it's the turn of
Salesforce, the cloud computing software company, to clog up the city's streets
with its huge Dreamforce conference, which our tech reporter Quentin Hardy will
be watching. Stay tuned.

In the meantime, the world of security start-ups is becoming ever more
sophisticated. Consider iSight Partners, a young company based in Chantilly,
Va., which may have gathered together the largest private team of experts in a
nascent business called threat intelligence. Nicole Perlroth recently visited
the cyber intelligence firm to find out how the operation works.

Then there's CloudFlare, a San Francisco-based start-up that helps manage
Internet traffic and keep it secure, which is pioneering a novel business model
in China called "virtual joint venture." CloudFlare is working together with
Baidu, one of China's largest Internet companies. Under their arrangement,
writes Paul Mozur, CloudFlare has essentially transferred some of its
intellectual property and given up local control in order to operate the joint
service with Baidu. It's a model that may gain momentum as other American tech
companies look to grow in China's politically sensitive tech industry.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 15, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Record Retention

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA STEVENSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 435 words


Four of Wall Street's biggest banks on Monday agreed to cooperate with New York
regulators and retain copies of communications sent through the messaging
platform known as Symphony.

The New York State Department of Financial Services was concerned that the
platform would allow traders to delete or encrypt information that could be used
to track evidence of rigging schemes among traders at various banks. Messaging
in chat rooms is believed to have figured prominently in schemes to manipulate
global exchange rates and benchmark interest rates.

Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse and Bank of New York Mellon have
agreed to keep copies of all electronic communication sent through the Symphony
platform to and from one another for seven years. They have also agreed to store
the duplicate copies of decryption keys for messages with independent
custodians. The agreement essentially nullifies a feature initially marketed by
Symphony that allowed for ''guaranteed data deletion.'' The system is scheduled
to be introduced on Tuesday.

''We are pleased that these banks did the right thing by working cooperatively
with us to help address our concerns about this new messaging platform,'' said
Anthony J. Albanese, the acting superintendent of the Department of Financial
Services.

''This is a critical issue since chats and other electronic records have
provided key evidence in investigations of wrongdoing on Wall Street,'' Mr.
Albanese said in a statement. ''It is vital that regulators act to ensure that
these records do not fall into a digital black hole.''

Symphony's chief executive, David Gurle, said: ''The agreement is another
positive development on the eve of Symphony's launch. Symphony's platform
safeguards against cyber threats while strengthening customers' compliance
operations and facilitating their ability to meet their regulatory
obligations.''

Symphony, a start-up based in California, was created by Goldman Sachs and is
backed by a consortium of major banks. It has positioned itself as an
alternative to Bloomberg's chat program used by traders and investors around the
world. The four banks that reached agreements with the Department of Financial
Services represent the banks within the consortium that the regulator regulates.

''We are pleased our discussions with the D.F.S. have been constructive and
Symphony's messaging solution addresses their concerns and further enhances our
process around security and compliance,'' a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs said
in an email.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/15/business/dealbook/wall-street-banks-reach-deal
-with-regulators-on-data-retention.html

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 16, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cyberthreat Posed by China and Iran Confounds White House

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1519 words


WASHINGTON --  A question from a member of the Pentagon's new cyberwarfare unit
the other day prompted President Obama to voice his frustration about America's
seeming inability to deter a growing wave of computer attacks, and to vow to
confront the increasingly aggressive adversaries who are perpetrating them.

''Offense is moving a lot faster than defense,'' Mr. Obama told troops on Friday
at Fort Meade, Md., home of the National Security Agency and the United States
Cyber Command. ''The Russians are good. The Chinese are good. The Iranians are
good.'' The problem, he said, was that despite improvements in tracking down the
sources of attacks, ''we can't necessarily trace it directly to that state,''
making it hard to strike back.

Then he issued a warning: ''There comes a point at which we consider this a core
national security threat.'' If China and other nations cannot figure out the
boundaries of what is acceptable, ''we can choose to make this an area of
competition, which I guarantee you we'll win if we have to.''

If Mr. Obama sounded uncharacteristically combative on the topic, it is because
finding a way to deter computer attacks is one of the most urgent and
confounding problems he faces in his last 16 months in office. The problem is
all the more pressing because it is where the high-tension diplomacy surrounding
the state visit of President Xi Jinping of China next week merges with the
challenge of containing Iran in the aftermath of the recently completed nuclear
agreement with Tehran.

Mustering the leverage to deter attacks is exactly what Mr. Obama is struggling
to accomplish in the days leading up to Mr. Xi's visit. For six weeks, American
officials have warned that they are preparing sanctions against Chinese hackers,
telling Chinese officials in private meetings that the combination of
intellectual property theft and espionage on an unprecedented scale -- the theft
of the 22 million security dossiers from the Office of Personnel Management, for
example -- cannot go unanswered.

But an argument has broken out within the administration over whether to invoke
those sanctions now and risk a blowup with Beijing before Mr. Xi's arrival, or
use the threat of them to try to extract something from the Chinese.

The White House revealed late Saturday that a high-level Communist Party envoy
sent by Mr. Xi, Meng Jianzhu, spent four days in Washington last week meeting
with intelligence and law enforcement officials in an effort to create some
''rules of the road'' for Internet actions between the United States and China
before they derail an already fraught relationship.

Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, described the talks with the
Chinese as ''pretty blunt,'' and one of the officials who met with Mr. Meng,
China's domestic security chief, was less diplomatic, calling the talks ''pretty
ugly.''

The day Mr. Meng returned home, China's official state news media quoted him as
saying that the Chinese government would crack down on criminal hackers, though
the statement was vague about what would happen to those acting on behalf of the
Chinese government.

In classified sessions, American intelligence agencies have told members of
Congress that while computer attacks on the United States emanating from Iran
decreased during the negotiations over the nuclear accord, they believe that an
Iran stymied in developing a nuclear ability over the next 10 to 15 years is
likely to pour more resources into cyberweapons. Such weapons have already been
used against the Navy, American banks, a Las Vegas casino and Saudi Arabia's
largest oil producer, without setting off significant retaliation.

The day before Mr. Obama spoke at Fort Meade, the director of national
intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., said at a congressional hearing that the
United States lacked ''both the substance and the mind-set of deterrence.'' But
he went on to say that he was far less worried about a ''large Armageddon
strike'' that would take out America's power systems than about the kind of
smaller but persistent attacks that damaged Sony Pictures Entertainment.

With both Iran and China, Mr. Obama is struggling with variants of the same
problem: How do you contain a rising power that has discovered the benefits of
an anonymous, havoc-creating weapon that can also yield vast troves of secret
data? And how do you convince them that actions for which ''they have paid no
price,'' as the director of the N.S.A. and the Cyber Command, Adm. Michael S.
Rogers, put it the other day, will no longer be cost-free?

''We have a deterrence deficit,'' said David Rothkopf, the author of ''National
Insecurity: American Leadership in an Age of Fear.''

''The U.S. is very good at dealing with the gravest global challenges, like
global thermonuclear war, and also very good at empty gestures and rhetoric,''
he said. ''The problem we have is with our middle game, and yet most of the
challenges we face are, of course, in the middle.''

With Iran and China, cyberwarfare is only part of those middle-game challenges.
Containing Iran's growing influence in Iraq, Syria, Yemen and throughout the
region is central to the administration's post-accord challenge. And containing
China's effort to reclaim islands in the South China Sea, a bet by Beijing that
neither Washington nor Asian nations will stop it from developing a new base of
operations and exclusive claims to air and sea territory, is the subtext of much
of the tension with Mr. Xi's government.

But the escalating cyberconflict poses a particularly complex problem, because
there is no equivalent of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty for computer
networks. That is exactly what makes the use of cybertechniques and weapons so
attractive to the Russians, the Chinese, the Iranians and the North Koreans --
and, to some extent, the United States.

So far, the administration's response has seemed inconsistent, and to many
incoherent.

When North Korea was identified as the country that attacked Sony, Mr. Obama --
in possession of evidence gleaned from the N.S.A.'s yearslong penetration of
North Korean networks -- went to the White House press room, declared that the
leadership in Pyongyang was responsible, and said the United States would
retaliate at the time and in the manner of its choosing.

The public retaliation was a series of modest financial sanctions that did
little additional damage to the most sanctioned country on earth. If there was a
lasting response to the attack, only North Korea knows about it.

And when Unit 61398 of the People's Liberation Army in China was exposed as the
force behind the theft of intellectual property from American companies, the
Justice Department announced the indictment of five of the army's officers.
Justice officials hailed that as a breakthrough. Inside the intelligence
community and the White House, however, it was regarded as purely symbolic, and
the strike on the Office of Personnel Management continued after the indictments
were announced.

''The Chinese have discovered they can launch cyberattacks against us and that
our officials seek to downplay them or offer up limp, ineffective responses,
like indicting people behind them who will never ever see the inside of a U.S.
court,'' Mr. Rothkopf said. ''This has added to the perception that we are weak,
which in turn is an incentive to more opportunistic bad actors.''

Mr. Obama was determined to do more, his aides said. He issued an order in the
spring, based on lessons learned in the Sony attack, enabling him to issue
sanctions against individuals or organizations deemed responsible for computer
attacks -- similar to his powers to deal with nuclear proliferators or
terrorists. But they have never been used.

The administration made it clear that Chinese hackers would be in the first
wave. And when Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser, went to Beijing
recently to prepare for the visit of Mr. Xi, computer warfare was a major source
of contention. ''That's when they woke up and sent Meng,'' said one senior
official who would discuss private diplomatic conversations only on the
condition of anonymity.

No one is expecting a simple solution. In testimony last week, Mr. Clapper went
out of his way to correct members of Congress who called the personnel office
episode an ''attack,'' noting that it was espionage, something the United States
does often to the Chinese. And the intelligence agencies do not want any
agreements that would limit their own ability to use cyberweapons for covert
purposes, as the United States did against Iran in an operation aimed at
disabling parts of its nuclear program.

And now Iran is part of the worry. Admiral Rogers told a House panel that while
cyberattacks directed at the United States abated during talks over the nuclear
deal, the country was now ''fully committed'' to using them as part of a
revamped military strategy. The Iranians, another senior intelligence official
said, discussing private intelligence assessments on the condition of anonymity,
''will be looking intensely at how we handle the Chinese.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/16/world/asia/cyberthreat-posed-by-china-and-iran
-confounds-white-house.html

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama on Friday at Fort Meade, Md., home of the
National Security Agency and the United States Cyber Command. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 17, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Raises Threat of Sanctions to Press China on Hacking

BYLINE: By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 898 words


WASHINGTON --  President Obama warned on Wednesday that his administration was
ready to take action against China over online attacks carried out by Beijing or
its proxies, publicly raising the specter of sanctions a week before President
Xi Jinping arrives in the United States for a state visit.

''We are preparing a number of measures that will indicate to the Chinese that
this is not just a matter of us being mildly upset, but is something that will
put significant strains on the bilateral relationship if not resolved,'' Mr.
Obama said in a question-and-answer session with business leaders on economic
issues. ''We are prepared to take some countervailing actions in order to get
their attention.''

''My hope,'' Mr. Obama added, ''is that it gets resolved short of that.''

The remarks seemed calibrated to pressure Mr. Xi to agree to address online
security concerns, which Mr. Obama said would ''probably be one of the biggest
topics'' of the talks next week.

They also seemed to suggest that while sanctions are unlikely to be imposed on
China before the summit meeting, it is increasingly likely that some penalties
will be imposed afterward.

The public threat of sanctions represented an intensifying of what has until now
been a quiet, although increasingly intense, effort to warn the Chinese that the
administration will not tolerate recent breaches and thefts of intellectual
property, including one at the Office of Personnel Management. That breach,
revealed this year, compromised tens of millions of security files of federal
employees.

Mr. Obama has faced a difficult problem in deciding whether and when to apply
sanctions. Some administration officials are concerned about poisoning the
atmosphere for Mr. Xi's visit and some believe that the threat of such penalties
could help extract concessions.

''They've just run out of time to deal with sanctions before this top-level
meeting,'' said Patrick M. Cronin, the director of the Asia-Pacific Security
Program at the Center for a New American Security.

''The administration is, on the one hand, looking for as much cooperation as
they can get from Xi Jinping and China's leadership and, at the same time,
saying: 'Here is the stick of sanctions. We're not going to use it right now;
we're going to wait to see what you say at the summit about good-faith progress
on cyber rules of the road, but if we're not satisfied, sanctions will follow,'
'' Mr. Cronin said.

The breaches were a source of friction last month when Susan E. Rice, the
national security adviser, traveled to Beijing to meet with top Chinese
officials. And the White House said on Saturday that Meng Jianzhu, a Communist
Party envoy, spent much of last week in Washington meeting with American
security and intelligence officials on online security issues, including a
session with Ms. Rice that involved a ''frank and open exchange.''

''U.S. and Chinese officials are engaged in candid, blunt discussions about our
concerns in this policy area,'' Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary,
told reporters on Wednesday. ''You have heard the U.S. government make clear
that we have significant concerns with Chinese behavior.''

He said Mr. Obama ''was intentionally nonspecific'' on Wednesday over possible
actions against China, although he noted that the president signed an executive
order this year enabling him to issue sanctions against individuals or
organizations deemed responsible for such attacks.

''Among states, there has to be a framework that is analogous to what we've done
with nuclear power, because nobody stands to gain'' from the attacks, Mr. Obama
said on Wednesday. He said defining such a plan ''requires, I think, some tough
negotiations.''

''If we and the Chinese are able to coalesce around a process for negotiations,
then I think we can bring a lot of other countries along,'' the president said.

Still, despite repeated efforts, Mr. Obama has been unable to bring about such a
meeting of the minds on the issue of computer spying and theft. The president
first raised the issue with Mr. Xi in 2013, when the two held their first
lengthy talks at the Sunnylands estate in Rancho Mirage, Calif., but hacking has
continued to bedevil the relationship between the United States and China.

Last year, China dropped out of a security working group with the United States
after the Justice Department indicted five Chinese military officials on charges
of stealing intellectual property from American companies. But those sorts of
charges may be problematic in the Office of Personnel Management case, given
that the United States has distinguished between normal espionage by governments
and the theft of commercial data.

Online attacks are among several difficult subjects that loom over Mr. Xi's
visit. Mr. Obama is likely to confront Mr. Xi over China's recent activities in
the South China Sea, a matter that the Chinese argue is a regional one in which
the United States has no business interfering.

Mr. Obama acknowledged the tension on Wednesday, describing a tense
relationship.

''As they have matured, what we've said to them is, 'With power comes
responsibility, so now you've got to step up,' '' Mr. Obama said. ''In some
cases, they still feel that when we call them on issues like their behavior in
the South China Sea, or on intellectual property theft, that we are trying to
contain them.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/17/us/politics/obama-hints-at-sanctions-against-c
hina-over-cyberattacks.html

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama told business leaders on Wednesday that his
administration was ready to act against China over data breaches. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 20, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. and China Seek Arms Deal for Cyberspace

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1468 words


WASHINGTON --  The United States and China are negotiating what could become the
first arms control accord for cyberspace, embracing a commitment by each country
that it will not be the first to use cyberweapons to cripple the other's
critical infrastructure during peacetime, according to officials involved in the
talks.

While such an agreement could address attacks on power stations, banking
systems, cellphone networks and hospitals, it would not, at least in its first
version, protect against most of the attacks that China has been accused of
conducting in the United States, including the widespread poaching of
intellectual property and the theft of millions of government employees'
personal data.

The negotiations have been conducted with urgency in recent weeks, with a goal
to announce an agreement when President Xi Jinping of China arrives in
Washington for a state visit on Thursday. President Obama hinted at the
negotiations on Wednesday, when he told the Business Roundtable that the rising
number of cyberattacks would ''probably be one of the biggest topics'' of the
summit meeting, and that his goal was to see ''if we and the Chinese are able to
coalesce around a process for negotiations'' that would ultimately ''bring a lot
of other countries along.''

But a senior administration official involved in the discussions cautioned that
an initial statement between Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi may not contain ''a specific,
detailed mention'' of a prohibition on attacking critical infrastructure.
Rather, it would be a more ''generic embrace'' of a code of conduct adopted
recently by a working group at the United Nations.

One of the key principles of the United Nations document on principles for
cyberspace is that no state should allow activity ''that intentionally damages
critical infrastructure or otherwise impairs the use and operation of critical
infrastructure to provide services to the public.'' The goal of the American
negotiators is to have Chinese leaders embrace the principles of the United
Nations code of conduct in a bilateral agreement with Washington.

But it seems unlikely that any deal coming out of the talks would directly
address the most urgent problems with cyberattacks of Chinese origin, according
to officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe continuing
negotiations.

Most of those attacks have focused on espionage and theft of intellectual
property. The rules under discussion would have done nothing to stop the theft
of 22 million personal security files from the Office of Personnel Management,
which the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., recently told
Congress did not constitute an ''attack'' because it was intelligence collection
-- something the United States does, too.

The agreement being negotiated would also not appear to cover the use of tools
to steal intellectual property, as the Chinese military does often to bolster
state-owned industries, according to an indictment of five officers of the
People's Liberation Army last year. And it is not clear that the rules would
prohibit the kind of attack carried out last year against Sony Pictures
Entertainment, for which the United States blamed North Korea. That attack
melted down about 70 percent of Sony's computer systems.

Sony is not, by most definitions, part of the nation's ''critical
infrastructure,'' although the Department of Homeland Security does include
''movie studios'' on its list of critical ''commercial facilities,'' along with
stadiums, museums and convention centers.

Still, any agreement to limit cyberattacks in peacetime would be a start. ''It
would be the first time that cyber is treated as a military capability that
needs to be governed as nuclear, chemical and biological weapons are,'' said
Vikram Singh, a former Pentagon and State Department official who is now vice
president for international security at the Center for American Progress.

Within the Obama administration, the effort to design ''a set of norms of
behavior'' to limit cyberattacks has been compared to President John F.
Kennedy's first major nuclear treaty with the Soviet Union in 1963, which banned
atmospheric nuclear tests. That accord did not stop the development of nuclear
weapons or even halt underground tests, which continued for decades. But it was
a first effort to prevent an environmental disaster, just as this would be a
first effort by the world's two biggest economic powers to prevent the most
catastrophic use of cyberweapons.

Joseph S. Nye, a Harvard professor known for his studies of American power, said
the concept of a ''no first use'' doctrine for cyberattacks had been ''gestating
for some time'' in a variety of international forums. ''It could create some
self-restraint,'' Mr. Nye said, but he added that the problem was, ''how do you
verify it, and what is its value if it can't be verified?''

That problem goes to the heart of why arms control agreements in the cyberspace
arena are so much more complicated than better-known agreements covering nuclear
weapons.

In the Cold War and still today, nuclear arms remain in the hands of states,
meaning they can usually be counted and their movements observed. Cyberweapons,
too, are often developed by countries -- the United States, Russia, China and
Iran are among the most sophisticated -- but they can also be found in the hands
of criminal groups and teenagers, neither of which negotiate treaties.

Moreover, it was usually clear where a conventional attack had originated; the
trajectory of a missile could be tracked by radar or satellite. Mr. Obama
himself noted last week the difficulty of tracing a cyberattack, and thus of
deterring it -- or retaliating with confidence.

Earlier efforts to get Mr. Xi and other senior Chinese leaders to address
cyberattacks have largely failed. Mr. Obama spent a considerable amount of time
on the issue during a summit meeting with Mr. Xi at Sunnylands, a California
estate, in 2013. But even after that session, the Chinese denied that their
military was involved in attacks, and portrayed themselves as victims of attacks
from the United States.

It was not an entirely spurious claim: Classified documents released by Edward
J. Snowden showed a complex effort by the National Security Agency to get into
the systems of a Chinese telecommunications giant, Huawei, though the United
States maintained that the effort was for national security surveillance, not
for the theft of intellectual property.

The recent Chinese movement on cybersecurity can be traced to several events,
officials say.

The Office of Personnel Management breach, which went undetected for roughly a
year, was traced to Chinese sources, and one official said evidence had been
presented to Chinese officials. In August, Susan E. Rice, Mr. Obama's national
security adviser, took a trip to Beijing to meet with Mr. Xi and other
officials, and used it to increase pressure on China, suggesting that newly
devised economic sanctions could be imposed. Mr. Obama referred to that
possibility in two recent speeches, suggesting that he would hold off only if
there was progress with Mr. Xi.

Last week, a high-level Communist Party envoy, Meng Jianzhu, who is responsible
for state security, came to Washington and met with Ms. Rice, several American
intelligence officials and the director of the F.B.I., James B. Comey. That
session focused on coming up with some kind of agreement, however vaguely
worded, that Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi could announce on Friday.

For the United States, agreements limiting cyberweapons are also problematic.
The country is spending billions of dollars on new generations of weapons, and
in at least one famous case, the cyberattacks on Iran's nuclear enrichment site
at Natanz, it has used them.

American cyberwarriors would be concerned about any rules that limited their
ability in peacetime to place ''beacons'' or ''implants'' in foreign computer
networks; these are pieces of code that monitor how foreign computer systems
work, and they can be vital in determining how to launch a covert or wartime
attack. The Chinese have littered American networks with similar technology,
often to the consternation of the Pentagon and intelligence agencies.

''One of the things to look for are any rules that bar 'preparing the
battlefield,' '' said Robert K. Knake, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations who worked in the White House cybersecurity office earlier in the
Obama administration.

Mr. Obama, who has said little about the United States' development of
cyberweapons during his presidency, has begun to talk about it in recent days.
''If we wanted to go on offense, a whole bunch of countries would have some
significant problems,'' he told the Business Roundtable on Wednesday.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/20/world/asia/us-and-china-seek-arms-deal-for-cyb
erspace.html

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama and the Chinese leader, Xi Jinping, last
November. They are hoping to announce an agreement this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A11)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 20, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 48 words


''It would be the first time that cyber is treated as a military capability that
needs to be governed as nuclear, chemical and biological weapons are.''

VIKRAM SINGH, a former Pentagon official, on an arms control accord for
cyberspace being secretly negotiated by the United States and China.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/20/pageoneplus/quotation-of-the-day-for-sunday-se
ptember-20-2015.html

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 22, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fading Coal Industry in China May Help Efforts to Slow Global Warming

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG and CHRIS BUCKLEY; Edward Wong reported from Datong, and
Chris Buckley from Hong Kong. Mia Li, Adam Wu and Kiki Zhao contributed research
from Beijing.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1454 words


DATONG, China -- Across China's grimy coal heartland, mines have fallen silent,
reduced production or shut down. Miners, owners and officials here wonder
whether boom times will return for the ''black gold'' that has fed the nation's
craving for cheap but dirty energy.

''I think it's finished,'' said Wang Jinwang, a longtime miner whose salary has
been cut by one-fifth.

China's coal consumption weakened last year and through the first half of this
year, largely because of a slowing economy, according to statistics from China's
largest coal industry analysis group.

But the gloom pervading northern China's coal country could mean brighter
prospects for worldwide efforts to slow global warming. Some experts say that if
China's coal use continues to slow or even falls, its greenhouse gas emissions
could peak years earlier than the government had promised, which could make a
critical difference planetwide in limiting rising temperatures and sea levels.

That subject will be on the table when President Obama hosts President Xi
Jinping of China at the White House on Thursday and Friday.

American officials have tried to persuade Mr. Xi to make a notable declaration
on China's climate commitments during his visit, as he did when Mr. Obama went
to Beijing in November. In the United States, opponents of Mr. Obama's climate
policies often cite China's growing emissions to argue against reductions from
the American side.

There is little expectation that Mr. Xi will promise anything as drastic as he
did last year, when he vowed that China's emissions of carbon dioxide would peak
by about 2030, a fairly conservative goal. But with international climate talks
in Paris less than three months away, any signals the two leaders send from
Washington will be closely scrutinized.

''They really need to make sure they're clarifying for the rest of the world
that, hey, we've got some serious difficulties to work out on cyber and other
issues, and we're not going to step back from that, but that doesn't mean that
our climate partnership is any less strong,'' said Melanie Hart, the director of
China policy at the Center for American Progress and an energy and climate
change scholar.

Mr. Xi will have to lay out his energy and pollution goals for the rest of the
decade by early 2016, when the government settles on its next five-year growth
plan. That plan is likely to include tax initiatives, expanded emissions trading
and new pollution restrictions, analysts said.

The slowing demand for coal has led to further debate among policy advisers, who
are reassessing the goal of reaching a peak in carbon dioxide emissions by 2030.
The burning of coal and other fossil fuels produces carbon dioxide, the main
greenhouse gas that causes global warming.

If current trends in coal use continue, some experts say, that goal could be
moved up to 2025, which the Americans favor. Speeding up the timeline would also
require new policies to motivate industries to harness cleaner sources of energy
and make the economy more energy-efficient, experts say.

But some officials argue that robust coal use is still needed to keep the
economy from slowing too much and too quickly and that sharp cuts to coal use
could imperil jobs and prove too costly.

''It's a question of political will -- of whether China can carry through on its
current thinking, of whether there's enough strong political will to refrain
from going back to the old mentality,'' said Ranping Song, who monitors the
emissions-cutting efforts of China and other developing nations for the World
Resources Institute.

China consumes as much coal as the rest of the world combined and is the biggest
emitter of greenhouse gases, so its decisions will have global import.

One critical question, on which policy advisers and scientists are divided, is
whether the dip in coal demand reflects a lasting shift, and a peak in
consumption, or a temporary aberration amid a steady trend of growing use.

Some researchers at the Energy Research Institute of the National Development
and Reform Commission, the state agency overseeing economic planning and climate
change policy, say the change is permanent.

''My team has done a model that says coal use has reached its peak,'' said Jiang
Kejun, a senior researcher at the institute. ''The structure of the economy is
changing.''

Likewise, Zeng Hao, an industry analyst here in Shanxi Province, said,
''Industry people don't see any reason why coal demand will pick up again.''

Others see the downturn as a blip that will be reversed in coming years.

''If the economy is in fact tanking and the government can't stop it, coal
consumption could plateau or go down,'' said Chris P. Nielsen, a researcher at
Harvard University who studies China's pollution and energy use. ''What happens
to emissions after the near term, however, is unpredictable, highly dependent
again on the economy.''

Both judgments are speculative, and it has been difficult to come up with even
an accepted measure of how much coal use has already fallen.

Last week, using official statistics and other Chinese sources, the United
States Energy Information Administration estimated that China's coal
consumption, as measured by energy use, was flat compared with the previous
year, the first such plateau here this century.

Even so, a peak in coal use does not correlate directly with a peak in
emissions. Though most carbon dioxide emissions come from coal burning, China's
use of oil and gas is rising, primarily because of rising car ownership, which
will continue to push up emissions. More thorough combustion of higher-carbon
coal could also add to the carbon output.

In fact, even as coal use apparently slowed, carbon dioxide emissions in the
country probably rose slightly last year, said Glen Peters, an expert on
greenhouse gases at the Center for International Climate and Environmental
Research-Oslo.

Capitalizing on the drop in coal demand to slow emissions growth will require a
major push from Beijing. Among the steps required to reach an emissions peak
much before 2030, researchers say, are enforcing and expanding air pollution
controls that limit coal use, shifting the economy away from a reliance on
building infrastructure, developing more efficient industrial technology,
enforcing energy-efficient building codes and vastly increasing the amount of
energy from nonfossil-fuel sources.

''The complexity of the policy changes needed should not be underestimated,''
said Wang Yi, a professor at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing who
specializes in environmental policy.

A crucial question for policy makers is how to impose a price on carbon, which
would encourage companies and consumers to move away from fossil fuels.

One way is to establish a national carbon emissions trading market, which China
plans to do. For two years, officials have been experimenting with seven local
carbon emissions markets that encourage firms to buy and sell the right to emit.
Dabo Guan, a professor of climate change economics who is now a visiting scholar
at Tsinghua University in Beijing, said a successful trading market was
essential for China to achieve even the goal of reaching an emissions peak in
2030.

''We can't let emissions trading fail in China,'' he said. ''I have a hope that
the government can do it properly.''

Officials have spoken of establishing a national carbon market by 2017. It would
be the largest in the world. But building one that operates smoothly and
effectively will not be easy, scholars say. Challenges include ensuring that a
large number of companies take part in the market and having enough employees
and regulatory overseers to operate it.

Such pitfalls became apparent at the trial markets, said Chai Qimin, a senior
director at the National Center for Climate Change Strategy and International
Cooperation.

''Companies are not very active in the market,'' he said, noting that a total of
only $177 million changed hands at the trial markets from mid-2013 until late
July.

Given the challenges facing a national market, some experts and advisers argue
that a direct carbon tax on fossil fuels makes more sense. Damien Ma, a senior
fellow at the Paulson Institute in Chicago, favors a tax, which he said ''has
potential fiscal benefits and is possibly easier to implement.''

Such decisions will be critical, even as the economy slows and demand for coal
declines. And political and economic worries could still trump environmental
ones.

''If the economy is in trouble,'' Mr. Nielsen said, ''the government may be
tempted to return to infrastructure investment to try to stimulate growth. This
is a particularly emissions-intensive way to goose the economy.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/22/world/asia/fading-coal-industry-in-china-may-o
ffer-chance-to-aid-climate.html

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A miner monitoring the coal washing process last year at the
Tashan mine in Datong, China. The mine is one of China's largest.
 Miners heading to an excavation site at the Tashan mine. Coal consumption in
China has weakened amid a sluggish economy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILLES SABRIE FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           September 22, 2015 Tuesday

Report Stresses Importance of Agreement to Avoid Cyber Conflict

BYLINE: PAUL MOZUR

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 912 words



HIGHLIGHT: New RAND research sketches out potential scenarios of cyberwar
between the United States and China. Among the biggest risks are a fight that
could spill into the physical world.


As China president Xi Jinping begins a trip to the United States that could
include the first arms control accord for cyberspace between the United States
and China, a new RAND report that rates the cyber warfare capabilities of the
world's two largest economies shows how important such an agreement could be.

The report, which rates the capabilities of both militaries over the course of
two situations, a conflict over Taiwan and one over the Spratly Islands,
dedicates an entire chapter to the respective cyber capabilities of both sides.

As it maps out the potential conflicts, and in turn the potential ways each
country could attack the other's network, it becomes apparent why a first
agreement between President Obama and Mr. Xi might focus on the rules of the
road for attacks on core infrastructure instead of on better publicized Chinese
attacks aimed at gaining advantages and intellectual property for companies.

In particular, it argues unclassified networks for key infrastructure are more
vulnerable than those of the military, and that broad attacks have a huge
potential to cause unanticipated escalations.

Even so, it says that the United States would probably do better than might be
expected given the high-profile media coverage of Chinese cyberattacks.

The Chinese military "has been heavily involved in large-scale cyber espionage
since the mid-2000s, which has made it the subject of much media attention.
Because the most common targets of these attacks have been lightly defended
corporate and unclassified government systems, this activity may have created an
exaggerated sense of the capabilities that China might bring to bear in an
operational military context," it concludes.

Still, it adds that China's cyberattack capabilities have continued to improve,
and judges that it has gained ground on the United States in recent years,
downgrading the country from having a "major advantage" to having simply an
"advantage" as of 2010.

Citing a 2013 document distributed throughout China's People's Liberation Army
called "The Science of Military Strategy," the report adds that the Chinese army
recognizes the major advantages to being aggressive in cyberwar.

One danger of that, and also more broadly of employing cyberattacks in a
situation of escalating conflict, is that of unintentional escalation. Using
several hypothetical situations, the report shows how a cyberattack could deepen
a conflict. For example, it points out that if China were to make a move for
Taiwan, a cyberattack aimed at hurting the potential for the United States to
intercede, could contradictorily force the U.S. to come into the conflict.

Likewise it argues that in the case of some kind of regional conflict, United
States attacks on Chinese infrastructure that in peace-time would be deemed
mainly of civilian importance could take on deeper military implications.

"Weighed against their likely impact, cyber attacks against dual-use targets
raise escalatory concerns. To be sure, this is true of many other forms of
warfare, but there is particular danger in cyberwar, with its inchoate rules of
engagement, lack of international consensus on the legitimacy of different types
of targets, and lack of meaningful experience to underpin the understanding of
collateral effects," the authors write in the report.

Even so, there are plenty of reasons that China and the U.S. would be unlikely
to carry out a major attack aimed broadly at civilian populations. In
particular, the report points out that close economic relations could mean an
unintentional business fallout at home while the interconnectedness of the
Internet makes the effects of broad attacks unpredictable (for example, Chinese
data stored abroad could be inadvertently disrupted).

Also likely to be on the front of Beijing's mind, the report argues, are a few
larger concerns. In particular, during wartime issues surrounding control of
potentially destabilizing information within China and tracking of dissident
activity are also likely to "loom large."

Another issue, according to the report, is the fact that a huge proportion of
China's computers run pirated versions of Windows that are likely to be
vulnerable to attacks. Adding to that concern is overwhelming dominance by
American companies in software.

Many in the Chinese government believe "that the United States has the ability
to corrupt or disrupt the functioning of any device with U.S.-made software.
Their appetite for a full-fledged cyberwar may be proportionately limited, and
their receptivity to U.S. hints that it could unleash such a cyberwar itself may
be heightened," the report added.

Even if the United States continues to have an advantage, the uncertainties that
come with a cyber confrontation are high, in particular if either side would
resort to "strategic cyberwarfare," a term it uses to describe broad attacks
designed to impact the opposition's will to fight.

"In view of the potential for escalation, it is uncertain whether either side
will resort to strategic cyberwarfare," the report said. "If they do, results
may be highly unpredictable. The outcome will depend not only on each side's
competence but also on chance factors (e.g., cascading affects), the defensive
posture and resiliency of each side's organizations and infrastructure, how each
side's public reacts, how political leaders factor public opinion into their
strategic calculus, and whether and how one side or the other escalates as a
result."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 23, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Visit Underscores Challenges in Dealing With China

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1420 words


WASHINGTON --  For the past two years, the critical question confronting the
Obama administration about Xi Jinping, the Chinese president who defied American
predictions by challenging the United States' superpower status early and
directly, has been how forcefully to respond.

When Mr. Xi, barely a year in office, declared an exclusive ''air defense
identification zone'' over a vast stretch of territory, the Obama administration
immediately sent B-52s right through the space, and Vice President Joseph R.
Biden Jr. spent seven hours with the new Chinese leader, telling him, as one
participant in the discussion recalled, ''You will be seeing a lot more of
this.''

But on a range of issues since then, from how directly to challenge China's
territorial claims in the South China Sea to creating a cost for cyberespionage,
the response has been less certain.

This week's meeting between President Obama and Mr. Xi is fraught with points of
conflict, and its unspoken subtext is whether the president will confront the
Chinese directly, deliberately causing friction in the relationship in hopes of
drawing some lines around their behavior, or celebrate an unexpected partnership
on issues like climate change and Iran, handling contentious issues in private.

The administration has tried both approaches, and has often come away frustrated
and dissatisfied, according to senior officials, some of whom have left the
government recently and spoke on the condition of anonymity. But Mr. Obama
recognizes that what amounts to his third long meeting with Mr. Xi, a formal
state visit full of ceremonial displays of respect and cooperation that begins
here Thursday, is likely to be his last chance to start what one White House
official calls ''long-ball diplomacy with the Chinese.''

By the next major meeting between the two men, the official said, ''Obama will
have only months left in office.''

Musing on his dealings with China before an audience of business leaders last
week, Mr. Obama noted that the Chinese were only episodically willing to take on
the responsibilities that come with being a global power.

''In other areas,'' he said, ''they still see themselves as the poor country
that shouldn't have any obligations internationally.''

What is different about this meeting, however, is that Mr. Obama finally has
some leverage -- the tool that he once railed in a Situation Room meeting has
often been missing with Beijing. A China weakened somewhat by economic downturn,
and eager to calm the markets by showing it can manage its relationship with its
most important trading partner and geopolitical rival, may be eager to avoid any
open signs of rift -- at least for a while.

The most potent evidence of that came after Susan E. Rice, Mr. Obama's national
security adviser, traveled to Beijing in late August to see Mr. Xi and try to
plan out the trip. She warned that unless Mr. Xi acted on restraining what Ms.
Rice in a speech on Monday called ''cyber-enabled espionage that targets
personal and corporate information for the economic gain of businesses'' in
China, Mr. Obama was prepared to impose sanctions, perhaps before Mr. Xi's
arrival.

The Chinese reaction was swift: Mr. Xi dispatched Meng Jianzhu, a close
Communist Party adviser to Mr. Xi and head of state security, to make a highly
unusual trip to Washington, along with some 50 aides, to work out a deal. On his
return, he began speaking for the first time about the need to crack down on the
theft of intellectual property -- as opposed to espionage for national security,
a distinction the Chinese never acknowledged before.

Negotiations are also underway on embracing a set of rules, expected to be vague
in their first iteration, that commit both countries to ''no first use'' of
cyberweapons against each other's critical infrastructure in peacetime.

''They're not denying anymore that it's a problem,'' a senior official said.
''We're not having a dialogue of the deaf anymore.'' The question is whether Mr.
Xi is looking to pave over disputes, or solve them.

The struggle to read China's leader is not new. When it became clear in 2011
that he was emerging as China's next president, Mr. Biden was dispatched to get
to know him. They visited each other in elaborately choreographed trips in
Beijing and Washington. But views of him varied.

Thomas Donilon, Ms. Rice's predecessor, had been passing around a paper written
by Dai Bingguo, the state councilor under Mr. Xi's predecessor, arguing against
provoking the United States and its allies in the South China Sea and warning
the Chinese military to bide its time. Others in the administration saw Mr. Xi
as a dynamic reformer who would press for broader engagement with the United
States while bringing the military under his control.

But they missed the other side of Mr. Xi, ''the risk taker,'' in the words of
one of Mr. Obama's former top aides, ''who is more nationalistic than we thought
and more willing to be confrontational.''

''This is not the U.S.-China relationship that senior Obama officials
expected,'' either at the start of Mr. Obama's tenure in 2009 or the beginning
of Mr. Xi's in 2013, said Michael J. Green, an Asia specialist at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies who served at the National Security Council
under President George W. Bush. ''The assumptions that many people had, that
cooperation on transnational threats like climate change would ameliorate
problems in geopolitical arenas, was wrong.''

In her speech on Monday, Ms. Rice made it clear the United States and China
would showcase their cooperation on climate change, with a deal on carrying out
a broad emissions accord they struck last year during a meeting in Beijing.
There will also be agreement on a code of conduct to reduce the risk of
accidents between American and Chinese aircraft, and steps to expand educational
exchanges between the two countries.

But on the areas of sharpest disagreement, such as human rights, the South China
Sea and cyberattacks, there is still a wide gulf, and for weeks the White House
has been debating how to handle them.

The South China Sea issue erupted last week in the Senate Armed Services
Committee when Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, pressed David Shear,
the top Pentagon official in charge of Asia and the Pacific, to declare when the
last time was that the United States sent ships or aircraft closer than 12
nautical miles to the newly reclaimed reefs.

Twelve miles is the usual limit for ''territorial waters,'' so the operation
would show that the United States did not consider this to be Beijing's
sovereign land. Reluctantly, Mr. Shear said the last time was in 2012, before
Mr. Xi took office.

''The United States of America will sail, fly and operate anywhere that
international law permits,'' Ms. Rice said during her speech, repeating the
administration's policy on the matter. But one official said Secretary of State
John Kerry and his deputies, along with several intelligence officials, did not
see the value in forcing the Chinese to react. Others disagree.

''They're cultivating strategic ambiguity,'' Patrick M. Cronin, the director of
the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security,
said of the Chinese. ''What we need, though, is more clarity about our
interests. We have to do more to reinforce rules of the road that are against
coercion or force, and against this Chinese buildup.''

Senator Benjamin L. Cardin of Maryland, the senior Democrat on the Foreign
Relations Committee, said policy makers never anticipated this degree of trouble
from Mr. Xi, either on maritime issues or on human rights, a prime area of
concern after the Chinese president moved to crack down on dissidents and
lawyers and took aim at civil society groups.

Representatives of an array of those groups met with Ms. Rice at the White House
on Tuesday to discuss concerns about China's proposed legislation to tighten
controls on foreign nongovernmental organizations, and senior officials said the
topic would be a focus of the meetings between the two presidents.

''Originally, there was reason for optimism about the speed of change in China''
under Mr. Xi, said Mr. Cardin, one of a group of lawmakers set to meet with the
Chinese president on Capitol Hill on Friday. ''And now there's sort of
disappointment.''

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/23/world/asia/conflict-flavors-obamas-meeting-wit
h-chinese-leader.html

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Xi Jinping and his wife, Peng Liyuan, arriving in
Everett, Wash. on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 23, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

China's Premier Pledges to Help U.S. Stop Cybercrimes

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1152 words


SEATTLE --  President Xi Jinping pledged in a speech here on Tuesday night to
work with the United States on fighting cybercrime, saying that the Chinese
government was a staunch defender of cybersecurity.

''The Chinese government will not in whatever form engage in commercial theft,
and hacking against government networks are crimes that must be punished in
accordance with the law and relevant international treaties,'' Mr. Xi said in an
address to American business executives.

At the end of his first day of a state visit to the United States, Mr. Xi told
his audience, which also included Chinese business leaders, that ''China is
ready to set up a high-level joint dialogue mechanism with the United States on
fighting cybercrimes.''

Mr. Xi appeared to be attempting to reassure his business audience, many of its
members from tech industries at the forefront of cyberspace issues, but how far
his words would be believed by the Obama administration remained to be seen.

At a briefing for reporters in Washington on Tuesday, a senior China adviser to
President Obama said that ''we won't paper over those differences,'' a reference
to cyberspace and economic issues. There would be ''very robust discussion''
with Mr. Xi, said the adviser, Daniel J. Kritenbrink.

Two weeks before Mr. Xi's arrival, one of his closest aides, Meng Jianzhu, the
head of domestic security, visited Washington to deal with the administration's
accusations that China was responsible for massive cyberattacks on American
businesses and government agencies. The Chinese deny the administration's
claims.

The meetings failed to lead to a concrete agreement that the administration had
hoped for on how to deal with such attacks, particularly the theft of trade
secrets from American companies that benefit their Chinese competitors,
according to a senior administration official.

The tone of Mr. Xi's address across a range of issues was positive, without a
jarring word. He refrained from talking about thorny differences with the United
States over China's construction of artificial islands in the South China Sea.
On China's softening economy he sounded a soothing tone, saying that all
economies faced difficulties and though China was under downward pressure ''this
is only a problem in the course of progress.''

He also told his audience not to worry about the Chinese stock market, whose
sudden plunge over the summer sent shock waves across the world. He defended his
government's intervention, which failed to stop the fall, saying the
''government took steps to stabilize the market and contain panic in the stock
market and this avoided systemic risk.''

As Mr. Xi's advisers prepared him for his trip to the United States, he was
encouraged by several Americans to include some personal themes that would
resonate with the audience.

He won applause for a line about his anticorruption campaign against government
officials not being like the television show ''House of Cards.''

The audience also appreciated his anecdote about ordering one of Ernest
Hemingway's favorite cocktails, a mojito, when he visited Cuba.

The audience included Satya Nadella, the chief executive of Microsoft, and the
company's founder, Bill Gates -- they sat on either side of Mr. Xi's senior
adviser, Li Zhanshu -- as well as other senior executives whose tech firms have
suffered in China from the imposition of new, intrusive security measures,
commercial cybertheft and demands for transfers of technology.

Mr. Xi addressed some of those concerns with general reassurances but no
specifics, saying. ''We will address the legitimate concerns of foreign
investors in a timely fashion, protect their lawful rights and interests, and
work hard to provide an open and transparent legal and policy environment.''

The reactions of the business community to Mr. Xi's promises may become clearer
at a high-level tech forum Wednesday, organized by the Chinese in conjunction
with Microsoft, and expected to draw 200 executives.

Since Mr. Xi came to power three years ago, human rights advocates and lawyers
been rounded up and imprisoned, and Chinese nongovernmental organizations have
been closed. The Obama administration has called these measures some of the most
serious infringements of human rights in China in a long time.

On that issue, Mr. Xi sounded a familiar refrain by Chinese officials, saying
''we are ready to discuss rule-of-law issues with the U.S. side in a spirit of
mutual learning for common progress.''

He was more precise about the operations of foreign nonprofits that have come
under increasingly restrictive regulations in the last year, offering few
concessions. Such groups, he said, ''need to obey Chinese law.''

In a speech before Mr. Xi spoke, the secretary of commerce, Penny Pritzker,
warned him about problems with China's behavior on cyberspace practices, and
seemed to want to disabuse Mr. Xi of an expectation that his meetings in
Washington would be smooth going.

''We -- and our companies -- continue to have serious concerns about an overall
lack of legal and regulatory transparency, inconsistent protection of
intellectual property, discriminatory cyber and technology policies, and more
generally, the lack of a level playing field across a range of sectors,'' she
said.

Mr. Xi arrived in Seattle on Tuesday morning on an Air China Boeing 747-400
aircraft, landing at Paine Field adjacent to a Boeing manufacturing complex 30
miles from the city center. He will visit the Boeing plant on Wednesday.

Accompanied by his wife, Peng Liyuan, a squadron of aides, senior government
officials and nearly two dozen journalists from Chinese state news media, he was
welcomed by the governor of Washington, Jay Inslee.

He then headed to a downtown hotel to meet with a group of governors from
Western states, including Jerry Brown of California. Afterward, he prepared for
the dinner, scheduled to begin early to accommodate Jewish guests who wanted to
attend prayers marking the start of Yom Kippur at sundown.

The Chinese worked hard to front-load Mr. Xi's trip -- his first to the United
States as president -- with two days of events in Seattle intended to show an
upbeat relationship with American business. And in a broad sense it has worked
as a show of force to President Obama about the power that China wields, and how
much American companies need China even if its policies do not align with
Washington's.

Yet frustrations are simmering here. The U.S.-China Business Council, one of the
hosts of the dinner, said member confidence about doing business in China has
eroded considerably over the past five years.

In 2010, 58 percent of executives were optimistic about the business outlook in
China, while 33 percent were somewhat optimistic, said John Frisbie, the
council's president. Now just 24 percent are optimistic while 67 percent are
somewhat optimistic or neutral.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/23/world/asia/xi-jinping-of-china-to-address-wary
-us-business-leaders.html

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Xi Jinping, on a state visit from China, spoke to a
business audience on Tuesday night at a dinner in his honor in Seattle.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 24, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shadowy Interplay of Crimes and Games

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 469 words


As if there weren't already enough reasons to dislike Las Vegas, along comes
''The Player,'' a new action series from NBC with a ludicrous plot full of
unlikable characters played by not particularly likable actors.

Philip Winchester of ''Strike Back'' stars as Alex Kane, a security expert and
alumnus of an anti-terrorist unit whose jaw is set in a permanent clench -- Jack
Bauer with less nuance, if that's possible. As Thursday night's series premiere
opens, Alex has been hired to test the security for a foreign leader who is
visiting Las Vegas and is disliked enough at home that certain countrymen have
threatened him harm.

A few boring high-adrenaline sequences later, Alex has found the security holes
and thwarted an assassination attempt, but none of that is the main point. It's
all prelude to an approach by the shadowy Cassandra (Charity Wakefield) and Mr.
Johnson (Wesley Snipes), who represent some even-more-shadowy superrich people
and want to recruit Alex for a perverse game.

His clients, Mr. Johnson tells Alex, have used their vast wealth to develop a
system that can predict crime, and they like to bet on whether a particular
crime that's about to happen will be carried out successfully. They want Alex to
be their ''player,'' deployed to try to stop the lawbreaking (techno-sci-fi
territory that ''Minority Report'' and ''Person of Interest'' also work).

''The very rich love to gamble, even more than the rest of us,'' Mr. Johnson
explains to Alex. ''But when you have so much money you could never lose enough
to make a difference, ordinary games become stale. So you begin to look for
other games, games with higher stakes.''

Sure. Whatever.

Plenty of TV shows get by, and even succeed, with equally preposterous plots,
but not with a cast full of personality-free characters. Fans of the tax-evading
Mr. Snipes, if there still are any, will be disappointed that his character is
limited to wearing finely tailored suits and delivering omniscient-sounding
lines in a blank voice. Ms. Wakefield's character is just as antiseptic.

As for Mr. Winchester, an effort is made to give him a back story involving an
ex-wife he still loves and some motivation when something bad befalls her. But
there's only so much an actor, even a better one than Mr. Winchester, can do
with the stage direction ''perpetually angry.''

With frequent chases and calculated-to-dazzle stunts, ''The Player'' is
exhausting to watch, and its attempt to appropriate the trappings of the
gambling world in hopes of looking glamorous feels several decades out of step.
As for the show's high-tech flourishes -- holographic this and that; the flexing
of cyber-muscle by Alex's new puppet masters -- other series like CBS's
''Scorpion'' work this territory better, and with characters you can actually
care about.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/24/arts/television/review-in-the-player-on-nbc-a-
shadowy-crime-game-ensues.html

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Player: Wesley Snipes standing over Damon Gupton in the
premiere of this drama, which begins Thursday on NBC. Chases, stunts and
gambling are part of the action. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORY PETERS/NBC)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 24, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chinese Leader Hears Tough Complaints of American Business

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ and NICK WINGFIELD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 967 words


REDMOND, Wash. --  On a day that President Xi Jinping wanted to show off the
significance of China's huge market to American business, the titans of the
American tech industry lined up for a 10-minute photo opportunity with Mr. Xi
here at Microsoft's campus.

The first in line to meet Mr. Xi, Mark Zuckerberg, the chief of Facebook, spoke
Chinese with him, enough to get a laugh from the Chinese leader.

Among those who greeted Mr. Xi were Timothy D. Cook, the chief of Apple;
Virginia M. Rometty, the head of IBM; and Jeffrey P. Bezos, the chief of Amazon.
Jack Ma, the head of the Chinese retailer Alibaba, stood in the middle of the
executives who had taken part in an Internet forum sponsored by the Chinese and
Microsoft.

Mr. Xi told the executives that China advocated cooperation in development of
the Internet in line with China's ''national realities,'' a phrase that critics
say is in contrast to the open Internet in the West.

Mr. Xi told the executives that a ''secure, stable and prosperous'' cyberspace
had become an issue for all countries, a vague reference apparently to the
severe disagreements between the United States and China over how to manage
cyber-related issues.

Earlier, Mr. Xi and his top lieutenants heard tough criticism of his
government's laws and practices that discriminate against American corporate
operations in China.

At a round-table discussion with top American executives in Seattle -- including
Warren Buffett, Mr. Bezos and Mr. Cook -- the Obama administration's commerce
secretary, Penny Pritzker, told Mr. Xi that corporate America had complaints
about cybertheft, forced technology transfer and regulations that unfairly
discriminate against American companies.

Ms. Pritzker appears to have been sent to Seattle to prepare Mr. Xi before his
visit to Washington that starts Thursday for what the administration has
promised will be unvarnished discussions about accusations that China has stolen
American commercial secrets that have been passed to Chinese companies.

''These issues certainly have a negative impact on American firms and create an
unlevel playing field for foreign companies,'' Ms. Pritzker told Mr. Xi. ''They
also hurt Chinese businesses and make it harder for us to unlock mutually
beneficial commercial opportunities.''

The head of China's Internet authority, Lu Wei, a senior member of Mr. Xi's
delegation, also got an earful from the president of an American tech industry
association.

Substantial American investment in China ''shouldn't obscure the fact that there
are real challenges in China where the rhetoric and the vision doesn't meet the
reality,'' Dean C. Garfield, president of the Information Technology Industry
Council, said at the forum. As an industry representative rather than the head
of a company, Mr. Garfield was freer to express criticisms that individual
executives would not make in public.

Like Ms. Pritzker, Mr. Garfield said that draft regulations would force American
tech companies to submit to invasive audits and create back doors into hardware
and software. They were not simply devised for national security reasons as
China has insisted but to favor domestic players over foreign ones, Mr. Garfield
said.

Sounding skeptical about economic changes pledged by Mr. Xi, Mr. Garfield said,
''If those reforms do move forward, then the opportunity for collective growth
is high.'' But that is a big ''if,'' he said.

The planners for Mr. Xi's trip added the Internet forum to the Chinese leader's
schedule in the Seattle area at a fairly late stage, administration officials
said. The forum, hosted jointly by Microsoft and the Chinese, has been an annual
event for the past eight years, but the Chinese, recognizing that large parts of
the American tech industry are increasingly angry, asked for it to coincide with
Mr. Xi's trip so it could be used as a way to repair relations, the officials
said as the planning unfolded.

Nearly every company involved in the forum declined to publicly discuss its
proceedings, most of which occurred behind closed doors.

''They say they will allow American businesses to compete on a level playing
field in China,'' said Spencer Rascoff, chief executive of Zillow, a real estate
website, who was at the technology meeting. ''They are saying all the right
things. But the American business community is still skeptical -- actions speak
louder than words.

American technology companies have vastly different levels of success in
penetrating the Chinese market, though the size of it makes the country
irresistible to all of them. The main services of Facebook and Google are
blocked there by China's firewall and censorship polices, and the fact that Mr.
Zuckerberg was so prominently placed in the receiving line for Mr. Xi seemed to
suggest his strong desire to overcome the government's obstacles.

Software from Microsoft is ubiquitous on computers in the country, but high
rates of piracy and weak intellectual property enforcement have stifled its
revenue from China.

Meanwhile, other companies have come to depend more and more on the increasing
affluence of Chinese consumers for their growth. Apple, whose iPhone is a
coveted device in the country, got more than 25 percent of its nearly $50
billion in revenue in its most recent quarter from China.

As the Internet forum was underway, Mr. Xi toured a Boeing manufacturing plant,
and then arrived at Microsoft for a demonstration of the company's HoloLens
technology.

At meetings around Seattle, American executives and Chinese leaders signed deals
to emphasize the spirit of cooperation. Microsoft alone announced more than a
half-dozen agreements, including with the Chinese Internet giant Baidu and the
Sichuan provincial government, to expand the use of its products in China.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/24/world/asia/xi-jinping-hears-tough-complaints-o
f-american-business.html

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Xi Jinping after touring a Boeing manufacturing plant
in Everett, Wash., Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 26, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Path Set by U.S. and China to Limit Security Breaches May Be Impossible to
Follow

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1130 words


WASHINGTON --  When the United States and the Soviet Union made their first
tentative steps toward limiting nuclear arms more than 50 years ago, distrust
was sky high but they could, at least, count each other's missiles and bombers
and warheads.

The road President Obama and President Xi Jinping headed down on Friday to set
up what Mr. Obama called an ''architecture to govern behavior in cyberspace that
is enforceable and clear'' is far more difficult -- perhaps impossible --
according to many experts who have explored the nuclear analogy and found it
wanting.

Unlike missiles, cyberweapons are impossible to count. They can be reproduced
with a few flicks of the keyboard, and they are easy to hide: It took American
investigators more than a year to figure out that the security records of 22
million federal employees and contractors were being stolen by Chinese actors.
And unlike the nuclear age, the state has no monopoly on the technology.
''Patriotic hackers,'' criminal groups, terrorists and even teenagers all have
access to the arsenal.

For those reasons, Mr. Obama and his aides say they believe that even the kind
of highly specific accord he and Mr. Xi reached on climate change seems hard to
imagine. Instead, what the two presidents inched toward on Friday is better
described as rules of the road, aimed at first stopping cybercrime -- the one
area both leaders could agree upon.

In other words, the first agreement does not really address the nightmare
scenario: a conflict in which a cyberattack on an American company or the
Pentagon results in retaliation -- and escalation. It was telling that while the
two leaders announced that they would establish a ''hotline'' for cyberattacks,
it would most likely ring in Washington at the Department of Homeland Security
or the Justice Department and not at the White House or United States Cyber
Command.

Still, there was progress. Never before had China agreed with Mr. Obama's
fundamental premise that the theft of intellectual property for commercial gain
was off limits. After weeks of behind-the-scenes negotiations with the Chinese
leadership, first in Beijing in late August and then with a delegation of nearly
50 senior Chinese officials who came to Washington quietly two weeks ago,
Beijing agreed to wording that read: ''Neither country's government will conduct
or knowingly support cyber-enabled theft of intellectual property, including
trade secrets or other confidential business information, with the intent of
providing competitive advantages to companies or commercial sectors.''

''This is significant,'' said James Lewis, who runs the cyberprogram at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ''And it is
measurable: We can count the number of commercial espionage cases.''

Mr. Lewis and members of the American intelligence community believe China's
change of heart may have been influenced by the North Korean attack on Sony
Corporation -- which demonstrated that, in a growing number of cases, the
National Security Agency can trace a cyberattack back to specific actors. The
same happened to China's People's Liberation Army Unit 61398, which was exposed
in 2013 as the source of much intellectual property theft. Eventually five
officers in the unit -- hardly the only one in the Chinese military with a
similar mission, were indicted by the Justice Department, leading Beijing to cut
off a low-level dialogue with the United States.

Now higher-level conversations are expected. But inside both countries, huge
interests are at work worrying about the implications of pursuing the
''architecture'' Mr. Obama has in mind.

China's state-owned industries have benefited tremendously from cybertheft,
which enabled what Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the former head of the N.S.A.,
frequently called ''the greatest transfer of wealth in human history.'' The
People's Liberation Army has no interest in dismantling the powerful cyberunits
it has used -- not only for theft but also for espionage -- around the world.

And while American officials rarely discuss it, even while off the record, the
idea of placing too many limits on America's offensive cyberpower sends a shiver
through the Pentagon and its new United States Cyber Command. They believe the
American-led attack on Iran's nuclear infrastructure is critical to forcing it
to the bargaining table.

Just like the Cold War generals who thought that overwhelming numbers and high
precision were crucial to nuclear deterrence, the architects of America's new
push into cyberweapons say they must be free to get inside networks around the
world to see cyberattacks amassing, create ''battle maps'' to help plan how to
operate in time of conflict and conduct attacks if ordered by the president.
Both Americans and the Chinese know from disclosures by Edward J. Snowden that
China is a major target for American espionage. Yet so far these issues are
still off the table. The People's Liberation Army has declined to get into a
military-to-military dialogue with the United States. Some looked at the
specifics announced on Friday and found them wanting.

Fred H. Cate of Indiana University, who has engaged in talks with many countries
about norms of behavior in cyberspace, said he had expected at least ''agreement
on some basic principles to help guide future talks. Instead we got agreement
with a U.N. document.''

Even that had not been assured a few weeks earlier. When Susan E. Rice, the
national security adviser, went to Beijing at the end of August, many of the
country's senior leaders did not know about commitments the Chinese government
had already made in the obscure United Nations forum of cybersecurity experts.

So many in the administration still wonder how energetic the Chinese will be in
tracking down hackers who, in many cases, may be working for branches of the
government or state-owned enterprises. For that reason Mr. Obama warned that he
may still ''impose sanctions on individuals or entities where we have proof that
they've gone after U.S. companies or U.S. persons.''

This suggests that the two countries are still in the beginning phase of a
confrontation in cyberspace that will stretch into the next presidency and
likely many beyond. But Mr. Obama noted during his news conference that ''the
rules in this area are not well developed.'' His goal, he said, was to create
''a template whereby countries know what the rules are.''

In cyberspace, the barriers to developing the weapons are far lower than they
are in the nuclear arena. Mr. Obama has calculated that his best bet is to start
somewhere, even if he is starting small.

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/26/world/asia/limiting-security-breaches-may-be-i
mpossible-task-for-us-and-china.html

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with President Xi Jinping of China on Friday at
the White House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 26, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Finding Common Ground With China

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 470 words


Despite growing strains between their countries, President Obama and President
Xi Jinping of China made progress on two key issues during their meeting on
Friday, offering some reassurance that they may be able to manage the challenges
ahead.

Of greatest significance is Mr. Xi's commitment to start a national program in
2017 that will limit and put a price on greenhouse gas emissions. Such a
cap-and-trade system will require big changes by the government, but if carried
out, it would mark a major step by the world's largest polluter to reduce
industrial emissions. It would also deprive Republicans in Congress of an excuse
to avoid taking steps to address climate change. Over the years they have
opposed efforts to limit greenhouse gases in the United States on the grounds
that China, the world's second-largest economy, has done little to limit its
emissions.

Coupled with emissions reductions pledges announced jointly last year, China's
commitment offers hope that the two countries will present a unified front at
the climate change summit in Paris this December.

Mr. Obama also announced that he had reached a ''common understanding'' with Mr.
Xi to combat ''cyber-enabled theft of intellectual property.'' They endorsed a
United Nations accord, adopted in July, that commits the signatories to not
target one another's critical infrastructure -- power plants, cellphone networks
and financial transactions -- in peacetime. They also pledged to have a more
formal dialogue on fighting cybercrime, something Beijing has long resisted.

But Mr. Obama was appropriately skeptical about the Chinese commitments, saying
there was a question about whether words would follow action and warning, ''We
will be watching carefully.'' The Americans contend that China is responsible
for the cybertheft of security data on roughly 22 million Americans from the
Office of Personnel Management. Mr. Obama should be prepared to to consider
retaliatory action if there are further attacks.

It was disappointing that there was no progress toward resolving the tension on
the South China Sea, where China has been converting reefs into islands big
enough to handle military runways and ports -- a direct challenge to other Asian
countries that also have territorial claims there. Mr. Xi said he wanted to
resolve the disputes peacefully, but his dangerous tactics and attempts to bully
neighboring countries has heightened concerns about a possible hostile
confrontation in that region.

Projecting strength remains central to Mr. Xi and his government. But for now,
domestic discontents like the recent market crash and slowing economic growth
are problems enough, without their provoking new troubles abroad.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/26/opinion/finding-common-ground-with-china.html

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RACHEL LEVIT)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 28, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cyberwarfare Capability Rated

BYLINE: By PAUL MOZUR

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 936 words


As China president Xi Jinping begins a trip to the United States that could
include the first arms control accord for cyberspace between the United States
and China, a new RAND report that rates the cyber warfare capabilities of the
world's two largest economies shows how important such an agreement could be.

The report, which rates the capabilities of both militaries over the course of
two situations, a conflict over Taiwan and one over the Spratly Islands,
dedicates an entire chapter to the respective cyber capabilities of both sides.

As it maps out the potential conflicts, and in turn the potential ways each
country could attack the other's network, it becomes apparent why a first
agreement between President Obama and Mr. Xi might focus on the rules of the
road for attacks on core infrastructure instead of on better publicized Chinese
attacks aimed at gaining advantages and intellectual property for companies.

In particular, it argues unclassified networks for key infrastructure are more
vulnerable than those of the military, and that broad attacks have a huge
potential to cause unanticipated escalations.

Even so, it says that the United States would probably do better than might be
expected given the high-profile media coverage of Chinese cyberattacks.

The Chinese military ''has been heavily involved in large-scale cyber espionage
since the mid-2000s, which has made it the subject of much media attention.
Because the most common targets of these attacks have been lightly defended
corporate and unclassified government systems, this activity may have created an
exaggerated sense of the capabilities that China might bring to bear in an
operational military context,'' it concludes.

Still, it adds that China's cyberattack capabilities have continued to improve,
and judges that it has gained ground on the United States in recent years,
downgrading the country from having a ''major advantage'' to having simply an
''advantage'' as of 2010.

Citing a 2013 document distributed throughout China's People's Liberation Army
called ''The Science of Military Strategy,'' the report adds that the Chinese
army recognizes the major advantages to being aggressive in cyberwar.

One danger of that, and also more broadly of employing cyberattacks in a
situation of escalating conflict, is that of unintentional escalation. Using
several hypothetical situations, the report shows how a cyberattack could deepen
a conflict. For example, it points out that if China were to make a move for
Taiwan, a cyberattack aimed at hurting the potential for the United States to
intercede, could contradictorily force the U.S. to come into the conflict.

Likewise it argues that in the case of some kind of regional conflict, United
States attacks on Chinese infrastructure that in peace-time would be deemed
mainly of civilian importance could take on deeper military implications.

''Weighed against their likely impact, cyber attacks against dual-use targets
raise escalatory concerns. To be sure, this is true of many other forms of
warfare, but there is particular danger in cyberwar, with its inchoate rules of
engagement, lack of international consensus on the legitimacy of different types
of targets, and lack of meaningful experience to underpin the understanding of
collateral effects,'' the authors write in the report.

Even so, there are plenty of reasons that China and the U.S. would be unlikely
to carry out a major attack aimed broadly at civilian populations. In
particular, the report points out that close economic relations could mean an
unintentional business fallout at home while the interconnectedness of the
Internet makes the effects of broad attacks unpredictable (for example, Chinese
data stored abroad could be inadvertently disrupted).

Also likely to be on the front of Beijing's mind, the report argues, are a few
larger concerns. In particular, during wartime issues surrounding control of
potentially destabilizing information within China and tracking of dissident
activity are also likely to ''loom large.''

Another issue, according to the report, is the fact that a huge proportion of
China's computers run pirated versions of Windows that are likely to be
vulnerable to attacks. Adding to that concern is overwhelming dominance by
American companies in software.

Many in the Chinese government believe ''that the United States has the ability
to corrupt or disrupt the functioning of any device with U.S.-made software.
Their appetite for a full-fledged cyberwar may be proportionately limited, and
their receptivity to U.S. hints that it could unleash such a cyberwar itself may
be heightened,'' the report added.

Even if the United States continues to have an advantage, the uncertainties that
come with a cyber confrontation are high, in particular if either side would
resort to ''strategic cyberwarfare,'' a term it uses to describe broad attacks
designed to impact the opposition's will to fight.

''In view of the potential for escalation, it is uncertain whether either side
will resort to strategic cyberwarfare,'' the report said. ''If they do, results
may be highly unpredictable. The outcome will depend not only on each side's
competence but also on chance factors (e.g., cascading affects), the defensive
posture and resiliency of each side's organizations and infrastructure, how each
side's public reacts, how political leaders factor public opinion into their
strategic calculus, and whether and how one side or the other escalates as a
result.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/09/22/report-stresses-importance-of-agreement
-to-avoid-cyber-conflict/

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 29, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

After the Break-In, the Bill

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1883 words


On Sept. 1 last year, the website Rescator, known as the ''Amazon.com of the
black market,'' alerted its customers that huge quantities of stolen debit and
credit card data would go on sale the next day.

''Load your accounts and prepare for an avalanche of cash!'' the website urged.

The next day, two batches of cardholder data were reportedly sold, according to
legal documents. The website claimed the cards were 100 percent valid and
working. Demand was so high that the website temporarily crashed. Over the next
few days, several more batches of card data were sold.

On Sept. 8, Home Depot issued a news release admitting its data systems had been
breached.

By then, the damage had been done. Approximately 56 million sets of card data
had been stolen, some of which were sold on the black market and remained valid
for several days. At a small credit union in California, fraudulent charges of
more than $100,000 were posted in just three minutes after the card information
was sold on the black market. A bank reported $300,000 in suspicious charges in
two hours to the security blog Krebs on Security, which connected Home Depot
with the stolen cards before the retailer did.

''With the Home Depot data breach, we weren't even told for days that it
existed. That it had happened,'' said Diana Dykstra, the chief executive of the
California and Nevada Credit Union Leagues. ''We didn't know that the cards had
been sold on the black market. It hit credit unions and small banks really
hard.''

A year later, the full tally of the Home Depot data breach remains unknown. Some
estimate the fraudulent charges total well into the billions of dollars.

Over the last couple of years, retailing has been a rich hunting ground for
online criminals. They hacked into numerous companies, including Neiman Marcus,
Sally Beauty and the crafts store Michaels. But the orchestrated theft at Target
in late 2013, followed a few months later by the Home Depot data breach,
eclipsed all of the others. So far, there have been no arrests in the Target and
Home Depot breaches.

As the size and scope of such attacks at retailers has grown, so have the
losses, which have been largely shouldered by financial institutions. Now some
small banks and others want Home Depot and those companies that suffer data
breaches to pay.

One front of the battle is a federal lawsuit winding through the courts, filed
by a number of small community banks and credit unions that contend Home Depot
long ignored internal and external warnings from security experts that its
systems were vulnerable to attack. A similar lawsuit against Target claims that
its security protocols were ''so deficient that the breach continued for nearly
three weeks while Target failed to even notice it.'' That lawsuit was given
class-action status this month by a federal judge in Minnesota.

But even as the lawsuits move forward, retailers are scrambling to meet a
deadline to install machines to read E.M.V. microchips -- the small metallic
rectangles increasingly found on the front of credit and debit cards, named
after Europay, MasterCard and Visa, the original backers of the standard. After
Thursday, retailers that have not upgraded their systems to read the new
chip-enabled cards will be liable for any charges from counterfeit cards.

''Essentially, whoever has the lower level of security will be the one who will
be responsible for the unauthorized transaction,'' said Doug Johnson, a senior
vice president of payments and security policy at the American Bankers
Association.

For now, that's likely to remain the banks. By some estimates, only 19 percent
of credit and debit cards in circulation will be chip-enabled by the deadline.
''It cuts both ways,'' Mr. Johnson acknowledged. ''If we don't deploy the chip
cards, we maintain the liability that we have currently.''

Retailers and banks are spending billions of dollars to upgrade to the new chip
cards. While they hope the cards will slam the door on criminals obtaining
financial data that can be used to create and sell counterfeit cards, they warn
that other windows for fraud will remain wide open.

''The expectation is that organized criminals are going to move from the
physical world to the online world,'' said David Robertson, publisher of The
Nilson Report, which tracks card industry data.

Credit card fraud losses totaled $8 billion last year, but many consumers may
see it as a victimless crime. Certainly there is a high hassle factor around
reporting suspicious transactions to the bank or waiting for a reissued card to
be mailed, but consumers are generally not held responsible for the fraudulent
charges that occur. (Furthermore, experts say while consumers were nervous after
the Target and Home Depot data breaches, there is no evidence that they shifted
their spending patterns to use cash rather than plastic.)

Instead, a majority of the fraud losses are absorbed by financial institutions,
which have become increasingly concerned as the sweep of data breaches at
retailers widens.

Historically, when a credit or debit card number was stolen and used to buy
goods elsewhere, the banks or financial institutions digested the losses. Then,
in cases where the retailer was found to be in breach of security standards,
Visa and MasterCard would seek reimbursement for costs associated with the fraud
and disburse that money back to the affected financial institutions through a
preset formula.

In 2007, for instance, TJX Companies, the owner of T.J. Maxx and Marshalls
stores, settled with Visa and others for $40.9 million to cover costs associated
with a large data breach.

But small community banks and credit unions say the disbursement of any money
collected from retailers rarely, if ever, makes it to their doors. Most goes to
large banks.

''We've not received any payments at all for any fraudulent activity,'' said
Marques Doppler, the chief executive of Profinium, a 140-year-old family-owned
bank with four branches in Southern Minnesota and around $350 million in assets.
Mr. Doppler declined to say how much Profinium, which is one of the plaintiffs
in the Home Depot litigation, lost to fraudulent charges.

For small community banks like Profinium or nonprofit credit unions, a little
fraud can hurt in a big way.

''A $100,000 fraud loss to a large financial institution is nothing. But a lot
of credit unions have annual net income that is less than $1 million. If you
take a couple of big fraud hits, that's substantial for them,'' said Bill
Hampel, chief policy officer and chief economist with the Credit Union National
Association.

Moreover, it can cost small banks or credit unions much more to reissue cards
involved in a data breach. The average cost to reissue cards affected by the
Target breach, according to a survey of banks conducted by the A.B.A. last
summer, ranged from $2.70 per card for large banks to $12.75 for banks with less
than $1 billion in assets.

So a number of community banks and credit unions filed lawsuits against Target
and Home Depot, seeking bigger payouts.

In the case of Home Depot, the lawsuit alleges that the retailer had ignored
multiple warnings about its vulnerabilities since 2008. The suit says Home Depot
failed to turn on a feature of the 2007 version of Symantec antivirus software
specifically designed to spot malware that attacks point-of-sale terminals.
Symantec's contractors grew so concerned about Home Depot's approach to security
that three of them refused to continue to work for the company and Symantec
threatened to cease doing business with Home Depot, according to the lawsuit.

When an employee in 2010 discovered a major security flaw that allowed
unauthorized access to Home Depot's network through devices used by its in-store
sales force, the employee was ignored for months. Then he was fired, the lawsuit
alleges.

Starting around April 2014, hackers gained access to Home Depot's computer
systems using the credentials of a third-party vendor. Targeting the
self-checkout registers, the hackers installed malware that siphoned off the
information from a payment card when it was swiped on a checkout terminal. The
malware remained on Home Depot's terminals for five months, until around Sept.
7, 2014.

Home Depot has broadly denied the allegations. ''There's a lot of misinformation
out there about this, much of it based on speculation, rumors and opinion by
individuals who don't have the facts, and we'll address them in the proper
forum,'' said Stephen Holmes, a spokesman for Home Depot.

But the data breach has been costly for the retailer. In regulatory filings,
Home Depot said expenses tied to the breach so far total $232 million, partly
offset by $100 million in insurance proceeds.

Lawyers say a good insurance policy will cover expenses related to investigating
the data breach, public relations, call-center services and credit monitoring
services as well as costs arising from lawsuits.

The challenge for retailers is buying enough of it.

''If you're a retailer, it's hard to buy more than $125 million in coverage in
today's market,'' said Roberta D. Anderson, a co-founder of the Cyber Law and
Cybersecurity practice group at the K&L Gates law firm. ''Obviously, the
potential liability is so much more.''

Even as the lawsuit against Home Depot moves forward, the retailer and others
are spending billions of dollars -- $100 million at Target alone -- to upgrade
their registers to accept chip-enabled cards. Home Depot says all of its stores
will be ready to read chip cards by the Thursday deadline. The retailing giant
Walmart says its stores were chip-ready almost a year ago.

Everyone is hoping that the new chip cards will be much tougher for
counterfeiters to copy. Among the new security features is a cryptogram, a
security code that changes every time the card is used.

But retailers, who have a longstanding feud with Visa and MasterCard over fees,
are not happy to be bearing the brunt of the costs to install the new chip
readers at their stores (some estimate retailers will spend upward of $30
billion over the next few years) to solve what they see as the bank's problem.
Moreover, they say they do not know why the financial industry in the United
States is largely issuing chip-and-signature cards rather than the safer
chip-and-PIN cards that have been widely adopted in Europe.

''Signature is worthless as a form of authentication'' at the point of sale,
Mike Cook, an assistant treasurer and senior vice president at Walmart, told
attendees during an electronic transactions conference in San Francisco this
spring. In the cases of the Target and Home Depot breaches, he said, ''not a
single PIN debit card needed to be reissued in those breaches. The card number
was worthless to the individual thief and fraudsters, because they didn't know
the PIN.''

The card payment industry argues the new cards will offer better protection
against counterfeiting, which they say accounts for the bulk of the fraudulent
transactions.

''They also don't want you to have to remember PINs,'' said Mr. Robertson of The
Nilson Report. ''The reality of the U.S. market, which is distinct from
everywhere else in the world, is that we have an average of 4.5 credit cards per
person. That's a lot of PINs to remember.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/29/business/as-online-data-theft-escalates-banks-
look-to-retailers-to-bear-the-losses.html

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Walmart Supercenter in North Bergen, N.J. Retailers are
supposed to be able to handle the new chip cards by Thursday. Walmart was ready
almost a year ago.
 A credit card with an E.M.V. chip being scanned for a purchase. Processing
takes a few seconds more than a swipe. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYAN ANSELM FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (B8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPHE VORLET)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                             October 2, 2015 Friday

Crowdsourcing for Human Rights

BYLINE: DAVID BORNSTEIN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1736 words



HIGHLIGHT: Refugees from war, political prisoners and advocates who want to help
them can find paths to assistance and public attention at a single crowdsourcing
web site.


Last month, when Areej Kouki was watching news images of refugees from the
Middle East walking across Europe, she resolved to do something to help. Two
years earlier her family had fled the civil war in Syria. Her father and brother
made the treacherous crossing from Turkey to Greece by boat and then made their
way to Sweden. Now Kouki, 20, was studying dentistry in Berlin, and was moved by
the stories of others seeking safety in similar journeys. But what could one
person do?

She found answers on a site called Movements.org, a crowdsourcing human-rights
platform started last year to enable human-rights activists and people seeking
protection from dictatorships to find people with the skills to help. Through
those connections, Movements.org provides opportunities to ease the suffering
and amplify the voices of people who stand up to, or try to escape, the world's
most oppressive regimes. "It's surprising it hasn't been done before," commented
Carl Gershman, the president of the National Endowment for Democracy. "If it can
be done right in a secure way it can be extremely valuable."

On the platform, Kouki offered help with translation, writing and other needs
for refugees who had arrived in the Berlin area. At the time, the refugees' most
urgent requests were for food and water, painkillers, blankets and diapers. But
many also needed translation help and assistance navigating social services.
Kouki and some friends purchased the necessary items and brought them to the
refugees in a park in the Alt-Moabit area of Berlin. "Next weekend, six of us,
Syrians and Germans, are going again to the park to see what else they need,"
she said.

Movements.org was founded in 2007 to provide support to digital human-rights
activists. In 2012, with a grant from Google, it was taken over by Advancing
Human Rights, a New York-based group established by Robert Bernstein, the
founder of Human Rights Watch, and David Keyes, a pioneer in online human-rights
activism. Last year, they reintroduced it as a crowdsourcing platform. Over the
past year, more than 250,000 people have visited the site, leading to nearly
10,000 connections between people requesting assistance and those offering it.
(Some of the successful connections are listed here.)

"Most people don't think of themselves as a human-rights activist," says Keyes,
the driving force behind the platform. (He has also brought renewed popular
attention to human-rights violators through darkly satirical videos). "They look
at these great struggles around the world and they feel at a loss. What is any
one person going to do against ISIS?" But when he gives a talk, he said, he
usually ends up surrounded by people who ask, "What can I do to help?"

That question helped him to realize that the nature of the human-rights struggle
had evolved, he said. "For decades, the presumption was that we needed to get
information out of closed societies," Keyes explained. "So it became vital to
collect examples of brutality because you wouldn't know about it otherwise. But
now we know about the brutality of these regimes. We see it on YouTube and
Twitter every day. The challenge is how to get help inside."

"Amazon says that you don't need to be a bookstore to sell a book and Uber says
that you don't need to be a taxi service to drive a taxi," he added. "I realized
that you don't need to be an N.G.O. to fight a dictator, or a political leader
to help a human-rights activist. Millions of people around the globe have the
skills to help, and they're currently not being utilized. If we could build a
bridge between these communities, more people could be helped than we ever
thought possible."

What skills are needed? On the platform, human-rights champions regularly seek
to connect with journalists, lawyers, translators, editors, writers, social
media experts, coders, artists, cartoonists, musicians, cyber security gurus,
public relations specialists, students and other activists. Policy makers who
want to focus on human rights, including senators, parliament members and
current and former ministers from the United States, Canada, Germany, Sweden,
Australia, Iraq and Iran have posted on the platform, asking people to share
their stories.

In recent weeks, numerous refugees from the Middle East have used Movements to
contact lawyers, soliciting advice about asylum in different countries. I spoke
with a Yemeni advocate for religious tolerance who had to flee his home after
receiving death threats from Al Qaeda and Houthi rebels. (He requested that I
remove identifying details out of concern for his family's safety.) Through the
site, he got in touch with a veteran human-rights activist in Yemen who helped
him stay safe in the midst of the war. He also received legal assistance and is
now living in another country, where he is seeking asylum. "Through Movements, I
found myself in contact with a lot of people who wanted to help, and they gave
me hope," he told me. "This is a very good feeling while you're in the middle of
a war. Someone cares about you."

The platform currently serves activists from closed societies with populations
of more than five million, with a primary focus on countries deemed to be the
largest and worst human rights offenders, including North Korea, China, Iran,
Saudi Arabia, Russia, Egypt and Syria. Currently, a majority of posts come from
the Middle East, with most users looking for ways to generate attention for
causes - often to keep the names of prisoners they care about in the news, or to
ensure that people who died are not forgotten. Through the platform, a friend
seeking to honor the memory of Sergei Magnitsky, a Russian attorney who died in
police custody after investigating a $230 million tax fraud, was put in touch
with musicians who wrote a song, later turned into a video featuring members of
the band Pussy Riot.

Movements also has a partnership with The Daily Beast, which has been active
publishing articles written about and by human rights defenders. Ensaf Haidar,
the wife of Raif Badawi, a blogger in Saudi Arabia imprisoned since 2012 for
allegedly disrespecting Islam, has received assistance getting articles
translated and widely circulated as she fights, from exile in Canada, his
sentence of 10 years and a total of 1,000 lashes in 20 weekly whippings.

The first 50 lashes were delivered in January, but further beatings have been
repeatedly postponed amid an international outcry that they were likely to kill
him. Nevertheless, the sentence itself was upheld in June by Saudi Arabia's
Supreme Court.

The renowned Canadian human-rights lawyer Irwin Cotler, who served as counsel to
Nelson Mandela, Andrei Sakharov and Natan Sharansky, has taken up Badawi's case.
Last month, Haidar announced in Montreal the formation of a foundation named
after Badawi that supports free expression internationally. And her activism has
continued to build awareness. "The articles from human rights activists from
Saudi Arabia led to a lot of people there forming online groups," said Faisal
Saeed al-Mutar, an Iraqi born human-rights activist and writer who received
asylum in the United States and now advances Movements.org's efforts to help
liberal dissidents.

Another big need is technology, says Ahed al-Hindi, a Syrian who was imprisoned
for his defense of political prisoners and now lives in the United States, where
he runs Movements' Arabic program. "Many activists want to know how to browse
the Internet securely without being in trouble with the government censors," he
said. "We weren't very smart using the Internet. The regime was able to find
us."

Through a partnership with SaferVPN, some Movements users are able to download
free cybersecurity software with which to circumvent censorship and
surveillance. The platform is designed with security in mind. And users receive
trust ratings of one to five stars based on how thoroughly their identity can be
verified. Still, users are warned to be cautious about posting personally
identifying information, since government agents can pose as human rights
defenders.

It's hard to appreciate the value of many of these small actions against huge
systems of oppression. But authoritarian regimes count on people's indifference
and short memories. That's why Keyes was disturbed in April when Mohammad Javad
Zarif, the foreign minister of Iran, spoke at New York University and not a
single student showed up to protest the country's appalling human-rights record.
"It's a missed opportunity to raise the price on dictatorship," he said, "to
ensure that they can't just go on locking up women's rights activists, and
torturing bloggers, and murdering gay people and be treated like a normal
civilized country."

In 1997, Cotler, who later became Canada's minister of justice and attorney
general, asked Mikhail Gorbachev why he freed the dissident Natan Sharansky
months after becoming leader of the Soviet Union. Gorbachev recalled his first
visit to Canada in 1983, when he was the Soviet Union's secretary of
agriculture. He wanted to talk about harvests, but people kept demonstrating and
accosting him about Sharansky, whom he said he hadn't even heard of at the time.
"It was costing us, it was costing us, wherever I went, politically and
economically," he told Cotler.

The lesson stuck. "It's important to create a critical mass of advocacy," added
Cotler, who sits on the board of Advancing Human Rights. "All the steps are
important. Getting a jingle written on behalf of a political prisoner, or a
website, or a translation, or a journalist who will write a story, or a lawyer
who will take up the case, or a remedy that will be exercised at the U.N., or a
civil society involvement that might not have otherwise taken place, or a
university or law school who will adopt a political prisoner. And Movements.org
can play a very crucial role in the initiation, coordination and implementation
of that critical mass of advocacy."

Join Fixes on Facebook and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes. To
receive e-mail alerts for Fixes columns, sign up here.

David Bornstein is the author of "How to Change the World," which has been
published in 20 languages, and "The Price of a Dream: The Story of the Grameen
Bank," and is co-author of "Social Entrepreneurship: What Everyone Needs to
Know."  He is a co-founder of the Solutions Journalism Network, which supports
rigorous reporting about responses to social problems.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 4, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Connecticut

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 6030 words


A guide to cultural and recreational events in Connecticut. Items for the
calendar should be sent at least three weeks in advance to ctcal@nytimes.com

Comedy

BRIDGEPORT The Bijou Theater ''It's All Fun and Games,'' improvisation. Oct. 2
at 8 p.m. $10 to $25. The Bijou Theater, 275 Fairfield Avenue.
thebijoutheatre.com; 203-332-3228.

COLLINSVILLE Bridge Street Live Rob Steen and Will Noonan. Oct. 3 at 8 p.m. $15
and $25. Bridge Street Live, 41 Bridge Street. 860-693-9762; 41bridgestreet.com.

HARTFORD Infinity Hall Hartford Jon Fisch, Carrie Gravenson and Shaun Eli. Oct.
3 at 8 p.m. $25 to $35. Brian Hoffman's ''Remembering Red: A Tribute to Red
Skelton.'' Oct. 4 at 1:30 p.m. $29 to $39. Infinity Hall Hartford, 32 Front
Street. 860-560-7757; infinityhall.com.

MANCHESTER The Hartford Funny Bone Bill Bellamy. Through Oct. 4. $25. John
Moses. Oct. 8 at 7:30 p.m. $12. Carlos Mencia. Oct. 9 through 11. $25. The
Hartford Funny Bone, 194 Buckland Hills Drive. 860-432-8600;
hartfordfunnybone.com.

MASHANTUCKET Comix at Foxwoods Resort Casino Last Comix Standing Contest. Oct. 4
at 8 p.m. $10 to $20. Comix at Foxwoods Resort Casino, 350 Trolley Line
Boulevard. 866-646-0609; comixatfoxwoods.com.

MASHANTUCKET Fox Theater, Foxwoods Resort Casino Patton Oswalt. Oct. 3 at 8 and
10:30 p.m. $30 to $50. Fox Theater, Foxwoods Resort Casino, 350 Trolley Line
Boulevard. foxwoods.com; 800-200-2882.

MASHANTUCKET Grand Theater, Foxwoods Resort Casino Russell Peters. Oct. 2 at 8
p.m. $45 to $65. Grand Theater, Foxwoods Resort Casino, 350 Trolley Line
Boulevard. foxwoods.com; 800-200-2882.

NORFOLK Infinity Hall Boston Comedy Festival, Dan Boulger, Mike Whitman, Will
Smalley and Kofi Thomas. Oct. 10 at 8 p.m. $25 to $35. Infinity Hall, 20
Greenwoods Road. infinityhall.com; 866-666-6306.

RIDGEFIELD Ridgefield Playhouse Steven Wright. Oct. 4 at 8 p.m. $60. Ridgefield
Playhouse, 80 East Ridge Road. 203-438-5795; ridgefieldplayhouse.org.

STAMFORD The Palace Theater Upright Citizens Brigade Touring Company,
improvisation. Oct. 9 at 8 p.m. $25. The Palace Theater, 61 Atlantic Street.
203-325-4466; palacestamford.org.

Film

HARTFORD Cinestudio ''Phoenix,'' directed by Christian Petzold. Oct. 4 through
7. ''Tangerine,'' directed by Sean Baker. Oct. 8 at 7:30 p.m. ''The End of the
Tour,'' directed by James Ponsoldt. Oct. 10 at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m. $7 and $9.
Cinestudio, 300 Summit Street. 860-297-2463; cinestudio.org.

NEW LONDON Garde Arts Center The 2015 Manhattan Short Film Festival. Oct. 4 at 3
p.m. $10. Garde Arts Center, 325 State Street. 860-444-7373; gardearts.org.

For Children

ANSONIA Ansonia Nature Center Fall Term Junior Rangers, educational and outdoor
activities. Ages 11 to 14. Thursdays at 3:30 p.m. through Nov. 5. Free. Ansonia
Nature Center, 10 Deerfield Road. 203-736-1053; ansonianaturecenter.org.

BRIDGEPORT Downtown Cabaret Theater ''Sleepy Hollow,'' musical. Oct. 10 through
Nov. 1. $19 and $23. Downtown Cabaret Theater, 263 Golden Hill Street.
203-576-1636; dtcab.com.

COS COB Greenwich Historical Society Fall Festival, Revolutionary War
re-enactors, tours of the house, crafts, scarecrow-making competition and more.
Oct. 11, 12:30 to 3:30 p.m. $5 and $10. $25 per family. $10 and $15 for
scarecrow competition. Greenwich Historical Society, 39 Strickland Road.
203-869-6899; greenwichhistory.org.

GREENWICH Bruce Museum Family Studio Workshop: Watercolor Wonders, art
activities. Oct. 4 at 1 p.m. $7 and $15. Bruce Museum, 1 Museum Drive.
203-869-0376; brucemuseum.org.

OLD SAYBROOK The Katharine Hepburn Cultural Arts Center ''Curious George,''
musical. Oct. 4 at 1 p.m. $10 and $16. The Katharine Hepburn Cultural Arts
Center, 300 Main Street. 877-503-1286; thekate.org.

STAMFORD Curtain Call, at the Sterling Farms Theater Complex ''Mary Poppins,''
musical. Through Oct. 17. $16 to $32. Curtain Call, at the Sterling Farms
Theater Complex, 1349 Newfield Avenue. 203-461-6358; curtaincallinc.com.

STAMFORD Stamford Museum & Nature Center Scarecrow making. Some materials
provided. Oct. 4 and 11, 2 to 4 p.m. $10 per family plus gate admission; $5 per
family for members. Stamford Museum & Nature Center, 39 Scofieldtown Road. ;
203-322-1646; stamfordmuseum.org.

THOMASTON Thomaston Station, Railroad Museum of New England Train Rides to the
Pumpkin Patch. Weekends, Oct. 10 to 25 and Columbus Day. $16 and $18; children
under 3, free. Thomaston Station, Railroad Museum of New England, 242 East Main
Street. 860-283-7245; rmne.org.

Music and Dance

BETHEL Pizzeria Lauretano The Gene Bertoncini Trio, jazz. Oct. 4 at 6 p.m. $15.
Allegra Levy, jazz. Oct. 11 at 6 p.m. $15. Pizzeria Lauretano, 291 Greenwood
Avenue. 203-792-1500; pizzerialauretano.com.

BRIDGEPORT The Bijou Theater Shed! A Tap Show, revue. Oct. 9 at 8 p.m. $20 and
$25. The Slammin' Band, R&B. Oct. 10 at 8 p.m. $15 and $20. The Bijou Theater,
275 Fairfield Avenue. 203-332-3228; thebijoutheatre.com.

COLLINSVILLE Bridge Street Live Ticket to Ride, tribute to the Beatles. Oct. 9
at 8 p.m. $20 and $25. Bridge Street Live, 41 Bridge Street. 41bridgestreet.com;
860-693-9762.

EASTON Easton Public Library ''Armed Forces Canteen: Music of the '40s.'' Oct. 4
at 3 p.m. Free. Easton Public Library, 691 Morehouse Road.
eastonartscouncil.org; 203-261-9160.

FAIRFIELD Quick Center for the Arts, Fairfield University ''The Great Guitars,''
Martin Taylor, Frank Vignola, Vinny Raniolo and Peppino D'Agostino. Oct. 2 at 8
p.m. $30 to $40. Quick Center for the Arts, Fairfield University, 1073 North
Benson Road. 203-254-4010; fairfield.edu/arts.

FAIRFIELD StageOne, Fairfield Theater Company Guy Davis, blues. Oct. 7 at 7:45
p.m. $28. Fairground Saints, rock. Oct. 9 at 7:45 p.m. $17. Kevin Griffin,
alternative rock. Oct. 10 at 7:45 p.m. $38. Sun Kil Moon, folk and rock. Oct. 11
at 7:45 p.m. $38. StageOne, Fairfield Theater Company, 70 Sanford Street.
fairfieldtheatre.org; 203-259-1036.

FAIRFIELD The Warehouse, Fairfield Theater Company Southside Johnny and the
Asbury Jukes, rock. Oct. 2 at 8 p.m. $55. ALO, jam band. Oct. 6 at 8 p.m. $25.
The Warehouse, Fairfield Theater Company, 70 Sanford Street. 203-259-1036;
fairfieldtheatre.org.

GREENWICH Greenwich High School The Greenwich Symphony Orchestra, classical.
Oct. 3 at 8 p.m. and Oct. 4 at 4 p.m. $10 and $35. Greenwich High School, 10
Hillside Road. greenwichsymphony.org; 203-869-2664.

HARTFORD Bushnell Center for the Performing Arts ''Masterworks: New World
Visions,'' Hartford Symphony Orchestra. Through Oct. 4. $35 to $71. Frankie
Valli and the Four Seasons, pop. Oct. 7 at 7:30 p.m. $59 to $79. Bushnell Center
for the Performing Arts, 166 Capitol Avenue. 860-987-5900; bushnell.org.

HARTFORD Infinity Hall Hartford EagleMania, Eagles tribute band. Oct. 2 at 8
p.m. $29 to $39. Bernard Fowler, pop and rock. Oct. 4 at 7:30 p.m. $29 to $44.
Nick Lowe, pop. Oct. 8 at 8 p.m. $39 to $54. Dave Mason's Traffic Jam, rock.
Oct. 10 at 8 p.m. $60 to $80. Jonny Lang, blues and rock. Oct. 11 at 7:30 p.m.
$49 to $84. Infinity Hall Hartford, 32 Front Street. 860-560-7757;
infinityhall.com.

HARTFORD XL Center Stevie Wonder, pop and soul. Oct. 11 at 8 p.m. $29.50 to
$129.50. XL Center, 1 Civic Center Plaza. 860-249-6333; xlcenter.com.

MASHANTUCKET Fox Theater, Foxwoods Resort Casino Engelbert Humperdinck, pop.
Oct. 4 at 7 p.m. $55 and $75. Rat Pack Tribute Show. Oct. 7 at 2 p.m. $39.50.
Jake Owen, country. Oct. 9 at 8 p.m. $39.50 to $79.50. Rain, Beatles tribute
band. Oct. 9 and 10 at 8 p.m. $45 and $65. Mark Knopfler, rock. Oct. 10 at 8
p.m. $68 and $88. Fox Theater, Foxwoods Resort Casino, 350 Trolley Line
Boulevard. 800-200-2882; foxwoods.com.

MIDDLETOWN Davison Art Center, Wesleyan University ''A Body in Places,'' solo
dance by Eiko Otake. Oct. 4 and 5. Free. Davison Art Center, Wesleyan
University, 301 High Street. 860-685-3355; wesleyan.edu/cfa/events.

NEW HAVEN College Street Music Hall ''Remember Lennon: Imagine 75,'' tribute
concert. Oct. 9 at 7 p.m. $35 to $75. College Street Music Hall, 238 College
Street. 877-987-6487; collegestreetmusichall.com.

NEW HAVEN Firehouse 12 Bryan and the Aardvarks, jazz. Oct. 2 at 8:30 and 10 p.m.
$15 and $20. Mat Maneri and Lucian Ban, jazz. Oct. 9 at 8:30 and 10 p.m. $15 and
$20. Firehouse 12, 45 Crown Street. firehouse12.com; 203-785-0468.

NEW HAVEN Morse Recital Hall, Yale University Christian McBride Trio, jazz. Oct.
2 at 7:30 p.m. $14 to $37. Boris Berman, piano. Oct. 7 at 7:30 p.m. $7 to $23.
Morse Recital Hall, Yale University, 470 College Street. 203-432-4158;
music.yale.edu.

NEW HAVEN Yale University Collection of Musical Instruments Nigel North, lute.
Oct. 11 at 3 p.m. $25. Yale University Collection of Musical Instruments, 15
Hillhouse Avenue. 203-432-0822; yale.edu/musicalinstruments.

NEW LONDON Garde Arts Center Classic Albums Live performs ''Abbey Road'' by the
Beatles. Oct. 2 at 8 p.m. $22 to $37. Garde Arts Center, 325 State Street.
860-444-7373; gardearts.org.

NEW LONDON Palmer Auditorium, Connecticut College Béla Fleck and Abigail
Washburn, bluegrass and jazz. Oct. 10 at 8 p.m. $14 to $28. Palmer Auditorium,
Connecticut College, 270 Mohegan Avenue. 860-439-2787;
conncoll.edu/events/concerts.

NORFOLK Infinity Hall The High Kings, Celtic and folk. Oct. 2 at 8 p.m. $34 to
$49. Albert Cummings, blues. Oct. 3 at 8 p.m. $35 to $50. David Bromberg
Quintet, folk and blues. Oct. 9 at 8 p.m. $54 to $69. The Kingston Trio, folk.
Oct. 11 at 3 and 7:30 p.m. $45 to $60. Infinity Hall, 20 Greenwoods Road.
866-666-6306; infinityhall.com.

OLD LYME The Side Door Javon Jackson 4tet, jazz. Oct. 2 and 3 at 7:30 p.m.
$38.50. Alicia Olatuja, jazz. Oct. 9 at 7:30 p.m. $35. Russell Malone Quartet,
jazz. Oct. 10 at 7:30 p.m. $38.50. The Side Door, 85 Lyme Street. 860-434-0886;
thesidedoorjazz.com.

OLD SAYBROOK The Katharine Hepburn Cultural Arts Center Grand Tour, Hank
Williams tribute band. Oct. 2 at 8 p.m. $35. Don Campbell, Dan Fogelberg tribute
band. Oct. 3 at 8 p.m. $30. ''The Odyssey: an Epic Dance Journey,'' Sonia Plumb
Dance Company. Oct. 8 at 6:30 p.m. $10 to $25. North Sea Gas, Scottish folk.
Oct. 9 at 8 p.m. $20. Ronnie Earl and the Broadcasters, blues. Oct. 10 at 8 p.m.
$45. Gary Harger, cabaret. Oct. 11 at 3 p.m. $20. The Katharine Hepburn Cultural
Arts Center, 300 Main Street. 877-503-1286; thekate.org.

RIDGEFIELD Ridgefield Playhouse Dave Mason's Traffic Jam, rock. Oct. 2 at 8 p.m.
$62.50 and $125. The Winery Dogs, rock. Oct. 3 at 8 p.m. $55. Melissa Etheridge,
rock. Oct. 5 and 6 at 8 p.m. $125. Burton Cummings, rock. Oct. 8 at 8 p.m. $65.
Béla Fleck and Abigail Washburn, bluegrass and jazz. Oct. 9 at 8 p.m. $55.
Smokey Robinson, R&B. Oct. 10 at 8 p.m. $250. Ridgefield Playhouse, 80 East
Ridge Road. 203-438-5795; ridgefieldplayhouse.org.

STAMFORD St. John's Lutheran Church ''Patience,'' comic opera by Gilbert and
Sullivan. Oct. 3 at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m. $15 to $30. St. John's Lutheran Church,
884 Newfield Avenue. 800-838-3006; trouperslightopera.org.

STAMFORD The Palace Theater Steve Ross, cabaret. Oct. 7 at 8 p.m. $45 and $55.
The Palace Theater, 61 Atlantic Street. 203-325-4466; palacestamford.org.

STORRS Jorgensen Center for the Performing Arts Audra McDonald, Broadway and
standards. Oct. 8 at 7:30 p.m. $25 to $50. The Jerusalem Quartet, classical.
Oct. 11 at 3 p.m. $15 to $36. Jorgensen Center for the Performing Arts, 2132
Hillside Road. 860-486-4226; jorgensen.uconn.edu.

UNCASVILLE Mohegan Sun Rascal Flatts, country. Oct. 10 at 7:30 p.m. $75 and $95.
Mohegan Sun, 1 Mohegan Sun Boulevard. 888-226-7711; mohegansun.com.

WALLINGFORD Paul Mellon Arts Center ''Happy Birthday Ol' Blue Eyes!''
Wallingford Symphony Orchestra. Oct. 10 at 7:30 p.m. $15 to $27. Paul Mellon
Arts Center, 333 Christian Street. 203-697-2261;
wallingfordsymphonyorchestra.org.

WATERBURY Palace Theater of Connecticut Matt and Atla DeChamplain, jazz. Oct. 2
at 7 and 9 p.m. $23. Palace Theater of Connecticut, 100 East Main Street.
203-755-4700; palacetheaterct.org.

WESTPORT Westport Arts Center Rhythm Future Quartet, jazz. Oct. 11 at 3 p.m. $25
and $30. Westport Arts Center, 51 Riverside Avenue. westportartscenter.org;
203-222-7070.

Outdoors

ANSONIA Ansonia Nature Center Bittersweet Wreaths. Remove invasive plant species
and create crafts. Bring clippers and gardening gloves. Oct. 3 at 2 p.m. Autumn
Tree ID Hike. Oct. 10 at 9:30 a.m. Free. Beekeeping With Erast Markiw. Oct. 10
at 10 a.m. Free. Ansonia Nature Center, 10 Deerfield Road.
ansonianaturecenter.org; 203-736-1053.

DANBURY Ives Concert Park Connecticut Harvest Jam, live music, seasonal food
items and more. Oct. 10, 2 to 8 p.m. $5 to $20. Ives Concert Park, 43 Lake
Avenue Extension. ivesconcertpark.com; 203-837-9226.

FAIRFIELD Connecticut Audubon Society Backyard Birding. Learn how to identify
and attract different birds, and take a walk in the sanctuary. Oct. 10 at 10
a.m. Free. Connecticut Audubon Society, 2325 Burr Street. 203-259-6305;
ctaudubon.org.

GREENWICH Bruce Museum 34th Annual Outdoor Arts Festival, works by more than 80
artists, music and children's activities. Oct. 10 and 11, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. $8.
Bruce Museum, 1 Museum Drive. 203-869-0376; brucemuseum.org.

GREENWICH Greenwich Point Park Sunday Bird Walk. Meet near the southern
concession stand. Oct. 4, 9 to 11:30 a.m. Free. Greenwich Point Park, 1001 Shore
Road. 203-413-6756; brucemuseum.org.

MADISON Hammonasset Beach State Park Hammonassett Festival Celebrating Native
American Culture and Nature. Oct. 3 and 4, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. $5; children 12 and
under, free. Hammonasset Beach State Park, 1288 Boston Post Road. 203-245-9192;
hammonasset.org.

NEW HAVEN Lighthouse Point Park New Haven Bird Club First Wednesday Walk. Oct. 7
at 8 p.m. Free. Lighthouse Point Park, Lighthouse Road. 203-984-9410;
newhavenbirdclub.org.

POMFRET CENTER Connecticut Audubon Society at Pomfret Wednesday Noon Walks,
guided hikes and naturalist lessons. Through Dec. 30. $3; members, free.
Connecticut Audubon Society at Pomfret, 218 Day Road. 860-928-4948;
ctaudubon.org.

WESTPORT  Earthplace Earthplace Festival, crafts, food, games and more. Oct. 4,
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. $5 and $10; children under 2, free. Earthplace, 10 Woodside
Lane. earthplace.org; 203-557-4400.

Spoken Word

GREENWICH Bruce Museum ''American Impressionism: Think Global, Buy Local,''
lecture by Deborah Gerstler Spanierman. Oct. 5, 10 to 11:15 a.m. $7; members,
free. ''Topics in Contemporary Sculpture,'' discussion. Oct. 7 at 6:30 p.m. $5
and $10. Bruce Museum, 1 Museum Drive. brucemuseum.org; 203-869-0376.

HARTFORD Bushnell Center for the Performing Arts The Connecticut Forum's ''The
Next Big Thing,'' discussion with Fareed Zakaria and Joi Ito. Oct. 3 at 8 p.m.
$30 to $90. Bushnell Center for the Performing Arts, 166 Capitol Avenue.
860-987-5900; bushnell.org.

HARTFORD Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art ''Art and Curiosity Cabinets:
Historical and Contemporary Perspectives,'' gallery talk. Oct. 4, 2 to 5:30 p.m.
Free. Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art, 600 Main Street. 860-278-2670;
thewadsworth.org.

NEW HAVEN  The Study, Yale University Hector Tobar discusses his book ''Deep
Down Dark.'' Oct. 4 at 2 p.m. Free. The Study, Yale University, 1157 Chapel.
wshu.org; 203-371-1255.

RIDGEFIELD Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum ''Art, Work, and Decoration With
Nancy Shaver,'' discussion. Oct. 3 at 3 p.m. Free. Aldrich Contemporary Art
Museum, 258 Main Street. 203-438-4519; aldrichart.org.

STAMFORD World Affairs Forum, at Stamford Yacht Club ''Cyber Security and the
Importance of Resiliency,'' lecture. Oct. 7 at noon. $40 and $55. World Affairs
Forum, at Stamford Yacht Club, 97 Ocean Drive West. 203-356-0340;
worldaffairsforum.org.

Theater

BRIDGEPORT Downtown Cabaret Theater ''Memphis,'' musical by David Bryan and Joe
DiPietro. Through Oct. 11. $21 and $28. Downtown Cabaret Theater, 263 Golden
Hill Street. 203-576-1636; dtcab.com.

EAST HADDAM Goodspeed Opera House ''A Wonderful Life,'' musical by Joe Raposo
and Sheldon Harnick. Through Nov. 29. $36.50 to $78.50. Goodspeed Opera House, 6
Main Street. goodspeed.org; 860-873-8668.

HARTFORD Hartford Stage ''An Opening in Time,'' drama by Christopher Shinn.
Through Oct. 11. $25 to $85. Hartford Stage, 50 Church Street. 860-527-5151;
hartfordstage.org.

HARTFORD TheaterWorks ''Third,'' drama by Wendy Wasserstein. Through Nov. 8. $15
to $65. TheaterWorks, 233 Pearl Street. theaterworkshartford.org; 860-527-7838.

IVORYTON Ivoryton Playhouse ''Little Shop of Horrors,'' musical by Alan Menken
and Howard Ashman. Through Oct. 11. $15 to $42. Ivoryton Playhouse, 103 Main
Street. ivorytonplayhouse.org; 860-767-7318.

NEW BRITAIN Hole in the Wall Theater ''Of Mice and Men,'' drama by John
Steinbeck. Through Oct. 17. $15 and $20. Hole in the Wall Theater, 116 Main
Street. 860-229-3049; hitw.org.

NEW HAVEN University Theater ''Indecent,'' drama by Paula Vogel. Through Oct.
24. $20 to $98. University Theater, 222 York Street. 203-432-1234; yalerep.org.

NEW MILFORD TheaterWorks ''Leading Ladies,'' comedy by Ken Ludwig. Through Oct.
10. $18 and $23. TheaterWorks, 5 Brookside Avenue. theatreworks.us;
860-350-6863.

RIDGEFIELD Ridgefield Theater Barn ''Calendar Girls,'' comedy by Tim Firth.
Through Oct. 3. $20 and $24. Ridgefield Theater Barn, 37 Halpin Lane.
ridgefieldtheaterbarn.org; 203-431-9850.

SHERMAN Sherman Playhouse ''The Rocky Horror Show,'' musical by Richard O'Brien.
Through Oct. 31. $30. Sherman Playhouse, 5 Route 39 North. 860-354-3622;
shermanplayers.org.

STORRS Connecticut Repertory Theater ''The Laramie Project,'' drama by Moisés
Kaufman and the Members of Tectonic Theater Project. Oct. 8 through 18. $7 to
$36. Connecticut Repertory Theater, 802 Bolton Road. crt.uconn.edu;
860-486-2113.

WATERBURY Palace Theater of Connecticut ''42nd Street,'' musical by Michael
Stewart, Mark Bramble, Al Dubin and Harry Warren. Oct. 9 at 8 p.m. and Oct. 10
at 2 and 8 p.m. $52 to $64. Palace Theater of Connecticut, 100 East Main Street.
203-755-4700; palacetheaterct.org.

WEST HARTFORD Playhouse on Park ''Tuesdays With Morrie,'' drama by Jeffrey
Hatcher and Mitch Albom. Through Oct. 18. $22.50 to $35. Playhouse on Park, 244
Park Road. playhouseonpark.org; 860-523-5900.

WESTPORT Westport Country Playhouse ''Broken Glass,'' drama by Arthur Miller.
Oct. 6 through 24. $25 to $85. Westport Country Playhouse, 25 Powers Court.
203-227-4177; westportplayhouse.org.

WESTPORT Westport Town Hall ''They're Playing Our Song,'' comedy by Neil Simon.
Through Oct. 11. $23 and $25. Westport Town Hall, 110 Myrtle Avenue.
westportcommunitytheatre.com; 203-226-1983.

Museums and Galleries

BRIDGEPORT Housatonic Museum of Art ''50 Objects/50 Years,'' group show. Through
Oct. 16. Weekdays, 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Thursdays, 8:30 a.m. to 7 p.m.;
Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Housatonic Museum of Art,
900 Lafayette Boulevard. 203-332-5052; housatonicmuseum.org.

CANTON Gallery on the Green ''Wanderlust,'' group show. Through Oct. 4. Fridays
through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. and by appointment. Gallery on the Green, Dowd
Avenue and Route 44. 860-693-4102; galleryonthegreen.org.

COS COB Greenwich Historical Society ''Greenwich Choices: 50 Objects That
Illustrate Our History.'' Oct. 11 through Feb. 28. $8 and $10; members and
children under 6, free. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Greenwich
Historical Society, 39 Strickland Road. 203-869-6899; greenwichhistory.org.

DANBURY The Gallery at Still River Editions ''New York Diptychs: I and II,''
photographs by Robert Kalman. Oct. 10 through Dec. 18. Weekdays, 8:30 a.m. to 5
p.m. The Gallery at Still River Editions, 128 East Liberty Street.
stillrivereditions.com; 203-791-1474.

ESSEX Cooper & Smith Gallery ''Katherine Evans: Color Awakenings.'' Oct. 10
through Nov. 1. Wednesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon
to 6 p.m. Cooper & Smith Gallery, 10 Main Street. coopersmithgallery.com;
860-581-8526.

FAIRFIELD Art/Place Gallery ''New Work: Diane Pollack and Sandra Meagher.''
Through Nov. 8. Thursdays through Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 2 to 5
p.m. Art/Place Gallery, 70 Sanford Street. artplacegallery.org; 203-374-9720.

FAIRFIELD Fairfield Museum and History Center ''Picturing the News: The
Distinctive Vision of Harry Neigher and Frank Gerratana.'' Through Jan. 18. $3
and $5; members and children under 5, free. Daily, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Fairfield
Museum and History Center, 370 Beach Road. 203-259-1598; fairfieldhistory.org.

GREENWICH Bendheim Gallery ''From the Ground Up,'' group show. Through Oct. 29.
Weekdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; weekends, noon to 4 p.m. Bendheim Gallery, 299
Greenwich Avenue. 203-862-6750; greenwichartscouncil.org.

GREENWICH Bruce Museum ''The Seven Deadly Sins: Pride.'' Through Oct. 18.
''Madagascar: Ghosts of the Past.'' Through Nov. 8. ''Theodore Nierenberg:
Photographs from His World Travels.'' Through Nov. 29. ''Charles Harold Davis
(1856-1933): Mystic Impressionist.'' Through Jan. 3. $6 and $7; members and
children under 5, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Bruce
Museum, 1 Museum Drive. brucemuseum.org; 203-869-0376.

GREENWICH Flinn Gallery ''Sound Sculptures,'' installation by Akinori Matsumoto.
Through Oct. 23. Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursday, 10 a.m.
to 8 p.m.; and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Flinn Gallery, 101 West Putnam Avenue.
flinngallery.com; 203-622-7947.

GROTON Alexey von Schlippe Gallery of Art, University of Connecticut ''Water,
Water Everywhere: Paean to a Vanishing Resource,'' group show. Through Oct. 24.
Suggested donation, $3. Members and students, free. Wednesdays through Sundays,
noon to 4 p.m. Alexey von Schlippe Gallery of Art, University of Connecticut,
1084 Shennecossett Road. averypointarts.uconn.edu; 860-405-9052.

GUILFORD Greene Art Gallery ''Audrey and Drew Klotz: Paintings and Sculpture.''
Through Oct. 11. Sundays and Mondays, noon to 4 p.m.; Wednesdays through
Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Greene Art Gallery, 29 Whitfield Street.
203-453-4162; greeneartgallery.com.

HAMDEN Arnold Bernhard Library ''Saving the Famine Irish: the Grey Nuns and the
Great Hunger.'' Through March 18. Mondays through Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Arnold Bernhard Library, 275 Mount Carmel Avenue.
203-582-8633; quinnipiac.edu.

HARTFORD Connecticut Commission on Culture and Tourism Gallery ''Move: An
Exhibition of Artist Fellowship Recipients,'' group show. Through Nov. 6.
Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Connecticut Commission on Culture and
Tourism Gallery, One Constitution Plaza. cultureandtourism.org; 860-256-2800.

HARTFORD Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art ''Visions From Home: Surrealism in
Connecticut.'' Through Oct. 20. ''Aspects of Portraiture: Photographs from the
Wadsworth Atheneum.'' Through Dec. 13. ''Mark Dion/MATRIX 173.'' Through Jan. 3.
$5 to $10; members and children under 12, free. Wednesdays through Fridays, 11
a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; first Thursdays, 11
a.m. to 8 p.m. Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art, 600 Main Street.
thewadsworth.org; 860-278-2670.

LAKEVILLE The White Gallery ''Dunlop and Dunlop: a Family Affair,'' paintings by
David and Max Dunlop. Through Oct. 11. Thursdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4
p.m.; and by appointment. The White Gallery, 342 Main Street. 860-435-1029;
thewhitegalleryart.com.

LITCHFIELD Litchfield Firehouse ''A Fall Gathering of Artists,'' group show.
Oct. 9 through 12, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Litchfield Firehouse, 258 West Street.
litchfieldfiredepartment.com; 203-574-3954.

MADISON Susan Powell Fine Art ''Poetic Landscapes,'' Dennis Sheehan and Curtis
Hanson. Oct. 2 through 31. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; and by
appointment. Susan Powell Fine Art, 679 Boston Post Road. 203-318-0616;
susanpowellfineart.com.

MYSTIC Maritime Art Gallery, at Mystic Seaport The 36th Annual International
Marine Art Exhibition. Through Dec. 31. Daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Maritime Art
Gallery, at Mystic Seaport, 47 Greenmanville Avenue. mysticseaport.org/gallery;
860-572-5388.

MYSTIC Mystic Arts Center ''The Artists of Gallery One,'' group show. ''Photo
Show 37,'' group show. Through Nov. 7. Daily, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mystic Arts
Center, 9 Water Street. 860-536-7601; mysticarts.org.

NEW BRITAIN New Britain Museum of American Art ''NEW/NOW: Katja Loher: How can
we cool down the gilded sun beams?'' Through Nov. 1. ''The Shakers: Focus on
Enfield, Connecticut.'' Through Nov. 20. ''Stone Roberts: Street Scenes, Still
Lifes, and Figures.'' Through Jan. 17. ''All-Time Favorites From the Low
Illustration Collection.'' Through Feb. 21. $10 to $15; members and children
under 12, free. Sundays through Wednesdays and Fridays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. New Britain Museum of
American Art, 56 Lexington Street. 860-229-0257; nbmaa.org.

NEW CANAAN Carriage Barn Arts Center 38th Annual Members' Show. Through Oct. 24.
Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Carriage
Barn Arts Center, 681 South Avenue. 203-972-1895; carriagebarn.org.

NEW CANAAN New Canaan Library ''I Been Looking for You,'' paintings by Charles
Schick and drawings by Regina Bartkoff. Through Oct. 4. ''The Metropolis and the
Intricate Grid,'' paintings by Carole Curtis and cut paper art by Gregg Welz.
Oct. 8 through Nov. 15. Mondays through Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Fridays and
Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. New Canaan Library, 151
Main Street. newcanaanlibrary.org; 203-594-5003.

NEW CANAAN Silvermine Arts Center Galleries ''Invented Worlds/Surrogate
Landscapes,'' Gerald Saladyga. ''Nocturnaling,'' Roger Mudre. ''Unknown:
Deconstructing Graffiti Culture,'' Jah, Es, Dooley-O, Pace, Revenge and Geli.
''Portraits in Prints From the New York Society of Etchers,'' group show.
Through Nov. 1. Wednesdays through Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5
p.m.; and by appointment. Silvermine Arts Center Galleries, 1037 Silvermine
Road. silvermineart.org; 203-966-9700.

East Haven Hagaman Memorial East Haven Library ''Nature's Storms and Forms,''
group show. Through Oct. 31. Tuesdays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.;
Mondays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hagaman Memorial East Haven
Library, 227 Main Street. 203-387-4933; azothgallery.com.

NEW HAVEN Creative Arts Workshop ''Geographies by the New England Guild of Book
Workers.'' ''Paper and Figures,'' Shirley Binin. Through Oct. 30. Weekdays, 9
a.m. to 7 p.m.; Saturdays, 9 a.m. to noon. Creative Arts Workshop, 80 Audubon
Street. creativeartsworkshop.org; 203-562-4927.

NEW HAVEN Fred Giampietro Gallery Works by Clint Jukkala, John Newman and Celia
Johnson. Through Oct. 17. Mondays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; and by
appointment. Fred Giampietro Gallery, 1064 Chapel Street. 203-777-7760;
giampietrogallery.com.

NEW HAVEN Kehler Liddell Gallery ''Mexicans,'' photographs by Sven Martson. New
member exhibition. Through Oct. 11. Thursdays and Fridays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.;
Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Kehler Liddell Gallery, 873 Whalley
Avenue. kehlerliddell.com; 203-389-9555.

NEW HAVEN New Haven Museum ''From Clocks to Lollipops: Made in New Haven.''
Through Dec. 31. ''The Nation's Greatest Hits: 100 Years of New Haven's Shubert
Theatre.'' Through Feb. 27. $2 to $4; children under 12, free. Tuesdays through
Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m.; first Sundays, 1 to 4
p.m. New Haven Museum, 114 Whitney Avenue. 203-562-4183; newhavenmuseum.org.

NEW HAVEN Yale Peabody Museum of Natural History ''Samurai and the Culture of
Japan's Great Peace.'' Through Jan. 3. $4 to $9; members and Yale ID holders,
free. Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Yale
Peabody Museum of Natural History, 170 Whitney Avenue. peabody.yale.edu;
203-432-5050.

NEW HAVEN Yale University Art Gallery ''Donald Blumberg Photographs: Selections
from the Master Sets.'' Through Nov. 22. ''The Ceramic Presence in Modern Art:
Selections from the Linda Leonard Schlenger Collection and the Yale University
Art Gallery.'' Through Jan. 3. Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5
p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Yale University Art Gallery, 1111 Chapel Street. 203-432-0600;
artgallery.yale.edu.

NEW LONDON Lyman Allyn Art Museum ''Launchpad of the American Theater: The
O'Neill Since 1964.'' ''Come In,'' works by Elizabeth Enders. Through Jan. 3.
''The Gaze Returned: Portrait Studio.'' Through Jan. 10. $5 to $10; members and
children under 12, free. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays,
1 to 5 p.m. Lyman Allyn Art Museum, 625 Williams Street. 860-443-2545;
lymanallyn.org.

NORWALK Galerie Sono ''Sacred Places,'' paintings by Rimi Yang. Through Oct. 16.
Tuesdays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to
9 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Galerie Sono, 123 Washington Street.
sonogalerie.com; 203-831-8332.

NORWALK Lockwood-Mathews Mansion Museum ''Tropical Luxuriance: The Mansion's
Conservatory, 1868 to 1880.'' Through Jan. 6. ''The Stairs Below: The Mansion's
Domestic Servants, 1868-1938.'' Oct. 14 through 30. ''Lenticular Views: Journeys
through Time, Space, and Emotions,'' works by Miggs Burroughs. Oct. 14 through
Jan. 3. $6 to $10; members and children under 8, free. Wednesdays through
Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Lockwood-Mathews Mansion Museum, 295 West Avenue.
203-838-9799; lockwoodmathewsmansion.com.

NORWALK The Leclerc Contemporary ''Larger Than Life,'' works by Rick Shaefer.
Through Oct. 17. Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m.
to 5 p.m. The Leclerc Contemporary, 19 Willard Road. 203-826-8575;
leclerccontemporary.com.

NORWALK The Maritime Garage Gallery ''Flux,'' group show. Through Jan. 4.
Weekdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. The Maritime Garage Gallery, 11 North Water Street.
203-831-9063; norwalkpark.org.

OLD LYME Cooley Gallery ''Local Color,'' group show. Through Nov. 7. Tuesdays
through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Cooley Gallery, 25 Lyme Street.
860-434-8807; cooleygallery.com.

OLD LYME Florence Griswold Museum ''The Artist in the Connecticut Landscape,''
works from the collections of 10 partner institutions. Through Jan. 31. $8 to
$10; children under 12, free. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Florence Griswold Museum, 96 Lyme Street. flogris.org;
860-434-5542.

OLD LYME Lyme Art Association Gallery New England Landscape Invitational
Exhibition. Through Nov. 20. Suggested donation, $5. Tuesdays through Saturdays,
10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m.; and by appointment. Lyme Art
Association Gallery, 90 Lyme Street. 860-434-7802; lymeartassociation.org.

OLD LYME Studio 80 and Sculpture Grounds ''Summer Sculpture Showcase,'' outdoor
exhibition. Through Oct. 24. Daily, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Studio 80 and Sculpture
Grounds, 80-1 Lyme Street. sculpturegrounds.com; 860-434-5957.

RIDGEFIELD Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum ''Virginia Poundstone: Flower
Mutations.'' ''Nancy Shaver: Reconciliation.'' ''Ruby Sky Stiler: Ghost
Version.'' ''Penelope Umbrico: Shallow Sun.'' ''Elif Uras: Nicaea.'' ''B. Wurtz:
Four Collections.'' Through Oct. 25. $5 and $10. Members, K-12 teachers,
active-service military families and children under 18, free; Tuesdays, free.
Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum, 258
Main Street. aldrichart.org; 203-438-4519.

ROXBURY Minor Memorial Library ''Echoing Silence,'' photographs by Mio Akashi
and ceramics by Ann Mallory. Through Oct. 12. Mondays, noon to 7 p.m.;
Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, noon to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5
p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Minor Memorial Library, 23 South Street.
minormemoriallibrary.org; 860-350-2181.

STAMFORD Loft Artists Association ''Lineal Investigations,'' group show. Through
Oct. 11. Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 4:30 p.m. Loft Artists Association, 575
Pacific Street. loftartists.com; 203-247-2027.

STAMFORD Stamford Art Association 35th Annual Faber Birren Color Award Show.
Oct. 4 through Nov. 5. Thursdays and Fridays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Weekends, noon
to 3 p.m. Stamford Art Association, 39 Franklin Street. 203-325-1139;
stamfordartassociation.org.

STAMFORD Stamford Museum & Nature Center ''ReDress: Upcycled Style,'' Nancy
Judd. Through Nov. 1. $5 to $10; members and children under 3, free. Mondays
through Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Stamford Museum
& Nature Center, 39 Scofieldtown Road. 203-322-1646; stamfordmuseum.org.

STONY CREEK Willoughby Wallace Memorial Library ''Explorations, Near and Far,''
works by Anne Coffey and Alexandra Sellon. Oct. 4 through 28. Mondays through
Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Sundays,
1 to 4 p.m. Willoughby Wallace Memorial Library, 146 Thimble Island Road.
203-488-8702; wwml.org.

STORRS William Benton Museum of Art, University of Connecticut ''Speak Up! Speak
Out! Bread & Puppet Theater.'' ''Dotted Dialogues: Contemporary Indigenous Art
from Central Australia.'' Through Oct. 11. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to
4:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 4:30 p.m. William Benton Museum of Art,
University of Connecticut, 245 Glenbrook Road. benton.uconn.edu; 860-486-4520.

WALLINGFORD Paul Mellon Arts Center ''Mirrors and Windows,'' works by Corina S.
Alvarezdelugo and Kari Cholnoky. Through Oct. 25. Daily, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Paul
Mellon Arts Center, 333 Christian Street. choate.edu/artscenter; 203-697-2423.

WASHINGTON DEPOT Washington Art Association ''Re: Fabrications,'' photographs by
Jay Kaplan and Emery Roth and sculpture by Brian Walters. Through Oct. 10.
Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Washington Art Association, 4
Bryan Memorial Plaza. 860-868-2878; washingtonartassociation.org.

WATERBURY Mattatuck Museum ''Machines Bearing the Weight of Delicacy.'' Through
Oct. 25. ''A Very Anxious Feeling: Artwork from the Collection of Melva
Bucksbaum and Raymond Learsy.'' Through Nov. 8. ''Signature Moments: Historic
Letters and Documents.'' Through Nov. 15. ''Dürer & Rembrandt: The Veneration of
the Christ.'' Through Nov. 29. $6 and $7; members and children under 16, free.
Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Mattatuck
Museum, 144 West Main Street. mattatuckmuseum.org; 203-753-0381.

WEST HARTFORD Joseloff Gallery, Hartford Art School ''+/-,'' group show. Through
Oct. 11. Tuesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays,
noon to 4 p.m. Joseloff Gallery, Hartford Art School, 200 Bloomfield Avenue.
860-768-4090; joseloffgallery.org.

WESTPORT Amy Simon Fine Art ''Surfacing: Carolanna Parlato and Alyse Rosner.''
Through Nov. 7. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; and by
appointment. Amy Simon Fine Art, 1869 Post Road East. amysimonfineart.com;
203-259-1500.

WESTPORT Westport Arts Center ''The Print Show: Celebrating 45 years of
Printmaking with Pace Prints, New York.'' Through Oct. 31. Mondays through
Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 4
p.m. Westport Arts Center, 51 Riverside Avenue. westportartscenter.org;
203-222-7070.

WESTPORT Westport Historical Society ''Talk of the Town,'' exhibition of covers
from The New Yorker. Through Oct. 26. Weekdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays,
noon to 4 p.m. Westport Historical Society, 25 Avery Place. westporthistory.org;
203-222-1424.

WILTON Wilton Historical Society ''In the Making: Historic Inspirations/New
Quilts,'' Denyse Schmidt. ''One Loop at a Time: June Myles's Hooked Rugs.''
Through Oct. 3. Suggested donation, $5. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4
p.m. Wilton Historical Society, 224 Danbury Road. wiltonhistorical.org;
203-762-7257.

WINDSOR Windsor Art Center ''Humanity Matters: The Social, Political and
Passionate Life of Carlos Hernandez Chavez.'' Through Oct. 24. Thursdays, 6 to 8
p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Windsor Art
Center, 40 Mechanic Street. 860-688-2528; windsorartcenter.org.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/04/nyregion/things-to-do-in-connecticut-oct-2-to-
11-2015.html

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BETHEL: The jazz guitarist Gene Bertoncini will perform on Oct.
4 at 6 p.m. at Pizzeria Lauretano, 291 Greenwood Avenue. Tickets are $15. For
further information: 203-792-1500 or pizzerialauretano.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAHAV
SEGEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (CT8)
WESTPORT: ''Self-Portrait Woodcut'' (2009), a woodcut in 47 colors by Chuck
Close, is on view in ''The Print Show: Celebrating 45 Years of Printmaking With
Pace Prints, New York,'' through Oct. 31 at the Westport Arts Center, 51
Riverside Avenue. For more information: 203-222-7070 or westportartscenter.org.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHUCK CLOSE AND PACE PRINTS) (CT9)
 STORRS The actress and singer Audra McDonald will perform on Oct. 8 at 7:30
p.m. at the Jorgensen Center for the Performing Arts, 2132 Hillside Road.
Tickets are $25 to $50. For information: 860-486-4226 or jorgensen.uconn.edu.
(CT10)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 4, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 682 words


9 P.M. (Showtime) HOMELAND Two years have passed since Carrie (Claire Danes) and
Quinn (Rupert Friend) caused a collective sigh by locking lips. Fast-forward to
Berlin, where, post-C.I.A., she's living in apparent domestic bliss with her
daughter and Jonas Happich (Alexander Fehling), the legal counsel to a German
philanthropist for whose foundation Carrie works as the head of security.
Everything seems to be going well as the philanthropist goes to Lebanon to
provide aid to a refugee camp. And then everything doesn't. Saul Berenson (Mandy
Patinkin) now runs Europe for the C.I.A., and Quinn, after assassinating people
in Syria, has taken on a new assignment.

''The early episodes are written and directed by 'Homeland' veterans, but they
have a different rhythm and mood than we're used to, in keeping with the new
locale,'' Mike Hale wrote in The New York Times. ''The temperature is lower, the
volume is quieter, and there's an emphasis on subtle le Carré-style spycraft
over lethal action. But in larger ways it's the same show.'' ''The Affair,'' at
10, takes his and hers and adds theirs to its ''Rashomon''-like narrative as the
now-former spouses (Maura Tierney and Joshua Jackson) of Noah Solloway (Dominic
West) and Alison Bailey (Ruth Wilson) offer their perspectives. ''The change in
structure certainly helps the series, which though one of TV's more ambitious
writing experiments was beginning to seem limited by its own gimmick,'' Neil
Genzlinger wrote in The Times. (Image: Ms. Danes and Mr. Fehling)

10 A.M. (CNN) FAREED ZAKARIA GPS Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and
former President Bill Clinton are guests.

10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY Representative Jason Chaffetz, Republican of Utah,
discusses Planned Parenthood, the Secret Service and prospects for the House.

8 P.M. (13, 49) HOME FIRES As World War II looms, two women (Samantha Bond and
Francesca Annis) in an English village vie to control the local chapter of the
Women's Institute, a national service organization whose wartime powers extend
to appropriating land for gardens. Much of the rest of the action in this
''Masterpiece'' entry is centered on wives and mothers trying to prevent
husbands and sons from enlisting. ''It's the kind of lushly produced, complexly
plotted series that wraps everything in a wet towel of sentiment -- at one point
a character who's contemplating an illegal act looks for guidance to her dog,
who buries its face in its paws,'' Mike Hale wrote in The Times. ''If you stick
with it, though, the sheer weight of the plot machinery and the performances
will probably pull you in.'' (Image: Ms. Bond)

8 P.M. (CBS) MADAM SECRETARY President McCord? Elizabeth (Téa Leoni) has to take
the oath of office when Air Force One disappears over the Pacific. In ''The Good
Wife,'' at 9, Alicia (Julianna Margulies) tries to revive her law career by
representing criminals in bond court. But she has some competition (Cush Jumbo).
And in ''CSI: Cyber,'' at 10, D. B. Russell (Ted Danson) transfers from Las
Vegas to Washington as the new director of Next Generation Forensics. His first
mission: to help Avery (Patricia Arquette) investigate a murder committed by
someone who remotely hacked a home security system.

9 P.M. (HBO) THE LEFTOVERS Season 2 moves to Jarden, Tex. -- as does a multitude
convinced that the town, nicknamed Miracle because it lost no one to the Sudden
Departure three years earlier, can keep people safe. This first episode
introduces the Murphys: Erika (Regina King), a doctor; John (Kevin Carroll), a
firefighter, and their teenage twins, the wild child Evie (Jasmin Savoy Brown)
and the uptight Michael (Jovan Adepo). '' 'The Leftovers' appears no more
interested than before in answering big questions about the Departure,'' James
Poniewozik wrote in The Times. ''But it goes nowhere beautifully.'' (Image: Ms.
King)

What's Streaming Now

THE DICK CAVETT SHOW HORROR HIGHLIGHTS Leading to Halloween, Shout! Factory TV
releases interviews with Alfred Hitchcock, Vincent Price, Stephen King, George
Romero and Janet Leigh. (shoutfactorytv.com)




URL:

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHAN RABOLD/SHOWTIME)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 6, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rebounding With a Sibling Assist

BYLINE: By JAMES PONIEWOZIK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 703 words


For years now, people have called TV ''the new film.'' But only recently, with
directors like Lena Dunham (''Girls''), Mike White (''Enlightened'') and Lisa
Cholodenko (''The Slap'') producing series, has it also become the new indie
film. One side effect of this shift has been a boomlet in shows, like Amazon's
''Transparent'' (Jill Soloway) and HBO's ''Togetherness'' (Jay and Mark
Duplass), about a particular niche of white-collar professionals who populate
bourgeois areas of Los Angeles. It's not only the Golden Age of TV, it's the
Silver Lake Age of TV.

Hulu's new comedy ''Casual'' falls solidly within that well-interior-decorated
genre. It's created by a relative newcomer, Zander Lehmann, and produced by
Jason Reitman (''Juno''), who also directs the first two episodes. (Both of
those debut on Wednesday; the eight remaining episodes will have premieres
weekly.) It's the idiosyncratic story of an idiosyncratic Los Angeles family
that shows how idiosyncrasy has become a formula itself. But this is a
well-executed version, which becomes more than the sum of its quirks.

Valerie (Michaela Watkins), a therapist going through a nasty divorce, has moved
in with her younger, single brother, Alex (Tommy Dewey), who offers her not just
a place to crash but a means to rebound. He's a programmer who created a dating
site, Snooger.com -- he cheats its algorithm to hook himself up with dates --
and he becomes his sister's cynical-but-supportive cyber-wingman. Rounding out
the improvised family is Laura (Tara Lynne Barr), Valerie's sexually precocious
16-year-old daughter. (''I've had her on the pill since she was 12,'' Valerie
says.)

For Alex, sex is an easily gamed matter of the old input-and-output. For
Valerie, it's more fraught -- partly because the market is not as blissful for a
39-year-old woman like her as for a 35-year-old man like Alex. ''Here you are,
aging naturally and embracing it,'' her first date smarmily tells her. ''It's so
refreshing.''

There's all manner of sex in ''Casual'' -- teenage and middle-aged hookups, open
relationships and foursomes -- but the series is less sex farce than family
dramedy. It's about sex as a means toward or escape from connection. (The title
sequence is a drop-down menu on a dating app, on which the highlight bar hovers
over ''Monogamous'' before fleeing to ''Casual.'')

Like many grown children, Valerie and Alex are trying to sleep their way out of
their parents' shadows. Mom and Pop -- Dawn (Frances Conroy) and Charles (Fred
Melamed) -- are free spirits (she left Portland, Ore., because it was ''too
conservative'') whose self-absorption embittered their kids. In turn, Valerie,
torn between permissiveness and control as a mother, finds herself clashing with
Laura, especially when they each develop a thing for Laura's high-school
photography teacher.

There are a lot of feelings here, but little melodrama. ''Casual'' is the kind
of alternative-family comedy you'll find on broadcast or basic cable, just more
closely observed, sexually frank and emotionally raw. When Valerie dates a much
younger man, in fact, it echoes a story line from TV Land's ''Younger'' -- right
down to her rude awakening to a new generation's expectations regarding waxing.
(''We live in a sick, youth-obsessed culture,'' Alex informs her.
''Five-year-old vagina is the gold standard.'')

''Casual,'' like the better indie films it resembles, is distinguished by the
little things, especially the trench-warrior camaraderie between the siblings.
Ms. Watkins is outstanding, playing Valerie tense and fallible and sympathetic.
Mr. Dewey comes off glib and sitcomy at first, but he finds the complex person
under Alex's cynical interface. (Like many multigenerational shows, ''Casual''
struggles to give the teenage story line the same weight as the adults'.)

''Casual'' is in many ways an anthology of first-world problems; there's even a
fight between Valerie and Laura over getting Starbucks vs. Pinkberry. But like a
good therapist, this show knows that among family, even a squabble over takeout
carries the weight of history. And when two people hop into bed, they bring a
lifetime's worth of partners -- and often a parent or two -- along with them.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/06/arts/television/review-hulus-casual-mixes-sex-
and-family-drama.html

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Tara Lynne Barr, Nyasha Hatendi, Tommy Dewey and
Michaela Watkins in ''Casual,'' a new comedy on Hulu. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DALE
ROBINETTE/HULU) (C6)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 7, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Wednesday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 692 words


10 P.M. (CNBC) JAY LENO'S GARAGE It's no secret that Mr. Leno is obsessed with
all things automotive, owning about 130 cars and more than 90 motorcycles --
from Bentley, Bristol, Bugatti and Duesenberg to Jaguar, Lamborghini, Lotus and
McLaren. In this new spinoff from his web series, Mr. Leno takes to the road in
search of the most weirdly wonderful vehicles ever made and the wonderful
weirdos who love them. He begins with the American muscle car, visiting his
fellow aficionado Tim Allen; hitting the drag strip with Erica Enders-Stevens,
the first female Pro Stock Car champion; peeking at the Pegasus, GM's top-secret
1960s concept car; and climbing into a souped-up Corvette alongside the Nascar
driver Jimmie Johnson.

9:10 A.M. (MoreMax) LOVELY AND AMAZING (2002) In Nicole Holofcener's examination
of narcissism and its fallout, Emily Mortimer plays Elizabeth, an actress who
has just been rejected for a soap opera as not being sexy enough, and Catherine
Keener is her sister Michelle, who has anger-management problems and an interest
in her 17-year-old boss (Jake Gyllenhaal) at the one-hour photo shop where she
works as her art career falters. Brenda Blethyn is Jane, their divorced mother,
who has recently adopted an 8-year-old, Annie (Raven Goodwin), born to a crack
addict. When Jane develops complications from liposuction, Elizabeth and
Michelle are left to care for Annie. Still, ''as smart and observant as it is,
'Lovely and Amazing' doesn't really go anywhere,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The
New York Times.

8 P.M. (13, 49) BIG BIRDS CAN'T FLY If it can't fly, can't sing and has fluff
instead of feathers, is it still a bird? ''Nature'' examines the peculiar
evolution behind ostriches, emus, rheas, cassowaries and kiwis.

9 P.M. (Fox) EMPIRE Cookie (Taraji P. Henson) does it again -- this time
scheming with Anika (Grace Gealey) to catch Pitbull's eye without Lucious
(Terrence Howard) knowing about it. But he's doing some plotting of his own by
trying to sign Young Ma (Bre-Z Murray). Meanwhile, Andre (Trai Byers) and Rhonda
(Kaitlin Doubleday) are hoping that their baby will thaw Lucious's cold, cold
heart.

9 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT After an emaciated toddler is
found wandering the street, detectives discover another gravely ill child back
at home. It soon becomes clear that the family's caseworker (John Magaro) hadn't
checked on the children in months, leading him to blame his supervisor (Whoopi
Goldberg) for masterminding false reports. When neglect results in a death,
Barba (Raúl Esparza) has them arrested for manslaughter.

10 P.M. (FX) AMERICAN HORROR STORY: HOTEL Lady Gaga checks in as the socialite
owner of the Hotel Cortez in downtown Los Angeles, where room service includes
murder, as this anthology series begins its fifth season. Angela Bassett,
playing a fabulous actress named Ramona Royale, hinted at a fine romance by
proclaiming Lady Gaga ''a good kisser'' on a recent talk show. What else we
know: Kathy Bates is Iris, who runs the hotel and can't stand Sarah Paulson's
Hypodermic Sally, an alluring drug addict. And Naomi Campbell shows up as a
fashion editor whose critiques don't go over well.

What's Streaming Now

CARNEGIE HALL OPENING NIGHT GALA The hall inaugurates its 125th  season with the
New York Philharmonic, conducted by Alan Gilbert, in the premiere of Magnus
Lindberg's ''Vivo''; Ravel's ''Daphnis et Chloé'' Suite No. 2; and Tchaikovsky's
Piano Concerto No. 1, featuring Evgeny Kissin at the keyboard. (medici.tv)

CASUAL Valerie (Michaela Watkins), a therapist mired in a nasty divorce, moves
in with her younger brother, Alex (Tommy Dewey), a dating-site creator who
becomes her cyber-wingman in this creation from Zander Lehmann. Tara Lynne Barr
plays Laura, Valerie's sexually precocious 16-year-old daughter, with whom she
shares a thing for a high-school photography teacher. ''It's the idiosyncratic
story of an idiosyncratic Los Angeles family that shows how idiosyncrasy has
become a formula itself,'' James Poniewozik wrote in The Times. ''But this is a
well-executed version, which becomes more than the sum of its quirks.''
(hulu.com)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/07/arts/television/whats-on-tv-wednesday.html

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIVIAN ZINK/NBC)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 8, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

My Sandbox or Yours?

BYLINE: By VANESSA FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; FASHION REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words


PARIS -- One of the defining characteristics of these nine days of Paris Fashion
Week has been a heightened security presence at every show: bag checks, metal
detectors, scanned invitations. The justifications varied: Some said it was the
result of the Charlie Hebdo attack; others blamed President François Hollande's
decision to launch airstrikes against ISIS.

Whatever the reason, in the end, the incendiary news came from within. On
Wednesday morning, just as the closing collections of the week kicked off with
Louis Vuitton, Kering announced it had appointed Demna Gvasalia, founder of the
in-your-face anti-fashion brand Vetements, as artistic director of Balenciaga.

The barbarian had been ushered into the ivory tower. Cue shock, horror (despite
the fact it had been rumored all week, and my guess is that Mr. Gvasalia, who
did a stint at Vuitton, is less aggressively ''street'' than the Vetements
clothes might suggest) and an inability to focus on the shows at hand.

As fashion playground politics goes, it doesn't get much more sand-in-the-face
than that.

Louis Vuitton, after all, is now designed by Nicolas Ghesquière, who previously
spent 15 years as artistic director of Balenciaga, and who was pretty much
single-handedly responsible for the brand's revival -- not to mention the fact
that Balenciaga eventually caught the eye of the Gucci Group, which bought it in
2001 for what is now Kering. In 2012, Mr. Ghesquière left Balenciaga and a
public dispute ensued, in which Kering sued him after an interview he gave to
System magazine accusing his former employers, essentially, of lacking culture.

Though a spokesperson for Kering said the timing was merely a coincidence, it is
a suspicious one. And one that could not have escaped Kering's notice.

What? There were clothes on the runway? Oh yeah.

And here's the thing: They were fantastic.

In his best collection yet for Louis Vuitton, and one of the best collections of
the season, Mr. Ghesquière took the brand's focus on travel into the 22nd
century. His subject was space, cyber and actual, as has been the case with many
of his peers, but instead of catering to the digital age, he absorbed it and
made it his own.

Pleated kilts scarified with flowering silver staples were paired with leather
motorcycle jackets; fluid sleeveless washed-silk dresses in petal pink were
topped by woven leather tank tops and sprinkled with sparkling barbed bouquets;
and easy jumpsuits came printed with space shuttle imagery. A finale of
holographic dresses made from tulle covered in celluloid sequins, hand-painted
in oily stripes and then scrunched into sine waves, combined the artistry of the
atelier with the attitude of the tough and unconfined.

That they were initially overshadowed by another announcement was irrelevant by
the end, though it was representative of what has been a generally unfocused
season.

Trends ranged from lingerie to shirt-dresses to track suits. Shoes were
generally big and clumpy, and the It bag was a backpack. The most popular
decoration was a strap or a ribbon or a fringe -- some sort of weird stringy,
binding thing. Tom Ford decided to skip showing altogether and produce a
collection in the form of a quasi-music video, which was supposed to hit
editors' inboxes early Friday but ended up in the spam folders of quite a few;
they had to watch it with the masses on his website. It was easy to get
distracted.

Even faced with the freshness of Moncler Gamme Rouge, where the designer
Giambattista Valli brought the brand far beyond its puffa jacket roots into a
daisy and lilac romp of organza and eyelet-appliqued PVC, lightness and lace,
all on a field of wildflowers.

Even faced with the curdled lingerie-and-houndstooth haute bourgeois looks of
Miu Miu, its flower-power boots, bobbing foxtails and jolie madame bags. Not to
mention the dramatics of three alien-like robots weaving a silver root
system/3-D garment over the prone body of actress Gwendoline Christie (otherwise
known as Brienne of Tarth on ''Game of Thrones'') at Iris van Herpen's show.

The performance piece turned out to be another expression of Ms. van Herpen's
interest in analyzing the biological structure of the human form, otherwise
reflected in an exploration of all kinds of lace: traditional, from Calais, and
laser-cut in leather and synthetics; shaped into little bodycon dresses, long
shimmering skirts of mesh and one slithering snakeskin of a halter-necked black
gown. Plus a great simple nude lace shirtdress.

It was a neat reminder that in the end, cool as a concept might be, it comes
down to the clothes.

Just as, amid all the hoopla and navel-gazing of fashion rivalries and
oneupmanship, the Valentino collection proved a valuable reminder of the
opportunity that comes from being open to, and respectful of, the other.

The designers Maria Grazia Chiuri and Pierpaolo Piccioli were, they said
backstage before the show, thinking about Africa and cross-cultural pollination,
and the need to, as Ms. Chiuri said, ''understand other cultures, not to
colonize them, but to learn what they can teach you about how to move forward
with a different perspective.''

The obvious reference was to the masses of Senegalese immigrants flowing into
Italy, where Ms. Chiuri and Mr. Piccioli are based. But beyond politics, the
designers were also thinking about Picasso and Braque, and the way a focus on
Africa allowed those artists to ''create a new idea of beauty,'' Ms. Chiuri
said.

In other words, the collection wasn't about literal appropriation, but a melding
of one aesthetic (Valentino's extraordinarily worked romance and formal
austerity) with another (tribal colors and techniques and patterns). Some
slightly obvious jungle prints and cringe-inducing braided hairdos aside, it was
effective.

It could be as subtle as an earthen shade of brown on a long caftan-like dress,
less tent-like than flowing, caught at the neck with a circlet of brass, or a
two-tier miniskirt dripping fringes of graphic tribal beading paired with a
black peasant blouse. It could be the pottery patterning and feathered cuffs of
a simple silk chiffon dress in a classic Valentino silhouette -- waist slightly
raised, neck rounded, bodice smocked -- or the leather fringes on the hem of a
gold-studded black cape and skirt. It could be a pastel-toned raffia-tiered red
carpet gown.

But what it never seemed was overly calculated or contrived. Outreach is not a
bad way to end. Save that thought.

Follow our fashion and lifestyle coverage on any of these accounts: Styles on
Facebook, Modern Love on Facebook, Styles, Fashion and Vows on Twitter and
Fashion on Instagram. And sign up here to receive our NYT Living newsletter, a
roundup of lifestyle news from the Style section and across the Times delivered
to your inbox twice a week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/08/fashion/paris-fashion-week-spring-2016-louis-v
uitton-valentino.html

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Just as Nicolas Ghesquie re introduced his Louis Vuitton
collection, above, Balenciaga named a new artistic director. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
FIRSTVIEW) (D1)
Clockwise from top: looks from Maria Grazia Chiuri and Pierpaolo Piccioli's
Valentino collection
the actress Gwendoline Christie at Iris van Herpen's show
Moncler Gamme Rouge creations from Giambattista Vialli
and haute bourgeois looks of Miu Miu, its flower-power boots and bobbing
foxtails. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LANDON NORDEMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BENOIT TESSIER/REUTERS
CHARLES PLATIAU/REUTERS)
 Kering appointed Demna Gvasalia, founder of the in-your-face anti-fashion brand
Vetements, as artistic director of Balenciaga. At right, models at the Vetements
Paris show. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LANDON NORDEMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D6)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 14, 2015 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Full Transcript: Democratic Presidential Debate

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Politics; Pg.

LENGTH: 21759 words


(APPLAUSE)

The five major candidates are about to face off for the first time in a primary
race that is a lot more competitive than many people had expected.

COOPER: Welcome. I'm Anderson Cooper. Thanks for joining us. We're just seconds
away from introducing the candidates to viewers in the United States and
watching right now around the world. This debate is airing on CNN, CNN en
Espanol, and CNN International. It's also being broadcast on the Westwood One
Radio Network. I'll be the moderator tonight. I'll also be joined in the
questioning by my CNN colleagues, our chief political correspondent, Dana Bash;
CNN en Espanol anchor Juan Carlos Lopez, and CNN anchor Don Lemon who will share
questions from Democrats nationwide. We've teamed up with Facebook to send a
campaign camper around the country for the past three weeks. Thousands of people
stepped inside to record their questions for the candidates on video. Millions
more have weighed in on Facebook. Now it's time to meet the candidates.

COOPER: Joining us on stage, please welcome former Rhode Island Governor Lincoln
Chafee.

(APPLAUSE)

Former Maryland Governor Martin O'Malley.

(APPLAUSE)

Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. (APPLAUSE) Senator Bernie Sanders of
Vermont.

(APPLAUSE)

And former Senator Jim Webb of Virginia.

(APPLAUSE)

Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome the Democratic candidates for president of
the United States.

(APPLAUSE)

Now, everybody, please rise for our national anthem, performed by nine-time
Grammy Award-winning singer-songwriter, Sheryl Crow.

(SINGING) (APPLAUSE)

COOPER: I want to thank Sheryl Crow. The candidates are here. The crowd is
certainly ready. The first Democratic debate will begin right after this.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

COOPER: There is certainly a lot of excitement in this room tonight, and no
doubt around the country. We are back in the Wynn Resort in Las Vegas in the
presidential battleground state of Nevada for the first Democratic debate of the
2016 campaign. I'm Anderson Cooper. Thanks for joining us. We've already
welcomed the candidates on stage. They are in place at their podiums. Before we
dive into the issues, I want to quickly explain some of the groundrules tonight.
As the moderator, I'll ask questions, followups and guide the discussion. I'll
be joined in the questioning by CNN's Juan Carlos Lopez and Dana Bash, a well as
Don Lemon who will share questions from Democrats around the country. Each
candidate will get one minute to answer questions, and 30 seconds for followups
and rebuttals. I'll give candidates time to respond if they have been singled
out for criticism. Our viewers should know that we have lights that are visible
to the candidates to warn them when their time is up. I want the candidates to
be able to introduce themselves to our audience. Each candidate will have two
minutes to introduce themselves. Let's begin with Governor Chafee. Governor?

CHAFEE: Thank you, Anderson. Thank you, CNN, and thank you Facebook for
organizing this debate. Not only will Americans be electing a new president next
year, we also will be electing a world leader. Voters should assess the
candidate's experience, character and vision for the future as they make this
important decision. I'm the only one running for president that has been a
mayor, a United States senator, and a governor. As mayor, I brought labor peace
to my city and kept taxes down. I was reelected three times. As a senator, I
earned a reputation for courageous votes against the Bush-Cheney tax cuts the
favored the wealthy, against the tragedy of the Iraq war, for environmental
stewardship, for protection of our civil liberties. I served on the Foreign
Relations Committee and I chaired the Middle East Subcommittee for four years.
As governor, I came in at the depths of the recession and we turned my state
around. Rhode Island had the biggest drop of the unemployment rate over my four
budgets of all but one state. It happens to be Nevada, where we're having this
debate. I'm very proud that over my almost 30 years of public service, I have
had no scandals. I've always been honest. I have the courage to take the
long-term view, and I've shown good judgment. I have high ethical standards. As
we look to the future, I want to address the income inequality, close the gap
between the haves and the have-nots. I want to address climate change, a real
threat to our planet. And I believe in prosperity through peace. I want to end
these wars. I look forward to the discussion ahead. Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Thank you very much, Governor.

(APPLAUSE)

Senator Webb, you have two minutes.

WEBB: Thank you. You know, people are disgusted with the way that money has
corrupted our political process, intimidating incumbents and empowering Wall
Street every day, the turnstile government that we see, and also the power of
the financial sector in both parties.

WEBB: They're looking for a leader who understands how the system works, who has
not been coopted by it, and also has a proven record of accomplishing different
things. I have a record of working across the political aisle. I've also spent
more than half of my professional life away from politics in the independent
world of being an author, a journalist, and a sole proprietor. In government
service, I've fought and bled for our country in Vietnam as a Marine. I spent
years as Assistant Secretary of Defense, Secretary of the Navy -- in the Reagan
administration. In the senate, I spoke about economic fairness and social
justice from day one. I also wrote and passed the best piece of veterans
education legislation in history, the Post 9/11 G.I. Bill. I brought criminal
justice reform out of the political shadows and into the national discussion. I
led what later became called the Strategic Pivot to Asia two years before
President Obama was elected. I know where my loyalties are. My mother grew up in
the poverty of east Arkansas chopping cotton, picking strawberries. Three of her
seven siblings died in childhood. My wife, Hong, came to this country as a
refugee from war torn Vietnam -- learned English, a language that was not spoken
at home, and earned her way into Cornell Law School. I have five daughters. Amy
works with disabled veterans, Sarah is an emergency room nurse, Julia is a
massage therapist, Emily and Georgia are still in school. My son Jim fought as
an infantry Marine on the bloody streets of Ramadi. You may be sure that in a
Webb administration, the highest priority will be the working people who every
day go out and make this country stronger at home, and who give us the right
reputation and security overseas under a common sense foreign policy.

(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Governor O'Malley, you have two minutes.

O'MALLEY: My name is Martin O'Malley, former Mayor of Baltimore, former governor
of Maryland, a life long democrat, and most importantly, a husband, and a
father. My wife Katie and I have four great kids, Grace, and Tara, and William
and Jack. And, like you, there is nothing we wouldn't do to give them healthier
and better lives. There are some things that I have learned to do better in life
than others. And, after 15 years of executive experience, I have learned how to
be an effective leader. Whether it was raising the minimum wage, making our
public schools the best in America, passing marriage equality, the DREAM Act,
and comprehensive gun safety legislation, I have learned how to get things done
because I am very clear about my principals. Thanks to President Obama, our
country has come a long way since the Wall Street crash of 2008. Our country's
doing better, we are creating jobs again. But we elected a president, not a
magician, and there is urgent work that needs to be done right now. For there is
a -- deep injustice, an economic injustice that threatens to tear our country
apart, and it will not solve itself. Injustice does not solve itself. What I'm
talking about is this, our middle class is shrinking. Our poor families are
becoming poorer, and 70 percent of us are earning the same, or less than we were
12 years ago. We need new leadership, and we need action. The sort of action
that will actually make wages go up again for all American families. Our economy
isn't money, it's people. It's all of our people, and so we must invest in our
country, and the potential of our kids to make college a debt free option for
all of our families, instead of settling our kids with a lifetime of crushing
debt. And, we must square our shoulders to the great challenge of climate change
and make this threat our opportunity. The future is what we make of it. We are
all in this together. And, the question in this election is whether you and I
still have the ability to give our kids a better future. I believe we do, that
is why I am running for president, and I need your help. Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Governor O'Malley, thank you very much. Senator Sanders.

SANDERS: Anderson, thank you very much. I think most Americans understand that
our country today faces a series of unprecedented crises. The middle class of
this country for the last 40 years has been disappearing. Millions of Americans
are working longer hours for lower wages, and yet almost all of the new income
and wealth being created is going to the top one percent. As a result of this
disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision, our campaign finance system
is corrupt and is undermining American democracy. Millionaires and billionaires
are pouring unbelievable sums of money into the political process in order to
fund super PACs and to elect candidates who represent their interests, not the
interests of working people. Today, the scientific community is virtually
unanimous: climate change is real, it is caused by human activity, and we have a
moral responsibility to transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to
energy efficiency and sustainable energy and leave this planet a habitable
planet for our children and our grandchildren. Today in America, we have more
people in jail than any other country on Earth. African-American youth
unemployment is 51 percent. Hispanic youth unemployment is 36 percent. It seems
to me that instead of building more jails and providing more incarceration,
maybe -- just maybe -- we should be putting money into education and jobs for
our kids.

(APPLAUSE) What this campaign is about is whether we can mobilize our people to
take back our government from a handful of billionaires and create the vibrant
democracy we know we can and should have. Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Secretary Clinton?

CLINTON: Well, thank you, and thanks to everyone for hosting this first of the
Democratic debates. I'm Hillary Clinton. I have been proud and privileged to
serve as first lady, as a senator from New York, and as secretary of state. I'm
the granddaughter of a factory worker and the grandmother of a wonderful
one-year-old child. And every day, I think about what we need to do to make sure
that opportunity is available not just for her, but for all of our children. I
have spent a very long time -- my entire adult life -- looking for ways to even
the odds to help people have a chance to get ahead, and, in particular, to find
the ways for each child to live up to his or her God-given potential. I've
traveled across our country over the last months listening and learning, and
I've put forward specific plans about how we're going to create more good-paying
jobs: by investing in infrastructure and clean energy, by making it possible
once again to invest in science and research, and taking the opportunity posed
by climate change to grow our economy. At the center of my campaign is how we're
going to raise wages. Yes, of course, raise the minimum wage, but we have to do
so much more, including finding ways so that companies share profits with the
workers who helped to make them. And then we have to figure out how we're going
to make the tax system a fairer one. Right now, the wealthy pay too little and
the middle class pays too much. So I have specific recommendations about how
we're going to close those loopholes, make it clear that the wealthy will have
to pay their fair share, and have a series of tax cuts for middle-class
families. And I want to do more to help us balance family and work. I believe in
equal pay for equal work for women, but I also believe it's about time we had
paid family leave for American families and join the rest of the world.
(APPLAUSE) During the course of the evening tonight, I'll have a chance to lay
out all of my plans and the work that I've done behind them. But for me, this is
about bringing our country together again. And I will do everything I can to
heal the divides -- the divides economically, because there's too much
inequality; the racial divides; the continuing discrimination against the LGBT
community -- so that we work together and, yes, finally, fathers will be able to
say to their daughters, you, too, can grow up to be president.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Thank you, all. It is time to start the debate.

COOPER: Are you all ready? (APPLAUSE) All right. Let's begin. We're going to be
discussing a lot of the issues, many of the issues, important issues that you
have brought up. But I want to begin with concerns that voters have about each
of the candidates here on this stage that they have about each of you. Secretary
Clinton, I want to start with you. Plenty of politicians evolve on issues, but
even some Democrats believe you change your positions based on political
expediency. You were against same-sex marriage. Now you're for it. You defended
President Obama's immigration policies. Now you say they're too harsh. You
supported his trade deal dozen of times. You even called it the ''gold
standard''. Now, suddenly, last week, you're against it. Will you say anything
to get elected?

CLINTON: Well, actually, I have been very consistent. Over the course of my
entire life, I have always fought for the same values and principles, but, like
most human beings -- including those of us who run for office -- I do absorb new
information. I do look at what's happening in the world. You know, taker the
trade deal. I did say, when I was secretary of state, three years ago, that I
hoped it would be the gold standard. It was just finally negotiated last week,
and in looking at it, it didn't meet my standards. My standards for more new,
good jobs for Americans, for raising wages for Americans. And I want to make
sure that I can look into the eyes of any middle-class American and say, ''this
will help raise your wages.'' And I concluded I could not.

COOPER: Secretary Clinton, though, with all due respect, the question is really
about political expediency. Just in July, New Hampshire, you told the crowd
you'd, quote, ''take a back seat to no one when it comes to progressive
values.'' Last month in Ohio, you said you plead guilty to, quote, ''being kind
of moderate and center.'' Do you change your political identity based on who
you're talking to? CLINTON: No. I think that, like most people that I know, I
have a range of views, but they are rooted in my values and my experience. And I
don't take a back seat to anyone when it comes to progressive experience and
progressive commitment. You know, when I left law school, my first job was with
the Children's Defense Fund, and for all the years since, I have been focused on
how we're going to un-stack the deck, and how we're gonna make it possible for
more people to have the experience I had. You know, to be able to come from a
grandfather who was a factory worker, a father who was a small business person,
and now asking the people of America to elect me president.

COOPER: Just for the record, are you a progressive, or are you a moderate?

CLINTON: I'm a progressive. But I'm a progressive who likes to get things done.
And I know...

(APPLAUSE)

...how to find common ground, and I know how to stand my ground, and I have
proved that in every position that I've had, even dealing with Republicans who
never had a good word to say about me, honestly. But we found ways to work
together on everything from...

COOPER: Secretary...

CLINTON: ...reforming foster care and adoption to the Children's Health
Insurance Program, which insures...

COOPER: ...thank you...

CLINTON: ...8 million kids. So I have a long history of getting things done,
rooted in the same values...

COOPER: ...Senator...

CLINTON: ...I've always had.

COOPER: Senator Sanders. A Gallup poll says half the country would not put a
socialist in the White House. You call yourself a democratic socialist. How can
any kind of socialist win a general election in the United States?

SANDERS: Well, we're gonna win because first, we're gonna explain what
democratic socialism is. And what democratic socialism is about is saying that
it is immoral and wrong that the top one-tenth of 1 percent in this country own
almost 90 percent -- almost -- own almost as much wealth as the bottom 90
percent. That it is wrong, today, in a rigged economy, that 57 percent of all
new income is going to the top 1 percent. That when you look around the world,
you see every other major country providing health care to all people as a
right, except the United States. You see every other major country saying to
moms that, when you have a baby, we're not gonna separate you from your newborn
baby, because we are going to have -- we are gonna have medical and family paid
leave, like every other country on Earth. Those are some of the principles that
I believe in, and I think we should look to countries like Denmark, like Sweden
and Norway, and learn from what they have accomplished for their working people.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Denmark is a country that has a population -- Denmark is a country that
has a population of 5.6 million people. The question is really about
electability here, and that's what I'm trying to get at. You -- the -- the
Republican attack ad against you in a general election -- it writes itself. You
supported the Sandinistas in Nicaragua. You honeymooned in the Soviet Union. And
just this weekend, you said you're not a capitalist. Doesn't -- doesn't that ad
write itself?

SANDERS: Well, first of all, let's look at the facts. The facts that are very
simple. Republicans win when there is a low voter turnout, and that is what
happened last November. Sixty-three percent of the American people didn't vote,
Anderson. Eighty percent of young people didn't vote. We are bringing out huge
turnouts, and creating excitement all over this country. Democrats at the White
House on down will win, when there is excitement and a large voter turnout, and
that is what this campaign is doing.

COOPER: You don't consider yourself a capitalist, though?

SANDERS: Do I consider myself part of the casino capitalist process by which so
few have so much and so many have so little by which Wall Street's greed and
recklessness wrecked this economy? No, I don't. I believe in a society where all
people do well. Not just a handful of billionaires.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Just let me just be clear. Is there anybody else on the stage who is not
a capitalist?

CLINTON: Well, let me just follow-up on that, Anderson, because when I think
about capitalism, I think about all the small businesses that were started
because we have the opportunity and the freedom in our country for people to do
that and to make a good living for themselves and their families. And I don't
think we should confuse what we have to do every so often in America, which is
save capitalism from itself. And I think what Senator Sanders is saying
certainly makes sense in the terms of the inequality that we have. But we are
not Denmark. I love Denmark. We are the United States of America. And it's our
job to rein in the excesses of capitalism so that it doesn't run amok and
doesn't cause the kind of inequities we're seeing in our economic system. But we
would be making a grave mistake to turn our backs on what built the greatest
middle class in the history...

COOPER: Senator Sanders?

CLINTON: ... of the world.

(APPLAUSE)

SANDERS: I think everybody is in agreement that we are a great entrepreneurial
nation. We have got to encourage that. Of course, we have to support small and
medium-sized businesses. But you can have all of the growth that you want and it
doesn't mean anything if all of the new income and wealth is going to the top 1
percent. So what we need to do is support small and medium-sized businesses, the
backbone of our economy, but we have to make sure that every family in this
country gets a fair shake...

COOPER: We're going to get...

SANDERS: ... not just for billionaires.

COOPER: We're going to have a lot more on these issues. But I do want to just
quickly get everybody in on the question of electability. Governor Chafee,
you've been everything but a socialist. When you were senator from Rhode Island,
you were a Republican. When you were elected governor, you were an independent.
You've only been a Democrat for little more than two years. Why should
Democratic voters trust you won't change again?

CHAFEE: Anderson, you're looking at a block of granite when it comes to the
issues. Whether it's... (CROSSTALK)

COOPER: It seems like pretty soft granite. I mean, you've been a Republican,
you've been an independent.

CHAFEE: Did you hear what I said? On the issues. I have not changed on the
issues. I was a liberal Republican, then I was an independent, and now I'm a
proud Democrat. But I have not changed on the issues. And I open my record to
scrutiny. Whether it's on the environment, a woman's right to choose, gay
marriage, fiscal responsibility, aversion to foreign entanglements, using the
tools of government to help the less fortunate. Time and time again, I have
never changed. You're looking at a block of granite when it comes to the issues.
So I have not changed.

COOPER: Then why change labels?

CHAFEE: The party left me. There's no doubt about that. There was no room for a
liberal moderate Republican in that party. I even had a primary for my
reelection in 2006. I won it. But the money poured in to defeat me in Rhode
Island as a Republican. That's what we were up against.

COOPER: Governor O'Malley, the concern of voters about you is that you tout our
record as Baltimore's mayor. As we all know, we all saw it. That city exploded
in riots and violence in April. The current top prosecutor in Baltimore, also a
Democrat, blames your zero tolerance policies for sowing the seeds of unrest.
Why should Americans trust you with the country when they see what's going on in
the city that you ran for more than seven years?

O'MALLEY: Yes, actually, I believe what she said was that there's a lot of
policies that have led to this unrest. But, Anderson, when I ran for mayor of
Baltimore in 1999...

COOPER: She actually -- just for the record, when she was asked which policies,
to name two, she said zero tolerance. I mean, there's a number of old policies
that we're seeing the results of. That distress of communities, where
communities don't want to step forward and say who killed a 3-year-old, it's a
direct result of these failed policies.

O'MALLEY: Well, let's talk about this a little bit. One of the things that was
not reported during that heartbreaking night of unrest in Baltimore was that
arrests had actually fallen to a 38-year low in the year prior to the Freddie
Gray's tragic death. Anderson, when I ran for mayor of Baltimore back in 1999,
it was not because our city was doing well. It was because we allowed ourselves
to become the most violent, addicted, and abandoned city in America. And I ran
and promised people that together we could turn that around. And we put our city
on a path to reduce violent crime, or part one (ph) crime by more than any other
major city in America over the next 10 years. I did not make our city immune to
setbacks. But I attended a lot of funerals, including one for a family of seven
who were firebombed in their sleep for picking up the phone in a poor
African-American neighborhood and calling the police because of drug dealers on
their corner. We've saved over a thousand lives in Baltimore in the last 15
years of people working together. And the vast majority of them were young and
poor and black. It wasn't easy on any day. But we saved lives and we gave our
city a better future, improving police and community relations every single day
that I was in office.

COOPER: In one year alone, though, 100,000 arrests were made in your city, a
city of 640,000 people. The ACLU, the NAACP sued you, sued the city, and the
city actually settled, saying a lot of those arrests were without probable
cause.

O'MALLEY: Well, I think the key word in your followup there was the word
''settle.'' That's true. It was settled. Arrests peaked in 2003, Anderson, but
they declined every year after that as we restored peace in our poorer
neighborhoods so that people could actually walk and not have to worry about
their kids or their loved ones of being victims of violent crime. Look, none of
this is easy. None of us has all the answers. But together as a city, we saved a
lot of lives. It was about leadership. It was about principle. And it was about
bringing people together.

COOPER: Thank you, Governor.

O'MALLEY: Thank you. COOPER: Senator Webb, in 2006, you called affirmative
action ''state-sponsored racism.'' In 2010, you wrote an op/ed saying it
discriminates against whites. Given that nearly half the Democratic Party is
non-white, aren't you out of step with where the Democratic Party is now?

WEBB: No, actually I believe that I am where the Democratic Party traditionally
has been. The Democratic Party, and the reason I've decided to run as a
Democrat, has been the party that gives people who otherwise have no voice in
the corridors of power a voice. And that is not determined by race. And as a
clarification, I have always supported affirmative action for African Americans.
That's the way the program was originally designed because of their unique
history in this country, with slavery and the Jim Crow laws that followed. What
I have discussed a number of times is the idea that when we create diversity
programs that include everyone, quote, ''of color,'' other than whites,
struggling whites like the families in the Appalachian mountains, we're not
being true to the Democratic Party principle of elevating the level of
consciousness among our people about the hardships that a lot of people who
happen to be have -- by culture, by the way.

COOPER: Senator Webb, thank you very much. Let's move on to some of the most
pressing issues facing our country right now, some of the biggest issues right
now in the headlines today. We're going to start with guns. The shooting in
Oregon earlier this month, once again it brought the issue of guns into the
national conversation. Over the last week, guns have been the most discussed
political topic on Facebook by two to one. Senator Sanders, you voted against
the Brady bill that mandated background checks and a waiting period. You also
supported allowing riders to bring guns in checked bags on Amtrak trains. For a
decade, you said that holding gun manufacturers legally responsible for mass
shootings is a bad idea. Now, you say you're reconsidering that. Which is it:
shield the gun companies from lawsuits or not?

SANDERS: Let's begin, Anderson, by understanding that Bernie Sanders has a
D-minus voting rating (ph) from the NRA. Let's also understand that back in 1988
when I first ran for the United States Congress, way back then, I told the gun
owners of the state of Vermont and I told the people of the state of Vermont, a
state which has virtually no gun control, that I supported a ban on assault
weapons. And over the years, I have strongly avoided instant background checks,
doing away with this terrible gun show loophole. And I think we've got to move
aggressively at the federal level in dealing with the straw man purchasers. Also
I believe, and I've fought for, to understand that there are thousands of people
in this country today who are suicidal, who are homicidal, but can't get the
healthcare that they need, the mental healthcare, because they don't have
insurance or they're too poor. I believe that everybody in this country who has
a mental crisis has got to get mental health counseling immediately. COOPER: Do
you want to shield gun companies from lawsuits?

SANDERS: Of course not. This was a large and complicated bill. There were
provisions in it that I think made sense. For example, do I think that a gun
shop in the state of Vermont that sells legally a gun to somebody, and that
somebody goes out and does something crazy, that that gun shop owner should be
held responsible? I don't. On the other hand, where you have manufacturers and
where you have gun shops knowingly giving guns to criminals or aiding and
abetting that, of course we should take action.

COOPER: Secretary Clinton, is Bernie Sanders tough enough on guns?

CLINTON: No, not at all. I think that we have to look at the fact that we lose
90 people a day from gun violence. This has gone on too long and it's time the
entire country stood up against the NRA. The majority of our country...

(APPLAUSE) ... supports background checks, and even the majority of gun owners
do. Senator Sanders did vote five times against the Brady bill. Since it was
passed, more than 2 million prohibited purchases have been prevented. He also
did vote, as he said, for this immunity provision. I voted against it. I was in
the Senate at the same time. It wasn't that complicated to me. It was pretty
straightforward to me that he was going to give immunity to the only industry in
America. Everybody else has to be accountable, but not the gun manufacturers.
And we need to stand up and say: Enough of that. We're not going to let it
continue.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: We're going to bring you all in on this. But, Senator Sanders, you have
to give a response.

SANDERS: As a senator from a rural state, what I can tell Secretary Clinton,
that all the shouting in the world is not going to do what I would hope all of
us want, and that is keep guns out of the hands of people who should not have
those guns and end this horrible violence that we are seeing. I believe that
there is a consensus in this country. A consensus has said we need to strengthen
and expand instant background checks, do away with this gun show loophole, that
we have to address the issue of mental health, that we have to deal with the
strawman purchasing issue, and that when we develop that consensus, we can
finally, finally do something to address this issue.

COOPER: Governor O'Malley, you passed gun legislation as governor of Maryland,
but you had a Democratic-controlled legislature. President Obama couldn't
convince Congress to pass gun legislation after the massacres in Aurora, in
Newtown, and Charleston. How can you?

O'MALLEY: And, Anderson, I also had to overcome a lot of opposition in the
leadership of my own party to get this done. Look, it's fine to talk about all
of these things -- and I'm glad we're talking about these things -- but I've
actually done them. We passed comprehensive gun safety legislation, not by
looking at the pollings or looking at what the polls said. We actually did it.
And, Anderson, here tonight in our audience are two people that make this issue
very, very real. Sandy and Lonnie Phillips are here from Colorado. And their
daughter, Jessie, was one of those who lost their lives in that awful mass
shooting in Aurora. Now, to try to transform their grief, they went to court,
where sometimes progress does happen when you file in court, but in this case,
you want to talk about a -- a rigged game, Senator? The game was rigged. A man
had sold 4,000 rounds of military ammunition to this -- this person that killed
their daughter, riddled her body with five bullets, and he didn't even ask where
it was going. And not only did their case get thrown out of court, they were
slapped with $200,000 in court fees because of the way that the NRA gets its way
in our Congress and we take a backseat. It's time to stand up and pass
comprehensive gun safety legislation as a nation.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Senator Sanders, I want you to be able to respond, 30 seconds.

SANDERS: I think the governor gave a very good example about the weaknesses in
that law and I think we have to take another look at it. But here is the point,
Governor. We can raise our voices, but I come from a rural state, and the views
on gun control in rural states are different than in urban states, whether we
like it or not. Our job is to bring people together around strong, commonsense
gun legislation. I think there is a vast majority in this country who want to do
the right thing, and I intend to lead the country in bringing our people
together.

O'MALLEY: Senator -- Senator, excuse me. (CROSSTALK)

O'MALLEY: Senator, it is not about rural -- Senator, it was not about rural and
urban.

SANDERS: It's exactly about rural.

O'MALLEY: Have you ever been to the Eastern Shore? Have you ever been to Western
Maryland? We were able to pass this and still respect the hunting traditions of
people who live in our rural areas.

SANDERS: Governor...

O'MALLEY: And we did it by leading with principle, not by pandering to the NRA
and backing down to the NRA. SANDERS: Well, as somebody who has a D-minus voting
record... (CROSSTALK)

O'MALLEY: And I have an F from the NRA, Senator.

SANDERS: I don't think I am pandering. But you have not been in the United
States Congress.

O'MALLEY: Well, maybe that's a healthy thing.

(LAUGHTER)

SANDERS: And when you want to, check it out. And if you think -- if you think
that we can simply go forward and pass something tomorrow without bringing
people together, you are sorely mistaken.

COOPER: Let me bring in somebody who has a different viewpoint. Senator Webb,
your rating from the NRA, you once had an A rating from the NRA. You've said gun
violence goes down when more people are allowed to carry guns. Would encouraging
more people to be armed be part of your response to a mass shooting?

WEBB: Look, there are two fundamental issues that are involved in this
discussion. We need to pay respect to both of them. The first is the issue of
who should be kept from having guns and using firearms. And we have done not a
good job on that. A lot of them are criminals. And a lot of the people are
getting killed are members of gangs inside our urban areas. And a lot of them
are mentally incapacitated. And the shooting in Virginia Tech in '07, this
individual had received medical care for mental illness from three different
professionals who were not allowed to share the information.

WEBB: So we do need background checks. We need to keep the people who should not
have guns away from them. But we have to respect the tradition in this country
of people who want to defend themselves and their family from violence.

COOPER: Senator...

WEBB: May I? People are going back and forth here for 10 minutes here. There are
people at high levels in this government who have bodyguards 24 hours a day,
seven days a week. The average American does not have that, and deserves the
right to be able to protect their family.

COOPER: Senator -- Governor Chafee, you have an F rating from the NRA, what do
you think about what Senator Webb just said?

CHAFEE: Yes, I have a good record of voting for gun commonsense safety
legislation, but the reality is, despite these tragedies that happen time and
time again, when legislators step up to pass commonsense gun safety legislation,
the gun lobby moves in and tells the people they're coming to take away your
guns. And, they're successful at it, in Colorado and others states, the
legislators that vote for commonsense gun safety measures then get defeated. I
even saw in Rhode Island. So, I would bring the gun lobby in and say we've got
to change this. Where can we find common ground? Wayne Lapierre from the NRA,
whoever it is, the leaders. Come one, we've go to change this. We're not coming
to take away your guns, we believe in the Second Amendment, but let's find
common ground here.

COOPER: I want to...

O'MALLEY: ...Anderson, when the NRA wrote to everyone in our state -- when the
NRA wrote to members in our state and told people with hunting traditions lies
about what our comprehensive gun safety legislation is, I wrote right back to
them and laid out what it actually did. And that's why, not only did we pass it,
but the NRA didn't...

SANDERS: ...Excuse me...

O'MALLEY: ...dare to petition a referendum...

SANDERS: ...I want to make...

O'MALLEY: ...Because we built a public consensus...

COOPER: ...I want to move on to another issue, which is in the headlines right
now, another crisis making headlines. Secretary Clinton, Russia, they're
challenging the U.S. in Syria. According to U.S. intelligence, they've lied
about who they're bombing. You spearheaded the reset with Russia. Did you
underestimate the Russians, and as president, what would your response to
Vladimir Putin be right now in Syria?

CLINTON: Well, first of all, we got a lot of business done with the Russians
when Medvedev was the president, and not Putin. We got a nuclear arms deal, we
got the Iranian sanctions, we got an ability to bring important material and
equipment to our soldiers in Afghanistan. There's no doubt that when Putin came
back in and said he was going to be President, that did change the relationship.
We have to stand up to his bullying, and specifically in Syria, it is important
-- and I applaud the administration because they are engaged in talks right now
with the Russians to make it clear that they've got to be part of the solution
to try to end that bloody conflict. And, to -- provide safe zones so that people
are not going to have to be flooding out of Syria at the rate they are. And, I
think it's important too that the United States make it very clear to Putin that
it's not acceptable for him to be in Syria creating more chaos, bombing people
on behalf of Assad, and we can't do that if we don't take more of a leadership
position, which is what I'm advocating.

COOPER: Senator Sanders, what would you do differently.

SANDERS: Well, let's understand that when we talk about Syria, you're talking
about a quagmire in a quagmire. You're talking about groups of people trying to
overthrow Assad, other groups of people fighting ISIS. You're talking about
people who are fighting ISIS using their guns to overthrow Assad, and vice
versa. I'm the former chairman of the Senate Veterans Committee, and in that
capacity I learned a very powerful lesson about the cost of war, and I will do
everything that I can to make sure that the United States does not get involved
in another quagmire like we did in Iraq, the worst foreign policy blunder in the
history of this country. We should be putting together a coalition of Arab
countries who should be leading the effort. We should be supportive, but I do
not support American ground troops in Syria.

COOPER: On this issue of foreign policy, I want to go to...

CLINTON: ...Well, nobody does. Nobody does, Senator Sanders.

COOPER: I want to go to Dana Bash. Dana?

BASH: Governor Chafee, you were the only Republican in the Senate to vote
against the Iraq war. You say Secretary Clinton should be disqualified from the
presidency because she voted in favor of using force in Iraq. She has since said
that her vote was a mistake. Why isn't that good enough? CHAFEE: Well, we just
heard Senator Sanders say that it's the worst decision in American history.
That's very significant, the worst decision in American history, I just heard
from Senator Sanders. So, as we look ahead, if you're going to make those poor
judgment calls, a critical time in our history, we just finished with the
Vietnam era, getting back into another quagmire -- if you're looking ahead, and
you're looking at someone who made that poor decision in 2002 to go into Iraq
when there was no real evidence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq -- I know
because I did my homework, and, so, that's an indication of how someone will
perform in the future. And that's what's important.

(APPLAUSE)

BASH: Secretary Clinton, he's questioning your judgment.

CLINTON: Well, I recall very well being on a debate stage, I think, about 25
times with then Senator Obama, debating this very issue. After the election, he
asked me to become Secretary of State. He valued my judgment, and I spent a lot
of time with him... (APPLAUSE)

...in the Situation Room, going over some very difficult issues. You know, I --
I agree completely. We don't want American troops on the ground in Syria. I
never said that. What I said was we had to put together a coalition -- in fact,
something that I worked on before I left the State Department -- to do, and yes,
that it should include Arabs, people in the region. Because what I worry about
is what will happen with ISIS gaining more territory, having more reach, and,
frankly, posing a threat to our friends and neighbors in the region and far
beyond. So I think while you're talking about the tough decision that President
Obama had to make about Osama bin Laden, where I was one of his few advisers, or
putting together that coalition to impose sanctions on Iran -- I think I have a
lot of evidence...

(CROSSTALK)

BASH: Senator Sanders -- Senator Sanders, I want to bring you in here. My
question for you is, as a congressman, you voted against the Iraq War. You voted
against the Gulf War. You're just talking about Syria, but under what
circumstances would a President Sanders actually use force?

SANDERS: Let me just respond to something the secretary said. First of all, she
is talking about, as I understand it, a no-fly zone in Syria, which I think is a
very dangerous situation. Could lead to real problems. Second of all, I heard
the same evidence from President Bush and Dick Cheney and Don Rumsfeld about why
we should overthrow Saddam Hussein and get involved in the -- I would urge
people to go to berniesanders.com, hear what I said in 2002. And I say, without
any joy in my heart, that much of what I thought would happen about the
destabilization, in fact, did happen. So I think...

BASH: All right.

(APPLAUSE)

SANDERS: I think the president is trying very hard to thread a tough needle
here, and that is to support those people who are against Assad, against ISIS,
without getting us on the ground there, and that's the direction I believe we
should have (inaudible).

COOPER: But, Senator Sanders, you didn't answer the question. Under what --
under what circumstances would you actually use force?

SANDERS: Well, obviously, I voted, when President Clinton said, ''let's stop
ethnic cleansing in Kosovo,'' I voted for that. I voted to make sure that Osama
bin Laden was held accountable in Afghanistan. When our country is threatened,
or when our allies are threatened, I believe that we need coalitions to come
together to address the major crises of this country. I do not support the
United States getting involved in unilateral action.

(UNKNOWN): You're at work with our allies.

(CROSSTALK)

COOPER: I'm gonna bring you all in on this. Governor -- Governor O'Malley,
Secretary Clinton...

SANDERS: I don't believe that any...

(CROSSTALK)

COOPER: Secretary Clinton voted to authorize military force in Iraq, supported
more troops in Afghanistan. As Secretary of State, she wanted to arm Syrian
rebels and push for the bombing of Libya. Is she too quick to use military
force?

O'MALLEY: Anderson, no president -- no commander in chief -- should take the
military option off the table, even if most of us would agree that it should be
the last option. What disturbed people so much about -- and I would agree with
Senator Sanders on this -- leading us into Iraq under false pretenses and
telling us, as a people, that there were weapons of mass destruction there was
-- was one of the worst blunders in modern American history. But the reason why
people remain angry about it is because people feel like a lot of our
legislators got railroaded in a war fever and by polls. And I remember being at
a dinner shortly before that invasion. People were talking at -- and saying,
''it'll take us just a couple years to rebuild democracy,'' and I thought, ''has
this world gone mad?'' Whenever we go -- and contrary to John Quincy Adams'
advice -- ''searching the world for monsters to destroy,'' and when we use
political might to take a -- at the expense of democratic principle, we hurt
ourselves, and we hurt our (inaudible).

COOPER: Does she -- does she want to use military force too rapidly?

O'MALLEY: I believe that, as president, I would not be so quick to pull for a
military tool. I believe that a no-fly zone in Syria, at this time, actually,
Secretary, would be a mistake. You have to enforce no-fly zones, and I believe,
especially with the Russian air force in the air, it could lead to an escalation
because of an accident that we would deeply regret. I support President Obama. I
think we have to play a long game, and I think, ultimately -- you want to talk
about blunders? I think Assad's invasion of Syria will be seen as a blunder.

COOPER: Governor O'Malley, just for the record, on the campaign trail, you've
been saying that Secretary Clinton is always quick for the -- for the military
intervention. Senator -- Secretary Clinton, you can respond.

CLINTON: Well, first of all, I...

WEBB: Anderson, can I come into this discussion at some point?

COOPER: Well -- yes, you'll be coming in next, but she was directly quoted,
Senator.

WEBB: Thank you. I've been standing over here for about ten minutes, trying.

COOPER: OK. WEBB: It's just -- it's gone back and forth over there. COOPER:
Secretary?

CLINTON: Well, I am in the middle, here, and...

(LAUGHTER)

Lots of things coming from all directions.

WEBB: You got the lucky (inaudible).

CLINTON: You know, I have to say, I was very pleased when Governor O'Malley
endorsed me for president in 2008, and I enjoyed his strong support in that
campaign. And I consider him, obviously, a friend. Let me say -- because there's
a lot of loose talk going on here -- we are already flying in Syria just as we
are flying in Iraq. The president has made a very tough decision. What I believe
and why I have advocated that the no-fly zone -- which of course would be in a
coalition -- be put on the table is because I'm trying to figure out what
leverage we have to get Russia to the table. You know, diplomacy is not about
getting to the perfect solution. It's about how you balance the risks.

COOPER: Thank you.

CLINTON: And I think we have an opportunity here -- and I know that inside the
administration this is being hotly debated -- to get that leverage to try to get
the Russians to have to deal with everybody in the region and begin to move
toward a political, diplomatic solution in Syria.

COOPER: Thank you, Secretary.

(CROSSTALK)

COOPER: Senator Webb, you said as president you would never have used military
force in Libya and that the attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi was, in
your words, ''inevitable.'' Should Secretary Clinton have seen that attack
coming?

WEBB: Look, let's start -- I've been trying to get in this conversation for
about 10 minutes -- let's start with why Russia is in Syria right now. There are
three strategic failings that have allowed this to occur. The first was the
invasion of Iraq, which destabilized ethnic elements in Iraq and empowered Iran.
The second was the Arab Spring, which created huge vacuums in Libya and in Syria
that allowed terrorist movements to move in there. And the third was the recent
deal allowing Iran to move forward and eventually acquire a nuclear weapon,
which sent bad signals, bad body language into the region about whether we are
acquiescing in Iran becoming a stronger piece of the formula in that part of the
world. Now, I say this as someone who spent five years in the Pentagon and who
opposed the war in Iraq, whose son fought in Iraq, I've fought in Vietnam. But
if you want a place where we need to be in terms of our national strategy, a
focus, the greatest strategic threat that we have right now is resolving our
relationship with China. And we need to do this because of their aggression in
the region. We need to do it because of the way they treat their own people.

COOPER: Senator...

WEBB: And I would say this. I've been waiting for 10 minutes. I will say this.

COOPER: You're over your time as of now.

WEBB: I will -- well, you've let a lot of people go over their time. I would say
this...

COOPER: You agreed to these debate rules.

WEBB: ... to the unelected, authoritarian government of China: You do not own
the South China Sea. You do not have the right to conduct cyber warfare against
tens of millions of American citizens. And in a Webb administration, we will do
something about that.

COOPER: Senator Sanders, I want you to be able to respond. SANDERS: Pardon me?

COOPER: I'd like you to be able to respond and get in on this.

SANDERS: Well, I think Mr. Putin is going to regret what he is doing. I think
that when he gets into that...

COOPER: He doesn't seem to be the type of guy to regret a lot.

SANDERS: Well, I think he's already regretting what he did in Crimea and what he
is doing in the Ukraine. I think he is really regretting the decline of his
economy. And I think what he is trying to do now is save some face. But I think
when Russians get killed in Syria and when he gets bogged down, I think the
Russian people are going to give him a message that maybe they should come home,
maybe they should start working with the United States to rectify the situation
now.

COOPER: Secretary Clinton, on the campaign trail, Governor Webb has said that he
would never have used military force in Libya and that the attack on the U.S.
consulate in Benghazi was inevitable. Should you have seen that attack coming?

CLINTON: Well, let's remember what was going on. We had a murderous dictator,
Gadhafi, who had American blood on his hands, as I'm sure you remember,
threatening to massacre large numbers of the Libyan people. We had our closest
allies in Europe burning up the phone lines begging us to help them try to
prevent what they saw as a mass genocide, in their words. And we had the Arabs
standing by our side saying, ''We want you to help us deal with Gadhafi.'' Our
response, which I think was smart power at its best, is that the United States
will not lead this. We will provide essential, unique capabilities that we have,
but the Europeans and the Arabs had to be first over the line. We did not put
one single American soldier on the ground in Libya. And I'll say this for the
Libyan people...

COOPER: But American citizens did lose their lives in Benghazi.

CLINTON: But let -- I'll get to that. But I think it's important, since I
understand Senator Webb's very strong feelings about this, to explain where we
were then and to point out that I think President Obama made the right decision
at the time. And the Libyan people had a free election the first time since
1951. And you know what, they voted for moderates, they voted with the hope of
democracy. Because of the Arab Spring, because of a lot of other things, there
was turmoil to be followed. But unless you believe the United States should not
send diplomats to any place that is dangerous, which I do not, then when we send
them forth, there is always the potential for danger and risk.

COOPER: Governor O'Malley?

WEBB: Can I...

(CROSSTALK)

O'MALLEY: Anderson, I think we are learning...

(CROSSTALK)

O'MALLEY: Anderson, I think there's lessons to be learned from Benghazi. And
those lessons are that we need to do a much better job as a nation of having
human intelligence on the ground so that we know who the emerging next
generation leaders are that are coming up to replace a dictator when his time on
this planet ends. And I believe that's what Chris Stevens was trying to do. But
he did not have the tools. We have failed as a country to invest in the human
intelligence that would allow us to make not only better decisions in Libya, but
better decisions in Syria today. And it's a huge national security failing.
COOPER: Senator Webb, I want you to be able to respond.

WEBB: Thank you.

(CROSSTALK)

COOPER: Senator Webb? WEBB: This is not about Benghazi per se. To me it is the
inevitability of something like Benghazi occurring in the way that we intervened
in Libya. We had no treaties at risk. We had no Americans at risk. There was no
threat of attack or imminent attack. There is plenty of time for a president to
come to the Congress and request authority to use military force in that
situation. I called for it on the Senate floor again and again. I called for it
in Senate hearings. It is not a wise thing to do. And if people think it was a
wise thing to do, try to get to the Tripoli airport today. You can't do it.

COOPER: Secretary (sic) Webb, you served in Vietnam. You're a marine. Once a
marine, always a marine. You served as a marine in Vietnam. You're a decorated
war hero. You eventually became secretary of the navy. During the Vietnam War,
the man standing next to you, Senator Sanders, applied for status as a
conscientious objector. Given his history, can he serve as a credible
commander-in-chief?

WEBB: Everybody makes their decisions when the time there is conscription. And
as long as they go through the legal process that our country requires, I
respect that. And it would be for the voters to decide whether Senator Sanders
or anyone else should be president. I will say this, coming from the position
that I've come from, from a military family, with my brother a marine, my son
was a marine in Iraq, I served as a marine, spending five years in the Pentagon,
I am comfortable that I am the most qualified person standing up here today to
be your commander-in-chief.

COOPER: Senator Sanders, tell an American soldier who is watching right now
tonight in Afghanistan why you can be commander-in- chief given that you applied
for conscientious objector status.

SANDERS: Well, first of all, let me applaud my good friend Jim Webb for his
service to this country in so many ways.

(APPLAUSE)

SANDERS: Jim and I, under Jim's leadership, as he indicated, passed the most
significant veterans education bill in recent history. We followed suit with a
few years later passing, under my leadership, the most significant veterans'
health care legislation in the modern history of this country.

(APPLAUSE)

SANDERS: When I was a young man -- I'm not a young man today. When I was a young
man, I strongly opposed the war in Vietnam. Not the brave men like Jim who
fought in that war, but the policy which got us involved in that war. That was
my view then.

(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)

SANDERS: I am not a pacifist, Anderson. I supported the war in Afghanistan. I
supported President Clinton's effort to deal with ethnic cleansing in Kosovo. I
support air strikes in Syria and what the president is trying to do. Yes, I
happen to believe from the bottom of my heart that war should be the last resort
that we have got to exercise diplomacy. But yes, I am prepared to take this
country into war if that is necessary.

(CROSSTALK)

COOPER: Very quickly, 30 seconds for each of you. Governor Chafee, who or what
is the greatest national security threat to the United States? I want to go down
the line.

CHAFEE: OK. I just have to answer one thing that Senator Webb said about the
Iran deal, because I'm a strong proponent of what President Obama -- and he said
that because of that the Iran deal that enabled Russia to come in. No, that's
not true, Senator Webb. I respect your foreign policy chops. But Russia is
aligned with Iran and with Assad and the Alawite Shias in Syria. So that Iran
deal did not allow Russia to come in.

COOPER: OK. Senator, I can give you 30 seconds to respond.

WEBB: I believe that the signal that we sent to the region when the Iran nuclear
deal was concluded was that we are accepting Iran's greater position on this
very important balance of power, among our greatest ally Israel, and the Sunnis
represented by the Saudi regime, and Iran. It was a position of weakness and I
think it encouraged the acts that we've seen in the past several weeks.

COOPER: Thirty seconds for each of you. Governor Chafee, what is the greatest
national security threat to the United States?

CHAFEE: It's certainly the chaos in the Middle East. There's no doubt about it.

COOPER: OK.

CHAFEE: And it all started with the Iraq invasion.

COOPER: Governor O'Malley?

O'MALLEY: I believe that nuclear Iran remains the biggest threat, along with the
threat of ISIL; climate change, of course, makes cascading threats even more
(inaudible).

COOPER: Secretary Clinton, the greatest national security threat?

CLINTON: I -- I think it has to be continued threat from the spread of nuclear
weapons, nuclear material that can fall into the wrong hands. I know the
terrorists are constantly seeking it, and that's why we have to stay vigilant,
but also united around the world to prevent that.

COOPER: Senator Sanders, greatest national security threat?

SANDERS: The scientific community is telling us that if we do not address the
global crisis of climate change, transform our energy system away from fossil
fuel to sustainable energy, the planet that we're going to be leaving our kids
and our grandchildren may well not be habitable. That is a major crisis.

COOPER: Senator Webb?

WEBB: Our greatest long-term strategic challenge is our relation with China. Our
greatest day-to-day threat is cyber warfare against this country. Our greatest
military-operational threat is resolving the situations in the Middle East.

COOPER: All right. We're going to take a short break. Do these candidates see
eye to eye on an issue that is driving a big wedge between Republicans? That is
next. We'll be right back.

(APPLAUSE) (COMMERCIAL BREAK)

COOPER: And welcome back. We are live in Nevada, in Las Vegas, at the Wynn
Resort for the first Democratic presidential debate. The questions continue. We
begin with Secretary Clinton. Secretary Clinton, you are going to be testifying
before Congress next week about your e-mails. For the last eight months, you
haven't been able to put this issue behind you. You dismissed it; you joked
about it; you called it a mistake. What does that say about your ability to
handle far more challenging crises as president?

CLINTON: Well, I've taken responsibility for it. I did say it was a mistake.
What I did was allowed by the State Department, but it wasn't the best choice.
And I have been as transparent as I know to be, turning over 55,000 pages of my
e-mails, asking that they be made public. And you're right. I am going to be
testifying. I've been asking to testify for some time and to do it in public,
which was not originally agreed to. But let's just take a minute here and point
out that this committee is basically an arm of the Republican National
Committee. (APPLAUSE) It is a partisan vehicle, as admitted by the House
Republican majority leader, Mr. McCarthy, to drive down my poll numbers. Big
surprise. And that's what they have attempted to do. I am still standing. I am
happy to be part of this debate. (APPLAUSE) And I intend to keep talking about
the issues that matter to the American people. You know, I believe strongly that
we need to be talking about what people talk to me about, like how are we going
to make college affordable? How are we going to pay down student debt?

COOPER: Secretary...

CLINTON: How are we going to get health care for everybody...

(CROSSTALK)

COOPER: Secretary Clinton, Secretary Clinton, with all due respect, it's a
little hard -- I mean, isn't it a little bit hard to call this just a partisan
issue? There's an FBI investigation, and President Obama himself just two days
ago said this is a legitimate issue.

CLINTON: Well, I never said it wasn't legitimate. I said that I have answered
all the questions and I will certainly be doing so again before this committee.
But I think it would be really unfair not to look at the entire picture. This
committee has spent $4.5 million of taxpayer money, and they said that they were
trying to figure out what we could do better to protect our diplomats so that
something like Benghazi wouldn't happen again. There were already seven
committee reports about what to do. So I think it's pretty clear what their
obvious goal is.

COOPER: Thank you.

CLINTON: But I'll be there. I'll answer their questions. But tonight, I want to
talk not about my e-mails, but about what the American people want from the next
president of the United States.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Senator Sanders?

SANDERS: Let me say this. (APPLAUSE)

Let me say -- let me say something that may not be great politics. But I think
the secretary is right, and that is that the American people are sick and tired
of hearing about your damn e-mails.

(APPLAUSE) CLINTON: Thank you. Me, too. Me, too.

SANDERS: You know? The middle class -- Anderson, and let me say something about
the media, as well. I go around the country, talk to a whole lot of people.
Middle class in this country is collapsing. We have 27 million people living in
poverty. We have massive wealth and income inequality. Our trade policies have
cost us millions of decent jobs. The American people want to know whether we're
going to have a democracy or an oligarchy as a result of Citizens Union. Enough
of the e-mails. Let's talk about the real issues facing America.

(APPLAUSE)

CLINTON: Thank you, Bernie. Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: It's obviously very popular in this crowd, and it's -- hold on.

(APPLAUSE)

I know that plays well in this room. But I got to be honest, Governor Chafee,
for the record, on the campaign trail, you've said a different thing. You said
this is a huge issue. Standing here in front of Secretary Clinton, are you
willing to say that to her face?

CHAFEE: Absolutely. We have to repair American credibility after we told the
world that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction, which he didn't. So
there's an issue of American credibility out there. So any time someone is
running to be our leader, and a world leader, which the American president is,
credibility is an issue out there with the world. And we have repair work to be
done. I think we need someone that has the best in ethical standards as our next
president. That's how I feel.

COOPER: Secretary Clinton, do you want to respond?

CLINTON: No.

COOPER: Governor -- Governor...

(APPLAUSE)

Governor O'Malley...

(APPLAUSE)

Governor, it's popular in the room, but a lot of people do want to know these
answers. Governor O'Malley, you expressed concern on the campaign trail that the
Democratic Party is, and I quote, ''being defined by Hillary Clinton's email
scandal.'' You heard her answer, do you still feel that way tonight?

O'MALLEY: I believe that now that we're finally having debates, Anderson, that
we don't have to be defined by the email scandal, and how long -- what the FBI's
asking about. Instead, we can talk about affordable college, making college debt
free, and all the issues. Which is why -- and I see the chair of the DNC here,
look how glad we are actually to be talking about the issues that matter the
most to people around the kitchen table. We need to get wages to go up, college
more affordable...

COOPER: ...Thank you, governor.

O'MALLEY: ...we need to make American 100 percent clean electric by 2050.

COOPER: I want to talk about issues of race in America, for that I want to start
of with Don Lemon.

LEMON: Alright, Anderson, thank you very much. I'm not sure how to follow that,
but this question is about something that has tripped some of the candidates up
out on the campaign trail. Can you hear me? Can't hear me in the room. OK, here
we go again, as I said...

WILKINS: ...law school. My question for the candidates is, do black lives
matter, or do all lives matter?

COOPER: The question from Arthur...

LEMON: ...There we go...

COOPER: ...Do black lives matter, or do all lives matter? Let's put that
question to Senator Sanders.

SANDERS: Black lives matter.

(CHEERING)

SANDERS: And the reason -- the reason those words matter is the African American
community knows that on any given day some innocent person like Sandra Bland can
get into a car, and then three days later she's going to end up dead in jail, or
their kids...

(APPLAUSE)

SANDERS: ...are going to get shot. We need to combat institutional racism from
top to bottom, and we need major, major reforms in a broken criminal justice
system...

(APPLAUSE)

SANDERS: ...In which we have more people in jail than China. And, I intended to
tackle that issue. To make sure that our people have education and jobs rather
than jail cells.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Governor O'Malley, the question from Arthur was do black lives matter,
or do all lives matter?

O'MALLEY: Anderson, the point that the Black Lives Matter movement is making is
a very, very legitimate and serious point, and that is that as a nation we have
undervalued the lives of black lives, people of color. When I ran for Mayor of
Baltimore -- and we we burying over 350 young men ever single year, mostly
young, and poor, and black, and I said to our legislature, at the time when I
appeared in front of them as a mayor, that if we were burying white, young, poor
men in these number we would be marching in the streets and there would be a
different reaction. Black lives matter, and we have a lot of work to do to
reform our criminal justice system, and to address race relations in our
country.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Secretary Clinton, what would you do for African Americans in this
country that President Obama couldn't?

CLINTON: Well, I think that President Obama has been a great moral leader on
these issues, and has laid out an agenda that has been obstructed by the
Republicans at every turn, so...

(APPLAUSE)

CLINTON: ...So, what we need to be doing is not only reforming criminal justice
-- I have talked about that at some length, including things like body cameras,
but we also need to be following the recommendations of the commissioner that
President Obama empanelled on policing. There is an agenda there that we need to
be following up on. Similarly, we need to tackle mass incarceration, and this
may be the only bi-partisan issue in the congress this year. We actually have
people on both sides of the aisle who have reached the same conclusion, that we
can not keep imprisoning more people than anybody else in the world. But, I
believe that the debate, and the discussion has to go further, Anderson, because
we've got to do more about the lives of these children. That's why I started off
by saying we need to be committed to making it possible for every child to live
up to his or her god given potential. That is...

COOPER: ...Thank you, Senator...

CLINTON: ...really hard to do if you don't have early childhood education...

COOPER: Senator...

CLINTON: ...if you don't have schools that are able to meet the needs of the
people, or good housing, there's a long list...

(APPLAUSE)

CLINTON: ...We need a new New Deal for communities of color...

COOPER: Senator Webb?

WEBB: I hope I can get that kind of time here. As a President of the United
States, every life in this country matters. At the same time, I believe I can
say to you, I have had a long history of working with the situation of African
Americans. We're talking about criminal justice reform, I risked my political
life raising the issue of criminal justice reform when I ran for the Senate in
Virginia in 2006. I had democratic party political consultants telling me I was
committing political suicide. We led that issue in the congress. We started a
national debate on it. And it wasn't until then that the Republican Party
started joining in. I also represented a so-called war criminal, an African
American Marine who was wounded -- who was convicted of murder in Vietnam, for
six years. He took his life three years into this. I cleared his name after --
after three years.

COOPER: Thanks, sir.

WEBB: And I put the African American soldier on the Mall. I made that
recommendation and fought for it. So, if you want someone who is -- can stand up
in front of you right now and say I have done the hard job, I have taken the
risks, I am your person.

COOPER: Senator Sanders, let's talk about income inequality. Wages and incomes
are flat. You've argued that the gap between rich and poor is wider than at any
time since the 1920s. We've had a Democratic president for seven years. What are
you going to be able to do that President Obama didn't?

SANDERS: Well, first of all, let's remember where we were when Bush left office.
We were losing 800,000 jobs a month. And I know my Republican friends seem to
have some amnesia on this issue, but the world's financial crisis was on -- the
world's financial markets system was on the verge of collapse. That's where we
were. Are we better off today than we were then? Absolutely. But the truth is
that for the 40 years, the great middle class of this country has been
disappearing. And in my view what we need to do is create millions of jobs by
rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure; raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour;
pay equity for women workers; and our disastrous trade policies, which have cost
us millions of jobs; and make every public college and university in this
country tuition free.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Secretary Clinton... (CROSSTALK)

COOPER: I'll let you jump in a moment. Everybody will get in on this in a
moment. Secretary Clinton, how would you address this issue? In all candor, you
and your husband are part of the one percent. How can you credibly represent the
views of the middle class?

CLINTON: Well, you know, both Bill and I have been very blessed. Neither of us
came from wealthy families and we've worked really hard our entire lives. And I
want to make sure every single person in this country has the same opportunities
that he and I have had, to make the most of their God-given potential and to
have the chances that they should have in America for a good education, good job
training, and then good jobs. I have a five point economic plan, because this
inequality challenge we face, we have faced it at other points. It's absolutely
right. It hasn't been this bad since the 1920s. But if you look at the
Republicans versus the Democrats when it comes to economic policy, there is no
comparison. The economy does better when you have a Democrat in the White House
and that's why we need to have a Democrat in the White House in January 2017.

COOPER: Governor O'Malley, (inaudible).

O'MALLEY: Yes. Anderson, I want to associate myself with many of the items that
the senator from Vermont mentioned, and I actually did them in our state. We
raised the minimum wage, passed the living wage, invested more in
infrastructure, went four years in a row without a penny's increase in college
tuition. But there's another piece that Senator Sanders left out tonight, but
he's been excellent about underscoring that. And that is that we need to
separate the casino, speculative, mega-bank gambling that we have to insure with
our money, from the commercial banking -- namely, reinstating Glass-Steagall.
Secretary Clinton mentioned my support eight years ago. And Secretary, I was
proud to support you eight years ago, but something happened in between, and
that is, Anderson, a Wall Street crash that wiped out millions of jobs and
millions of savings for families. And we are still just as vulnerable Paul
Volcker says today. We need to reinstate Glass-Steagall and that's a huge
difference on this stage among us as candidates.

COOPER: Just for viewers at home who may not be reading up on this,
Glass-Steagall is the Depression-era banking law repealed in 1999 that prevented
commercial banks from engaging in investment banking and insurance activities.
Secretary Clinton, he raises a fundamental difference on this stage. Senator
Sanders wants to break up the big Wall Street banks. You don't. You say charge
the banks more, continue to monitor them. Why is your plan better?

CLINTON: Well, my plan is more comprehensive. And frankly, it's tougher because
of course we have to deal with the problem that the banks are still too big to
fail. We can never let the American taxpayer and middle class families ever have
to bail out the kind of speculative behavior that we saw. But we also have to
worry about some of the other players -- AIG, a big insurance company; Lehman
Brothers, an investment bank. There's this whole area called ''shadow banking.''
That's where the experts tell me the next potential problem could come from.

CLINTON: So I'm with both Senator Sanders and Governor O'Malley in putting a lot
of attention onto the banks. And the plan that I have put forward would actually
empower regulators to break up big banks if we thought they posed a risk. But I
want to make sure we're going to cover everybody, not what caused the problem
last time, but what could cause it next time.

(CROSSTALK)

COOPER: Senator Sanders, Secretary Clinton just said that her policy is tougher
than yours.

SANDERS: Well, that's not true.

(LAUGHTER)

COOPER: Why?

SANDERS: Let us be clear that the greed and recklessness and illegal behavior of
Wall Street, where fraud is a business model, helped to destroy this economy and
the lives of millions of people.

(APPLAUSE)

Check the record. In the 1990s -- and all due respect -- in the 1990s, when I
had the Republican leadership and Wall Street spending billions of dollars in
lobbying, when the Clinton administration, when Alan Greenspan said, ''what a
great idea it would be to allow these huge banks to merge,'' Bernie Sanders
fought them, and helped lead the opposition to deregulation. (APPLAUSE) Today,
it is my view that when you have the three...

COOPER: Senator...

SANDERS: ...largest banks in America -- are much bigger than they were when we
bailed them out for being too big to fail, we have got to break them up.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Secretary Clinton, you have to be able to respond. He brought you up.

CLINTON: Yeah. You know, I -- I respect the passion an intensity. I represented
Wall Street, as a senator from New York, and I went to Wall Street in December
of 2007 -- before the big crash that we had -- and I basically said, ''cut it
out! Quit foreclosing on homes! Quit engaging in these kinds of speculative
behaviors.'' I took on the Bush administration for the same thing. So I have
thought deeply and long about what we're gonna do to do exactly what I think
both the senator and the governor want, which is to rein in and stop this risk.
And my plan would have the potential of actually sending the executives to jail.
Nobody went to jail after $100 billion in fines were paid...

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: (inaudible)

CLINTON: ...and would give regulators the authority to go after the big banks.

COOPER: Thank you. Thank you. Senator Sanders...

CLINTON: But I'm telling you -- I will say it tonight. If only you look at the
big banks, you may be missing the forest for the trees.

(CROSSTALK)

WEBB: Bernie, say my name so I can get into this.

SANDERS: I will, just a second.

WEBB: OK. Thank you.

(LAUGHTER)

SANDERS: I'll tell him. In my view, Secretary Clinton, you do not -- Congress
does not regulate Wall Street. Wall Street regulates Congress. (APPLAUSE) And we
have gotta break off these banks. Going to them...

CLINTON: So...

SANDERS: ...and saying, ''please, do the right thing''...

CLINTON: ...no, that's not what... SANDERS: ...is kind of naive.

CLINTON: ...that -- I think Dodd-Frank was a very... WEBB: Anderson, I need to
jump in (inaudible).

CLINTON: ...good start, and I think that we have to implement it. We have to
prevent the Republicans from ripping it apart. We have to save the Consumer
Financial Protection board, which is finally beginning to act to protect
consumers. (APPLAUSE) We have work to do. You've got no argument from me. But I
know, if we don't come in with a very tough and comprehensive approach, like the
plan I'm recommending, we're gonna be behind instead of ahead...

COOPER: Governor O'Malley? Where do you stand?

CLINTON: ...on what the next crisis could be.

O'MALLEY: Anderson, look, this is -- the big banks -- I mean, once we repealed
Glass-Steagall back in the late 1999s (ph), the big banks, the six of them, went
from controlling, what, the equivalent of 15 percent of our GDP to now 65
percent of our GDP. And -- (inaudible) right before this debate, Secretary
Clinton's campaign put out a lot of reversals on positions on Keystone and many
other things. But one of them that we still have a great difference on, Madam
Secretary, is that you are not for Glass-Steagall. You are not for putting a
firewall between this speculative, risky shadow banking behavior. I am, and the
people of our country need a president who's on their side, willing to protect
the Main Street economy from recklessness on Wall Street. We have to fulfill...

COOPER: Secretary Clinton...

O'MALLEY: ...our promise.

COOPER: I have to let you respond.

(APPLAUSE)

CLINTON: Well, you know, everybody on this stage has changed a position or two.
We've been around a cumulative quite some period of time.

(LAUGHTER)

You know, we know that if you are learning, you're gonna change your position. I
never took a position on Keystone until I took a position on Keystone. But I
have been on the forefront of dealing with climate change, starting in 2009,
when President Obama and I crashed (ph) a meeting with the Chinese and got them
to sign up to the first international agreement to combat climate change that
they'd ever joined. So I'm...

COOPER: Thank you.

CLINTON: ...not taking a back seat to anybody on my values...

COOPER: Thank...

CLINTON: ...my principles and the results that I get.

COOPER: Senator Sanders...

(APPLAUSE)

Senator Sanders, in 2008, congressional leaders were told, without the 2008
bailout, the U.S. was possibly days away from a complete meltdown. Despite that,
you still voted against it. As president, would you stand by your principles if
it risked the country's financial stability?

SANDERS: Well, I remember that meeting very well. I remember it like it was
yesterday. Hank Paulson, Bernanke came in, and they say, ''guys, the economy is
going to collapse because Wall Street is going under. It's gonna take the
economy with them.'' And you know what I said to Hank Paulson? I said, ''Hank,
your guys -- you come from Goldman Sachs. Your millionaire and billionaire
friends caused this problem. How about your millionaire and billionaire friends
paying for the bailout, not working families in this country?'' So to answer
your question, no, I would not have let the economy collapse. But it was wrong
to ask the middle class to bail out Wall Street. And by the way, I want Wall
Street now to help kids in this country go to college, public colleges and
universities, free with a Wall Street speculation tax.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: We're going to talk about that in a minute. But, Senator Webb, I want to
get you in. You have said neither party has the guts to take on Wall Street. Is
the system rigged?

WEBB: There is a reality that I think we all need to recognize with respect to
the power of the financial sector. And let me just go back a minute and say that
on this TARP program, I introduced a piece of legislation calling for a windfall
profits tax on the executives of any of these companies that got more than $5
billion, that it was time for them, once they got their compensation and their
bonus, to split the rest of the money they made with the nurses and the truck
drivers and the soldiers who bailed them out. With respect to the financial
sector, I mean, I know that my time has run out but in speaking of changing
positions and the position on how this debate has occurred is kind of
frustrating because unless somebody mentions my name I can't get into the
discussion.

COOPER: You agreed to these rules and you're wasting time. So if you would
finish your answer, we'll move on.

WEBB: All right. Well, I'm trying to set a mark here so maybe we can get into a
little more later on. This hasn't been equal time. But if you want to look at
what has happened, if we look at the facts in terms of how we're going to deal
with this, since that crash, in the last 10 years, the amount of the world's
capital economy that Wall Street manages has gone from 44 percent to 55 percent.
That means the Wall Street money managers are not risking themselves as the same
way the American people are when they're going to get their compensation.
They're managing money from all over the world. We have to take that into
consideration when we're looking at ways to regulate it.

COOPER: Governor Chafee, you have attacked Secretary Clinton for being too close
to Wall Street banks. In 1999 you voted for the very bill that made banks
bigger.

CHAFEE: The Glass-Steagall was my very first vote, I'd just arrived, my dad had
died in office, I was appointed to the office, it was my very first vote.

COOPER: Are you saying you didn't know what you were voting for?

CHAFEE: I'd just arrived at the Senate. I think we'd get some takeovers, and
that was one. It was my very first vote, and it was 92-5. It was the...

COOPER: Well, with all due respect, Governor...

CHAFEE: But let me just say...

COOPER: ... what does that say about you that you're casting a vote for
something you weren't really sure about?

CHAFEE: I think you're being a little rough. I'd just arrived at the United
States Senate. I'd been mayor of my city. My dad had died. I'd been appointed by
the governor. It was the first vote and it was 90-5, because it was a conference
report. But let me just say about income inequality. We've had a lot of talk
over the last few minutes, hours, or tens of minutes, but no one is saying how
we're going to fix it. And it all started with the Bush tax cuts that favored
the wealthy. So let's go back to the tax code. And 0.6 percent of Americans are
at the top echelon, over 464,000, 0.6 Americans. That's less than 1 percent. But
they generate 30 percent of the revenue. And they're doing fine.

COOPER: Thank you, Governor.

CHAFEE: So there's still a lot more money to be had from this top echelon. I'm
saying let's have another tier and put that back into the tax bracket. And that
will generate $42 billion.

COOPER: I want to bring in Dana Bash.

CHAFEE: And then we can help the middle class and hard-earning Americans --
hard-working Americans.

COOPER: Dana?

BASH: Thank you. CNN visited college campuses, along with Facebook. And not
surprisingly college affordability was among the most pressing issue. Senator
Sanders, you've mentioned a couple of times you do have a plan to make public
colleges free for everyone. Secretary Clinton has criticized that in saying
she's not in favor of making a college free for Donald Trump's kids. Do you
think taxpayers should pick up the tab for wealthy children?

SANDERS: Well, let me tell you, Donald Trump and his billionaire friends under
my policies are going to pay a hell of a lot more in taxes today -- taxes in the
future than they're paying today.

(APPLAUSE)

SANDERS: But in terms of education, this is what I think. This is the year 2015.
A college degree today, Dana, is the equivalent of what a high school degree was
50 years ago. And what we said 50 years ago and a hundred years ago is that
every kid in this country should be able to get a high school education
regardless of the income of their family. I think we have to say that is true
for everybody going to college. I think we don't need a complicated system,
which the secretary is talking about, the income goes down, the income goes
down, if you're poor you have to work, and so forth and so on. I pay for my
program, by the way, through a tax on Wall Street speculation, which will not
only make public colleges and universities tuition-free, it will substantially
lower interest rates on college debt, a major crisis in this country.

(APPLAUSE)

BASH: And, Secretary Clinton, it's not just college tuition that Senator Sanders
is talking about, expanding Social Security and giving all Americans Medicare.
What's wrong with that?

CLINTON: Well, let me address college affordability, because I have a plan that
I think will really zero in on what the problems are. First, all the 40 million
Americans who currently have student debt will be able to refinance their debt
to a low interest rate. That will save thousands of dollars for people who are
now struggling under this cumbersome, burdensome college debt. As a young
student in Nevada said to me, the hardest thing about going to college should
not be paying for it. So then we have to make it more affordable. How do we make
it more affordable? My plan would enable anyone to go to a public college or
university tuition free. You would not have to borrow money for tuition. But I
do believe -- and maybe it's because I worked when I went through college; I
worked when I went through law school -- I think it's important for everybody to
have some part of getting this accomplished. That's why I call it a compact.

BASH: Secretary Clinton...

CLINTON: But, yes, I would like students to work 10 hours a week...

BASH: Can you answer the...

SANDERS: ... in order to make it possible for them to afford their education.
And I want colleges to get their costs down. They are outrageously high in what
they're charging.

BASH: Secretary Clinton, the question was not just about tuition, though. It was
about Senator Sanders' plan to expand Social Security, to make Medicare
available to all Americans. Is that something that you would support? And if
not, why not?

CLINTON: Well, I fully support Social Security. And the most important fight
we're going to have is defending it against continuing Republican efforts to
privatize it.

BASH: Do you want to expand it?

CLINTON: I want to enhance the benefits for the poorest recipients of Social
Security. We have a lot of women on Social Security, particularly widowed and
single women who didn't make a lot of money during their careers, and they are
impoverished, and they need more help from the Social Security system. And I
will focus -- I will focus on helping those people who need it the most. And of
course I'm going to defend Social Security. I'm going to look for ways to try to
make sure it's solvent into the future. And we also need to talk about health
care at some time, because we agree on the goals, we just disagree on the means.

SANDERS: When the Republicans -- when the Republicans in the Congress and some
Democrats were talking about cutting Social Security and benefits for disabled
veterans, for the so-called chained CPI, I founded a caucus called the Defending
Social Security Caucus. My view is that when you have millions of seniors in
this country trying to get by -- and I don't know how they do on $11,000,
$12,000, $13,000 a year -- you don't cut Social Security, you expand it. And the
way you expand it is by lifting the cap on taxable incomes so that you do away
with the absurdity of a millionaire paying the same amount into the system as
somebody making $118,000. You do that, Social Security is solvent until 2061 and
you can expand benefits.

(CROSSTALK)

COOPER: Senator Sanders, I want to bring it over to Juan Carlos Lopez from CNN
en Espanol. We're obviously in Nevada. It's had the highest percentage of
undocumented immigrants of any state in the country as of last year. Juan
Carlos?

LOPEZ: Gracias, Anderson. Senator Sanders, in 2013, you voted for immigration
reform. But in 2007, when Democrats controlled Congress and the Bush White House
was onboard, you voted against it. Why should Latino voters trust you now when
you left them at the altar at the moment when reform was very close?

SANDERS: I didn't leave anybody at the altar. I voted against that piece of
legislation because it had guest-worker provisions in it which the Southern
Poverty Law Center talked about being semi-slavery. Guest workers are coming in,
they're working under terrible conditions, but if they stand up for their
rights, they're thrown out of the country. I was not the only progressive to
vote against that legislation for that reason. Tom Harkin, a very good friend of
Hillary Clinton's and mine, one of the leading labor advocates, also voted
against that.

LOPEZ: Tom Harkin isn't running for president. You are.

SANDERS: I know that. But point being is that progressives did vote against that
for that reason. My view right now -- and always has been -- is that when you
have 11 million undocumented people in this country, we need comprehensive
immigration reform, we need a path toward citizenship, we need to take people
out of the shadows.

O'MALLEY: And Juan Carlos -- Juan Carlos...

LOPEZ: Secretary Clinton -- Secretary Clinton, Governor O'Malley wants to open
up Obamacare to millions of undocumented immigrants and their children,
including almost 90,000 people right here in Nevada. Do you?

CLINTON: Well, first of all, I want to make sure every child gets health care.
That's why I helped to create the Children's Health Insurance Program, and I
want to support states that are expanding health care and including undocumented
children and others. I want to open up the opportunity for immigrants to be able
to buy in to the exchanges under the Affordable Care Act. I think to go beyond
that, as I understand what Governor O'Malley has recommended, so that they would
get the same subsidies. I think that is -- it raises so many issues. It would be
very difficult to administer, it needs to be part of a comprehensive immigration
reform, when we finally do get to it.

LOPEZ: Governor O'Malley?

O'MALLEY: Juan Carlos, I think what you've heard up here is some of the old
thinking on immigration reform, and that's why it's gridlocked. We need to
understand that our country is stronger in every generation by the arrival of
new American immigrants. That is why I have put out a policy for comprehensive
immigration reform, that is why I would go further than President Obama has on
DACA, and DAPA. I mean, we are a nation of immigrants, we are made stronger by
immigrants. Do you think for a second that simply because somebody's standing in
a broken que on naturalization they're not going to go to the hospital, and that
care isn't going to fall on to our insurance rates? I am for a generous,
compassionate America that says we're all in this together. We need
comprehensive

COOPER: Senator Webb...

O'MALLEY: ...immigration reform. It'll make wages go up in America $250 for
every year...

LOPEZ: Senator Webb, do you support the undocumented immigrants getting
Obamacare?

WEBB: I wouldn't have a problem with that. Let me start by saying my wife is an
immigrant. She was a refugee, her family escaped from Vietnam on a boat-- her
entire extended family, after the communists took over, when hundreds of
thousands of people were out there and thousands of them were dying. Went to two
refugee camps, she never spoke English in her home, and she ended, as I said,
graduating from Cornell Law School. That's not only American dream, that's a
value that we have with a good immigration system in place. No country has -- is
a country without defining its borders. We need to resolve this issue. I
actually introduced an amendment in the 2007 immigration bill...

LOPEZ: ...Thank you, Senator.

WEBB: ...Giving a pathway to citizenship to those people who had come here, and
put down their roots, and met as a series of standards...

COOPER: ...Thank you, Senator.

WEBB: ...lost (ph) -- I introduced that in 2007 -- We need a comprehensive
reform, and we need to be able to define our borders. COOPER: Secretary Clinton?

CLINTON: I want to follow up because I think underneath Juan Carlos' important
questions, there is such a difference between everything you're hearing here on
this stage, and what we hear from the Republicans.

(APPLAUSE)

O'MALLEY: Here. Here.

(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)

CLINTON: Demonize hard-working immigrants who have insulted them. You know, I
came to Las Vegas in, I think, May. Early may. Met with a group of DREAMers, I
wish everybody in America could meet with this young people, to hear their
stories, to know their incredible talent, their determination, and that's why I
would go further...

COOPER: ...Secretary...

CLINTON: ...than even the executive orders that President Obama has signed when
I'm president.

(CROSS TALK)

COOPER: Secretary Clinton, let me ask you. Two of your rivals from your left,
Governor O'Malley, and Senator Sanders, want to provide instate college tuition
to undocumented immigrants. Where do you stand on that?

CLINTON: My plan would support any state that takes that position, and would
work with those states and encourage more states to do the same thing.

COOPER: So, on the record, you believe that undocumented immigrants should get
instate college tuition.

CLINTON: If their states agree, then we want more states to do the same thing.
COOPER: Governor O'Malley? O'MALLEY: Anderson, we actually did this in my state
of Maryland. We passed...

(APPLAUSE)

O'MALLEY: We passed a state version of the DREAM Act...

(CHEERING)

O'MALLEY: ...And a lot of the xenophobes, the immigrant haters like some that
we've heard like, Donald Trump, that carnival barker in the Republican party...

(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)

O'MALLEY: Tried to mischaracterize it as free tuition for illegal immigrants.
But, we took our case to the people when it was petitioned to referendum, and we
won with 58 percent of the vote. The more our children learn, the more they will
earn, and that's true of children who have yet to be naturalized...

COOPER: ...Senator...

O'MALLEY: ...but will become American citizens...

COOPER: Senator Sanders, you talked about your record on the Veteran affairs
committee. You served on that committee for the last eight years, including two
years as its chairman while veterans died waiting for health care. You and
Senator McCain ultimately addressed the issue with bi-partisan legislation. Why
did it take 18 Inspector General reports, and a CNN investigation, and others,
before you and your colleagues took action?

SANDERS: Well, I was chairman for two years, and when I was chairman we did take
action. What we did is pass a $15 billion dollar piece of legislation which
brought in many, many new doctors, and nurses into the V.A. so that veterans in
this country could get the health care when they needed it, and not be on long
waiting lines. And, the other part of that legislation said that if a veteran is
living more than 40 miles away from a V.A. facility, that veteran could get
health care from the community health center, or the private sector. As a result
of that legislation, we went further in than any time in recent history in
improving health care for the men and women of this country who put their lives
on the line to defend them.

COOPER: Governor Chafee, you and Hillary Clinton both voted for the Patriot Act
which created the NSA surveillance program. You've emphasized civil liberties,
privacy during your campaign. Aren't these two things in conflict?

CHAFEE: No, that was another 99 to one vote for the Patriot Act, and it was seen
as at the time modernizing our ability to do what we've always done to tap
phones which always required a warrant. And I voted for that.

COOPER: Do you regret that vote?

CHAFEE: No, no. As long as you're getting a warrant, I believe that under the
Fourth Amendment, you should be able to do surveillance, but you need a warrant.
That's what the Fourth Amendment says. And in the Patriot Act, section 215
started to get broadened too far. So I would be in favor of addressing and
reforming section 215 of the Patriot Act.

COOPER: Secretary Clinton, do you regret your vote on the Patriot Act?

CLINTON: No, I don't. I think that it was necessary to make sure that we were
able after 9/11 to put in place the security that we needed. And it is true that
it did require that there be a process. What happened, however, is that the Bush
administration began to chip away at that process. And I began to speak out
about their use of warrantless surveillance and the other behavior that they
engaged in. We always have to keep the balance of civil liberties, privacy and
security. It's not easy in a democracy, but we have to keep it in mind.

COOPER: Senator -- Senator Sanders, you're the only one on this stage who voted
against the Patriot Act in 2001...

(APPLAUSE)

SANDERS: It was 99 to one and I was maybe the one. I don't know.

COOPER: ... and the reauthorization votes. Let me ask you, if elected, would you
shut down the NSA surveillance program?

SANDERS: I'm sorry?

COOPER: Would you shut down the NSA surveillance program?

SANDERS: Absolutely. Of course. COOPER: You would, point blank.

SANDERS: Well, I would shut down -- make -- I'd shut down what exists right now
is that virtually every telephone call in this country ends up in a file at the
NSA. That is unacceptable to me. But it's not just government surveillance. I
think the government is involved in our e-mails; is involved in our websites.
Corporate America is doing it as well. If we are a free country, we have the
right to be free. Yes, we have to defend ourselves against terrorism, but there
are ways to do that without impinging on our constitutional rights and our
privacy rights.

O'MALLEY (?): Anderson, the NSA...

COOPER: Governor Chafee, Edward Snowden, is he a traitor or a hero?

CHAFEE: No, I would bring him home. The courts have ruled that what he did --
what he did was say the American...

(CROSSTALK)

COOPER: Bring him home, no jail time?

CHAFEE: ... the American government was acting illegally. That's what the
federal courts have said; what Snowden did showed that the American government
was acting illegally for the Fourth Amendment. So I would bring him home.

COOPER: Secretary Clinton, hero or traitor?

CLINTON: He broke the laws of the United States. He could have been a
whistleblower. He could have gotten all of the protections of being a
whistleblower. He could have raised all the issues that he has raised. And I
think there would have been a positive response to that.

COOPER: Should he do jail time? ClINTON: In addition -- in addition, he stole
very important information that has unfortunately fallen into a lot of the wrong
hands. So I don't think he should be brought home without facing the music.

COOPER: Governor O'Malley, Snowden?

(APPLAUSE)

O'MALLEY: Anderson, Snowden put a lot of Americans' lives at risk. Snowden broke
the law. Whistleblowers do not run to Russia and try to get protection from
Putin. If he really believes that, he should be back here.

COOPER: Senator Sanders, Edward Snowden?

SANDERS: I think Snowden played a very important role in educating the American
people to the degree in which our civil liberties and our constitutional rights
are being undermined. COOPER: Is he a hero?

SANDERS: He did -- he did break the law, and I think there should be a penalty
to that. But I think what he did in educating us should be taken into
consideration before he is (inaudible)

. COOPER: Senator Webb, Edward Snowden?

WEBB: I -- well, I -- I would leave his ultimate judgment to the legal system.
Here's what I do believe. We have a serious problem in terms of the collection
of personal information in this country. And one of the things that I did during
the FISA bill in 2007, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, was introduce
with Russ Feingold two amendments basically saying, ''We understand the
realities of how you have to collect this broad information in the Internet age,
but after a certain period of time, you need to destroy the personal information
that you have if people have not been brought -- if criminal justice proceedings
have not been brought against them.'' We've got a vast data bank of information
that is ripe for people with bad intentions to be able to use. And they need to
be destroyed.

COOPER: Another -- another question for each of you, starting with Governor
Chafee. Name the one thing -- the one way that your administration would not be
a third term of President Obama.

CHAFEE: Certainly, ending the wars. We've got to stop these wars. You have to
have a new dynamic, a new paradigm. We just spent a half-billion dollars arming
and training soldiers, the rebel soldiers in Syria. They quickly join the other
side. We bombed the... (CROSSTALK)

COOPER: President Obama's generals right now are suggesting keeping troops in
Afghanistan after the time he wanted them pulled out. Would you keep them there?

CHAFEE: I'd like to finish my question -- my answer. And also we just bombed a
hospital. We've had drone strikes that hit civilian weddings. So I would change
how we -- our approach to the Middle East. We need a new paradigm in the Middle
East.

COOPER: Governor O'Malley, how would you be different than President Obama's
administration?

O'MALLEY: I would follow through on the promise that the American people thought
we made as Democratic Party, to protect the Main Street economy from
recklessness on Wall Street. I would push to separate out these too-big-to-jail,
too-big-to-fail banks, and put in place Glass-Steagall, a modern Glass-Steagall
that creates a firewall so that this wreckage of our economy can never happen
again.

COOPER: Secretary Clinton, how would you not be a third term of President Obama?

CLINTON: Well, I think that's pretty obvious. I think being the first woman
president would be quite a change from the presidents we've had up until this
point, including President Obama.

COOPER: Is there a policy difference?

CLINTON: Well, there's a lot that I would like to do to build on the successes
of President Obama, but also, as I'm laying out, to go beyond. And that's in my
economic plans, how I would deal with the prescription drug companies, how I
would deal with college, how I would deal with a full range of issues that I've
been talking about throughout this campaign to go further.

COOPER: Senator Sanders?

SANDERS: I have a lot of respect for president Obama. I have worked with him
time and time again on many, many issues. But here's where I do disagree. I
believe that the power of corporate America, the power of Wall Street, the power
of the drug companies, the power of the corporate media is so great that the
only way we really transform America and do the things that the middle class and
working class desperately need is through a political revolution when millions
of people begin to come together and stand up and say: Our government is going
to work for all of us, not just a handful of billionaires.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Senator Webb, how would you not be a third term for Obama?

WEBB: I got a great deal of admiration and affection for Senator Sanders, but I
-- Bernie, I don't think the revolution's going to come. And I don't think the
Congress is going to pay for a lot of this stuff. And if there would be a major
difference between my administration and the Obama administration, it would be
in the use of executive authority. I came up as a committee counsel in the
Congress, used to put dozens of bills through the House floor every year as a
committee counsel on the Veterans Committee. I have a very strong feeling about
how our federal system works and how we need to lead and energize the
congressional process instead of allowing these divisions to continue to
paralyze what we're doing. So I would lead -- working with both parties in the
Congress and working through them in the traditional way that our Constitution
sets (ph).

COOPER: Senator Sanders, he cited you. You don't hear a lot of Democratic
presidential candidates talking about revolution. What do you mean?

SANDERS: What I mean is that we need to have one of the larger voter turnouts in
the world, not one of the lowest. We need to raise public consciousness. We need
the American people to know what's going on in Washington in a way that today
they do not know. (APPLAUSE) And when people come together in a way that does
not exist now and are prepared to take on the big money interest, then we could
bring the kind of change we need.

O'MALLEY: Anderson, I actually have talked about a revolution. What we need is a
green energy revolution. We need to move America to a 100 percent clean electric
grid by 2050 and create 5 million jobs along the way.

COOPER: And we want to -- and we're going to talk more about climate change and
environmental issues coming up. Some of the candidates have tried marijuana, as
have pretty much -- probably everybody in this room.

(LAUGHTER)

Others have not. Does that influence -- does it influence their views on
legalization? Find out that and others ahead.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

COOPER: And welcome back to this CNN Democratic presidential debate. It has been
quite a night so far. We are in the final block of this debate. All the
candidates are back, which I'm very happy to see.

(LAUGHTER)

COOPER: It's a long story. Let's continue, shall we? Secretary Clinton, welcome
back.

CLINTON: Well, thank you.

(LAUGHTER)

CLINTON: You know, it does take me a little longer. That's all I can say.

COOPER: That's right. Secretary Clinton, Governor O'Malley says the presidency
is not a crown to be passed back and forth between two royal families. This year
has been the year of the outsider in politics, just ask Bernie Sanders. Why
should Democrats embrace an insider like yourself?

CLINTON: Well, I can't think of anything more of an outsider than electing the
first woman president, but I'm not just running because I would be the first
woman president.

(APPLAUSE)

CLINTON: I'm running because I have a lifetime of experience in getting results
and fighting for people, fighting for kids, for women, for families, fighting to
even the odds. And I know what it takes to get things done. I know how to find
common ground and I know how to stand my ground. And I think we're going to need
both of those in Washington to get anything that we're talking about up here
accomplished. So I'm very happy that I have both the commitment of a lifetime
and the experience of a lifetime to bring together to offer the American people.

COOPER: Governor O'Malley, do you want to tell Secretary Clinton why she
shouldn't get the crown?

O'MALLEY: Well, actually, you know, we had this conversation. And I will share
with you that I've traveled all around the country, Anderson, and there's two
phrases I keep hearing again and again and again. And they're the phrases ''new
leadership'' and ''getting things done.'' We cannot be this dissatisfied with
our gridlocked national politics and an economy where 70 percent of us are
earning the same or less than we were 12 years ago, and think that a resort to
old names is going to move us forward. I respect what Secretary Clinton and her
husband have done for our country. But our country needs new leadership to move
forward.

COOPER: Secretary Clinton, you have to be able to respond, if you want.

CLINTON: Well, I would not ask anyone to vote for me based on my last name. I
would ask them to listen to what I'm proposing, look at what I've accomplished
in the Senate, as secretary of of state, and then draw your own conclusion. I
certainly am not campaigning to become president because my last name is
Clinton. I'm campaigning because I think I have the right combination of what
the country needs, at this point, and I think I can take the fight to the
Republicans, because we cannot afford a Republican to succeed Barack Obama as
president of the United States.

COOPER: (inaudible). (APPLAUSE) Senator Sanders, does she have the right stuff?

SANDERS: I think -- I think that there is profound frustration all over this
country with establishment politics. I am the only candidate running for
president who is not a billionaire, who has raised substantial sums of money,
and I do not have a super PAC. (APPLAUSE)

I am not raising money from millionaires and billionaires, and in fact, tonight,
in terms of what a political revolution is about, there are 4,000 house parties
-- 100,000 people in this country -- watching this debate tonight who want real
change in this country.

COOPER: we've got -- we -- a lot of questions we've got about climate change,
and we're gonna go to Don Lemon. Don?

LEMON: All right. This one is for Martin O'Malley. Anderson, Governor O'Malley,
this is from Anna Bettis from Tempe, Arizona. Here it is.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

QUESTION: As a young person, I'm very concerned about climate change and how it
will affect my future. As a presidential candidate, what will you do to address
climate change?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

LEMON: So, Governor O'Malley, please tell Anna how you would protect the
environment better than all the other candidates up on that stage.

O'MALLEY: Yeah. Anna, I have put forward a plan -- and I'm the only candidate, I
believe, in either party to do this -- to move America forward to a 100 percent
clean electric grid by 2050. We did not land a man on the moon with an
all-of-the-above strategy. It was an intentional engineering challenge, and we
solved it as a nation. And our nation must solve this one. So I put forward the
plan that would extend the investor tax credits for solar and for wind. If you
go across Iowa, you see that 30 percent of their energy now comes from wind.
We're here in Las Vegas, one of the most sustainable cities in America, doing
important things in terms of green building, architecture and design. We can get
there as a nation, but it's going to require presidential leadership. And as
president, I intend to sign as my very first order in office the -- an order
that moves us as a nation and dedicates our resources to solving this problem
and moving us to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050.

COOPER: Governor...

O'MALLEY: We can do it.

COOPER: ...Governor O'Malley, thank you very much.

(APPLAUSE)

Senator Webb, you have a very different view than just about anybody else on
this stage, and unlike a lot of Democrats. You're pro-coal, you're pro-offshore
drilling, you're pro-Keystone pipeline. Are -- again, are you -- the question
is, are you out of step with the Democratic party?

WEBB: Well, the -- the question really is how are we going to solve energy
problems here and in the global environment if you really want to address
climate change? And when I was in the Senate, I was an all-of-the-above energy
voter. We introduced legislation to bring in alternate energy as well as nuclear
power. I'm a strong proponent of nuclear power. It is safe, it is clean. And
really, we are not going to solve climate change simply with the laws here.
We've done a good job in this country since 1970. If you look at China and
India, they're the greatest polluters in the world. Fifteen out of the 20 most
polluted cities in the world are in one of those two countries. We need to solve
this in a global way. It's a global problem and I have been very strong on -- on
doing that. The -- the agreements -- the so-called agreements that we have had
with China are illusory in terms of the immediate requirements of the -- of the
Chinese government itself. So let's solve this problem in an international way,
and then we really will have a -- a way to address climate change.

COOPER: Senator Sanders, are you tougher on -- on climate change than Secretary
Clinton?

SANDERS: Well, I will tell you this. I believe -- and Pope Francis made this
point. This is a moral issue. The scientists are telling us that we need to move
extremely boldly. I am proud that, along with Senator Barbara Boxer, a few years
ago, we introduced the first piece of climate change legislation which called
for a tax on carbon. And let me also tell you that nothing is gonna happen
unless we are prepared to deal with campaign finance reform, because the fossil
fuel industry is funding the Republican Party, which denies the reality of
climate change...

(APPLAUSE)

...and certainly is not prepared to go forward aggressively. This is a moral
issue. We have got to be extremely aggressive in working with China, India,
Russia.

COOPER: Senator -- thank you, Senator.

SANDERS: The planet -- the future of the planet is at stake.

COOPER: Secretary Clinton, I want you to be able to respond, then I'm gonna go
to (ph) (inaudible).

CLINTON: Well, that -- that's exactly what I've been doing. When we met in
Copenhagen in 2009 and, literally, President Obama and I were hunting for the
Chinese, going throughout this huge convention center, because we knew we had to
get them to agree to something. Because there will be no effective efforts
against climate change unless China and India join with the rest of the world.
They told us they'd left for the airport; we found out they were having a secret
meeting. We marched up, we broke in, we said, ''We've been looking all over for
you. Let's sit down and talk about what we need to do.'' And we did come up with
the first international agreement that China has signed. Thanks to President
Obama's leadership, it's now gone much further.

COOPER: Thank you. CLINTON: And I do think that the bilateral agreement that
President Obama made with the Chinese was significant. Now, it needs to go
further, and there will be an international meeting at the end of this year, and
we must get verifiable commitments to fight climate change from every country
gathered there.

COOPER: Dana Bash?

BASH: Secretary Clinton, you now support mandated paid family leave.

CLINTON: Mm-hmm.

BASH: Carly Fiorina, the first female CEO of a Fortune 50 company, argues, if
the government requires paid leave, it will force small businesses to, quote,
''hire fewer people and create fewer jobs.'' What do you say not only to Carly
Fiorina, but also a small-business owner out there who says, you know, I like
this idea, but I just can't afford it?

CLINTON: Well, I'm surprised she says that, because California has had a paid
leave program for a number of years. And it's...

BASH: It's on the federal level.

CLINTON: Well, but all -- well, on a state level, a state as big as many
countries in the world. And it has not had the ill effects that the Republicans
are always saying it will have. And I think this is -- this is typical
Republican scare tactics. We can design a system and pay for it that does not
put the burden on small businesses. I remember as a young mother, you know,
having a baby wake up who was sick and I'm supposed to be in court, because I
was practicing law. I know what it's like. And I think we need to recognize the
incredible challenges that so many parents face, particularly working moms. I
see my good friend, Senator Gillibrand, in the front row. She's been a champion
of this. We need to get a consensus through this campaign, which is why I'm
talking about it everywhere I go, and we need to join the rest of the advanced
world in having it.

BASH: But Secretary -- Secretary Clinton, even many people who agree with you
might say, look, this is very hard to do, especially in today's day and age.
There are so many people who say, ''Really? Another government program? Is that
what you're proposing? And at the expense of taxpayer money?''

CLINTON: Well, look, you know, when people say that -- it's always the
Republicans or their sympathizers who say, ''You can't have paid leave, you
can't provide health care.'' They don't mind having big government to interfere
with a woman's right to choose and to try to take down Planned Parenthood.
They're fine with big government when it comes to that. I'm sick of it.
(APPLAUSE) You know, we can do these things.

(APPLAUSE)

We should not be paralyzed -- we should not be paralyzed by the Republicans and
their constant refrain, ''big government this, big government that,'' that
except for what they want to impose on the American people. I know we can afford
it, because we're going to make the wealthy pay for it. That is the way to get
it done.

COOPER: Thank you. Senator Sanders?

SANDERS: Yeah, Dana, here's the point: Every other major country on Earth, every
one, including some small countries, say that when a mother has a baby, she
should stay home with that baby. We are the only major country. That is an
international embarrassment that we do not provide family -- paid family and
medical leave.

(APPLAUSE)

Second of all, the secretary is right. Republicans tell us we can't do anything
except give tax breaks to billionaires and cut Social Security, Medicare, and
Medicaid. That's not what the American people want.

COOPER: Governor O'Malley?

O'MALLEY: Anderson, in our state, we actually expanded family leave. And I have
to agree with Secretary Clinton and Senator Sanders. Look, the genius of our
nation is that we find ways in every generation to include more of our people
more fully in the economic life of our country, and we need to do that for our
families, and especially so that women aren't penalized in having to drop out of
the workforce. My wife, Katie, is here with our four kids. And, man, that was a
juggle when we had little kids and -- and keeping jobs and moving forwards. We
would be a stronger nation economically if we had paid family leave.

COOPER: Governor, thank you. The issue now, particularly in this state, is
recreational marijuana. I want to go to Juan Carlos Lopez.

LOPEZ: Thank you, Anderson. Senator Sanders, right here in Nevada, there will be
a measure to legalize recreational marijuana on the 2016 ballot.

You've said you smoked marijuana twice; it didn't quite work for you. If you
were a Nevada resident, how would you vote?

SANDERS: I suspect I would vote yes.

(APPLAUSE)

And I would vote yes because I am seeing in this country too many lives being
destroyed for non-violent offenses. We have a criminal justice system that lets
CEOs on Wall Street walk away, and yet we are imprisoning or giving jail
sentences to young people who are smoking marijuana. I think we have to think
through this war on drugs...

(APPLAUSE)

SANDERS: ...which has done an enormous amount of damage. We need to rethink our
criminal justice system, we we've got a lot of work to do in that area.

O'MALLEY: Juan Carlos?

(APPLAUSE)

LOPEZ: Secretary Clinton, you told Christiane Amanpour you didn't smoke pot when
you were young, and you're not going to start now.

(LAUGHTER)

LOPEZ: When asked about legalizing recreational marijuana, you told her let's
wait and see how it plays out in Colorado and Washington. It's been more than a
year since you've said that. Are you ready to take a position tonight?

CLINTON: No. I think that we have the opportunity through the states that are
pursuing recreational marijuana to find out a lot more than we know today. I do
support the use of medical marijuana, and I think even there we need to do a lot
more research so that we know exactly how we're going to help people for whom
medical marijuana provides relief. So, I think we're just at the beginning, but
I agree completely with the idea that we have got to stop imprisoning people who
use marijuana. Therefore, we need more states, cities, and the federal
government to begin to address this so that we don't have this terrible result
that Senator Sanders was talking about where we have a huge population in our
prisons for nonviolent, low-level offenses that are primarily due to marijuana.

COOPER: Secretary Clinton, thank you. I want to go to Don Lemon with another
Facebook question.

LEMON: Alright, Anderson. This is for Senator Sanders, OK? This is from Carrie
(ph) Kang (ph) from Manassas, Virginia, would like would like to ask the
Senator, ''President Obama has had a difficult time getting Republicans to
compromise on just about every agenda. How will you approach this going forward,
and will it be any different?'' Senator?

SANDERS: The Republican party, since I've been in the Senate, and since
President Obama has been in office, has played a terrible, terrible role of
being total obstructionists. Every effort that he has made, that some of us have
made, they have said no, no, no. Now, in my view, the only way we can take on
the right wing republicans who are, by the way, I hope will not continue to
control the Senate and the House when one of us elected President...

(APPLAUSE)

SANDERS: ...But the only way we can get things done is by having millions of
people coming together. If we want free tuition at public colleges and
universities, millions of young people are going to have to demand it, and give
the Republicans an offer they can't refuse. If we want to raise the minimum wage
to $15 bucks an hour, workers are going to have to come together and look the
Republicans in the eye, and say, ''We know what's going on. You vote against us,
you are out of your job.''

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: We're going to hear from all the candidates coming up. We're going to
take a short break. More from the candidates in a moment.

(APPLAUSE) (COMMERCIAL BREAK)

COOPER: And welcome back to the final round of the CNN Democratic presidential
debate. This is a question to each of you. Each of you, by the way, are going to
have closing statements to make. Each of you will have 90 seconds. But a final
question to each of you. If you can, just try to -- 15 seconds if you can.
Governor Chafee, Franklin Delano Roosevelt once said, ''I ask you to judge me by
the enemies I have made.'' You've all made a few people upset over your
political careers. Which enemy are you most proud of?

(LAUGHTER)

CHAFEE: I guess the coal lobby. I've worked hard for climate change and I want
to work with the coal lobby. But in my time in the Senate, tried to bring them
to the table so that we could address carbon dioxide. I'm proud to be at odds
with the coal lobby.

COOPER: Governor O'Malley?

O'MALLEY: The National Rifle Association.

(APPLAUSE) COOPER: Secretary Clinton?

CLINTON: Well, in addition to the NRA, the health insurance companies, the drug
companies, the Iranians. (LAUGHTER) Probably the Republicans.

(LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Senator Sanders?

SANDERS: As someone who has taken on probably every special interest that there
is in Washington, I would lump Wall Street and the pharmaceutical industry at
the top of my life of people who do not like me.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Senator Webb?

WEBB: I'd have to say the enemy soldier that threw the grenade that wounded me,
but he's not around right now to talk to.

COOPER: All right. Time for closing statements. Each of you will have 90
seconds. Governor Chafee, let's begin with you.

CHAFEE: Thank you, Anderson. Thank you, CNN. And thank you, Facebook, for
sponsoring this debate. America has many challenges confronting us -- ending the
perpetual wars, addressing climate change, addressing income inequality, funding
education, funding infrastructure, funding healthcare, helping black Americans,
helping Native Americans. We have many challenges. Who is best able to confront
these challenges? I've served in government at many levels. I know what it's
like to solve problems at the local level because I did it as mayor. I know how
to get legislation passed through Congress because I did it as a senator. I know
how to turn around a state because I did as governor of Rhode Island. But what
I'm most proud of is that in 30 years of public service, I have had no scandals.
I have high ethical standards. And what I'm most proud of is my judgment,
particularly in the Iraq war vote. There was a lot of pressure -- political
pressure, public pressure. But I did my homework and I did not believe that the
evidence was there that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction. And we
live now with the consequences.

CHAFEE: So that kind of judgment is what we want in a president going forward.
And I'm running for president to end the wars. I want to be the peacemaker. I am
a proven peacemaker. Please go to Chafee 2016 to learn more about me. Thank you.
(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Governor Chafee, thank you very much. Senator Webb, your final statement
for 90 seconds.

WEBB: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it's been a pleasure to be with you
tonight. You've heard a lot of promises up here; you've heard a lot of rhetoric.
They all seem to happen during campaigns, and then once the election's over,
people start from scratch again and try to get things done. One of the things I
can promise you, if you look at my record, in and out of government, is that
I've always been willing to take on a complicated, something unpopular issues,
and work them through, the complex issues, and work them through in order to
have the solution. We did it with criminal justice reform. We've had a lot of
discussion here about criminal justice reform. We did it in other ways. We need
a national political strategy for our economy, for our social policy, for social
justice, and, by the way, for how you run and manage the most complex
bureaucracy in the world, which is the federal government. I know how to lead. I
did it in Vietnam, I did it in the Pentagon, I did it in the Senate, and if you
will help me overcome this cavalcade of -- of financial irregularities and money
that is poisoning our political process, I am ready to do that for you in the
White House.

COOPER: Senator Webb, thank you very much. Governor O'Malley, you have 90
seconds.

O'MALLEY: Anderson, thank you. I am very, very grateful to have been able to be
on this stage with this distinguished group of candidates tonight. And what you
heard tonight, Anderson, was a very, very -- and all of you watching at home --
was a very, very different debate than from the sort of debate you heard from
the two presidential Republican debates.

(APPLAUSE)

On this stage -- on this stage, you didn't hear anyone denigrate women, you
didn't hear anyone make racist comments about new American immigrants, you
didn't hear anyone speak ill of another American because of their religious
belief. What you heard instead on this stage tonight was an honest search for
the answers that will move our country forward, to move us to a 100 percent
clean electric energy grid by 2050, to take the actions that we have always
taken as Americans so that we can actually attack injustice in our country,
employ more of our people, rebuild our cities and towns, educate our children at
higher and better levels, and include more of our people in the economic,
social, and political life of our country. I truly believe that we are standing
on the threshold of a new era of American progress. Unless you've become
discouraged about our gridlock in Congress, talk to our young people under 30,
because you'll never find among them people that want to bash immigrants or
people that want to deny rights to gay couples.

(APPLAUSE)

That tells me we are moving to a more connected, generous, and compassionate
place, and we need to speak to the goodness within our country.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Governor O'Malley, thank you very much. Senator Sanders, final, closing
thoughts, 90 seconds.

SANDERS: This is a great country, but we have many, many serious problems. We
should not be the country that has the highest rate of childhood poverty of any
major country and more wealth and income inequality than any other country. We
should not be the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee health
care to all of our people as a right of citizenship and we should not be the
only major country that does not provide medical and -- and parental leave --
family and parental leave to all of our families. Now, at the end of our day,
here is the truth that very few candidates will say, is that nobody up here,
certainly no Republican, can address the major crises facing our country unless
millions of people begin to stand up to the billionaire class that has so much
power over our economy and our political life. Jim Webb is right: Money is
pouring in to this campaign through super PACs. We are doing it the
old-fashioned way: 650,000 individual contributions. And if people want to help
us out, BernieSanders.com. We are averaging $30 bucks apiece. We would
appreciate your help.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Secretary Clinton?

CLINTON: Thank you very much, Anderson. And thanks to all the viewers who tuned
in tonight. I think what you did see is that, in this debate, we tried to deal
with some of the very tough issues facing our country. That's in stark contrast
to the Republicans who are currently running for president. What you have to ask
yourself is: Who amongst us has the vision for actually making the changes that
are going to improve the lives of the American people? Who has the tenacity and
the ability and the proven track record of getting that done? Now, I revere my
late mother, and she gave me a lot of good advice. But one of the best pieces of
advice she gave me was, you know, the issue is not whether or not you get
knocked down. It's whether you get back up. America's been knocked down. That
Great Recession, 9 million people lost their jobs, 5 million lost their homes,
$13 trillion in wealth disappeared. And although we've made progress, we're
standing but not running the way America needs to. My mission as president will
be to raise incomes for hard-working middle-class families and to make sure that
we get back to the basic bargain I was raised with: If you work hard and you do
your part, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead. Please join me in
this campaign. Please come and make it clear that America's best days are still
ahead. Thank you very much.

(APPLAUSE)

COOPER: Well, that does it for this Democratic presidential debate. On behalf of
everyone at CNN, we want to thank the candidates, our debate partners at
Facebook, the Wynn Resort, and the Democratic National Committee. Thanks also to
Dana Bash, Juan Carlos Lopez, and Don Lemon. We'll be back in Las Vegas December
15th, when CNN hosts our next Republican presidential debate. That will be
moderated by my colleague, Wolf Blitzer. END

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/14/us/politics/democratic-debate-transcript.html

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           October 14, 2015 Wednesday

Online Attacks on Infrastructure Are Increasing at a Worrying Pace

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1308 words



HIGHLIGHT: The breaches are growing in sophistication, though only a
sufficiently deterred few have the capacity to make a truly devastating strike
&#8212; for now.


SAN FRANCISCO  - Over the last four years, foreign hackers have stolen source
code and blueprints to the oil and water pipelines and power grid of the United
States and have infiltrated the Department of Energy's networks 150 times.

So what's stopping them from shutting us down?

The phrase "cyber-Pearl Harbor" first appeared in the 1990s. For the last 20
years, policy makers have predicted catastrophic situations in which hackers
blow up oil pipelines, contaminate the water supply, open the nation's
floodgates and send airplanes on collision courses by hacking air traffic
control systems.

"They could, for example, derail passenger trains or, even more dangerous,
derail trains loaded with lethal chemicals," former Defense Secretary Leon E.
Panetta warned in 2012. "They could contaminate the water supply in major
cities, or shut down the power grid across large parts of the country."

It is getting harder to write off such predictions as fearmongering. The number
of attacks against industrial control systems more than doubled to 675,186 in
January 2014 from 163,228 in January 2013, according to Dell Security - most of
those in the United States, Britain and Finland.

And in many cases, outages at airports and financial exchanges - like a computer
outage that took down computers at airports across the country late Wednesday,
including Kennedy International Airport in New York and Logan Airport in Boston
- are never tied to hacks.

But it's clear hackers are trying.

The Department of Homeland Security last year announced that it was
investigating an attack against 1,000 energy companies across Europe and North
America. In 2012, 23 gas pipeline companies were hacked by online spies,
according to a Homeland Security report. Private investigators later linked the
attack to China.

Last year, in a disclosure overshadowed by the news of the attack on Sony, a
German federal agency said that in an attack at an unnamed steel mill, hackers
had managed to jump from the company's corporate network to its production
systems, causing significant damage to a blast furnace.

And in an extensive attack at Telvent, an information technology and industrial
automation company now owned by Schneider Electric, Chinese hackers made off
with its product source code and blueprints to facilities operated by its
customers, which include 60 percent of the pipeline operators in North America.

For now, dire predictions of destructive online attacks on American targets
ignore the fact that the actors with the ability to cause the gravest harm to
America's critical infrastructure - China and Russia and allies like Israel and
Britain - are sufficiently deterred from doing so by fear of retaliation or
because of longstanding trade and diplomatic relationships. And attacks by those
aggressively trying to get such a capability - Iran, North Korea and Islamic
militant groups - are still several years off.

"Despite all the talks of a cyber-Pearl Harbor, I am not really worried about a
state competitor like China doing catastrophic damage to infrastructure," said
Michael V. Hayden, former head of the National Security Agency. "It's the attack
from renegade, lower-tier nation-states that have nothing to lose."

Just how far off are they? That is the question troubling policy makers at the
National Security Council and intelligence and law enforcement agencies. Federal
officials have repeatedly warned that Islamic State militants have been
exploiting social media for recruitment, and are developing tools to break into
their enemies' systems.

Those capabilities were sufficient to prompt the assassination of Junaid
Hussain, the chief of the Islamic State's cyberarmy, who was killed by an
airstrike in Syria in August. But for now, federal officials say, the Islamic
State does not have a significant ability to cause damage through online
attacks.

"It's not easy to pull off a spectacular attack," said James A. Lewis, a
security expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington. "People are always saying in theory they can do something, but it's
not at the level of a Pearl Harbor or a 9/11."

Mr. Lewis added: "Could someone acquire the ability to cause a blackout? That's
something to worry about, but the only people who could pull it off don't have
any interest in doing so."

Most security experts point to the attacks last year at Sony - where hackers
leaked internal documents and destroyed the company's servers - as an example of
the destruction that is possible now, and a harbinger of what may come.

There were warnings the year before the Sony hacking that such an incident was
possible. In a carefully planned attack in 2013, North Korean hackers knocked
out almost 50,000 computers and servers for several days at South Korean banks
and media companies.

Less sophisticated attackers are more likely to continue to pursue social media
campaigns and isolated attacks, rather than take down parts of the power grid,
said Ralph Langner, an independent security expert who was the first to
attribute Stuxnet, a virtual weapon used against Iranian nuclear centrifuges, to
the United States and Israel.

But the attacks that have rattled American government officials the most were
similar attacks at Saudi Aramco, the world's largest oil company, and RasGas,
the Qatari oil giant, in 2012.

At Aramco, the hackers replaced the data on employees' hard drives with an image
of a burning American flag. United States intelligence officials say Aramco's
attackers were hackers in Iran, although they offered no specific evidence to
support the claim. Mr. Panetta, then secretary of defense, called the Aramco
sabotage "a significant escalation of the cyberthreat."

Forensics specialists who were called in to analyze the Aramco attack said there
was evidence the attackers probed the network that connects the company's
pipelines but were never able to cross from Aramco's corporate network to its
production systems. The same was true for a similar attack at RasGas two weeks
later. Hackers tried and failed to hit the Qatari petroleum company's production
systems, but successfully took its corporate networks and servers offline.

But the attack on the German steel mill, disclosed last year, suggests that
hackers are increasingly finding ways to cross that threshold. Just last week,
it was announced that a group of hackers penetrated the Snohomish County Public
Utility District in Washington State. The hackers, members of the Washington
State National Guard, had been invited to test the utility's defenses, and the
results were frightening. They were able to break in with an email in under 22
minutes.

Joe Weiss, a crusader for industrial control security and founder of Applied
Control Solutions, a consulting firm, is not surprised. He manages a database of
750 incidents that affected control systems and said he was most disturbed that
most of them were not classified as attacks at all.

"What that tells you is that not only do we not have the mitigation, we don't
even have any type of adequate forensics to know this is happening, and whether
it was intentional or unintentional," he said.

The Department of Homeland Security tweeted late Wednesday evening that the
computer outages at airports were due to a "brief outage that lasted 90 minutes"
on the United States Customs and Border Protection's computer processing
systems.

But Mr. Weiss said in most cases, forensics investigations were still not
adequate enough to nail down the real source of such incidents. He said the same
was true across the electric, water, oil, gas, and nuclear industries.

"It's not like with weapons, where you know where it's coming from," Mr. Weiss
said. "With cyber- and control systems, you don't necessarily know."

"Will there be a cyber-Pearl Harbor? Most likely," Mr. Weiss added. "Will we
know it's cyber? Most likely not."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 15, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Infrastructure Armageddon

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Bits; BITS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1339 words


SAN FRANCISCO  -- Over the last four years, foreign hackers have stolen source
code and blueprints to the oil and water pipelines and power grid of the United
States and have infiltrated the Department of Energy's networks 150 times.

So what's stopping them from shutting us down?

The phrase ''cyber-Pearl Harbor'' first appeared in the 1990s. For the last 20
years, policy makers have predicted catastrophic situations in which hackers
blow up oil pipelines, contaminate the water supply, open the nation's
floodgates and send airplanes on collision courses by hacking air traffic
control systems.

''They could, for example, derail passenger trains or, even more dangerous,
derail trains loaded with lethal chemicals,'' former Defense Secretary Leon E.
Panetta warned in 2012. ''They could contaminate the water supply in major
cities, or shut down the power grid across large parts of the country.''

It is getting harder to write off such predictions as fearmongering. The number
of attacks against industrial control systems more than doubled to 675,186 in
January 2014 from 163,228 in January 2013, according to Dell Security -- most of
those in the United States, Britain and Finland.

And in many cases, outages at airports and financial exchanges -- like a
computer outage that took down computers at airports across the country late
Wednesday, including Kennedy International Airport in New York and Logan Airport
in Boston -- are never tied to hacks.

But it's clear hackers are trying.

The Department of Homeland Security last year announced that it was
investigating an attack against 1,000 energy companies across Europe and North
America. In 2012, 23 gas pipeline companies were hacked by online spies,
according to a Homeland Security report. Private investigators later linked the
attack to China.

Last year, in a disclosure overshadowed by the news of the attack on Sony, a
German federal agency said that in an attack at an unnamed steel mill, hackers
had managed to jump from the company's corporate network to its production
systems, causing significant damage to a blast furnace.

And in an extensive attack at Telvent, an information technology and industrial
automation company now owned by Schneider Electric, Chinese hackers made off
with its product source code and blueprints to facilities operated by its
customers, which include 60 percent of the pipeline operators in North America.

For now, dire predictions of destructive online attacks on American targets
ignore the fact that the actors with the ability to cause the gravest harm to
America's critical infrastructure -- China and Russia and allies like Israel and
Britain -- are sufficiently deterred from doing so by fear of retaliation or
because of longstanding trade and diplomatic relationships. And attacks by those
aggressively trying to get such a capability -- Iran, North Korea and Islamic
militant groups -- are still several years off.

''Despite all the talks of a cyber-Pearl Harbor, I am not really worried about a
state competitor like China doing catastrophic damage to infrastructure,'' said
Michael V. Hayden, former head of the National Security Agency. ''It's the
attack from renegade, lower-tier nation-states that have nothing to lose.''

Just how far off are they? That is the question troubling policy makers at the
National Security Council and intelligence and law enforcement agencies. Federal
officials have repeatedly warned that Islamic State militants have been
exploiting social media for recruitment, and are developing tools to break into
their enemies' systems.

Those capabilities were sufficient to prompt the assassination of Junaid
Hussain, the chief of the Islamic State's cyberarmy, who was killed by an
airstrike in Syria in August. But for now, federal officials say, the Islamic
State does not have a significant ability to cause damage through online
attacks.

''It's not easy to pull off a spectacular attack,'' said James A. Lewis, a
security expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington. ''People are always saying in theory they can do something, but it's
not at the level of a Pearl Harbor or a 9/11.''

Mr. Lewis added: ''Could someone acquire the ability to cause a blackout? That's
something to worry about, but the only people who could pull it off don't have
any interest in doing so.''

Most security experts point to the attacks last year at Sony -- where hackers
leaked internal documents and destroyed the company's servers -- as an example
of the destruction that is possible now, and a harbinger of what may come.

There were warnings the year before the Sony hacking that such an incident was
possible. In a carefully planned attack in 2013, North Korean hackers knocked
out almost 50,000 computers and servers for several days at South Korean banks
and media companies.

Less sophisticated attackers are more likely to continue to pursue social media
campaigns and isolated attacks, rather than take down parts of the power grid,
said Ralph Langner, an independent security expert who was the first to
attribute Stuxnet, a virtual weapon used against Iranian nuclear centrifuges, to
the United States and Israel.

But the attacks that have rattled American government officials the most were
similar attacks at Saudi Aramco, the world's largest oil company, and RasGas,
the Qatari oil giant, in 2012.

At Aramco, the hackers replaced the data on employees' hard drives with an image
of a burning American flag. United States intelligence officials say Aramco's
attackers were hackers in Iran, although they offered no specific evidence to
support the claim. Mr. Panetta, then secretary of defense, called the Aramco
sabotage ''a significant escalation of the cyberthreat.''

Forensics specialists who were called in to analyze the Aramco attack said there
was evidence the attackers probed the network that connects the company's
pipelines but were never able to cross from Aramco's corporate network to its
production systems. The same was true for a similar attack at RasGas two weeks
later. Hackers tried and failed to hit the Qatari petroleum company's production
systems, but successfully took its corporate networks and servers offline.

But the attack on the German steel mill, disclosed last year, suggests that
hackers are increasingly finding ways to cross that threshold. Just last week,
it was announced that a group of hackers penetrated the Snohomish County Public
Utility District in Washington State. The hackers, members of the Washington
State National Guard, had been invited to test the utility's defenses, and the
results were frightening. They were able to break in with an email in under 22
minutes.

Joe Weiss, a crusader for industrial control security and founder of Applied
Control Solutions, a consulting firm, is not surprised. He manages a database of
750 incidents that affected control systems and said he was most disturbed that
most of them were not classified as attacks at all.

''What that tells you is that not only do we not have the mitigation, we don't
even have any type of adequate forensics to know this is happening, and whether
it was intentional or unintentional,'' he said.

The Department of Homeland Security tweeted late Wednesday evening that the
computer outages at airports were due to a ''brief outage that lasted 90
minutes'' on the United States Customs and Border Protection's computer
processing systems.

But Mr. Weiss said in most cases, forensics investigations were still not
adequate enough to nail down the real source of such incidents. He said the same
was true across the electric, water, oil, gas, and nuclear industries.

''It's not like with weapons, where you know where it's coming from,'' Mr. Weiss
said. ''With cyber- and control systems, you don't necessarily know.''

''Will there be a cyber-Pearl Harbor? Most likely,'' Mr. Weiss added. ''Will we
know it's cyber? Most likely not.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/10/14/online-attacks-on-infrastructure-are-in
creasing-at-a-worrying-pace/

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARIO WAGNER)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 16, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Finding 'Who' and 'Where' in Online Betting Universe

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ, AGUSTIN ARMENDARIZ and WALT BOGDANICH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 674 words


It is easy to believe, and often said, that the Internet is everywhere and
nowhere -- that it is a kind of data-delivery system based on programming logic,
not physical hardware. But the data always originates somewhere in the enormous
mass of equipment that makes up the global Internet.

''Every single part of the Internet is real and expressed physically,'' said
Bill Woodcock, executive director of Packet Clearing House, a nonprofit
organization focused on Internet infrastructure and security.

''If you're logging into something, there is a real server that can be
touched,'' Mr. Woodcock said.

Two websites that reporters for The New York Times tracked as test cases were
BetCRIS.com, which has been named in multiple federal indictments, and
BetOnline.com, a popular site in the United States, according to traffic data.

Going directly from a website name to a physical location is usually not
possible on the Internet, with a logical addressing system that makes no
reference to geography.

So The Times used a two-step process: First, reporters used commercially
available tools, and Internet routing data from several sources, to learn what
entities are delivering content for the websites. The second step was to locate
those entities -- often they are companies that operate equipment within the
Internet -- at a street address.

Major sources for the Internet data included Mr. Woodcock and Doug Madory,
director of Internet analysis at Dyn, an Internet performance company.

In addition, reporters consulted with two academic research groups, the Center
for Applied Internet Data Analysis at the University of California, San Diego,
and the Duke University department of computer science, to confirm some broad
findings -- for example, whether content for a website was delivered from inside
or outside the United States.

The key to pinpointing physical locations was something called an ''autonomous
system number,'' often referred to in shorthand as an A.S. This acts as a kind
of unique serial number that helps companies recognize one another across the
Internet.

When a user types in a domain name corresponding to a website, the Internet
addressing system provides the A.S. that is hosting or routing the site or
otherwise delivering its content. The A.S. usually corresponds to a specific
company -- say, one of the so-called content delivery networks that operate
servers around the world.

Identifying the A.S. with the routing data ''is something you can scientifically
test and verify,'' Mr. Madory said.

From there, The Times used a variety of techniques to find physical addresses.
For example, reporters examined publicly available databases in which companies
list the locations of their equipment in various data centers.

Reporters and their sources also used an Internet-based technique called
''tracerouting.'' A traceroute, as the term implies, is sent out as a probe, say
to a specific website associated with an A.S. Much like the sonar pings a bat
sends out to navigate, traceroutes return with data on the spatial location of
the site.

BetOnline advertises itself as a Panamanian site and BetCRIS has long been
registered in Costa Rica. But by tracking the websites in the United States, The
Times learned that American customers primarily reached them through a pair of
secure portals, one located at a data center in Ashburn, Va., and other in a
similar facility in San Jose, Calif.

The portals exist to route traffic quickly and protect the website from hacker
attacks. Internet data show that the equipment is operated by a company that was
acquired last year by Akamai, a highly respected company that was the first
major content delivery network and still dominates the market.

Akamai publishes a strict ''acceptable use policy'' that prohibits it from
hosting or delivering content for illegal sites like online gambling outfits. In
July, shortly after being notified of The Times' findings, Akamai said it had
terminated its service to BetOnline and BetCRIS. Internet data confirmed the
moves.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/16/us/finding-who-and-where-within-the-sports-
cyber-betting-universe.html

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Monitors tracking Internet traffic patterns at the offices of
Dyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 18, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dystopias Present and Yet to Come

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SOMMERS

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THEATER | NEW JERSEY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 824 words


''The Nether''

Disturbing doings set in the near future are unfolding in Hackettstown, where
Centenary Stage Company is presenting the New Jersey premiere of ''The Nether.''

Ecological blight has rendered the real world bleak, while the Internet, which
has expanded into what is known as the Nether, appears to have limitless virtual
capabilities.

Jennifer Haley's imaginative 2013 drama begins as Morris (Erica Knight), a young
detective, fiercely grills Sims (Craig MacDonald), the owner of a site called
the Hideaway, where he doubles as its gentlemanly virtual host. The idyllic
haven takes the online form of a gracious 1880s-era manor situated in a lush
garden, where pretty children romp.

It is gradually revealed that the Hideaway caters to pedophiles, who assume
Victorian identities.

Sims insists that his business offers a mere fantasy world and that Hideaway
guests are not accountable for their actions. Morris believes otherwise and has
sent a secret agent to investigate. The drama, which shifts in brief scenes
between the real and virtual worlds, offers intriguing ideas on cyber-addiction
and the ethical dilemmas embedded in online interactions.

Other characters caught in the tautly composed plot include a sad-eyed
frequenter of the Hideaway (Peter Levine), a diffident newcomer to the realm
(Christopher J. Young) and a perky, prepubescent avatar named Iris (Olivia
Mancuso).

This adults-only work is tricky to stage in terms of both its design and its
tone. Carl Wallnau, Centenary's artistic director, wisely fosters a coolly
detached interpretation of the play that avoids prurience. Led by Mr. MacDonald,
who is vehement as Sims and avuncular as the Hideaway host, the performances are
persuasive. One shortcoming is that some of the actors speak too rapidly.
Because the show runs scarcely more than 70 minutes, they could easily slow down
a bit, especially during the expository passages.

The setting, designed by Bob Phillips, contrasts a grim interrogation room with
the off-kilter charms of the Hideaway. Like the period clothes designed by Julia
Sharp, the looks of this virtual sanctum are slightly skewed and febrile to
suggest its unreality, and successfully enhance this provocative drama.

''Song for the Disappeared''

After five years of estrangement from her wealthy Mexican-American family,
Adriana, a writer, has returned home to South Texas when she learns that her
brother, Javi, is missing.

Old emotional wounds are opened again as the family faces the crisis in ''Song
for the Disappeared,'' a new drama having its world premiere in a Passage
Theater Company production in Trenton.

Tanya Saracho, the play's author, often studies contemporary Hispanic society in
her works. ''Song for the Disappeared'' is no exception. Parts of the dialogue
are written and performed in Spanish, and the story hinges on the current state
of the drug trafficking trade.

Leo (Felipe Gorostiza), the domineering head of the household, is a successful
businessman whose unspecified enterprises are threatened by drug lords operating
on both sides of the border. Leo fears that one of them may have kidnapped his
son. At the same time Mila (Annie Dow), Leo's considerably younger second wife,
mourns her cousin's recent murder during these violent times.

''No one can escape it,'' Mila says. ''To be a man in Mexico is death, and to be
a woman ... it's much worse. Because all you are left with is the tears you cry
over your dead.''

An awareness of these grim forces hovers over the drama, which turns out to be
mostly a banal domestic episode. Adriana (Vivia Font) and Nena (Christina
Nieves), her emotionally frail sister, are hostile to the tacky yet kindly Mila,
while Adriana uneasily re-encounters Mario (Thomas Christopher Nieto), a former
boyfriend who happens to be Leo's gun-packing lieutenant.

It is also revealed that Leo, Mila and Mario figure in a recent roman à clef
that Adriana has written, which may have inadvertently led to her father's
struggles with the drug cartels.

Everybody stews away through the night at the family's isolated ranch, anxiously
awaiting news about the missing Javi.

This underwritten play is rather flatly directed by Alex Correia. The most
convincing performances are delivered by Mr. Nieto, who sturdily portrays the
loyal Mario, and by Ms. Dow, who is touching as the pathetically
desperate-to-please Mila.

Sharper dramatic construction and richer character development, especially
regarding the essential conflicts between Adriana and Leo, might have made
''Song for the Disappeared'' a more satisfying work.

''The Nether'' is at Centenary Stage Company, Lackland Center, 715 Grand Avenue,
Hackettstown, through Oct. 25. Information: 908-979-0900; centenarystageco.org.
''Song for the Disappeared'' is at the Mill Hill Playhouse, Passage Theater
Company, 205 East Front Street, Trenton, through Oct. 25. Information:
609-392-0766; passagetheatre.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/18/nyregion/reviews-of-the-nether-and-song-for-th
e-disappeared-in-new-jersey.html

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Internet appears to have limitless virtual capabilities in
''The Nether,'' with Christopher J. Young, as Mr. Woodnut, and Olivia Mancuso,
as Iris, above, and Erica Knight, as Detective Morris, and Craig MacDonald, as
Sims, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BOB EBERLE)
 Adriana, a writer, has returned home to South Texas when she learns that her
brother is missing in ''Song for the Disappeared.'' The play stars Thomas
Christopher Nieto, as Mario, and Vivia Font, as Adriana. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL
GOLDSTEIN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 18, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shrimp Boy's Day in Court

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH WEIL.

Elizabeth Weil, based in San Francisco, is a contributing writer for the
magazine. She last wrote about why it's so hard to get a great bagel in
California.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FEATURE; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 5007 words


One day five years ago, Shrimp Boy found himself in a hardware store in
Chinatown in San Francisco, buying big plastic paint buckets to make pruno.
Pruno is jailhouse wine, and Shrimp Boy was an experienced vintner, though he
had only ever made pruno in an empty fire extinguisher, because that's how the
masters make it in prison. Yet there Shrimp Boy was, a middle-aged former
Chinese-mafia don, now a free man, living at his girlfriend's condo in San
Francisco's Potrero Hill neighborhood, trying to become what he called
''normal'' -- a state he found exotic and thrilling. Normal, to Shrimp Boy,
included mild environmentalism, like conserving gas (''Nobody in prison thinks
about the next generation!''); scooping up after his girlfriend's dogs, a
terrier named Happy and a mastiff named Valentine; and hosting dinner parties,
like the one for which he was making pruno. The entire menu was prison food. His
girlfriend was curious about it, and he wanted to please her. As Shrimp Boy told
me recently: ''I learned a lot from normal people. She's very square, strict.''

Shrimp Boy's prison-party dishes included a dip made with smoked oysters
­(available in the commissary) and ''the tuna and the jalapeño, green onions and
mayonnaise,'' he said. ''We put that on a Ritz cracker or corn chip -- that's a
very good spread. We also make the pork- and the chicken-tamale-egg-roll kind of
thing.'' The tamale-egg-roll kind of thing, which Shrimp Boy ate when he could
abscond with some leftover grits from breakfast in prison, is made by spreading
the cooled, thickened grits out flat like sushi rice, adding a chicken or pork
filling, rolling it all up, wrapping the log in a damp paper towel and a piece
of plastic trash bag and steaming it in a microwave. Shrimp Boy's pruno is a
classic blend: grapefruit juice (for acid), apple juice (for sugar), bread (for
yeast) and orange slices. Eight days before the party, Shrimp Boy placed all the
ingredients in a paint bucket, then left the bucket on his girlfriend's porch,
in the sun, so its contents could ferment. A couple of hours before the guests
arrived, Shrimp Boy strained the pruno through his girlfriend's stockings. ''I
felt pretty funny about that,'' he told me, as if he strongly suspected that
this wasn't normal but wasn't totally sure.

Shrimp Boy met his girlfriend, Alicia Lo, one night in a club in 2008. Lo is a
U.C. Berkeley graduate from the upscale Bay Area suburb Walnut Creek, beautiful,
the mother of an 11-year-old daughter and fairly normal, though not so normal
that she wouldn't date Shrimp Boy. (His given name is Kwok Cheung Chow; Lo calls
him Raymond, the name a teacher gave him during the one month he attended high
school. Shrimp Boy calls himself Shrimp Boy.) When Lo began Shrimp Boy's
re-education, she told me, she treated him ''as a foreigner'' or ''like a
baby.'' ''He was so out of place in society,'' she said. ''He drove an old
bulletproof Mercedes.'' So Lo started teaching Shrimp Boy the contemporary San
Francisco basics: to hold her daughter's hand when crossing the street, to not
throw trash out car windows, to put the recycling in the blue garbage can and
the vegetable scraps in the green compost one.

Shrimp Boy's transition from gang boss to upstanding citizen was not always
easy. For instance, Shrimp Boy organized a field trip for students at Lo's
daughter's school to participate in the Chinese New Year parade. But some
parents complained that a man who had spent close to two decades in prison
should not be involved with children. Shrimp Boy's feelings were badly hurt when
the principal informed him that he could no longer volunteer. Shrimp Boy made
some more egregious missteps too. While taping a 2008 segment for the TV series
''Gangland,'' he gloated, ''In this city, I'm the man that calls the shots.''
(He later attributed this to a grammatical error; Shrimp Boy learned English as
a second language, and he said he meant to use the past tense -- that he was the
man who called the shots.) In hindsight, Shrimp Boy also probably should not
have worn all white to the funeral of a murdered rival Chinese gang leader in
2006.

But given where he came from -- as a United States attorney put it in a recent
court filing, he has an ''extensive and horrible criminal record'' involving
''almost all manner of racketeering possible'' -- he did pretty well. He
counseled at-risk high-school students about addiction to crime. Shrimp Boy
worked with a ghostwriter on a memoir he titled ''Son of the Underworld.'' He
gave advice to young men who sought him out -- what to do if, say, you fall in
love with a prostitute and want to take her home to your Chinese parents. He
told fellow ex-cons about the solace he found in Lo's dogs. He cooked oxtail
soup, enjoyed Marvel comics and learned to paint faces to entertain Lo's
daughter after school.

But at dawn on March 26, 2014, while Shrimp Boy, Lo and her daughter were asleep
in her home, law-enforcement officers broke down the front door, semiautomatic
weapons drawn. ''That didn't scare me,'' Shrimp Boy said. ''What really scared
me was worrying about Alicia and her daughter and the two dogs. They never had
that kind of thing around.'' To minimize the havoc -- it was a school day --
Shrimp Boy cooperated, and as he lay on the living-room floor in handcuffs, with
more than a dozen people standing above him, he thought back through his recent
activities. ''I didn't sell no drugs,'' he recalled thinking. ''I didn't have no
gun. I didn't have no money.'' Then, he said: ''I kind of laughed. What I did is
O.K.! I'm a changed man!''

On Nov. 2, in Judge Charles Breyer's courtroom at the Federal District Court for
the Northern District of California, Shrimp Boy, who is 55, is scheduled to
stand trial on 140 counts, including racketeering, money laundering, conspiracy
and trafficking in contraband cigarettes. Between 2008 and 2014, the F.B.I. ran
a sting called Operation Whitesuit. Confidential informants infiltrated San
Francisco's Chinatown and presented Shrimp Boy, who the government claims was
back in the gang business, with opportunities to participate in crimes,
including drug trafficking and murder for hire. Shrimp Boy claims he abstained.

Shrimp Boy and his lead lawyer, J. Tony Serra, are both characters from a bygone
San Francisco. Shrimp Boy describes Serra, who is 80, as ''an old, very old
wizard.'' Earlier in his career, in 1979, Serra successfully defended the Black
Panther Party co-founder Huey Newton against the charge of murdering a
prostitute. He has also represented members of the Hells Angels, Earth First!
and the Symbionese Liberation Army, the revolutionary group that kidnapped Patty
Hearst. His office is filled with threadbare furniture and Grateful Dead
posters, as well as posters featuring the work of his younger brother, the
sculptor Richard Serra. They have been estranged for almost 40 years, since
their mother committed suicide by walking into the Pacific Ocean.

''I'm just so happy I'm not dead,'' Serra, who has thinning white hair and less
than a full set of teeth, told me on a recent Sunday morning at his office. He
wore a tie-dye T-shirt that looked new. Within 10 minutes of my arrival, Serra
described Shrimp Boy to me as ''beautiful.'' When I asked what he meant, he
said: ''Every time I go to talk to Shrimp Boy, it's like being in the presence
of a holy man. He's soft and gentle and considerate and empathetic.'' For Serra,
representing Shrimp Boy is an honor and a privilege. ''This is the type of case
that any politically inclined lawyer -- this is your holy grail,'' he said.
''This is a government-created crime. This is a five-year and probably $3
million investigation.'' He concluded: ''I'm just delighted to take on the
goddamn case.''

Serra grew up in a working-class family near San Francisco's Ocean Beach. After
playing football as an undergraduate at Stanford, he tried to become an expat
writer in Morocco, but at that point he had never smoked a cigarette and was put
off by the heroin and the opium. He returned to San Francisco, discovered the
Haight and took a vow of poverty. He graduated from law school at U.C. Berkeley
in 1961 and has worked almost exclusively pro bono since. Among Serra's many
strong beliefs is that nostalgia is a scourge -- ''the first sign of death,'' he
says. Still, it bears noting that one of the biggest cases of his early career
also involved Chinatown. Serra exonerated, in a retrial, a Korean-American man
convicted of the 1973 murder of a Chinatown gang leader. That case formed the
basis of the 1989 movie ''True Believer,'' with James Woods starring as a
character modeled on Serra.

Serra himself has served two prison terms, as a tax resister -- four months in
1974 and 10 months in 2005. He would be happy to serve a third, should anyone
care to arrest him. He loves life on the inside -- ''It's like locking a doctor
who likes to practice medicine in a hospital,'' he once said. Less felicitous,
to Serra, is contemporary, gilded San Francisco. (''Look out the window! Do you
see the common man?'') Serra has no bank account, no credit card and no
cellphone. ''My DNA is nonmaterialistic,'' he explained. He abhors what he
perceives as the extravagance of American law enforcement after Sept. 11: As
part of the sting, F.B.I. informants ate meals with Shrimp Boy at the Four
Seasons, the Fairmont and the Ritz, according to a co-defendant's filing.

A few weeks after Shrimp Boy's arrest last March, Serra held a news conference.
''These undercover agents sought to induce him, sought to involve him, sought to
catch him in some overt act that represented criminal activity,'' Serra told the
journalists and friends of Shrimp Boy -- many of whom were wearing ''Free Shrimp
Boy'' T-shirts. ''My client's not a gangster.'' The F.B.I., he said, ''didn't
stop, you know, abort criminal activity that my client participated in.'' Serra
pointed to a picture of Shrimp Boy, who is 5-foot-4, nearly wrinkle-free and
almost always smiling. ''You saw a person,'' Serra continued, ''who is wholly
dedicated to the Chinese culture. To love. Education. We represent an exemplary
human being.'' He paused to clarify for those familiar with the Shrimp Boy of
the 1970s, '80s and '90s, a man who was convicted of racketeering, drug
trafficking, arson, armed robbery and attempted murder. ''I'm not talking before
he went to prison,'' Serra said. ''I'm talking after he got out.''

In Shrimp Boy's pretrial defense, Serra, along with his co-counsel, Curtis
Briggs, a former small-time criminal, has employed a legal strategy right out of
the Merry Prankster handbook: Stand out, be aggressive and fight authority every
step of the way. Serra, Briggs and other members of the team have accused the
F.B.I. of racial profiling -- setting a dragnet over Chinatown to catch Chinese
people breaking the law. They have also demanded that Shrimp Boy's case be
dismissed on the grounds of selective prosecution: They argued in a motion that
the same series of wiretaps that led to Shrimp Boy's indictment also revealed
that Mayor Ed Lee of San Francisco laundered campaign money. (The mayor's office
did not return calls and emails but has publicly denied this.) Judge Breyer
ruled against the motion, but the local press ran with the story, which was
largely the point.

Serra is cynical about many things. He believes that ''law is class struggle.''
He believes that judges ''are not referees, they are bullies,'' and that they
make decisions ''based on their own moral perspective.'' But Serra still
believes in juries, believes they are ''the last avenue to the common mentality,
and there is something beautiful in the American mentality.'' He sincerely
believes that a jury will hear Shrimp Boy's story and let him go. ''We have a
person who did have an epiphany,'' he said about Shrimp Boy's decision to go
straight and live a normal life, a person who didn't succumb to the government's
yearslong campaign to lure him back into crime.

The prosecution, on the other hand, argues that Shrimp Boy was employing a
classic strategy: ''He did not have to get his hands dirty committing crimes and
could insulate himself -- although he did it poorly in the end -- from the
crimes being committed around him,'' the government wrote in a filing. ''The
jury should be permitted to understand that Chow's techniques were taught to him
by his prior dai los.'' (Dai lo is the Cantonese term for big brother, or mob
boss.) Still, Serra is confident. To win this case, and any case, he said, ''You
have to show you have the moral high ground -- that you have transcended the
conflict as defined by the prosecution.'' He paused, then added: ''I have the
Buddha here.''

The visiting room of San Francisco County Jail No. 4 is on the seventh floor of
the Hall of Justice, at 850 Bryant Street, across from Aladdin Bail Bonds and
one block from Mint, a yoga, Pilates and barre-class studio. On weekend
mornings, families wait in a concrete stairwell between the sixth and seventh
floors. Over the past six months, I often joined the line. Each time, after a
guard unlocked the door, I found Shrimp Boy among other inmates, sitting on a
stool behind soundproof glass, waving me over to take a seat on the other side
and pick up the phone. He started each conversation with: ''Hello. How are
you?'' His face was far more relaxed than I expected, and his black
plastic-framed glasses hung from the collar of his orange county-jail
sweatshirt. He has soft hands and a shiny bald head. From our talks, both in
jail and over the phone, and from his unpublished memoir, I learned the story of
his life, at least according to Shrimp Boy; there are no public records of many
of the details.

Kwok Cheung Chow was born in Hong Kong, where his grandmother nicknamed him Ha
Jai, or Shrimp Boy. His father owned a successful barbershop, but when Shrimp
Boy was 8, his father lost his business because of gambling debts. Shrimp Boy,
his four brothers, his grandmother and his parents all moved from their nice
apartment above the barbershop to a one-room shack with no running water. A year
later, that shanty burned down, and Shrimp Boy's family moved to a home with
only two beds. Every night, Shrimp Boy fought to sleep next to his grandmother.
He liked to hold onto her ear, for comfort, the way a child might cling to a
stuffed animal.

When Shrimp Boy was 9, he told me, a local tough noticed his scrappiness and
bravado -- Shrimp Boy often puffed up his tiny body and told people he had won
fights even when he lost. The tough took him on as a protégé, teaching him the
ancient Chinese gang code of loyalty, trust, honor, dignity and respect, as well
as the value of keeping a knife tucked in the waistband of your pants. Before
long, Shrimp Boy says, he was working for his mentor, as a courier transporting
small bags of heroin. Shortly after, Shrimp Boy showed up to watch his mentor in
a fight. When the brawl started going badly, Shrimp Boy pulled out a huge,
squared-off watermelon knife and leapt into the action. He whacked the blade,
twice, on his mentor's opponent's head. Blood, exposed bone. This was the first
significant violence of Shrimp Boy's life. He became a local gang hero, which he
really liked.

In 1976, when Shrimp Boy was 16, his parents moved the family to San Francisco.
By then, he says, he was already an accomplished hoodlum -- experienced in
juvenile detention, practiced in not squealing to the police. Shrimp Boy carried
with him to America a letter of recommendation, a to-whom-it-may-concern note
from his Hong Kong gang leader. Shrimp Boy gave the letter to an elder in
Chinatown, who introduced him around.

Instead of going to school, he applied his considerable ambition to climbing the
tong ranks. The tongs were started by Chinese immigrants who came to California
in the mid-1800s, for the Gold Rush and to work on the railroad. The immigrants
experienced terrible discrimination. In 1856, the Californian Committee on Mines
and Mining Interests declared the Chinese ''a disgusting scab upon the fair face
of society -- a putrefying sore upon the body politic.'' The Chinese looked to
their own community for help. ''No matter what you need, you go to the tong,''
says Ko-lin Chin, a professor at the Rutgers School of Criminal Justice,
describing 1800s San Francisco. ''If a Chinese man dies and he doesn't want to
be buried in the United States, the tongs help ship the body back to China. If
you need a notice read in English. If you need a loan.'' The tongs also provided
extralegal amenities, like prostitution, opium and gambling dens. To this day,
tongs serve a range of roles, and they have spread to Chinatowns nationwide.
Some tongs focus on extortion, others on scholarship funds. ''It depends on the
leadership,'' says Chin, who notes that many tongs have a street gang, if not a
connection to organized crime.

When Shrimp Boy was 17, he was dropped by a Hop Sing Tong lieutenant at a home
in suburban Hillsborough. The tong, he says, had been hired by La Cosa Nostra,
the Sicilian mafia, to land the resident of the house in the hospital for three
months. Dressed in bell bottoms, a jeans jacket and platform shoes, he grabbed a
two-by-four that happened to be propped by the front door. He beat the man
brutally and left the house two minutes later. The next day, in a Chinatown
restaurant, a tong boss gave Shrimp Boy a slice of custard pie and an envelope
containing $3,000.

Shrimp Boy's first arrest and conviction came a year later, in 1978. He was
charged with armed robbery after he held up a gambling den and was sentenced to
11 years. At San Quentin, he beat a man with a food tray -- Shrimp Boy told me
that he used it like a tennis racket: ''backhand, forehand, backhand, forehand''
-- and landed himself in solitary. A prison psychologist told Shrimp Boy he
needed a vocation outside of crime. He studied to become a deep-sea welder, but
a prison riot broke out, and he couldn't complete his training. So he started
dealing heroin in prison instead.

Upon his release, in 1985, Shrimp Boy took a bus to San Francisco. At a
Vietnamese noodle shop, he tried to motivate himself to buy the Chinese
newspaper and look for a real job. But then he noticed some girls outside.
Pretty classy for hookers, Shrimp Boy thought. Within an hour, he was talking
with them about how much money they made through their pimps and whether they
would rather work for him. He rented a big Victorian house, and within a matter
of months, Shrimp Boy says, his escort business was producing more cash than he
could handle. He started rolling profits into a variety of enterprises: cocaine
distribution, fencing stolen weapons, Rolexes, jewelry and pills. Shrimp Boy
talks about that stage of his life as normal people often talk about college:
Crazy time! Learned a lot! Needed to grow up and move on.

The first time Shrimp Boy tried to go straight, he says, was in 1989. He wanted
to make his mother proud. She gave him a ritual bath with grapefruit leaves, to
cleanse his spirit. Shrimp Boy found work at the Lucky market in Daly City,
bagging groceries for $4.50 an hour. He worked hard and was promoted to
janitorial staff at $7.25 -- but then, he says, a member of the San Francisco
Police Department's gang task force called his boss, who became suspicious, and
Shrimp Boy left his job. Next he found employment as a bodyguard, a slippery
slope. One night he was working in a casino in Oakland, looking sharp and
professional in his sleeveless undershirt and double-breasted suit, and before
Shrimp Boy knew it he was walking around Stow Lake, in Golden Gate Park, with
Peter Chong, a leader of a Hong Kong gang called Wo Hop To, talking about
uniting the East Coast and West Coast heroin trades.

In April 1992, Shrimp Boy flew to New York to meet with gang leaders in
Chinatown. Soon after, documents show, he was arrested and charged with 48
counts, among them RICO activities (the acronym refers to charges under the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act), conspiracy to distribute
heroin and cocaine, murder for hire, cocaine possession, arson, unlicensed
firearm sales and transfers and a slew of interstate-commerce crimes -- so many
charges that the government split the case into two trials. Chong, meanwhile,
fled to Hong Kong.

Shrimp Boy's credo was: Never cooperate with the government. If you do, you have
to debrief, or snitch -- outlaw suicide. But to Shrimp Boy's dismay, by the time
the first of his two cases reached trial, in 1995, many of his associates had
ratted him out. In his first trial, he was found guilty on six counts; he was
later sentenced to 24 years. (The second trial ended in a hung jury.) Once
incarcerated at California's Federal Correctional Institute, Dublin, Shrimp Boy
says, he reached out to his tong to evaluate the loyalty of his underlings. He
found that they had turned on him. Shortly after, Chong, who had been extradited
to the United States, betrayed Shrimp Boy as well -- or so Shrimp Boy claims --
by hiring away the attorney who represented Shrimp Boy in the second trial.

Shrimp Boy's world crumbled: A gangster without a code or crew is just a lone
felon. In 2000, in a prison conference room, Shrimp Boy says, he accepted a plea
deal and decided to give up the underworld. Documents show that the government
promised him a new life under the witness-protection program, an S visa
(residence for a witness who assists law enforcement) and release on time
served. In exchange, Shrimp Boy would testify against Chong. (Chong served time
for racketeering and was released in 2008.) Shrimp Boy describes this act of
testifying -- aiding the United States attorney, selling out his onetime partner
and the only set of values he had ever known -- as the hardest experience of his
life.

The 137-page affidavit of Special Agent Emmanuel Pascua, the document that led
to Shrimp Boy's most recent arrest, is a great read for a legal filing -- drama,
comedy, classical Greek tragedy, all right there on paper. It recounts the story
of Operation Whitesuit, laying out the case against ''Kwok Cheung Chow, a.k.a.
Raymond Chow, a.k.a. Shrimp Boy, a.k.a. Ha Jai, hereinafter Chow,'' along with
25 other Bay Area residents, including State Senator Leland Yee. (Yee and three
other defendants pleaded guilty in July.) The F.B.I.'s most prominent informant
is identified only as UCE (undercover employee) 4599. He posed as an East Coast
emissary from La Cosa Nostra looking to make a name for himself on the West
Coast. UCE 4599 met Shrimp Boy in May 2010. For the next four years, he
ingratiated himself into Shrimp Boy's world.

As Shrimp Boy explained to me over our many visits and phone calls, after he cut
his deal with the federal government, things did not go as planned. Shrimp Boy
was released on time served, but the government did not deliver the S visa or a
new identity through witness protection. Instead, Shrimp Boy claims, the F.B.I.
dropped him with an ankle monitor back in San Francisco -- as bait to catch
other criminals, he believes. At the time, he said, he had no real friends
(who's loyal to a snitch?), no legal means of earning money, no faith in
gangsterism. Even if he had wanted to pursue organized crime, life was passing
him by. ''The new generation is about crime in the computer,'' Shrimp Boy said
-- credit-card fraud, identity theft, cyber extortion. ''I don't even know how
to use the computer.'' Rudderless, Shrimp Boy lived with his brother and his
brother's girlfriend, who complained about how much toilet paper he used. He
started having panic attacks. He visited a psychiatrist, who prescribed Ambien
and sent him home.

Shrimp Boy says that at that point he ''wanted to be part of society.'' Toward
that end, he started volunteering with gang-prevention organizations, telling
high-school students to steer clear of trouble. As Shrimp Boy explains, ''You
get a gun, and then you want a bigger gun, and then you want a bigger gun. It's
human nature.'' By 2007, Shrimp Boy was talking to dozens of community groups a
year, including Asian-American studies classes at San Francisco State
University. In 2009, he volunteered to organize San Francisco's city-funded
Chinatown Night Market -- although when news of his involvement came to light,
the city decided to skip the night market altogether that year. In 2012, Shrimp
Boy spoke about his life to the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce, at the
request of Steven Ford, a lieutenant with the city's police department. During
these years, Shrimp Boy acknowledges, he also rebuilt his network in Chinatown.
In 2006, the Ghee Kung Tong's leader, known as the dragonhead, was murdered, and
Shrimp Boy ascended to that role, though he claims he was assiduously clean.

The affidavit of Special Agent Pascua indicates that during the years of
Operation Whitesuit, Shrimp Boy was working on ''a potential book deal and movie
proposition regarding his life,'' which would have allowed him to support
himself legally. He was also dating Lo. When the two met in 2008, Lo told me,
she considered herself to be ''not such a good Chinese person.'' She and Shrimp
Boy fell in love and began a cultural exchange. Shrimp Boy took Lo to the tong,
showed her how to bow down at the shrines and pay proper respects. Lo took
Shrimp Boy to art openings, nice restaurants and the gay-pride parade.

During the time that Shrimp Boy was dragonhead, the affidavit also indicates,
tong members sold drugs, contraband and illegal firearms; distributed drugs; and
laundered money. Shrimp Boy deliberately maintained some distance from the
crimes. As the affidavit reads, ''Chow did not want to know anything because he
would not be guilty if he did not know anything.''

Shrimp Boy presented himself to UCE 4599 in mature, upstanding terms: ''a judge
within his organization''; an esteemed elder dedicating his life to promoting
''grand ideas''; a tough guy who ''could move hundreds of kilos of drugs if he
wanted to,'' but did not.

To a reader of the affidavit, Shrimp Boy comes across as a man who likes the
idea of being normal, who even makes moves in that direction, but who has a
fuzzy understanding of the concept. At one point, after UCE 4599 closed a deal
to sell stolen cigarettes to China, he thanked Shrimp Boy.

''I never did anything,'' Shrimp Boy said.

''Well, I did,'' said Shrimp Boy's driver, George Nieh, who was standing there.
UCE 4599 gave Nieh $5,000.

Another time, UCE 4599 thanked Shrimp Boy for the opportunity to work with Nieh
on a separate transaction, and he slipped an envelope containing $2,000 into
Shrimp Boy's pocket. ''No, no, I didn't give you the opportunity,'' Shrimp Boy
said. ''You make your own opportunity.'' He further protested: ''Damn, that is
bribery money, dude -- that's not good.'' He did not give the money back.

At moments in the affidavit, the relationship between Shrimp Boy and UCE 4599
comes across as intimate, close to tender. Shrimp Boy whispered in UCE 4599's
ear in a karaoke bar. He told UCE 4599 that he loved him. But Shrimp Boy also
said to UCE 4599 that ''if anything happened to him, the person who did it would
pay a tremendous price, and their life would disappear.''

During the 19 months since his arrest, Shrimp Boy has been jogging in place in
his cell, meditating and thinking about good and evil, whether he has lived a
decent life. ''Everybody has to grow up,'' he told me. ''I have to grow up more
than most.'' If he gets out, Shrimp Boy says, he will take care of his parents.
He will pay taxes. Lo is not sure what their relationship will be when he gets
out, but she still visits Shrimp Boy every weekend and attends his court
hearings. ''I love him so much,'' she told me. But she needs a responsible adult
in her life, a real partner, one who can read a grocery list and help fill out
school forms.

''I know I caused the trouble,'' Shrimp Boy says. ''I would do anything to fix
it.'' He has many regrets. Chief among them is that he never had children. ''I
didn't see that when I was younger,'' he told me. ''The guy staying home,
spending most of his time with his family -- I envy the man like that. I don't
have anything. I'm 55, and I'm still in a county jail.''

Serra is eager for the courtroom drama to start. He described defending a client
before a jury as ''like an acid experience. You merge -- it's like shooting
someone up into your veins.'' He continues to see Shrimp Boy as ''transparent,
courageous, spiritual.'' But the road to the Nov. 2 court date has been uneven.
On Sept. 9, six of Shrimp Boy's co-defendants pleaded guilty, including George
Nieh. Those pleas cleared the way for Shrimp Boy to go to trial alone, which
Serra thinks is to his advantage. Less auspicious, the United States attorneys
recently informed the court that they have evidence linking Shrimp Boy to the
murders of a tong leader and a lieutenant. The prosecution noted in a court
filing that it will use the fact that Shrimp Boy ''greenlighted'' murder to
highlight ''the true nature of the enterprise run by Chow and his associates.''
After all, the prosecution reminded the court, sanctioning an enemy's death is
not standard at ''the Moose Lodge or the local Rotary Club or legitimate
tongs.''

Still, most days, Shrimp Boy remains upbeat. ''I'm a good man, I'm a regular
man,'' he tells himself. When he is feeling down, he listens to the Operation
Whitesuit recordings and feels better hearing himself refuse the many criminal
offers. ''So many times I'm sitting here, I done something wrong!'' he said.
''Old temptations and addictions, I didn't fall for that. Wow. I turned down a
lot of opportunity.''

He is especially proud of his discipline. ''It's like they baked me this cake,
this delicious cake, and tried to get me to eat it, even rubbed it in my face,''
he said. ''But I didn't eat it. I stuck to my diet.''

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/18/magazine/shrimp-boys-day-in-court.html

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kwok Cheung Chow, known as Shrimp Boy, at the Ghee Kung Tong
headquarters in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEN SISKA) (MM36)
Shrimp Boy with his girlfriend, Alicia Lo, during a field trip he organized to
teach children about Chinese history and culture.
Shrimp Boy on his birthday in 2013.
Shrimp Boy with Steven Ford, a San Francisco Police Department lieutenant who
asked him to give a 2012 Chamber of Commerce talk on crime prevention.
Shrimp Boy exercising while walking Lo's dog Happy. (MM39)
Shrimp Boy relaxing with Lo's dogs, Happy and Valentine.
Shrimp Boyand Lo on a trip to Disneyland with Lo's daughter and a classmate.
Shrimp Boy being interviewed in 2012 on the public-access TV show ''Change
Makers.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM ALICIA LO) (MM40)
 Shrimp Boy's attorneys,Curtis Briggs (right) and J. Tony Serra,responding to
quotations from the F.B.I.'s affidavit during a news conference in April 2014.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF CHIU/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (MM41)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 18, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 646 words


6:30 P.M. (Starz Cinema) THE GOOD THIEF (2003) Nick Nolte plays Bob, a majestic
ruin of a gambler and heroin addict who gets pulled into a Monte Carlo casino
heist by some art-swindler thugs in Neil Jordan's variation on ''Bob le
Flambeur,'' the 1956 film noir directed by Jean-Pierre Melville. Nutsa
Kukhianidze is the beautiful Russian teenager who follows Bob; Tcheky Karyo is
the detective friend he has to stay a heartbeat ahead of. ''It's quite an
accomplishment,'' Elvis Mitchell wrote in The New York Times. ''There aren't
many American actors who have made a penchant for self-destructive behavior
blossom into a fully realized gallery of performances.'' The movie, with its
1950s jazz cool, ''is the ultimate caper,'' he added, ''a work of brazen
ebullience.'' (Image: Ms. Kukhianidze and Mr. Nolte)

10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY Donald Trump talks about his campaign for the
Republican presidential nomination. His rival Senator Ted Cruz of Texas is on
''Meet the Press,'' at 10:30 on NBC.

8 P.M. (OWN) BELIEF Over seven consecutive nights, Oprah Winfrey examines the
faith and practices behind a spectrum of religious and spiritual beliefs,
starting with those seeking meaning in their lives.

8 P.M. (13, 49) HOME FIRES Desperate times require desperate measures, as the
women of Great Paxford discover when they're forced to make wartime sacrifices.
In ''Indian Summers,'' at 9, the viceroy's visit stirs up excitement in Simla.
Ralph, meanwhile, grows agitated when a vital piece of evidence disappears, and
Sarah unearths a juicy tidbit about Alice's past. And in ''The Widower,'' at 10,
Malcolm plots to evade capture and become a bigamist.

8:30 P.M. (CBS) MADAM SECRETARY Big surprise: Elizabeth and President Dalton
face hostility from the Russian government. In ''The Good Wife,'' at 9:30, Eli
persuades Alicia and her mother to take part in a cooking show to bolster
Peter's campaign. And the broth is spoiled.

9 P.M. (Showtime) HOMELAND Carrie (Claire Danes) decides to take her mental
health into her own hands with the help of Jonas and figure out who wants her
dead. No word yet on what secret messages may be lurking in this week's set
dressing. In ''The Affair,'' at 10, Noah's obsession with Alison leads him to
make a grand romantic gesture. She, meanwhile, gets an uncomfortable lesson in
the compromises required to sustain a marriage. (Image: Ms. Danes)

9 P.M. (AMC) THE WALKING DEAD Just when things start to feel normal, the
Alexandrians are confronted with a new problem.

9 P.M. (HBO) THE LEFTOVERS Laura and Tom Garvey find that rescuing other
people's souls takes a toll on their own. In ''Doll & Em,'' at 10:30, Emily and
Dolly are forced to rewrite their script just hours before the premiere of their
play.

9 P.M. (Comedy Central) SUPERBAD (2007) Michael Cera and Jonah Hill play high
school virgins searching for lessons of love to take with them to college in
this cuddly comedy from Judd Apatow and company. Manohla Dargis, writing in The
Times, called it ''a tickly, funny tale.'' (Image: Michael Cera)

10 P.M. (ABC) QUANTICO In the present, Alex endures a hostage rescue exercise
that makes her consider quitting. In the future, she discovers evidence that
seems to point to a confidant.

10:30 P.M. (CBS) CSI: CYBER A police officer's body camera is hacked, and a
provocative video goes viral.

What's Streaming Now

THE 17TH INTERNATIONAL FRYDERYK CHOPIN PIANO COMPETITION This month, 84 pianists
from around the globe converged in Warsaw for this competition, founded in 1927
to honor the best interpreters of Chopin's works. Ten made it to this grand
finale, whose jury includes Adam Harasiewicz, Martha Argerich, Janusz
Olejniczak, Dina Yoffe, Dang Thai Son and Yundi, all previous prize winners.
Performances are streamed live at noon Sunday through Tuesday, with the winners'
concert on Wednesday. (chopin2015.medici.tv)




URL:

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID APPLEBY/FOX SEARCHLIGHT PICTURES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 25, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Y.A. Crossover

BYLINE: By MARGARET WAPPLER.

Margaret Wappler has written for Rolling Stone, The Los Angeles Times and many
other publications. Her debut novel, ''Neon Green,'' will be published next
year.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; THE SHORTLIST; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1068 words


CARRY ONThe Rise and Fall of Simon SnowBy Rainbow Rowell522 pp. St. Martin's
Griffin, $19.99.


In Rowell's novel ''Fangirl,'' Cath, a.k.a. Magicath, writes fan fiction about
the teenage magician Simon Snow. Now Snow has his own novel, Rowell's first
fantasy book. Set in a Hogwarts-like magic academy in rural England, it's at
first slow to burn, as Simon lays out the elitist hierarchy at Watford, at times
hemming uncomfortably close to J.K. Rowling's creations. But Rowell has new
tricks up her sleeve. Simon himself is a hot mess of a magician, struggling to
control his fiery temper and rebelling against the Mage, Watford's headmaster,
who has deemed him a hero meant to defeat a magic-­sucking entity. His funny,
fleet-wanded best friend, Penny, often saves him from himself. But the novel
really sparks when Baz, Simon's roommate and archenemy, returns after a
mysterious absence, looking more vampiric than ever (rumors that he was
''turned'' have long swirled). Baz is a suave, acid-witted brainiac who in
another life would've been BFFs with Oscar Wilde. The two seem destined to
battle -- Baz comes from a rich, corrupt family who hate the Mage and his Chosen
One -- but something other than acrimony tugs at both of them.


Rowell applies her trademark fan-­fiction touch to the magic spells, cribbing
many of them from pop culture, like the title spell, taken from Queen's
''Bohemian Rhapsody.'' But Rowell also imbues her magic with awe and spectacle.
It's a powerful, politically minded allegory about sexual, ethnic and class
identity -- with a heady shot of teenage lust.

SIX OF CROWSBy Leigh Bardugo465 pp. Holt, $18.99.

Bardugo revisits the ­Russia-esque fantasy world of her Grisha Trilogy in this
full-throttle adventure, but the landscape has shifted from Ravka to the nearby
island Kerch. Its metropolis, Ketterdam, is home to rival street gangs,
including the Dregs, run by Kaz Brekker, a ruthless and conniving 17-year-old
prodigy known as Dirtyhands. When he's presented with an outlandish scheme to
break out an imprisoned chemist with deadly knowledge, he jumps at the suicide
mission, assembling a crack team of outcasts, including a convict, a gambling
addict, a runaway and a Grisha with a complicated relationship to her one-time
kidnapper. Just about everyone's nursing a secret crush. Bardugo keeps her
characters challenged, romantically and professionally: Just when his smugness
becomes predictable, Brekker runs into trouble, rattled by a betrayal in his
past. The flashbacks to his orphan childhood are some of the most poignant
scenes in the book.

In her ever-twisty plot, Bardugo considers the risk and rewards of empathy. The
Grisha, a tribe with magical powers, are persecuted by the Fjerdans and targeted
by the chemist's drug, which enhances their powers but at great physical cost.
Brekker pretends he has no scrap of a conscience, but his actions sometimes
prove otherwise. There's conflict between morality and amorality and an appetite
for sometimes grimace-inducing violence that recalls the ''Game of Thrones''
series. But for every bloody exchange there are pages of crackling dialogue and
sumptuous description. Bardugo dives deep into this world, with full color and
sound. If you're not careful, it'll steal all your time.

I CRAWL THROUGH ITBy A.S. King319 pp. Little, Brown, $18.

In this fearlessly inventive novel, King creates a sharp, surrealist world out
of the challenges of teenage life, from the darkest (school shootings) to the
mundane (standardized tests). Stanzi is a 17-year-old science prodigy who never
sheds her lab coat, lest the scars on her thigh start talking to her. Her friend
Gustav is building a mostly invisible helicopter in the hope of escaping to an
invisible destination. China, Stanzi's best friend, swallows herself in a
different way each day (sometimes she's a ''walking colon''; other times a ''sad
esophagus''). Then there's Lansdale, who fantasizes about older men and tells
lies that make her hair grow. One of them is making bomb threats to their high
school. Or all of them are.

In short, choppy chapters mostly from Stanzi's or China's point of view, the
teenagers interact with a weird man who hides in the bushes, naked under a
trench coat, doling out answers to those omnipresent tests. Stanzi kisses him
sometimes: ''He knows he is the dangerous bush man as much as I know I'm Stanzi,
a character in your book, a nobody and a somebody and really two people inside
one body.'' As the search ramps up for the person behind the bomb threats, an
air of chaos is belied by the taut, controlled narrative. You may be left
wishing all the clues and symbols added up to a bigger emotional payoff, but
King's devotion to a passionately experimental style, in a genre often beholden
to formula, is inspiring. Kurt Vonnegut might have written a book like this, if
he had ever been cyber-bullied on Facebook.

HUNTERBy Mercedes Lackey374 pp. Hyperion, $25.

Lackey has written more than 100 fantasy novels, including the Heralds of
Valdemar series, but in this ­mythological-dystopian mash-up she makes a foray
into Y.A. The roots of the story are intriguing. After an apocalyptic event
called the Diseray, the barrier that kept out the beasts of the Otherside was
ripped open, leaving humans exposed to attack by every nightmarish creation from
the collective imagination: lesser worries like the trollish Tommyknockers, all
the way up to the fire-breathing Drakken. Most menacing of all are the
mysterious, monster-­controlling Folk, hailing, in a brilliant, funny stroke,
from the Island of California.

Like the best Hunters, Joyeaux ''Joy'' Charmand is sent to the city of Apex to
protect the citizens from such beasts. Trained by modest masters in her isolated
mountainous enclave, Joy isn't prepared for the instant celebrity that greets
her. Trailed by cameras, her broadcast battles edited to ensure a sense of
safety in Apex, Joy never really falters -- and that's the problem. Lackey is
hampered by a too familiar Chosen One narrative, told in prose that's often
clunky and expository. Joy barely blinks when a showoff Hunter named Ace
challenges her first fight with a Folk lord. She butters up his ego, and away he
goes. Life doesn't get tough until the last third of the book, when Joy's
sniffing out political corruption, but by then it's too easy to assume that she
can handle whatever she discovers.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/25/books/review/ya-crossover.html

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN GALL)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 25, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Transformers: Alex Karp

BYLINE: By LAURA ARRILLAGA-ANDREESSEN

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; TGreats; Pg. 124

LENGTH: 425 words


EVERYTHING IS CONNECTED in software entrepreneur-cum-philosopher Alex Karp's
world. Truly: His data-analytics company Palantir Technologies enables large
institutions to integrate and analyze information from databases that may be
scattered across countries, and even continents, into a single platform.
Palantir has helped soldiers search for patterns in the placement of roadside
bombs; government regulators investigate accounting fraud; and pharmaceutical
researchers hunt for blockbuster new drugs.

Palantir was launched in 2004 by, among others, Peter Thiel, the PayPal
co-founder, and the Palo Alto-based Karp, a neoclassical social theorist turned
money manager turned C.E.O. Seed money came early on from the C.I.A.'s venture
capital firm, In-Q-Tel. One of its first clients was the United States
government: The company worked to prevent terror attacks by helping the
intelligence community more effectively analyze vast amounts of information --
for example, by tracing connections among suspects under investigation. Palantir
now produces software that is used across a wide range of sectors, helping
organizations detect fraud, prevent cyber-attacks, drive operational planning
and strategic decision-making, even track disease outbreaks. Its clients include
leading institutions across governmental and commercial sectors, including the
United States Department of Defense, the S.E.C., the C.I.A. and the F.B.I. Karp,
48, is considered the company's moral compass, navigating the trickier issues of
data mining, such as privacy versus national security.

Early on, Palantir recognized that its technology could also help nonprofits
working on some of the world's toughest problems, from human trafficking to
emergency relief. Since many of these institutions can't afford Palantir's
products and services, it created the Philanthropy Engineering Team to offer
them at no cost, along with technical and research support. Importantly,
Palantir doesn't differentiate between paying and nonpaying customers, allowing
social-sector organizations access to the same software offered to the company's
commercial and government clients. As such, it illustrates the willingness of
the new generation of social entrepreneurs to pick the model -- whether
nonprofit or for-profit -- that best suits their goals. Karp and his team
clearly chose the right strategy, as Palantir just finished raising a round of
funding that places its valuation at $20 billion.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBI RODRIGUEZ
 PRODUCTION: JAMILA WAHID)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 26, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Russian Ships Near Data Cables Are Too Close for U.S. Comfort

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1381 words


WASHINGTON --  Russian submarines and spy ships are aggressively operating near
the vital undersea cables that carry almost all global Internet communications,
raising concerns among some American military and intelligence officials that
the Russians might be planning to attack those lines in times of tension or
conflict.

The issue goes beyond old worries during the Cold War that the Russians would
tap into the cables -- a task American intelligence agencies also mastered
decades ago. The alarm today is deeper: The ultimate Russian hack on the United
States could involve severing the fiber-optic cables at some of their
hardest-to-access locations to halt the instant communications on which the
West's governments, economies and citizens have grown dependent.

While there is no evidence yet of any cable cutting, the concern is part of a
growing wariness among senior American and allied military and intelligence
officials over the accelerated activity by Russian armed forces around the
globe. At the same time, the internal debate in Washington illustrates how the
United States is increasingly viewing every Russian move through a lens of deep
distrust, reminiscent of relations during the Cold War.

Inside the Pentagon and the nation's spy agencies, the assessments of Russia's
growing naval activities are highly classified and not publicly discussed in
detail. American officials are secretive about what they are doing both to
monitor the activity and to find ways to recover quickly if cables are cut. But
more than a dozen officials confirmed in broad terms that it had become the
source of significant attention in the Pentagon.

''I'm worried every day about what the Russians may be doing,'' said Rear Adm.
Frederick J. Roegge, commander of the Navy's submarine fleet in the Pacific, who
would not answer questions about possible Russian plans for cutting the undersea
cables.

Cmdr. William Marks, a Navy spokesman in Washington, said: ''It would be a
concern to hear any country was tampering with communication cables; however,
due to the classified nature of submarine operations, we do not discuss
specifics.''

In private, however, commanders and intelligence officials are far more direct.
They report that from the North Sea to Northeast Asia and even in waters closer
to American shores, they are monitoring significantly increased Russian activity
along the known routes of the cables, which carry the lifeblood of global
electronic communications and commerce.

Just last month, the Russian spy ship Yantar, equipped with two self-propelled
deep-sea submersible craft, cruised slowly off the East Coast of the United
States on its way to Cuba -- where one major cable lands near the American naval
station at Guantánamo Bay. It was monitored constantly by American spy
satellites, ships and planes. Navy officials said the Yantar and the submersible
vehicles it can drop off its decks have the capability to cut cables miles down
in the sea.

''The level of activity,'' a senior European diplomat said, ''is comparable to
what we saw in the Cold War.''

One NATO ally, Norway, is so concerned that it has asked its neighbors for aid
in tracking Russian submarines.

Adm. James Stavridis, formerly NATO's top military commander and now dean of the
Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, said in an email last week that ''this is
yet another example of a highly assertive and aggressive regime seemingly
reaching backwards for the tools of the Cold War, albeit with a high degree of
technical improvement.''

The operations are consistent with Russia's expanding military operations into
places like Crimea, eastern Ukraine and Syria, where President Vladimir V. Putin
has sought to demonstrate a much longer reach for Russian ground, air and naval
forces.

''The risk here is that any country could cause damage to the system and do it
in a way that is completely covert, without having a warship with a
cable-cutting equipment right in the area,'' said Michael Sechrist, a former
project manager for a Harvard-M.I.T. research project funded in part by the
Defense Department.

''Cables get cut all the time -- by anchors that are dragged, by natural
disasters,'' said Mr. Sechrist, who published a study in 2012 of the
vulnerabilities of the undersea cable network. But most of those cuts take place
within a few miles from shore, and can be repaired in a matter of days.

What worries Pentagon planners most is that the Russians appear to be looking
for vulnerabilities at much greater depths, where the cables are hard to monitor
and breaks are hard to find and repair.

Mr. Sechrist noted that the locations of the cables are hardly secret.
''Undersea cables tend to follow the similar path since they were laid in the
1860s,'' he said, because the operators of the cables want to put them in
familiar environments under longstanding agreements.

The exceptions are special cables, with secret locations, that have been
commissioned by the United States for military operations; they do not show up
on widely available maps, and it is possible the Russians are hunting for those,
officials said.

The role of the cables is more important than ever before. They carry global
business worth more than $10 trillion a day, including from financial
institutions that settle transactions on them every second. Any significant
disruption would cut the flow of capital. The cables also carry more than 95
percent of daily communications.

So important are undersea cables that the Department of Homeland Security lists
their landing areas -- mostly around New York, Miami and Los Angeles -- at the
top of its list of ''critical infrastructure.''

Attention to underwater cables is not new. In October 1971, the American
submarine Halibut entered the Sea of Okhotsk north of Japan, found a
telecommunications cable used by Soviet nuclear forces, and succeeded in tapping
its secrets. The mission, code-named Ivy Bells, was so secret that a vast
majority of the submarine's sailors had no idea what they had accomplished. The
success led to a concealed world of cable tapping.

And a decade ago, the United States Navy launched the submarine Jimmy Carter,
which intelligence analysts say is able to tap undersea cables and eavesdrop on
communications flowing through them.

Submarines are not the only vessels that are snooping on the undersea cables.
American officials closely monitor the Yantar, which Russian officials insist is
an oceanographic ship with no ties to espionage.

''The Yantar is equipped with a unique onboard scientific research complex which
enables it to collect data on the ocean environment, both in motion and on hold.
There are no similar complexes anywhere,'' said Alexei Burilichev, the head of
the deepwater research department at the Russian Defense Ministry, according to
sputniknews.com in May 2015.

American concern over cable cutting is just one aspect of Russia's modernizing
Navy that has drawn new scrutiny.

Adm. Mark Ferguson, commander of American naval forces in Europe, speaking in
Washington this month said that the proficiency and operational tempo of the
Russian submarine force was increasing.

Citing public remarks by the Russian Navy chief, Adm. Viktor Chirkov, Admiral
Ferguson said the intensity of Russian submarine patrols had risen by almost 50
percent over the last year. Russia has increased its operating tempo to levels
not seen in over a decade. Russian Arctic bases and their $2.4 billion
investment in the Black Sea Fleet expansion by 2020 demonstrate their commitment
to develop their military infrastructure on the flanks, he said.

Russia is also building an undersea unmanned drone capable of carrying a small,
tactical nuclear weapon to use against harbors or coastal areas, American
military and intelligence analysts said.

Admiral Ferguson said that as part of Russia's emerging doctrine of so-called
hybrid warfare, it is increasingly using a mix of conventional force, Special
Operations mission and new weapons in the 21st-century battlefield.

''This involves the use of space, cyber, information warfare and hybrid warfare
designed to cripple the decision-making cycle of the alliance,'' Admiral
Ferguson said, referring to NATO. ''At sea, their focus is disrupting decision
cycles.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/26/world/europe/russian-presence-near-undersea-ca
bles-concerns-us.html

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Adm. Mark Ferguson said the intensity of Russian submarine
patrols had risen by almost 50 percent over the last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 28, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Approves a Cybersecurity Bill Long in the Works and Largely Dated

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and NICOLE PERLROTH; David E. Sanger reported from
Washington, and Nicole Perlroth from San Francisco.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1140 words


WASHINGTON --  After four years of false starts and strife over privacy
protections, the Senate passed legislation by a vote of 74 to 21 on Tuesday that
would help companies battle a daily onslaught of cyberattacks.

But there is one problem with the legislation, the Cybersecurity Information
Sharing Act, or CISA: In the years that Congress was debating it, computer
attackers have grown so much more sophisticated -- in many cases, backed by
state sponsors from Shanghai to Tehran -- that the central feature of the
legislation, agreements allowing companies and the government to share
information, seems almost quaint. To many in the trenches of daily computer
combat, it is a little like the insistence of some cavalry officers in the 1930s
on sticking to horses, rather than investing in mechanized divisions.

The sponsors of the legislation concede that it would have done nothing to help
Sony Pictures Entertainment, whose computers were melted down 11 months ago in a
remarkably destructive attack for which the White House blamed North Korea.

That attack was not based on the kinds of previously seen computer viruses or
tools that companies and the government could warn each other about. It would
not have stopped the Chinese from cleaning out security records on 22 million
Americans from the Office of Personnel Management, which failed to put in place
the same basic computer-hygiene practices that the federal government urges
companies and individuals to practice. It would not have helped the State
Department and the White House, whose unclassified emails were hacked by the
Russians.

''We are talking about feel-good legislation,'' said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat
of Oregon, who has long been a critic of the bill because he maintains it does
not do enough to protect the privacy of information shared by companies. ''It
would not have prevented any major hacks.''

But he said that his colleagues ''wanted to be able to say they voted for
something to combat hacking'' and that this was what they had come up with. At
the White House, which has been pushing for cybersecurity legislation since
President Obama took office, senior officials also acknowledged that the
proposed legislation is ''so 2009.''

That may be a little harsh: For low-level cyberattacks, the idea of companies
and the government sharing data about the ''signatures'' of cyberspace intruders
-- the digital trail that shows where they came from and what their code looks
like -- may have some value. ''If you took the position that no single thing
solves the problem, then you would never do anything -- it's a defeatist
attitude,'' said Rajesh De, a former general counsel of the National Security
Agency. ''You have to start with something.''

Still, the lesson of the much-debated cybersecurity legislation, which was
opposed by technology companies and supported by financial services firms that
demanded liability protection in case they shared data that infringed on a
customer's privacy, is that cyberthreats move at digital speeds and Congress
moves at, well, congressional speed.

Indeed, the Senate legislation faces more legal wrangling at a House-Senate
conference at which conferees must reconcile the Senate bill with two similar,
albeit slightly different, bills passed by the House in April: the Protecting
Cyber Networks Act, or P.C.N.A., and the National Cybersecurity Protection
Advancement Act, or N.C.P.A.A., which were eventually combined.

Both bills, like the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act, would establish a
voluntary threat information-sharing vehicle, whereby companies and government
agencies can share information about attackers' code and techniques, and risk
alerts. Both bills also include liability protections for private companies,
shielding them from lawsuits for sharing certain types of data. And both set up
some privacy safeguards for customers' personal information.

But the logistics of each bill are slightly different and will have to be
hammered out by the conference. Lawmakers face a slew of criticism from
stakeholders and privacy advocates, who worry the legislation could provide a
new conduit for government surveillance, and that the liability protections
could discourage companies from investing in better cybersecurity defenses.

The most vocal opposition has come from the Center for Democracy and Technology
and the American Civil Liberties Union, which both argue that the Senate bill
could be abused by the National Security Agency and Federal Bureau of
Investigation to obtain information on Internet users, unrelated to
cybersecurity threats, without a warrant. In its current form, any cyberthreat
information shared with the Department of Homeland Security would be shared with
the N.S.A., the F.B.I. and other agencies.

The bill ''risks turning the cybersecurity program it creates into a backdoor
wiretap by authorizing sharing and use of cyberthreat indicators for a broad
array of law enforcement purposes that have nothing to do with cybersecurity,''
Greg Nojeim, a senior counsel at the Center for Democracy and Technology, wrote
in a blog post.

The Computer and Communications Industry Association trade group, which
represents Google and Facebook among others, wrote an open letter this month
saying the bill does not ''sufficiently protect users' privacy'' and complaining
that the bill may even ''cause collateral harm to the systems of innocent third
parties.''

The bill would authorize controversial ''countermeasures''-- retaliatory actions
by companies, or security firms, aimed at disrupting or disabling the computers
of adversaries. But critics argue that such measures could backfire.

The oddity of the legislation is that it focuses on what many in the cyberworld
consider to be a diminishing form of defense: collecting and sharing those
''signatures,'' which the Department of Homeland Security and the F.B.I.
periodically circulate to a select list of major corporations. Most
sophisticated cyberattackers have figured that out.

''I think the fruits of detecting signatures and patterns of broad attacks are
already picked,'' said Jonathan Zittrain, a Harvard law professor. ''The biggest
threats,'' he said, are far more customized, ''with elements of social
engineering or betrayal of an employee with access to data or code.''

In fact, the list of tasks that most cybersecurity experts describe as important
to deterring attacks is largely missing from the bill. A 2012 cybersecurity
bill, which would have required that companies meet certain standards in
exchange for immunity from lawsuits, failed to pass after the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce argued that the rules would be too onerous on companies.

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/28/us/politics/senate-approves-cybersecurity-bill
-despite-flaws.html

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 29, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Transcript: The 'Undercard' Republican Presidential Debate

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 10150 words


Following is a transcript of the ''undercard'' Republican debate, as transcribed
by the Federal News Service.

BECKY QUICK, CNBC HOST: Good evening, everyone. I'm Becky Quick, along with my
CNBC colleagues, Carl Quintanilla and John Harwood. Some of CNBC's experts on
the markets and personal finance will be here with us tonight as well.

But let's get right to the debate rules.

Candidates will get 30 seconds to answer an opening question and then 60 seconds
to answer a formal question. They'll also get 30 seconds for rebuttals and
follow-ups. All of this comes at the discretion of the moderators.

We want you to weigh in tonight, either from home or wherever you are. By the
way, if you check it out on the bottom of the screen, you can see your tweets
right there using #cnbcgopdebate. You can also go to cnbc.com/vote throughout
the night to tell us where you stand.

First up, let's get right to the candidates for tonight's Republican
Presidential Debate. I want to run you through the line on the stage from left
to right.

First up, Governor Bobby Jindal.

(APPLAUSE)

QUICK: Senator Rick Santorum.

Governor George Pataki.

And Senator Lindsey Graham.

Obviously we have a lot to cover here tonight so let's get this started.

My colleague, John Harwood, has our first question -- John.

JOHN HARWOOD, CNBC HOST: We're going to pose this question to all candidates and
go left to right, starting with Governor Jindal.

Governor, a majority of Republican voters at this point in the campaign have
made clear that they prefer someone from outside the political system.

In 30 seconds, tell us why your experience inside the system would be more
valuable than the fresh eyes an outsider would bring.

BOBBY JINDAL (R), GOVERNOR OF LOUISIANA: I think the reason voters are so
frustrated is nothing seems to change in D.C. Look, over the next several hours,
you're going to hear several Republicans all tell you they want to shrink the
size of government and grow the American economy and it sounds great and we've
got to do it.

Here's the truth -- of all these folks talking, I'm the only one that has cut
the size of government. There's not two of us, there's one of us. The rest of it
is all just hot air. When politicians talk, we need to pay attention to what
they do, not what they say.

I'm the only one that's reduced the size of government. Let's shrink the
government economy. Let's grow the American economy.

HARWOOD: Thanks, Governor Jindal.

Senator Santorum?

RICK SANTORUM, FORMER SENATOR: Yes, I think it's one thing to shrink the size of
a state government but it's another thing to actually get something accomplished
in Washington. It's a much tougher field.

And I'm the one in the -- on this stage and, frankly, on both stages that has
actually gone to Washington, said we would shrink government, said we would
shake things up and actually delivered for the conservative cause, everything
from welfare reform, which was the largest, most significant accomplishment in
the last 25 years for conservatism.

I authored the bill when I was in the House of Representatives; I managed the
bill on the floor of the United States Senate. You need a conservative who can
deliver and that's what I bring to the table.

HARWOOD: Thank you, Senator.

Governor Pataki?

GEORGE PATAKI, FORMER GOVERNOR OF NEW YORK: We need an outsider to run our party
and to win the next election. Washington has become a corrupt insider game and
everybody talks about how they're going to change the taxes, grow the economy.
Nothing seems to change.

But, by the way, Bobby, I shrunk the size of New York State's government when I
left. We had reduced the employment by over 25,000 and cut taxes.

But I understand that to change Washington you have to understand government as
well. You can't just be an outsider. You can't just be someone who throws stones
at Washington. You have to be someone who can actually bring people together
across party lines.

I can do that, I will do that if I have the chance to lead this party.

HARWOOD: Thank you, Governor.

Senator Graham.

GRAHAM: Well, number one, thank you for having me here tonight.

How about a round of applause for Boulder, Colorado?

This is a beautiful place.

(APPLAUSE)

GRAHAM: Looking at their academic standards, the only way I could have gotten
into this university is to be invited to this debate tonight.

(LAUGHTER)

GRAHAM: But here's my take on things. Without national security, there is no
economic security. Without the sacrifice of the veteran, all of our hopes and
dreams are at risk.

Just a few days ago, Hillary Clinton said that the problems with the V.A. are
being exaggerated by Republicans. They are not, they are real.

HARDWOOD: Senator Graham, thank you very much. Becky?

QUICK: Governor Jindal, let's talk a little bit about the news of the day. Just
a few hours ago, the Republicans and the Democrats in the House voted on a
budget deal that will increase spending by about $80 billion dollars over the
next two years. You, however, have called the Republicans who have been willing
to work with the Democrats to do things like this the, ''Surrender Party of the
Republican caucus.''

Would you have shut the government down instead?

JINDAL: Well, look, I think that's a false choice. I think this is a very bad
deal. Whenever they tell us in D.C. they're going to cut tomorrow, that means
they're never going to cut. Tomorrow never seems to happen. Instead, why don't
we actually follow our conservative principles? Why not insist on structural
reforms? Why not cut spending?

I don't mean strength (ph) the growth rate, I mean, actually spend less. Why not
a balanced budget in the amendment -- an amendment to the Constitution? Why not
a super-majority vote before they grow our taxes, before they grow the
government faster than the economy?

Let's be honest, $18 trillion dollars of debt. Record low participation rate in
the workforce, record number of Americans on food stamps. We are going the way
of Europe. The left is trying to turn the American Dream into the European
Nightmare. If you're a Republican...

QUICK: ...But Governor...

JINDAL: ...(INAUDIBLE) willing to stand up and fight...

QUICK: ...if you didn't have a choice, if you didn't control things in the
house, would you take the choice of shutting things down, or would you go ahead
and agree with them?

JINDAL: I think that's a false choice. If I were -- I were to lead, we would
pass a conservative budget, challenge the President to do the right thing. And,
here's the problem, the Republicans never want to fight. Give Pelosi and Reed
credit, they forced Obamacare and socialism down our throats, why won't the
Republicans fight half as hard for freedom and opportunity. This was a bad
budget.

QUICK: Governor, thank you.

PATAKI: Becky, can I comment on this question?

HARDWOOD: Just hold on, Governor Pataki, we're going to go to Senator Graham on
this question because we believe you are likely to be the only person on this
stage tonight who supports this budget deal. Now, you just heard Governor Jindal
say that it's a phony deal, it doesn't do anything, and people like you are
surrendering rather than fighting by supporting it. Why is he wrong?

GRAHAM: Well, let me tell you what is real. The threat to our homeland. I've
never seen so many threats to our homeland than I do today. Barack Obama is an
incompetent Commander in Chief. There are more terrorist organizations with safe
havens to attack the American homeland than anytime since 9/11. We're in the
process of reducing our defense spending by half.

I am looking at this budget with one view in mind, will it restore the ability
to defend this nation. We're on track to have the smallest army since 1940, the
smallest navy since 1915, this budget, if it is paid for, will put $40 billion
dollars back in the defense department at a time we need it.

The number one role of the federal government's to defend this nation, I intend
to be a Commander in Chief that can win a war we cannot afford to lose.

HARDWOOD: Thank you, Senator Graham...

PATAKI: ...John, can I quickly comment on this one...

(CROSSTALK)

HARWOOD: ...Governor, we're going to get to you in just a moment, we're going to
try to keep this shorter...

PATAKI: ...But, I want to speak on this issue...

QUINTANILLA: ...Question, in the meantime, for Senator Santorum. You have
advocated a flat tax, so we'd like to ask you about fairness. Why is it fair to
tax all Americans at the same rate, as opposed to taxing more affluent Americans
at higher rates?

SANTORUM: Well, if you look at my flat tax, it actually takes the best of what
Steve Forbes, Art Laffer (ph), many have been advocating for a long time, which
is a very strong pro-growth tax code -- very simple. And, it adjusts it to make
sure that it is not regressive.

We have a $2,750 per person tax credit -- that's $2,750 off the taxes due, not a
deduction, a credit. And, we think -- in fact, if you run the numbers, no
American who's going to be paying more taxes under our proposal, so, we've
accomplished both.

We have a system that has a low single rate, but we take care of American
families. I'm talking about $2,750 per person. That means a family four, that's
$11,000 dollar tax credit. That's a very, very strong pro-family -- and if you
looked at the Wall Street Journal today, and so many of the publications that
have been out there, they've talked about how the biggest problem of the
hollowing out of the middle of this country. For workers to be able to raise is
actually, the breakdown of the American family.

William Galston (ph), a liberal, said that on the pages of the Wall Street
Journal today that the key to poverty is families. So, we put forth a pro-growth
-- Steve Forbes plan, combined it with a pro- family plan, and that's why I
think it's going to work out, and work effectively.

QUINTANILLA: Senator, thank you. John -- Becky?

QUICK: Governor Pataki, let's get to your point. You wanted to make a comment on
the budget. You want to get in on the idea, what would you do if you were in
Washington? Would you compromise...

PATAKI: ...I think it was a bad deal, but I would have voted for it for a very
simple reason. Barack Obama is the first president in American history to hold
our military hostage. He knew that we needed funding for overseas contingency
operations, $40 million dollars that would go to support our troops. And, he was
prepared, and had vetoed it, unless this deal went through.

I have two sons, they both served overseas. One in Iraq, and one in Afghanistan,
and I understand that we have got to do far more to help our military, help our
veterans, and help protect our security. This is a bad deal, but to protect our
military, I would have signed it. Uh, it's not going to be the case, if I have a
chance to lead this country, we're going to reduce the deficit, shrink the
government, lower the tax burden and grow the private sector because that's how
you solve deficits.

QUICK: Governor Pataki, thank you.

John?

PATAKI: Thank you.

HARWOOD: Governor Jindal, a question about fiscal policy, especially since you
noted that this deal doesn't solve the long-term debt situation.

When you came into office with a budget surplus in the state of Louisiana, now,
years later, the state legislature faced a $1.6 billion budget gap and the
Republican state treasurer called one of your approaches to that problem
''nonsense on a stick,'' quoting him.

Are you going to do for the federal budget what you did for the Louisiana
budget?

JINDAL: Absolutely, Jhon. And what we did is we cut state spending. We've cut
our budget 26 percent, according to Cato and other analysis, the only candidate
that's actually reduced government spending.

Look, the left always complains there's not enough money for government. We have
30,000 fewer state employees than the day I took office, eight credit upgrades,
we're a top 10 state for private sector job creation.

We've got a choice. You grow the government economy or the American economy.
When I became governor, we had 25 years in a row of outmigration. We were coming
back from Katrina. The question many were asking, will Louisiana rebuild, should
Louisiana rebuild?

Seven years in a row, more people moving into the state than were leaving the
state.

We now have more people working than ever before, erg a higher income than ever
before.

Yes, we've reduced the size of government. That's exactly what we need to do in
DC. In DC, the Republicans slowed the growth rate, they claimed victory. That's
not enough.

Let's be honest with where we are today. We are running off of a cliff. Look,
we'll be the next Greece and we can talk and we can rearrange the chairs. Over
over $18 trillion of debt, no wonder our economy has been stagnant. We haven't
had real growth.

If you're a young student here, you've not seen a robust American economy.

HARWOOD: But Governor Jindal, as you know, many Republicans are opposed to the
approach that you've taken in Louisiana. They complain that you have tried so
hard to avoid anything that could be called a tax increase so that you could run
for president saying you'd never raised taxes, David Vitter, the Republican
who's now running to succeed you, has told voters, I won't be like Jindal, I'm
not using the governorship as a stepping stone to higher office.

JINDAL: Well, Jhon, a couple of things.

Not only did we not raise taxes, we did the largest income tax cut in the
state's history. And I'm proud of that record. I think that's the kind of
leadership voters want in DC.

Look, if you want a Republican that's going go grow government spending, if you
want a -- a president or if you want a candidate who's going to income taxes,
I'm not your guy.

If you want somebody that's going to do and say the things that can't be said,
can't be done, I'm asking a vote for me to join my cause. That's how dangerous
these times are. This is -- this is a -- this is -- these are dangerous times
for America. I think we have a chance to rescue the idea of America, but if we
don't do it now, four years will be too late from now.

So, yes, I'm proud we cut taxes, we cut spending, 30,000 fewer state government
bureaucrats than the day I took office. I absolutely will do that in DC.

HARWOOD: Governor Jindal, thank you.

JINDAL: Thank you.

HARWOOD: We're going to take a quick break.

The Republican presidential debate continues live from Boulder, Colorado in a
moment.

(APPLAUSE)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

QUINTANILLA: Welcome back to the Republican presidential debate live in boulder,
Colorado, on cNBC. We resume our questions now with Jim Cramer, the host of
cNBC's Mad Money.

CRAMER: Thank you. Governor Pataki, in the wake of the Sony hack last year, you
said, quote, ''at the very least, we should declare cyber-war on North Korea.''

What does a cyber-war look like? And if our companies are getting attacked by
foreign governments, do we need a military response?

PATAKI: No, I don't think we need a military response, but we need a coordinated
response. And I have to say that I think the Obama administration has been
completely lax, to say the least, in dealing with these cyber-attacks, not just
by governments like North Korea, but by, particularly, Chinese and other
companies.

And what I would do is put in place a policy where if we know a company, say, a
Chinese company, is hacking into American companies, stealing trade secrets, as
we know they do every day, we will retaliate against that company and say that
that company's not going to be allowed to continue to do trade with the United
States.

I would also look at what we're doing at the federal level and put in place what
Israel has done: a -- one federal agency dealing with cybersecurity and charged
with working across silos to make sure we have the best technology.

And, Jim, I've gotta tell you something, talking about cybersecurity. Hillary
Clinton put a server, an unsecure server, in her home as secretary of state. We
have no doubt that that was hacked, and that state secrets are out there to the
Iranians, the Russians, the Chinese and others.

That alone should disqualify her from being president of the United States.

(APPLAUSE)

CRAMER: Senator Graham, you're a hawk. Was that tough enough?

GRAHAM: Here's the problem. We're being walked all over because our commander in
chief is weak in the eyes of our enemies. Do you think Putin would be in the
Ukraine today if Ronald Reagan were president? Why are the Chinese stealing our
intellectual property, hacking into our system? Why are they building islands
over resource-rich waters? Because they can get away with it.

At the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, the foreign policy of Barack Obama
needs to be replaced, and the last person you want to find to replace his
foreign policy is his secretary of state.

So to the Chinese, when it comes to dealing with me, you've got a clenched fist
or an open hand. You pick. The party's over, to all the dictators. Make me
commander-in-chief and this crap stops.

(APPLAUSE)

CRAMER: Thank you, Senator.

Senator Santorum. We know that a troubling amount of air pollution on the west
coast comes from China. Should we enact a pollution tax on products imported
from China and give our manufacturers a level playing field?

SANTORUM: What we should be -- we shouldn't be putting tariffs on anything. That
hurts working men and women in this country. What we should be doing is making
our manufacturing more competitive.

One of the reasons I introduced the 20/20 plan, a 20 percent flat tax on
corporations, as well as on individuals, is so we can be competitive, so we can
bring those manufacturing jobs back.

You want to talk about cutting pollution? You do a little back- of-the-envelope.
We -- we produce, per dollar of GDP, about one-fifth of the CO2 and other
pollutants that China produces. So we're five times more efficient in producing
goods here, as far as the environment -- environment is concerned.

Why don't we -- if we really want to tackle environmental problems, global
warming, what we need to do is take those jobs from China and bring them back
here to the United States, employ workers in this country.

We've lost two million jobs -- two million jobs -- under this administration in
manufacturing -- 15,000 manufacturers have left this country. Why? Because of
bad tax policy, bad regulatory policy and, yes, bad trade policy.

We need to have a president that's going to pledge, as I have -- I'm going to
make America the number-one manufacturer so working men and women can have good
paying jobs again in America.

CRAMER: Thank you, Senator. John?

HARWOOD: Governor Jindal, Senator Santorum just raised the issue of corporate
taxes, and cutting corporate taxes is very popular in your party because our
rate, at 35 percent, is one of the highest in the world. But nobody has figured
out how to identify a set of loopholes that would allow that tax rate to be
lowered. So can you tell us specifically what loopholes you'd do away with?

JINDAL: Absolutely, John. I'd go further. My tax plan, like everybody's, like a
lot of Republicans' -- look, I'd get rid of the death penalty and the marriage
penalty, and I'd simplify the brackets to 25 percent, 10 percent, 2 percent, so
that an average middle-class family -- a teacher marries a law enforcement
official (ph)...

HARWOOD: We're talking corporate taxes.

JINDAL: ...I -- I'm gonna get that. Pays 25 percent today, would pay 10 percent
under my plan. But my plan does three things different from other people's
plans.

One -- remember, I said 2 percent. I think everybody should pay something, even
if it's only 2 percent. That's the most important 2 percent in my plan.

I know a lot of Republicans brag -- y'all can clap, it doesn't scare me. Go
ahead. I heard some people.

There are millions of -- there are millions of folks that wouldn't pay taxes in
Jeb's plan and Trump's plan. I think that's a mistake.

In terms of the corporate tax, secondly, I'd get rid of the corporate tax. We do
have the highest corporate tax rate in the developed world. I'd get rid of it.
I'd get rid of all the corporate welfare. Make the CEOs pay their same tax rates
the way the rest of us do.

And third, I'd purposely shrink the size of government. You know, that is a --
that is an intentional feature of my plan. We've got a choice: do we grow
government -- the government economy, or the American economy?

So I say get rid of the corporate tax, bring those jobs and investment here to
the United States, stop sending jobs and investment overseas.

HARWOOD: Thanks, Governor. Becky?

QUICK: Governor Pataki, let's talk a little bit about what's happened on Wall
Street. Some of your colleagues in the Republican Party, including some of the
people on this stage, have bashed Wall Street. They say that it was largely
responsible for the financial crisis.

You're a former governor of New York, and you relied very heavily on Wall Street
for income. Do you think they've gone too far?

PATAKI: I think they have gone too far. I think we've seen Wall Street really
blossom and do very well while the rest of the country is struggling, and it's
because we have this corrupt connection between Wall Street and Washington.

And, John, you were just talking about what loopholes would you get rid of. I
would get rid of virtually every single one of them. They cost American
taxpayers $1.4 trillion a year. I would throw them all out.

HARWOOD: So the tax credit right now that we have for domestic manufacturing,
which manufacturers say is...

PATAKI: No, I wouldn't. I was going to say...

HARWOOD: ...important, you would get rid of that?

PATAKI: ...no, I would keep -- first, yes, but what I would do is ii would lower
the tax on manufacturing to the lowest in the developed world -- 12 percent.

We all have plans. I have a plan. We all have plans. My plan, the Tax Foundation
said, would create five and a half million new jobs over the next decade.

The difference, though, is I will get my plan enacted because, when I was
governor of New York, I passed sweeping tax code -- cuts in a Democratic state
with a Democratic legislature.

I -- you know, Bobby, you're talking about your tax cuts? I cut taxes more than
everybody on this stage, more than everybody on the next stage, combined. By
more than the other 49 states, in New York state.

I don't just have a plan. I will enact tax cuts, get rid of those loopholes and
make the system fairer for all Americans.

QUICK: Governor Pataki, thank you.

PATAKI: Thank you.

QUICK: Carl?

QUINTANILLA: Senator Graham. You have said you believe that climate change is
real. You've said you accept tax increases as part of a budget deal with
Democrats. You've co-sponsored a Senate immigration bill providing a path to
citizenship for those in the country illegally.

Are you in the wrong party's debate?

(LAUGHTER)

GRAHAM: No, I -- I think I'm trying to solve problems that somebody had better
solve.

Now, you don't have to believe that climate change is real. I have been to the
Antarctic. I've been to Alaska. I'm not a scientist, and I've got the grades to
prove it.

(LAUGHTER)

But I've talked to the climatologists of the world, and 90 percent of them are
telling me that greenhouse gas effect is real. That we're heating up the planet.
I just want a solution that would be good for the economy, that doesn't destroy
it.

I want to fix an immigration system. I'm not gonna tell you, if you like your
doctor, you can keep it -- keep him. Do you like your health care, you're gonna
keep it. I'm tired of telling people things that they want to hear, that we know
we're not gonna do.

We're not gonna eliminate the corporate tax. But we can make it lower. We're
going to fix immigration, only if we work together. I want to secure the border
because, if we don't, we're going to get hurt and hit again.

I want to fix a broken visa system. I want to increase legal immigration,
because we're gonna have a shortage of workers over time. As to the 11 million,
I want to talk about fixing the problem. We're not going to deport 11 million
people and their legal citizen children.

But we will deport felons. And those who stay will have to learn our language to
stay, because I don't speak it well but look how far I've come.

(CROSSTALK)

GRAHAM: At the end of the day, folks, I am trying to solve a problem and win an
election. I am tired of losing.

Good God, look who we're running against. The number one candidate on the other
side thought she was flat broke after her and her husband were in the White
House for eight years. The number two guy went to the Soviet Union on his
honeymoon and I don't think he ever came back.

(LAUGHTER)

If we don't beat these people, who the hell are we going to beat?

(CROSSTALK)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Senator, you're well over your minute but thank you for that.

We will be back from Boulder, Colorado, in just a moment.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

(MUSIC PLAYING)

QUICK: Welcome back, everyone. This is the Republican Presidential Debate on
CNBC, live from the University of Colorado.

Senator Santorum, I'd like to go to you. You have talked an awful lot about how
you want to protect American jobs by eliminating the number of immigrants who
come into this country.

But very recently, the CEO of Toll Brothers (ph) told that he can't get by
without immigrants because they make up more than half of his workforce at this
point. We're not talking about people who are making minimum wage but he can't
find Americans who want to do these jobs for $20-an-hour-plus jobs.

What would happen if your plans are successful? What happens and how would we
fill that hole in the economy, that gap that's created?

Well, as you know, Becky, we have the lowest labor participation rate in 50
years and we also have the slowest growth in wages in the history of our
country, any 20-year period. In fact, the last quarter had the lowest wage
growth ever recorded. And so you look at the fact that we've brought in 35
million -- 35 million legal and illegal immigrants over the last 20 years, more
than any period in American history, we have low wages, low participation waits.
Maybe -- rates.

Maybe there's something going on like we aren't -- we aren't -- we don't have
the -- the right match, right?

We don't -- we aren't giving the training and the investment in our workers and
we're bringing in people to compete against low wage workers. That's what's
happening.

We are -- we have an immigration policy that Senator Graham supported that
brings in even more low wage workers into this country. He says he wants to
solve problems, that's great. But you're not solving problems for American wage
earners. You're not solving problems for workers in America who have seen their
wages flat line and have been disaffected enough to leave the workplace.

We need to get better training and better skills, including vocational education
and -- and training in this -- in those -- and -- and cut -- community colleges.
But the bottom line is, we have to make sure that we are not flooding this
country...

QUICK: All right...

SANTORUM: -- with competition...

QUICK: Senator, I'm sorry your minute is up.

SANTORUM: -- for low wage workers.

QUICK: Thank you very much, Senator Santorum.

SANTORUM: (INAUDIBLE) and I...

QUICK: And Graham, Mr. Graham, yes, that was a question to you, too.

GRAHAM: The first thing...

QUICK: You have 30 seconds.

GRAHAM: -- that we have to do is come to grips with the reality that we're
facing as Americans. In 1950, there were 16 workers for every Social Security
recipient. Today, there's three. In 20 years, there are two.

I want to make sure that no American company leaves America because you can't
find a worker.

American workers always get the first preference. But if you can't find an
American worker, after you advertise at a competitive wage, I don't want you to
be at a loss. Bring people in based on merit. Let's take a broken immigration...

QUICK: Senator Graham, thank you.

GRAHAM: -- system...

QUICK: I'm sorry. That's your 30 seconds...

GRAHAM: -- and make a merit-based immigration system that will help our economy.
We're going to need workers in the future.

QUICK: Senator Graham...

GRAHAM: Let's just choose rationally.

QUICK: Thank you, Senator.

(CROSSTALK)

QUICK: Gentlemen, hold on a second.

PATAKI: Let me -- let me try to get a word in edgewise.

QUICK: Go ahead,

SANTORUM: That's not what's happening.

PATAKI: In Washington, they talk over each other...

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Each one...

(CROSSTALK)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Senator, let's -- let's have -- let Governor Pataki have a
chance to speak.

PATAKI: Yes. Very simply, you guys talk over each other in Washington all the
time. I'm not used to that. I listen when people talk.

We have a skills gap. You mentioned the construction company. The construction
industry says one of their biggest problems are they can't find the craftsmen to
do the work.

What we have to...

(CROSSTALK)

PATAKI: -- do in America is honor blue collar work again. We have to honor the
carpenter, the plumber, the electrician, who can actually build something and
instead of just saying that a college degree live -- delivers prestige, let's
celebrate those who do things with their hands and elevate their skills using
training in high school and community...

QUICK: Governor Pataki...

PATAKI: -- colleges so that we can...

QUICK: -- I'm sorry, that was a...

(CROSSTALK)

PATAKI: -- have a better quality workforce that we honor...

QUICK: Governor Pataki...

PATAKI: -- as they build America's future.

QUICK: I'm sorry to talk over you, sir.

That was a minute.

PATAKI: Thank you.

QUICK: Thank you very much.

PATAKI: Thank you.

QUICK: Carl?

QUINTANILLA: My question for Governor Jindal, Paul Ryan says he would take the
speaker job if it did not take away from his family time. The Department of
Labor says 13 percent of American workers are eligible for paid family leave and
the U.S. is the only developed nation in the world not to have guaranteed paid
maternity leave for new moms.

Should the government work to change that?

JINDAL: Look, I think the government should work to change that, but that
doesn't -- does not mean I'm for the government mandating that.

We already have too many government mandates out of DC.

Do I want people to have paid leave?

Sure.

Do I want people to earn higher wages?

Sure.

Do I want them to have better benefits?

Sure. The government can't wave a magic wand and make that happen.

Here's the problem. The last seven years, President Obama has tried to teach the
American people that government is the answer to all of our problems.

Where has that gotten us?

We're on a path toward socialism. The way that folks can get better paying jobs
with better benefits is if we have a growing economy. That means to repeal all
of ObamaCare, a lower flatter tax code.

That means that we have an energy plan that makes sense. That means that we
embrace an all of the above approach to energy. Those are good paying jobs --
$50,000, $70,000, $90,000 a year jobs with benefits.

But this president won't let us produce more energy on our domestic federal
lands and waters. He won't allow the Canadians to build the Keystone Pipeline.
He's got an EPA that's doing everything they can to kill private sector jobs in
America.

So, yes, I want families to have better paying jobs and better benefits, but
we're not going to get that with a government mandate, we're going to get that
with a growing economy.

QUINTANILLA: Governor, thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

QUINTANILLA: John?

HARWOOD: Senator Graham, Americans have gotten used to seeing headlines about
more and more big corporations relocating overseas to cut their tax bill. Now,
many in Washington think the way to stop that is to lower our corporate tax
rate.

But as we've seen, tax reform takes time. It hasn't happened yet.

In the meantime, do you fault those companies for leaving?

Do companies owe anything to their country, as well as their shareholders?

GRAHAM: We owe to every businessperson and worker in America the best
environment in the world to create a job. We owe that to American businesses.
Thirty-five percent corporate tax rate is the second highest in the world.

We need to lower it so they don't leave. The goal is to help the middle class.
We can talk about corporations all day long but my goal is to help the middle
class, somebody who makes too much to be on government assistance but still
lives paycheck to paycheck.

When the kid gets sick you don't go on vacation.

(CROSSTALK)

GRAHAM: That's the purpose of my presidency, to grow the economy here. And let
me tell you, our Democratic friends have a list a mile long of more government.
That's not going to grow the middle class, that's going to create a burden on
your children, which they're already overburdened. The best way to grow the
middle class is to make it a good place to create a job.

You know why Boeing came to South Carolina when they could have gone anywhere to
build the 787?

Because we wanted them. We had a low-tax structure.

HARWOOD: Senator Graham.

GRAHAM: A permitting structure that allowed them to build the building even
faster than they thought they could build it. We welcomed them there. I'm going
to take the South Carolina attitude --

HARWOOD: I want to remind candidates, you've got a one-minute limit on the -- on
the response.

But I just want to follow up, Senator Graham. Four years ago, the nominee of
your party said that corporations are people, too.

If that is true, the question is, do they owe any obligation to the country?

GRAHAM: I think everybody owes an obligation to the country. The ones that I'm
most worried about are the 1 percent of Americans in uniform, who have been
fighting this war for 14 years. They need a commander in chief who knows what
the hell they're doing.

My first job as President of the United States is to rebuild the military and
use it smartly. Admiral Mullen said the debt is a big threat to our national
security. He's right. But people go where they're welcome when it comes to job
creation.

If I'm President of the United States you will be welcomed in America.

HARWOOD: Senator Graham --

GRAHAM: This will be the place to come --

HARWOOD: -- thank you very much.

GRAHAM: And if I'm president of the United States --

HARWOOD: We're moving on.

GRAHAM: -- our enemies --

QUICK: You guys are making this just like home. This is just like (INAUDIBLE).

(CROSSTALK)

HARWOOD: Senator, we're moving on.

I'd like to bring on my colleague, Rick Santelli -- Rick.

RICK SANTELLI, CNBC HOST: Thanks, John.

Governor Pataki.

PATAKI: Hey, Rick.

SANTELLI: How are you doing tonight?

PATAKI: I'm doing great.

SANTELLI: Listen, America's central bank, the Federal Reserve, they've kept
interest rates near zero since the 2008 financial crisis.

And, by the way, they had a meeting today, you think they raised rates?

No.

Shocking, isn't it?

PATAKI: Not at all.

SANTELLI: Listen, it's been a rough ride for American savers and retirees, they
really rely on this interest income. And it's been a bonanza for the stock
market, a bonanza.

And for investors that like the little bit more risk, it's been a bonanza for
them as well.

So I guess what I'm asking is, do you think this policy is fair and do you
support it?

PATAKI: No, I don't support it. But let me go back a little bit here. We need to
grow our economy faster. We've had the worst economic recovery since the Great
Depression. And it's because of policy in Washington and policy at the Fed.

And let me go back to Washington. In 2009 --

HARWOOD: Senator, that -- I mean, Governor, if that's true, why was our economy
limping six years ago and now it's the strongest in the world?

PATAKI: John, no question Barack Obama inherited a economic disaster in 2009.

But what did he do?

Instead of focusing on pro-growth policies in the economy, he rammed through
ObamaCare, the worst law of my lifetime, that hurt small businesses, hurt
companies, raised taxes and almost completely eliminated one industry because of
its taxes.

The Fed had to act. And the Fed did act and appropriately in reducing interest
rates but they've reduced them now for seven straight years, that's never
happened before. They've been zero for way too long.

They should raise the rates; the Fed should get out of manipulating the market
and the Fed also, by the way, should reduce its balance sheet, $2.7 trillion.
Let some of those bonds mature and put the money back in the banking system so
our economy can grow.

SANTELLI: Thanks, Governor.

Senator Santorum, in the 2012 presidential debate, you were for the
export-import bank, which facilitates government funding for U.S. exports.
American companies like GE and Boeing are among the beneficiaries.

But you said that killing the bank here -- and I'm going to quote you -- ''is
the last thing a true conservative should be doing.''

I don't know, government-backed funding isn't normally what I hear from true
conservatives.

So why is this situation different?

SANTORUM: A true conservative wants to create a level playing field. That's what
-- that's what we're -- that's what government is supposed to do. They're not
supposed to favor one group over another.

And when it comes to our manufacturers, the level playing field is not in the
United States. It's international. And so the federal government should have
laws, tax laws, regulatory laws and, yes, finance laws. There's 60 other ex-im
banks all over -- all over the world.

Every major competitor for the United States' manufacturing dollar has one of
those banks.

And guess what? They use those banks a heck of a lot more than their -- than the
United States of America does, number one.

So in order to have a level playing field, which is what conservatives talk
about all the time, level playing field, then we have to have export financing
and here's why.Because export financing doesn't help Boeing, or G.E.

G.E. just lost a contract, you know what they did? They went to . They got the
X.M. (ph) bank in France to support it, and what did they do? They moved
manufacturing out of South Carolina, out of Texas, moved to -- Hungary, and to
France. G.E. is still making money. G.E. is still doing well, but American
workers are out of jobs. That's why we have to have this level playing field so
we can compete with the rest of the world.

MALE: Thank you, Senator.

QUINTANILLA: CNBC's coverage of the Republican presidential debate continues,
live from the University of COlorado after this short break.

(APPLAUSE)

(INAUDIBLE)

(INAUDIBLE)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

QUINTANILLA: Welcome back to the University of Colorado, and the Republican
Presidential Debate on CNBC.

(APPLAUSE)

QUINTANILLA: A question for Senator Santorum. People in this state have loved
Coors Beer since it was founded in 1873. I can atest...

(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)

Now, the brewer later became part of SABMiller, but, now SAB may be bought by
Budweiser owner, InBev. Is it right to have a third of brewers in this country
owned by one company, and do you fear a company that size will have too much
power over consumers.

SANTORUM: Well, first, since you mention Colorado, I want to thank the people of
Colorado because four years ago you -- gave me the honor of winning the
nomination out here in the state of Colorado. On a night we won three states,
and it catapulted us to win 11 states ultimately, so, I just want to thank you
very, very much for that support, and -- in response to that, I do drink a lot
of Coors beer, so...

(LAUGHTER)

I try to help. The answer is pretty simple. The answer is simple. There are no
shortage of breweries around the United States of America. I -- I do -- as I
travel around the country, I do pints and politics, and I go to breweries all
over the place, and there -- there's almost no town in America anymore that
doesn't have a brewery, so I don't think we need to worry too much.

They're obviously -- if there's -- if there's some anti- competitive issues, you
know, we have agencies to look at that. But, no, I'm not -- I'm not concerned
that Americans are not going to have choices in beer.

QUINTANILLA: Well, let's get to that. I mean, another example, for example, is
Walgreens.

SANTORUM: And I care about, by the way. I care about choices.

QUINTANILLA: I'm sure you do.

(LAUGHTER)

Walgreens/Rite Aid. Big deal, consolidation in drug stores, semiconductors,
food. What is the line at which something becomes anti-competitive in your view?

SANTORUM: Well, I -- I would say this, that what you're seeing is -- in health
care, you're seeing a lot of consolidation, and that consolidation is occurring
because of Obamacare.

You're seeing it particularly in an area that I am concerned about, and that's
in insurance -- health insurance. You're seeing the big health insurance
companies fold up.

You've seen Obama try to seed health insurance companies, and they've all
failed, I think, except one. Why? Because we have a system of Obamacare with
minimum loss ratios that make it virtually impossible for a small insurer to
operate effectively.

And this was the motive behind Obamacare. This wasn't incidental. This was
deliberate, to make it so impossible for small insurers to survive...

QUINTANILLA: Senator.

SANTORUM: ...that they consolidate into a small group. Then the left can say,
''there is no competition, we need a single payer.'' That's why we have to
repeal Obamacare.

(APPLAUSE)

QUINTANILLA: Thank you. Becky.

QUICK: Governor Jindal, I want to go back to something that you mentioned before
with your tax plan. I know that you want to put a 2 percent tax on all families,
just to make sure everyone has some skin in the game.

But every working American pays 6.2 percent, when it comes to Social Security
taxes. They pay another 1.45 percent of Medicare. Isn't that skin in the game?

JINDAL: A couple things. You're talking about payroll taxes that fund programs.
People pay for their Medicare, they pay for their Social Security.

I want every American to worry and care about how those folks in D.C. are
spending our money. If $18 trillion of debt -- they're misspending our money.
Earned success is so much more fulfilling than unearned success.

I don't want us to continue to create one class of Americans that pays income
taxes, that pays for government, another class of Americans that's growing more
and more dependent on government.

That's what we have today. Socialism is bad, not only for taxpayers, but people
that they say they're trying to help. There's dignity in work, dignity in
self-sufficiency.

I wanna quote you a president. Our (ph) previous president said this: he said,
''the problem is, is that tax rates are too high, government income revenues are
too low.''

He said, ''paradoxically, lowering tax rates now is the best way to produce
higher government revenues later.'' No, that wasn't President Reagan, as many
are probably guessing at home. That was President Kennedy.

I see you know the answer. That was President Kennedy. Imagine if he were alive
today -- and if he was at that last Democratic debate, imagine if you tried to
say that in a party that's veering towards socialism. That wouldn't be welcome
in today's Democratic party.

QUICK: Governor, thank you.

HARWOOD: Governor Pataki, you've indicated you believe climate change is real
and caused at least in part by human activity. So, in 60 seconds, tell us what
the federal government should do about it.

PATAKI: Yeah, absolutely. I -- one of the things that troubles me about the
Republican Party is too often we question science that everyone accepts. I mean,
it's ridiculous that, in the 21st century, we're questioning whether or not
vaccines are the appropriate way to go. Of course they are. And it's also not
appropriate to think that human activity, putting CO2 into the atmosphere,
doesn't make the earth warmer. All things being equal, it does. It's
uncontroverted.

I think part of the problem is that Republicans think about climate change, say,
''oh my God, we're gonna have higher taxes, more Obama, more big government, the
EPA shutting down factories.''

That's not the solution that I see. I want Republicans to embrace innovation and
technology. You know, there's one country in the world that has fewer greenhouse
gas emissions than the rest of -- of the world. You know what that is? The
United States.

Our emissions are lower than they were in 1995. Not because of a -- of a
government program, but because of fracking, private sector creation...

(CROSSTALK)

HARWOOD: Is there a role for government?

PATAKI: ...replace coal plants -- government's roles -- is to incentivize
innovation and the entrepreneurial spirit in America. We could have far more
clean energy.

We could have next-generation nuclear, thorium reactors that have no risk of
meltdown. We could have solar panels on every home that are four times more
efficient than today.

HARWOOD: So, subsidies for those programs? For -- for those alternative energy
sources?

PATAKI: R&D -- R&D credits. Let the private sector do this, develop this
innovation. And not only would we solve our problems, we would have clean
energy, cheaper energy here.

We could export those technologies to places like China and like India so we
would grow our economy, have a far greater impact globally, have a secure
domestic source of energy, and cleaner, healthier air.

That's the solution. Embrace science, embrace innovation and change.

HARWOOD: Thank you, Governor. Thank you, Governor. Carl?

(APPLAUSE)

QUINTANILLA: Question for Senator Santorum.

SANTORUM: Thank you. Can I just say something about that?

QUINTANILLA: After this question maybe.

(LAUGHTER)

The 2015 Nobel Prize winner for economics argues that slow growth causes
poverty, and that leads to inequality. What would you do to ease inequality? And
what would you do solve poverty? By the way, thanks to Larry Kudlow, CNBC, for
this question.

SANTORUM: Well, if you look at our plan that I introduced, the 2020 Clear Vision
for America, we increase growth by 10 percent, 1 percent a year. So we go from
2.3 to 3.3, in repealing Obamacare, it's another .7. So you're looking at 4
percent growth, according to the Tax Foundation.

And unlike Donald Trump and Bobby Jindal, we don't add $10 trillion to the
deficit. In fact, our plan, while it creates as many jobs as their plan does and
grows the economy as much as theirs does, we are a revenue-neutral plan because
I believe that we need to reduce the size of government, yes, but we also need
to reduce our deficit, and we need to get our budget balanced so we can start
paying down this debt. And adding a trillion dollars with a tax cut and getting
no more growth is not the way to do it.

But that's only half of it. The word ''economy'' comes from the Greek
''euthokis'' (ph) which means family. The family is the first economy. And the
one thing that we do not talk about enough is how stable families are vitally
important for the middle of America to be prosperous and to grow and be safe.
And I will have policies, not just tax policies, but others that will make sure
that families are strong again in America.

QUINTANILLA (?): Governor Jindal, I'll give you 30 seconds on this.

JINDAL: Well, thank you.

Look, if Senator Santorum wants to concede the tax cut wing of the Republican
Party, I'm happy to fight for that side of the Republican Party. He's exactly
right. I explicitly want to shrink the size of government; 22 percent over 10
years is not too much. We cut our state budget 26 percent in eight years.

This is a fundamental choice. We mustn't become a cheaper version of the
Democratic Party, a second liberal party. We need to proudly say we're willing
to cut taxes, shrink government, grow the American economy. President Kennedy
said it to the Democratic Party. Why can't we say it in the Republican Party in
2015, let's cut taxes.

HARWOOD: Governor, if you cut spending and cut government so much, why did your
legislature have such a big deficit?

JINDAL: John, our budget is balanced. We balanced our budget every year for
eight years. Yeah, we've had to cut spending. You know what? We privatized or
closed nine of our 10 charity hospitals. We did statewide school choice; $1.6
billion (ph) budget cut.

You're quoting an old number from the beginning of the year. We closed that gap.
What they talk about, just like D.C., government's the only place where you give
them less money than they wanted, they count it as a cut. They take last year's
budget. They add inflation. They call it a baseline. We need to do zero-based
budgets. We need to say just because you got money last year, you don't have it
this year.

Let me close, though. We balanced our budget. We didn't raise taxes. In eight
years, we never raised taxes. We cut taxes. Our -- our taxpayers, our families
have been better off for it.

(CROSSTALK)

HARWOOD: No, we're going to move on. I'm going to bring on my colleague Sharon
Epperson.

EPPERSON: Thank you, John.

Senator Graham, one in every four workers has saved less than $1,000 for
retirement. Millions of Americans rely on their Social Security benefits for the
majority of their retirement income. Now, you called for reforms to Social
Security, but what would you do to fix the other part of the problem for future
retirees and get people to save more?

GRAHAM: Well, number one, Social Security is not just a concept to me. I know
why it exists; 50 percent of today's seniors would be in poverty without a
Social Security check. I promise you, if you make me your president, I will save
Social Security because I know why it exists.

Now, if you're looking for good beer policy, I'm your best bet. My dad owned a
bar.

(LAUGHTER)

I know beer. We grew up, my sister and myself, in the back of that bar in one
room with my mom, my dad and my sister who's nine years younger. When I was 21,
my mom was diagnosed with Hodgkin's disease. Neither parent finished high
school. She died within a year. We were wiped out from the medical bills. And if
it wasn't for a Social Security survivor benefit check coming into my family, we
wouldn't' have made it because my dad died 15 months later.

So I...

EPPERSON: But Senator Graham...

GRAHAM: Wait a minute, please. I'm 22 and we're wiped out. I am 60. I'm not
married. I have a military retirement. I'm in good shape. I would give up some
of my benefits to help those who need it more than I do.

To young people here, I will ask you to work a little bit longer because we have
to. The purpose of my presidency is to save this country and to save Social
Security by working across the aisle just like Ronald Reagan. This is the
biggest issue facing this nation.

EPPERSON: Thank you, Senator Graham. Thank you, Senator Graham.

Governor Jindal, you've been a strong supporter of for-profit colleges. These
are institutions that educate many veterans, minorities and working class
Americans. They make up about 11 percent of the college population at these
schools, but they account for 44 percent of student loan defaults. Should
for-profit schools be held accountable when they take taxpayer money and leave
students deep in debt?

JINDAL: (INAUDIBLE) absolutely they should be accountable. They should be
accountable to their students through the market. Look, you either trust the
American people to make their own choices or you don't.

I know the Left thinks we need to be protected from ourselves. President Obama
is trying to limit competition to the higher education market. As a result,
you're going to see tuition prices continue to go up. We've had $1 trillion of
student debt and counting. And he wants to exempt certain schools from the same
oversight he wants to apply only to the for-profit market.

For some reason, the private sector is a bad word to this president. It's not in
the real world.

In Louisiana, we fought so that the dollars follow the child and so the child
following the dollar. What that means, from K-12, what that means is that
parents and their families can decide what's the best way for their children to
be educated. Higher education, we have a TOPS program, where, again, we will
help if a student maintains a 20 ACT, 2.5 GPA, we'll pay for their tuition. They
can take those dollars for private school of their choice in the state as well.

You either trust the American people or you don't. I know the Left doesn't.
That's why you get ObamaCare. They want to tell us what kind of insurance to
buy. That's why you get Common Core, they want to take away our gun rights under
the Second Amendment. They want to take away our religious liberty rights.

So, yes, there's accountability. There's accountability to students through
choice and competition. We don't need the nanny state to protect us from
ourselves.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you, Governor Jindal.

(APPLAUSE)

HARWOOD: And thank you, Sharon (ph).

This is the Republican Presidential Debate, live from Boulder, Colorado. We'll
be right back.

(MUSIC PLAYING) (APPLAUSE)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

(APPLAUSE)

QUICK: Welcome back to Boulder, Colorado, and the Republican presidential debate
right here on CNBC.

Gentlemen, this is our lightning round, where we have some questions for you we
hope you can answer in 20 seconds or less. And we will go right down the line on
this.

Governor Jindal, I'll start with you.

We're wondering, what are the three apps that you use most frequently on your
cellphone?

JINDAL: I was just saying to my colleagues, I may be the last person in this
audience without an iPhone. I'm actually one of the last folks -- I still have a
BlackBerry in my pocket. And I basically use it for scheduling. I use it to keep
up when my wife is here and my three kids at home.

The only games on that phone are Bricklayer. I use it to keep up with the news
through the Internet. I may be the last American out there without an iPhone.

QUICK: No, no.

JINDAL: My apologies.

QUICK: I -- I'm with you. I still have a BlackBerry, too.

Senator -- Senator Santorum, how about you?

SANTORUM: MLB, NHL, so I'm a big sports fan. And ''The Wall Street Journal.''
Those are the three apps I use the most.

QUICK: Thank you.

Governor?

PATAKI: The one I use the most is Uber. You know, I used to get driven...

(LAUGHTER)

PATAKI: -- when I was governor, I had a driver. I don't anymore, but...

(CROSSTALK)

PATAKI: And it's an example of what millennials are doing to change America for
the better. And I tweet a lot, too.

So Uber, Tweet -- Twitter and then I communicate with my family.

QUICK: Thank you.

Senator Graham?

GRAHAM: Well, number one, the only reason I have an iPhone is because I gave my
number to Donald Trump. Don't do that.

(LAUGHTER) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Governor...

GRAHAM: Donald has done more to upgrade my technology than my whole staff.

Number one, Fox News. Sorry about CNBC.

(LAUGHTER)

GRAHAM: We're in a Republican primary here.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thanks. Thanks a lot.

QUICK: We take your time back. Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Time is up.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Cut his microphone.

QUINTANILLA: We've got one more. One more lightning round.

Governor Jindal, should the day after the Super Bowl be a national holiday?

(LAUGHTER)

JINDAL: Well, absolutely, when the Saints go back to repeat, we were talking
about beer sales earlier, all those folks from being hung over in Louisiana from
drinking to celebrate Drew Brees winning this, I think it would be a great day
to take off.

No, look, on a serious note, I do want to say this about the Super Bowl and our
athletes. They can be great role models for our children and I'm obviously a
Saints fan. Drew Brees and his wife great role models, great Christians.

So, yes, it should be a holiday.

QUINTANILLA: Senator?

SANTORUM: Well, since we're usually in the Super Bowl at the Pittsburgh
Steelers...

Steeler nation, anybody?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No.

SANTORUM: No. I was in...

(CROSSTALK)

SANTORUM: -- I was in Kansas City over the weekend to watch the Steeler game and
about a third of the crowd were Steeler fans. So I'm usually not alone when I
call on Steeler Nation.

But we are used to being in the Super Bowl, so actually, it is in Pennsylvania
already.

QUINTANILLA: Governor?

PATAKI: I -- I am a long suffering Jets fan. So my answer is obviously no,
there's no reason to take off the day after the Super Bowl.

(APPLAUSE)

PATAKI: But let me just add this. The Mets are going to win tonight. Let's go,
Mets.

QUINTANILLA: Finally, Senator?

GRAHAM: Well, I think a national holiday would be the day that
commander-in-chief Barack Obama doesn't have that job.

(APPLAUSE)

GRAHAM: But unlike these other three, I want to win New Hampshire. Go Tom Brady.
Go Patriots.

(LAUGHTER)

GRAHAM: Sorry, Colorado is late in the...

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Panderer.

(CROSSTALK)

QUICK: Jhon?

HARWOOD: OK, now we're at the point of the evening where we're just about to
give our candidates a holiday from this debate, but not before they tell us in
30 seconds their closing statements.

Senator Graham, you're first.

GRAHAM: Somebody said -- or maybe I saw it on the bill of a cap -- that let's
make America great again.

(LAUGHTER)

GRAHAM: America is great.

(APPLAUSE)

GRAHAM: I intend to make America strong again. I'm going to be the champion of
the middle class, where I came from. If you make me your president, our best
days are ahead. I'm ready to be commander- in-chief, ladies and gentlemen, on
day one. I intend to war -- win a war that we cannot afford to lose.

I will be a commander-in-chief worthy of the sacrifice of those brave Americans
who have been defending our nation. They have had our back. God knows, they have
had our back... HARWOOD: Senator Graham...

GRAHAM: -- and I intend to have their back as commander-in- chief. Make me
commander-in-chief.

HARWOOD: Thank you, Senator Graham.

Governor Pataki?

PATAKI: Thank you for the opportunity to be with this great audience tonight.

I'm a limited government conservative and I mean by that that not just when it
comes to economic issues leaving them to the state, but social issues, as well.

And in that I differ from every single other candidate seeking the Republican
nomination.

I take the Tenth Amendment very, very seriously.

I'm a Republican who embraces science and understands we have to work with the
next generation of millennials to have the innovation and technology so that we
can grow a 21st century economy.

And I'm a Republican who understands in Washington, when you're a leader, you
have to put aside partisan politics to do what's right for the people.

We are one America. If we work together across party lines, there's no problem
we can't solve and the 21st century will be America's greatest century.

Thank you very much.

HARWOOD: Thank you, Governor.

(APPLAUSE)

HARWOOD: Senator Santorum?

SANTORUM: I grew up in a steel town of Western Pennsylvania, outside of
Pittsburgh, and when I announced for president, I announced from the factory
floor. When I talk about making America the number one manufacturer again in the
world, it's not just talk. When I talk about having the opportunity for people
to rise again, it's not just because it polls well.

I represented the old steel valley of Pittsburgh. I represented a 70% Democratic
district, and won with 60% of the vote. Why? Because I aligned myself with
working men and women who feel that neither party, and certainly not Washington
D.C. cares about them.

You elect me, we will get American workers on the side of the Republican party,
and we can not be stopped if we do.

(APPLAUSE)

HARWOOD: Senator Santorum, thank you. Governor Jindal?

JINDAL: My message is to conservatives, this is our hour. Thanks to the
insanity, the incompetence of the Democratic party, the American people are
ready to turn our government over to us. It's not enough to let just any
Republican, however. The reality is the idea of America is slipping away.

As Christians, we believe that the tomb is empty. As Americans, we believe that
our best days are always ahead of us, and they can be again. We must win this
election. We cannot allow Hillary Clinton to take us down this path towards
socialism -- further down this path.

I've got the courage to apply our conservative principles. I can't do it alone.
With your help, with God's grace, we can save the idea of America before it's
too late.

HARWOOD: Governor Jindal, thank you very much. Carl?

QUINTANILLA: That concludes our first part of the evening.

END

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/29/us/politics/transcript-the-undercard-republica
n-presidential-debate.html

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 31, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Sticks and Carrots of Wellness Programs

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1398 words


The notices arrived in employee mailboxes: Provide us with your weight,
cholesterol levels and other sensitive medical details, or pay up to $2,250 in
health insurance penalties -- and up to $4,000 if you're married.

The packets were delivered to employees of Honeywell, a manufacturing
conglomerate based in New Jersey, as part of its annual health plan enrollment.
It started levying the hefty surcharges two years ago, though it has eased the
penalties for its wellness program for the coming year -- they are now capped at
$1,500.

Federal regulations require that such wellness programs be voluntary. But for
some workers, it may not feel that way.

On the surface, the programs are seemingly a win-win: Encouraging workers to get
up and move or submit to annual blood tests to prevent future problems appears
to help both workers and their employers.

But the program's biggest critics say the programs are yet another way to push
more costs onto employees, and even worse, potentially a backdoor way to
discriminate against less healthy workers by making them pay more if, for
instance, they fail to meet a goal of lower cholesterol. For lower-income
employees, who may feel more pressure to participate, there is the potential for
another type of discrimination.

''Even if the program fails to improve employee health or lower costs over all,
they can come out ahead by shifting more of the responsibility to employees in
the form of larger contributions,'' said Matt Lamkin, a professor at the
University of Tulsa College of Law who specializes in bioethics and medical
consumerism.

Privacy is another concern. Many workers may fear that their sensitive medical
information -- like their blood pressure or data collected by a wearable device
-- could end up in the wrong hands or become exposed in a data breach. Consider
the questions in a typical health assessment: Do you feel so stressed that
nothing can cheer you up? Have people annoyed you by criticizing your drinking?
And don't forget to include your waist circumference.

While most large employers -- with 500 workers or more -- ask employees to
complete some sort of health assessment to identify potential risk factors,
nearly 60 percent also ask them to prick their fingers for biometric screening,
according to a 2015 report by Mercer, a consulting firm. And the number of
employers offering financial incentives to complete any of these
wellness-related tasks has inched higher: About 56 percent of large employers
dangled an incentive in front of their workers last year, the most common being
a premium reduction.

The programs may have become more prevalent, at least in part, because of the
Affordable Care Act. That law expanded existing rules for a certain type of
wellness program where incentives are contingent on a specific health outcome
(like reducing blood pressure) or an activity (like walking).

Most significantly, the law said employers could provide more rewards -- or levy
more surcharges, depending on how it's framed -- than they could previously:
Maximum rewards or penalties now cannot exceed 30 percent of the total cost of
the worker's insurance, up from 20 percent, including both the employee's and
employer's shares. (And if a tobacco cessation program is included, the figure
rises to 50 percent).

So for a family with coverage that is valued at $17,545 -- that was the annual
average total cost in 2015, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation -- it
would be perfectly fine for the employer to charge up to about $5,264 more, or
30 percent, for not fulfilling a goal like filling out a health risk assessment
form or completing a biometric screening. That is a significant chunk of most
families' budgets.

''Some employers are really pushing the envelope with the 30 percent; some are
coming close,'' said Amy M. Gordon, a partner at McDermott Will & Emery in
Chicago, who helps employers construct the plans. But plenty of other employers
may offer different incentives, she added, like gift cards or the chance to win
a piece of exercise equipment.

The financial incentives -- and the whole notion of whether a program is truly
voluntary -- have received a lot of attention over the last year, particularly
after the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission tried to stop Honeywell last
October from penalizing employees who did not take medical tests. The commission
claimed that the penalties made the testing involuntary and so violated the
Americans With Disabilities Act. A Federal District Court judge denied the
commission's motion for a temporary restraining order in November and let
Honeywell's policy stand.

In April, however, the commission proposed its own rules for wellness programs,
which are similar to those in the Affordable Care Act. Honeywell said it capped
its penalties at $1,500 for 2016 -- they can be avoided by completing biometric
screening -- to try to comply with the commission's proposed rules, which have
not yet been completed.

The commission further clarified its position on wellness incentives this week.
On Thursday, it proposed to amend another rule, the Genetic Information
Nondiscrimination Act, which generally prohibits employers from requesting or
collecting a worker's genetics or family history. Those rules still stand, but
the proposed update would permit employers to provide rewards to or impose
penalties on workers' spouses in exchange for data on their current or past
health status, though not their family history or genetic information.

So where does all of this leave employees? For individuals concerned about
privacy, this is yet another case of caveat emptor; workers need to fully
understand what they are signing up for. Medical information collected through a
wellness program that is part of a group health plan should have better
protections, including safeguards provided by the Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act (known as Hipaa). Details collected by wellness programs
may be disclosed to employers only in aggregate form -- anonymously -- except
when they are needed to administer the health plan. And the wellness program
must disclose who will receive the data and how it will be used.

But here's the catch: Many wellness programs require participants to sign up on
their website, where workers must agree to the wellness vendor's policies.

''You have to consent to the privacy policy and terms of service, which
basically says we are going to use your data in all of these ways and tell all
of these people,'' said Anna Slomovic, lead research scientist at the Cyber
Security Policy and Research Institute at George Washington University and a
former chief privacy officer at Equifax and Revolution Health. ''It's basically
take it or leave it.''

And if you have a Fitbit or another type of wearable technology, the data may
not have any special protections, particularly if an employer bought the devices
for its workers outside its formal health plan. ''The details very much matter
in this case,'' Dr. Slomovic said.

Then there is the continuing debate about whether wellness programs are actually
helping employees. It's hard to argue with the value of on-site gyms, help with
smoking cessation and an overarching goal to adopt a healthier lifestyle. But
while some wellness programs said they followed national guidelines set out by
groups like the American Medical Association, critics argue that some take
screenings too far.

''Wellness vendors screen everyone every year to maximize profits, even if harms
exceed benefits,'' said Al Lewis, a health consultant and a frequent critic of
the $7.2 billion corporate wellness services industry. He said they routinely
ignored screening guidelines set out by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force,
a well-known authority on the issue.

For now, only a minority of companies are levying penalties on people who don't
meet specific health goals. And exceptions must be made for people with medical
issues who cannot participate or meet specific targets. Still, critics have
concerns about a policy that requires already-stressed workers to pay extra if
they miss the mark.

''If you can't make yourself well, you have to pay more,'' said Karen Pollitz, a
senior fellow at the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonprofit group focusing on
health policy issues. ''Some people ask, 'How is that different from medical
underwriting?'''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/31/your-money/the-sticks-and-carrots-of-employee-
wellness-programs.html

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amy Gordon, right, an employee benefits lawyer for McDermott
Will & Emery, on a morning run with two friends, Lainie Dorneker, left, and
Jessica Interlandi, in Chicago. Ms. Gordon helps employers construct wellness
plans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) DRAWING (DRAWING
BY ROBERT NEUBECKER)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 1, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Through the Magnifying Glass

BYLINE: By JAMES PARKER.

James Parker is a contributing editor at The Atlantic.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1276 words


THE BIG BOOK OF SHERLOCK HOLMES STORIESEdited by Otto Penzler 789 pp. Vintage
Crime/Black Lizard. Paper, $25.MYCROFT HOLMESBy Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Anna
Waterhouse328 pp. Titan Books. $25.99.  Shadrach Voles, Upchuck Gnomes, Rockhard
Scones and Blowback Foams: None of these great made-up detectives appear in Otto
Penzler's giant compendium of fake Sherlock Holmes stories, or
Sherlock-Holmes-stories-written-by-persons-other-than-Sir-Arthur-Conan-Doyle.

You will, however, be able to find stories about Sherlaw Kombs, and Solar Pons,
and Picklock Holes, and Shamrock Jolnes, and Warlock Bones and (my own pick of
the pseudo-Holmeses) Hemlock Jones, who in Bret Harte's ''The Stolen
Cigar-Case'' almost destroys the ardently worshipful Watson-like narrator with
the sheer puissance of his intellect. On Hemlock Jones's shelves are glass jars
containing ''pavement and road sweepings'' and ''fluff from omnibus and road-car
seats.'' When he thinks, his head shrinks, ''so much reduced in size by his
mental compression that his hat tipped back from his forehead and literally hung
on his massive ears.'' Jones's diamond-Â­encrusted cigar case, a present from
the Turkish ambassador, has gone missing. There can be only one culprit: the
narrator himself! Jones lays out the case, deduction by damning deduction. ''So
overpowering was his penetration,'' declares the narrator in a fit of purest
proto-Kafka, ''that although I knew myself innocent, I licked my lips with
avidity to hear the further details of this lucid exposition of my crime.''

We in 2015, we the entertained, who live in a fun house of Sherlocks --
Cumberbatch Sherlock, Downey Jr. Sherlock, Jonny Lee Miller Sherlock, etc. --
need no convincing of the imaginative vitality of Sherlock Holmes. But the fact
that Bret Harte, revered and shaggy forebear, of whose stories Conan Doyle felt
his own early efforts to be but ''feeble echoes,'' could come out in 1900 with
such a spot-on and beautifully modern satire of a Sherlock Holmes story tells us
something of the immediacy with which Holmes franchised himself into popular
consciousness. He quickly overcame his creator, of course: Having plunged Holmes
-- for good, it seemed -- into the Reichenbach Falls in the fatal embrace of his
shadow-self, Moriarty, in 1893's ''The Final Problem,'' Conan Doyle found
himself, 10 years later, rewriting his own story. ''We tottered together upon
the brink of the fall,'' Holmes explains to a not unreasonably astonished Watson
in 1903's ''The Adventure of the Empty House.'' ''I have some knowledge,
however, of baritsu, or the Japanese system of wrestling, which has more than
once been very useful to me. I slipped through his grip.'' Slippery, unkillable
Holmes!

What's his secret? In a sense Holmes is the perfect literary creation: a
caricature with depth. A few quick strokes -- pipe, brain, violin, Watson --
call him into being, while beyond these scant markings an abyss of personality
instantly suggests itself. Dimensions open up, speculation is invited, and what
Tolkien called ''sub-Â­creation'' occurs: People begin to tell their own stories
about him. There's his tragic side, the paradoxically romantic ennui that arises
from his being such a brilliant micro-materialist, knowing everything about
train timetables and typography and trousers but finding himself lonely, so
lonely, in this suddenly atomic and demystified universe. He reaches for his
drugs, he scrapes at his violin; he shoots holes in the walls of his apartment.
Around him, invisibly, a vast cerebral plexus shimmers and twangs. Then there's
his fantastic and inexhaustible yin-yang buddy-movie Quixote-Panza double act
with John H. Watson, M.D., whose awe-struck narrations keep Holmes at one remove
from us, the human race.

A pastiche is a form of literary criticism, as a tribute band is a form of rock
criticism. There were things I didn't understand about Bon Jovi, for example,
until I saw, in a bar in Boston, a band called Jovi. (I just Googled them,
incidentally. Now they're called Bon Jersey.) So in Penzler's Big Book we find
the various parodists and imitators zooming in on key elements: Stephen Leacock,
in 1916, lampooning the ''inexorable chain of logic'' that leads Holmes to an
absurd conclusion, and John Lutz, in 1987, describing a Holmes who in the
absence of a good case ''becomes zombielike in his withdrawal into boredom.''
It's all, properly defined, fan fiction, some of the fans (Stephen King, H.R.F.
Keating) being quite distinguished, others less so -- long-forgotten bookmen
lowering themselves into the Holmesian atmosphere as into a hot bath, with many
a grunt and sigh of luxury. Kingsley Amis puts on a good performance in ''The
Darkwater Hall Mystery'' -- although because he's writing for Playboy he has
Watson go to bed with a servant called Dolores, ''raven hair, creamy skin and
deep brown eyes.'' I loved Neil Gaiman's elegiac and dreamlike ''The Case of
Death and Honey,'' which really breaks up the mood. Anthony Burgess's
contribution to the genre, ''Murder to Music,'' is rather too elaborate in its
formalities, but it does give us a Holmes of thrilling and merciless
aestheticism: ''If Sarasate, before my eyes and in this very room, strangled you
to death, Watson, for your musical insensitivity,
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. I should be constrained to close my eyes to
the act, .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. deposit your body in the gutter of
Baker Street and remain silent while the police pursued their investigations. So
much is the great artist above the moral principles that oppress lesser men.''

Grinding our Holmesian gears slightly, let's turn now to ''Mycroft Holmes,'' by
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Anna Waterhouse. For outsize polymathic energy and
accomplishment, Abdul-Jabbar -- N.B.A. champion, cultural ambassador, author --
rivals Conan Doyle himself. Of his many triumphs I will always chiefly prize the
line from ''Airplane!'' -- ''We have clearance, Clarence!'' -- that he delivered
while playing the co-pilot Roger Murdock, but that's because I know nothing
about basketball. At any rate, here's his novel about Sherlock's older, fatter,
cleverer brother, Mycroft -- tantalizingly alluded to in the canon -- who works
for the British Â­government.

The idiom of ''Mycroft Holmes'' is genially chaotic sub-Victorian with
21st-Â­century lapses -- someone over here is ''assailed'' by a coughing fit,
while someone over there ''splurges'' on a new overcoat -- but the plot is a
solid romp. Young Â­Mycroft, early in his career, is dispatched to Trinidad to
investigate certain grisly goings-on: missing persons, children turning up on
the beach with their bodies drained of blood, that kind of thing. Mycroft is
additionally in love (with the ravishing and enigmatic Georgiana) and watching
with interest the development of his faintly inhuman younger brother, Sherlock,
whom he tutors in deductive reasoning while administering boxing lessons. Their
mother is insane. Given that Mycroft is, legendarily, a kind of database on
legs, I might have made him a bit more cyber, a bit more ''Terminator''-like --
but Abdul-Jabbar and Waterhouse have gone another way, and the mood is very
expressive. '' 'Whatever is the matter?' Holmes bleated. 'You must keep me
apprised as we go along,' Douglas blurted out.'' Bleats, blurts -- not quite the
Holmesian vibe. But the narrative rattles along, and the plot ramifies
impressively, and it's by (with Anna Waterhouse) Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, for God's
sake, an extraordinary man, a novel in himself, about whose fictionalized
post-C.I.A. older brother -- 15 feet tall, with purring Spock-like mind -- there
will one day, for certain, be a book.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/01/books/review/the-big-book-of-sherlock-holmes-s
tories-and-kareem-abdul-jabbars-mycroft-holmes.html

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MIKEL JASO)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 3, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Debates Suing Firms for Inoffensive Falsehoods

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 734 words


WASHINGTON --  A case about false information on the Internet gave rise to a
vivid and occasionally personal argument on Monday at the Supreme Court.

The question in the case was whether companies that say false but seemingly
benign things about consumers may be sued under the Fair Credit Reporting Act.
Justice Sonia Sotomayor said that many sorts of apparently harmless
misinformation could cause damage.

She said, by way of example, that she knew single people who searched the
Internet to find out if prospective dates were married or not. ''So if you're
not married and there's a report out there saying you are, that's a potential
injury,'' Justice Sotomayor said.

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy suggested that the ubiquity of questionable
information in the digital age may require a fresh approach. ''On the Internet,
in this cyber-age that we have where all this information is out, there has to
be some real injury'' caused by misinformation, he said, suggesting that mass
dissemination of falsehoods may warrant different treatment than neighborhood
gossip.

The case concerned Spokeo, a company that sells personal data online. It
distributed a profile of Thomas Robins that was riddled with errors.

The profile said he had a graduate degree, though he did not; that he was
employed and in good shape financially, though he was out of work; and that he
was married and had children, though neither was true. The profile included a
photograph of a different man.

''These are not unimportant details,'' Justice Elena Kagan said. ''They
basically got everything wrong about him. You know, they got his marital status
wrong. They got his income wrong. They got his education wrong. They basically
portrayed a different person.''

Mr. Robins sued under a part of the credit law that provides damages of up to
$1,000 without proof of direct harm, and he sought to represent a class of
people with similar claims. Spokeo responded that Congress did not have the
power to create a legal right to sue for plaintiffs who have suffered no direct
and concrete injuries.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit last year disagreed.
''A plaintiff can suffer a violation of the statutory right without suffering
actual damages,'' a unanimous three-judge panel ruled.

Justice Kagan said that false statements may be damage enough. ''Why isn't the
dissemination of false information about you in a credit report,'' she asked,
''perfectly sufficient if Congress says that's a concrete injury?''

Andrew J. Pincus, a lawyer for Spokeo, said suits should be allowed only if
plaintiffs can show the concrete injury generally required to establish standing
to sue. He gave two examples: harm to credit or a missed job opportunity.

Justice Kagan responded that people almost never know why a bank or potential
employer turned them down. ''I mean,'' she said, ''it's actually the
quintessential kind of injury that you will never be able to detect and surely
not to prove.''

But Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. asked, ''Is there anything here to indicate that
anybody other than Mr. Robins ever did a search for him'' on the Spokeo site?

William S. Consovoy, a lawyer for Mr. Robins, said there was nothing in court
records to show that.

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. gave examples of what he said were harmless
falsehoods. He asked, for instance, whether someone with an unlisted phone
number could sue Spokeo for giving an inaccurate one. Mr. Consovoy said Congress
could allow suits over that misinformation.

Malcolm L. Stewart, a lawyer for the Obama administration, argued in support of
Mr. Robins, a stance that seemed to surprise Chief Justice Roberts.

''I would have thought that the president would be concerned about Congress
being able to create its own enforcement mechanism,'' he said. ''I thought that
you would be concerned that that would interfere with the executive's
prerogative.''

Mr. Stewart said he could imagine a law presenting that problem. The credit law,
however, was appropriate and valuable, he said.

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the lurking issue in the case, Spokeo Inc. v.
Robins, No. 13-1339, was the possibility of a class action involving ''millions
of plaintiffs and billions of dollars.'' But both she and Justice Kagan
suggested that class certification might not be appropriate for claims under the
credit law like the one pressed by Mr. Robins.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/03/business/justices-hear-debate-on-suing-compani
es-for-seemingly-harmless-falsehoods.html

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 5, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bitcoin Surges in Value, Emerging From a Lull in Interest

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words


After a long period of quiet, the price of the virtual currency Bitcoin is
surging again as signs of interest from China and Wall Street have helped kick
off a new speculative frenzy.

The price of a single Bitcoin has been steadily rising in recent weeks. On
Wednesday, it spiked particularly sharply, rising above $500 on some exchanges,
and bringing the value of a single coin up over 100 percent from a month ago. By
the end of Wednesday, the price had fallen back closer to $400.

The recent rally has been the biggest since the online currency entered a
sustained decline after the collapse of what was once the biggest Bitcoin
exchange, Mt. Gox, in early 2014. That incident -- and the use of Bitcoin for
drug sales -- led many people to write off the virtual money as a passing fad.

Nonetheless, many banks and financial firms continued to study the technology
behind the scenes and have recently been expressing their interest -- and
announcing new investments -- in the technology underlying Bitcoin, which is
being heralded as a new way to conduct a broad array of financial transactions.

There has also been a surge in demand for Bitcoin in China, where the new
interest is being explained by a number of factors, including the drop in the
stock market there, as well as the emergence of a new Ponzi scheme tied to
Bitcoin. The price of Bitcoin has been rising faster on Chinese exchanges than
elsewhere in the world.

Bobby Lee, the chief executive of one of China's biggest Bitcoin exchanges,
BTCC, said that, as was the case in past price spikes, a critical mass of
reports on Bitcoin was drawing a new wave of speculators, betting more on the
future of the virtual currency than on its current use.

''There are a few tipping points in a row, and you get a tidal wave,'' Mr. Lee
said. ''It's classic bull market.''

Volatile price swings are nothing new for Bitcoin, which has been through
several sharp ups and downs since it was released into the world in early 2009
by a shadowy creator going by the name Satoshi Nakamoto. In late 2013, the price
shot to a peak above $1,200 in intraday trading.

Past price rallies have generally been followed quickly by collapses, usually
set off by some sign of weakness in the infrastructure of the Bitcoin industry.

All along there has been skepticism when investor interest in Bitcoin has raced
ahead of the real-world use of the virtual currency. While Bitcoin has been
described as a faster and cheaper way to send money online, ordinary people have
been slow to use the virtual currency for everyday transactions and there are no
major signs that is changing.

But the companies that currently handle most Bitcoin transactions seem to be far
stronger than those that did in the past.

New York's top financial regulator has granted trust company charters to two
Bitcoin exchanges over the last year and both are now in operation, along with a
California exchange, Coinbase, which is the largest in the country. On
Wednesday, Coinbase reported trading volume four times as high as its recent
average.

So far, big banks have not traded Bitcoin on these exchanges or invested in the
virtual currency directly. But financial firms of all sorts have shown
significant interest in the decentralized way in which Bitcoin transactions are
handled and the new type of ledger on which all Bitcoins and Bitcoin
transactions are recorded, known as the blockchain.

Last week, Nasdaq introduced a new system, Linq, that will allow shares in
start-ups to be recorded and traded on a ledger like the blockchain, which is
expected to manage trades more quickly than existing systems. Over a dozen
banks, including most of the global giants, have recently joined with a
start-up, R3 CEV, to define standards for new decentralized ledgers.

Most financial firms insist that they want to use blockchains that are not tied
to Bitcoin. But financial firms have also been making bets in Bitcoin-related
companies like the Digital Currency Group, a trading and investment company that
announced funding from MasterCard and CIBC last week.

Brendan M. O'Connor, chief executive of Genesis Global Trading, a division of
the Digital Currency Group, said that after every big funding announcement, he
saw a spike from big institutional investors.

''That is nudging people to get off the sidelines and invest in the asset
class,'' Mr. O'Connor said.

Investors have also been comforted by decisions like one last month by the
European Union, which said that basic Bitcoin transactions would not be taxed,
but would instead be treated like currency transactions.

But as was the case during the big Bitcoin run-up in late 2013, most of the
trading activity now is taking place in China. Exchanges there have encouraged
speculation in Bitcoin by offering free trading and leveraged accounts.

There has been discussion recently that some Chinese investors are seeking out
Bitcoin as China's currency, the renminbi, has struggled and the government has
made it harder to move money out of the country.

Mr. Lee of BTCC said he was not seeing much of those sorts of transactions. But
he said he had seen signs that Chinese investors were using Bitcoin to move
money into an international investment scheme, MMM Global, which claims to have
been created by a man who did prison time in Russia after a previous Ponzi
scheme collapsed.

Bitcoin also continues to be used for illegal purposes. After the Silk Road
online drug bazaar was taken down, imitators quickly popped up to take its
place.

Bitcoin has also become the currency of choice for online ransom payments
because Bitcoin addresses can be created without providing any personal
information. The Cyber Threat Alliance released a report last week estimating
that hackers had collected $325 million from CryptoWall, a virus that can freeze
a computer's files until an electronic ransom payment is made.

Exchange operators, though, say that the new users rushing in in recent weeks
have been making a bet that Bitcoin will go mainstream and rise in value as it
does.

''The main tangible driver of the recent price surge is the accumulation of all
the investments and positive media about blockchain,'' said Gil Luria, an
analyst with Wedbush Securities who has followed the market.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/05/business/dealbook/value-of-bitcoin-surges-emer
ging-from-a-lull-in-interest.html

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In San Francisco, Miha Rebernik works as an engineer at
Coinbase, the largest Bitcoin exchange in the United States. Conventional banks
have been closely watching the virtual currency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA MORTON FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) CHART: Some Lost Value Found: The price of a Bitcoin
has fallen greatly from its peak, but has been rising recently. (Source:
CoinDesk.com)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 8, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

$808 Million to Give Away

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2690 words


These days, the programs being announced by the Manhattan district attorney
sound more like the projects of a major philanthropic foundation than those of a
local prosecutor's office.

Consider the last two months. District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. announced
that he was giving grants to agencies across the country to test piles of rape
kits that had been collecting dust in police storage. He pledged millions to
start an international center to monitor cyberattacks and has provided seed
money for a new institute at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice devoted to
educating the nation's 2,700 prosecutors.

At a time when most city and state agencies are struggling with budget
constraints, Mr. Vance has secured a windfall of $808 million from criminal
penalties against three international banks accused of violating United States
sanctions -- HSBC, Standard Chartered and BNP Paribas.

It is a princely sum, nearly 10 times the office's annual budget. Because by law
it must be spent on criminal justice projects, it has transformed Mr. Vance into
a kind of Santa Claus for the law-enforcement world, with a sack filled with new
programs and equipment. His power to distribute such large sums with the stroke
of a pen has, however, led some good-government advocates to say it prompts
questions about transparency and oversight.

Because New York City is a financial capital, banks caught violating United
States sanctions have become a cash cow for the state and local governments. And
while state and federal asset forfeiture laws have long been used to subsidize
law enforcement, few if any district attorneys have ever had as much money as
Mr. Vance to distribute.

The boon has handed Mr. Vance, a Democrat, a chance to play an outsize role as a
policy maker and thinker at a time when the national debate has focused on
rebuilding the justice system. His office has become a major source of grants
for nonprofits studying how to fix flaws and inequities in the way America metes
out punishment for crimes.

''Cy has always been a big fish, but now he's even a bigger fish,'' said an
official with a nonprofit criminal justice group, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because his organization was competing for grants.

Even when he steps away from cameras and podiums, Mr. Vance projects a
patrician, button-down persona. He chooses his words carefully and rarely makes
jokes. Asked if he had found that he suddenly had lots of new friends now that
he must give away close to a billion dollars, he did not crack a smile. ''No, it
has not translated into a lot of new friends,'' he said evenly.

''We have tried not to be showy,'' he added. ''We haven't invested in anything
crazy.''

Mr. Vance has sunk large sums into equipment and capital improvements aimed at
reducing crime in New York City. He earmarked $90 million to the Police
Department to buy smartphones and tablets for officers, and $101 million to the
city's housing projects to improve lighting and upgrade locks and security
cameras.

He has also given money to prosecutors in other boroughs for cybercrime labs,
has paid for training and equipment for the city medical examiner's office and
has sent millions to state agencies for expenses like license plate readers on
the Thruway and a photographic database of convicted felons. About $459 million
has been allocated so far, and $69.5 million disbursed.

For his part, Mr. Vance says he sees the windfall as a once-in-a-lifetime chance
to pay for new programs and technologies that could have a lasting impact on
crime. ''I call them transformative investments,'' he said in an interview. ''We
have a window of opportunity here.''

Whether the purchases Mr. Vance is underwriting are, in the long run,
''transformative,'' or merely one-shot gifts to strapped agencies, remains to be
seen. Police officials acknowledge that they do not know where the money will
come from to replace mobile devices for officers in the future, and the backlog
in rape kits may well build up again if other states do not make testing DNA
evidence a budget priority.

Even without a fund, the Manhattan district attorney's office has always served
as a national model for prosecutors, going back to Thomas E. Dewey, who arrived
in 1935 and pursued gangsters and municipal corruption. Mr. Dewey established an
ethos of nonpartisan professionalism that continued under Frank S. Hogan, known
for his ironclad integrity, and Robert M. Morgenthau, who steered the office
through an era of high crime and fear.

Mr. Vance inherited that heavy mantle. But he arrived during an era of low
crime, giving him room to experiment. And now he has money to make a
criminal-justice wish list come true. Sharing it with the other boroughs, the
state and even other jurisdictions makes sense, he argues. Clearing rape cases
in other states, for instance, will solve cases in New York, he predicts, and
cybercrime knows no borders.

''I feel this is money that we need to share -- not all of it, but a lot of
it,'' he said. ''We are trying to lift all the boats and believe our boat will
get lifted, too.''

The role of grant-giver dovetails with Mr. Vance's other recent efforts to wield
influence on a national stage. Over the last year, he has testified before
Congress on cellphone encryption, helped found an organization of prosecutors
against gun violence and become a leading voice for international cooperation
against cybercrime.

But if his national stature has risen, at home things have gone less well. Mr.
Vance had a tumultuous first term, drawing criticism for his handling of sex
abuse charges against Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the French politician and former
managing director of the International Monetary Fund. More recently, his office
has suffered embarrassing setbacks in high-profile white-collar cases, prompting
grumblings from defense lawyers that he sometimes overreaches.

In conversation, Mr. Vance, 61, comes across as an earnest, thoughtful man with
an exalted sense of civic duty. Friends say this noblesse oblige flows from
having grown up among the Washington elite. His father, Cyrus Vance, embodied
the Eastern establishment, a lawyer and diplomat who served under three
presidents. As secretary of state under President Jimmy Carter, he resigned
after opposing the ill-fated attempt to rescue American hostages in Tehran.

Since being elected Manhattan district attorney in 2009, the younger Mr. Vance
has taken an expansive view of his job, declining to be merely a caretaker of
the formidable office Mr. Morgenthau built over 35 years. Mr. Vance has said
prosecutors should be seeking ways to prevent crime, rather than just prosecute
cases.

From the start, he focused on broad policy questions: How can the office use
data to target violent criminals that drive up crime rates? How can prosecutors
drive down crime even further through social programs, like sports for teenagers
in the housing projects? How can the courts divert people accused of crimes from
jail and into programs that might keep them from being rearrested?

In that spirit, Mr. Vance said he had set aside $250 million for programs aimed
at preventing people from becoming criminals and helping convicts enter the work
force when they are released from prison. He hired the Institute for State and
Local Governance at the City University of New York -- headed by a former city
correction commissioner, Michael P. Jacobson -- to come up with proposals for
spending the money for the programs and to oversee contracts.

''It's going to be structured in some ways like a foundation,'' Mr. Jacobson
said, adding that he and his team interviewed the heads of dozens of
criminal-justice nonprofits over the summer, searching for ideas. He has yet to
submit a final list to the district attorney's office.

Some of the proposals being considered amount to social engineering aimed at
addressing early traumas that studies have shown lead to crime. They include
providing nurses to fractured families with babies and spotting troubled
children in foster care and juvenile detention centers, then steering them into
counseling. ''There is a real interest in keeping people out of the system from
the get-go,'' Mr. Jacobson said.

The $250 million fund for crime prevention rivals similar grants being
distributed by philanthropies like the Ford Foundation, the Laura and John
Arnold Foundation and the Open Society Foundations, officials at several
nonprofits said.

''The scale of it is massive,'' said an official from one group competing for
grants. ''It's a strange thing to have an elected district attorney who finds
himself in the role of making grants and shaping the field.''

Nowhere has Mr. Vance's fund had a bigger impact than in the Police Department.
The $90 million being provided for smartphone technology, along with another $70
million from the Mayor's Office of Criminal Justice, has made it possible for
the police commissioner, William J. Bratton, to change how officers communicate.

Until recently, most police officers did not even have a telephone number or an
official email address assigned to them, nor did they have regular access to a
computer. Most of the information they received on patrol was transmitted by
radio.

Now, the department has begun distributing smartphones and tablets linked to its
main computer systems and to 911 dispatchers. So far, about 9,000 devices have
been handed out.

In seconds, officers can use special apps, created for the department, for
access to the same information available at headquarters: criminal records,
arrest warrants, history of calls to an address, details of 911 calls, maps and
crime patterns.

Mr. Bratton said the price tag for the department to put a smartphone in every
officer's hand had been too steep to make it politically possible. So, in early
2014, he began meeting with Mr. Vance to discuss using the bank settlement funds
instead, and found a warm reception. ''For the first time in my life in public
service, I had a need and I had funding for it,'' Mr. Bratton said.

Likening officers' use of smartphones to the advent of walkie-talkies decades
ago, he added: ''This issue is a game-changer in so many ways for the cops.''

About half of Mr. Vance's funds came from a record $8.9 billion in penalties
paid by BNP Paribas, a French bank that pleaded guilty in June 2014 to state and
federal charges that it had violated United States sanctions and falsified
business records. The bank admitted that it had secretly transferred billions to
New York banks from entities in Sudan, Cuba and Iran.

Under state law, the district attorney's office received $449 million of the
penalty, while Mayor Bill de Blasio's office garnered $447 million for criminal
justice projects. The rest went to the state and federal governments. In the
budget passed last spring, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and the Legislature decided to
use the state's share, $3.6 billion, for infrastructure projects.

Two other banks -- HSBC and Standard Chartered -- were also accused of violating
the sanctions and agreed to pay large penalties to avoid a trial and a guilty
verdict, an arrangement called a ''deferred prosecution agreement.'' As partners
in the investigation, the district attorney's office received an additional sum
of $355 million from those two banks, though the Treasury Department safeguards
the funds in those cases and the Justice Department must sign off on their use.

Since 2009, six other international banks have paid about $2.4 billion to
dispose of state and federal charges that they violated the sanctions, with the
city and state getting about half of the money. In those cases, however, the
State Legislature passed budget bills mandating that the district attorney's
office receive only a small percentage of each settlement, totaling about $45
million, officials said.

The large sums flowing through the district attorney's office from bank cases
have raised questions for some good-government advocates about whether the city
has adequate oversight.

Carol Kellermann, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, said the law
giving Mr. Vance sole control over the funds should be reconsidered. Ideally,
she said, the money should have been treated as revenue to the city, and its
expenditure determined through the budget process.

''No one official should be making decisions about how substantial sums of
revenue are distributed,'' she said. ''And it should be subject to audit. The
comptroller should be able to look at how these funds are spent.''

The district attorney's control of large settlements from banks has caused
bitter disputes in the past. In late 2009, just before Mr. Morgenthau left
office, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg accused him of hiding tens of millions of
dollars from forfeitures in bank accounts the city comptroller and the mayor's
office could not scrutinize.

A few months later, John C. Liu, then the city comptroller, faulted the district
attorney's office in an audit for a ''lack of transparency,'' saying the office
needed to register its bank accounts with the city and develop a formal policy
for distributing the money.

Mr. Vance said that his office had adopted the comptroller's recommendations and
that his books were open to inspection. The money is now kept in accounts
registered with the city's Finance Department, he said.

''At the end of the day, the statute as written gives me the responsibility and
the opportunity to steward these funds, and so that's my call,'' Mr. Vance said.
''Some people are going to say, 'I don't agree with his choices.' That's always
going to be the case.''

He has also skirted battles with Mr. de Blasio, partly by contributing about $40
million to the mayor's efforts to help the mentally ill and reduce the
population at Rikers Island, including $14 million for a supervised release
program for people awaiting trial and $13.5 million in training for the police
to better handle the mentally ill.

''He's been enormously generous with his own funds,'' said Elizabeth Glazer, who
heads the mayor's criminal justice office. ''He sees this as a joint venture.''

Still, Mr. Vance said he intended to spend about $100 million on his own
operation, including renovating the antiquated offices of his assistants at 80
Centre Street and putting resources into units created to attack money
laundering and human trafficking.

A few of the grants have reflected the priorities of Mr. Vance and his top
lieutenants. Karen Friedman Agnifilo, the chief deputy who once served a
supervisor of the sex crimes unit, was instrumental in persuading Mr. Vance that
devoting $38 million to pay for the testing of rape kits in other jurisdictions
was a wise move.

The grants went to law-enforcement agencies in 20 states to test some 56,000
kits, underscoring the national nature of Mr. Vance's vision. He was joined at
the news conference by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Attorney General
Loretta E. Lynch, who announced that the Federal government was contributing $41
million to the cause in a parallel set of grants to 20 other agencies.

And the $25 million Mr. Vance pledged to start a nonprofit clearinghouse for
information about cyberattacks came out of his belief that computer-based crime
is the greatest threat to New York City outside of terrorism. The organization,
named the Global Cyber Alliance, will have offices in London and New York and
will disseminate information quickly about attacks in financial capitals around
the world.

Jeremy Travis, the president of John Jay, sold Mr. Vance on the concept of
founding a national institute, akin to the Harvard Kennedy School, to educate
prosecutors and study their role in rectifying shortcomings in the justice
system.

Though these announcements have burnished his national image, Mr. Vance says he
has no ambition to run for a different office. ''I have always loved being a
lawyer and I have felt for many years the best legal job in the United States is
the Manhattan district attorney,'' he said. ''The question is not whether there
is a better job, but what more we can do with this job.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/08/nyregion/cyrus-vance-has-dollar-808-million-to
-give-away.html

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. of Manhattan controls
close to a billion dollars in criminal penalties from banks. ''I feel this is
money that we need to share -- not all of it, but a lot of it,'' he said.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
Clockwise from top: District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. at a sports program for
teenagers at the Henry Street Settlement in Manhattan, an initiative he supports

with Mayor Bill de Blasio and the police commissioner, William J. Bratton, right

at a 2011 news conference about the Dominique Strauss-Kahn case
and with his father, in an undated photo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAM HODGSON FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES
RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 11, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Unseals Indictment in Big Case of Hacking

BYLINE: By LIZ MOYER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1010 words


Billing it as the largest hacking case ever uncovered, federal prosecutors in
Manhattan on Tuesday described a global, multiyear scheme to steal information
on 100 million customers of a dozen companies in the United States and use the
data to advance stock manipulation activities, illicit online gambling and
fraud.

Prosecutors said they uncovered the complex scheme in their investigation of a
computer hacking last year at JPMorgan Chase that involved the breach of contact
information, such as emails, from 83 million customer accounts.

Before long, investigators had uncovered a trail of 75 shell companies and a
hacking scheme in which the three defendants used 30 false passports from 17
different countries. The group's activity goes back as far as 2007, and it has
reaped ''hundreds of millions of dollars in illicit proceeds,'' some of it
hidden in Swiss accounts and other bank accounts, prosecutors said.

The data breaches ''were breathtaking in their scope and size,'' said Preet
Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, at a
news conference on Tuesday. The activity, described as a 21-century twist on
tried-and-true criminal activity, unveiled the existence of ''a brave new world
of hacking for profit,'' perhaps signaling the next frontier in securities
fraud.

The accused -- two Israeli citizens and a United States citizen -- face 23
counts of fraud and other illegal activities, according to an indictment
unsealed Tuesday that added hacking to manipulation and fraud charges that were
filed against the three in July. The charges are the first directly linked to
the JPMorgan hack.

Two of the accused, Gery Shalon and Ziv Orenstein, remain in custody awaiting
extradition from Israel after being arrested in July. A third defendant, Joshua
Aaron, the American, is believed to be in Russia. The Federal Bureau of
Investigation has issued a ''wanted notice'' for him ''for his alleged
involvement in a scheme to hack major American companies in order to acquire
customer contact information.''

A separate indictment on Tuesday outlined seven charges against Anthony Murgio,
a Florida man previously accused of running an unlicensed Bitcoin exchange. That
exchange was owned by Mr. Shalon, whom prosecutors described Tuesday as the
founder and leader of the sprawling criminal enterprise.

Lawyers for the four men could not immediately be reached.

Another man facing fraud charges, Yuri Lebedev, has not been charged with
hacking. Mr. Bharara said on Tuesday ''there are discussions between the
parties.''

Prosecutors charged that the group led by Mr. Shalon hacked seven financial
institutions and two newspapers to get contact information with which they could
advance their pump-and-dump stock manipulation scheme. They ''took the classic
stock fraud scheme and brought it into the cyber age,'' Mr. Bharara said.

Prosecutors said the group was involved in a broad array of activities,
including processing payments for illegal pharmaceutical suppliers, running
illegal online casinos and owning an unlicensed Bitcoin exchange.

Nearly all the activities ''relied for their success on computer hacking and
other cybercrimes,'' prosecutors said on Tuesday.

According to the indictment, the three used a rented computer server based in
Egypt to try hacking into customer databases at the brokerage firms TD
Ameritrade and Fidelity Investments as well as JPMorgan. The ring also gained
access to a computer network at what was called ''Victim 8,'' or Dow Jones,
publisher of The Wall Street Journal, containing up to 10 million customer email
addresses, prosecutors said.

Separately, federal prosecutors in Atlanta on Tuesday announced charges against
Mr. Shalon, Mr. Aaron and an unnamed defendant in the late-2013 attacks on
E-Trade Financial Corporation and Scottrade Financial Services, both major
online brokers. The 10 charges include aggravated identity theft, computer fraud
and wire fraud.

Prosecutors in Atlanta said they had uncovered online chats in which Mr. Shalon
and an unnamed hacker discussed their plans to use stolen customer contact
information to build their own brokerage database for peddling stocks to
investors.

The New York indictment also charges the three men with hacking two software
development companies to obtain information to advance their online gambling
activities, and they targeted a market intelligence firm to support their
card-processing activities.

The men operated at least 12 unlawful Internet casinos and marketed them to
customers in the United States through extensive email promotions. The casinos
generated ''hundreds of millions of dollars in unlawful income,'' prosecutors
said, at least $1 million in profits a month.

JPMorgan confirmed on Tuesday that it was identified as ''Victim 1'' in the
superseding indictment.

''We appreciate the strong partnership with law enforcement in bringing the
criminals to justice,'' the bank said in a statement. ''As we did here, we
continue to cooperate with law enforcement in fighting cybercrime.''

On Tuesday, E-Trade Financial, based in New York, said it was attacked in late
2013 and found no evidence that sensitive financial information had been
compromised. It added that contact information for some 31,000 customers may
have been exposed.

''Security is a top priority, and we focus a significant amount of time and
energy to help keep our customers' data and information safe and secure,''
E-Trade said in a statement.

Fidelity, based in Boston, said, ''We have confirmed with the F.B.I. that there
is no indication that our customers were affected.''

In a statement, Scottrade said, ''We continue to work closely with the
authorities by providing any and all information and resources we can to support
their investigation and prosecution of the criminals.'' Scottrade, based in St.
Louis, previously said 4.6 million client accounts were targeted.

Dow Jones said in a statement on Tuesday, ''The government's investigation is
ongoing, and we continue to cooperate with law enforcement.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/11/business/dealbook/prosecutors-announce-more-ch
arges-in-jpmorgan-cyberattack.html

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One of two Israeli men charged with the hacking of the JPMorgan
Chase bank attended a July court hearing in Jerusalem. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ILIA
YEFIMOVICH/GETTY IMAGES) (B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 11, 2015 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Transcript: Republican Presidential Debate

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Politics; Pg.

LENGTH: 19562 words


Following is a transcript of the main Republican debate, as transcribed by the
Federal News Service.

CAVUTO: It is 9:00 p.m. on the East Coast, 8:00 p.m. here inside the Milwaukee
theater. Welcome to the Republican presidential debate here on the Fox Business
Network. I'm Neil Cavuto, alongside my co- moderators, Maria Bartiromo, and the
editor-in-chief of the Wall Street Journal, Gerard Baker.

BARTIROMO: Tonight we're partnering with the Wall Street Journal to ask
questions on the economy that voters want answered. We're also working with
Facebook, who tells us that since the first Republican debate, more than 58
million people have joined the political conversation online.

More than 9 million are talking specifically about the economy.

BAKER: The candidates on stage tonight were selected based on their standing in
an average of four national polls. Those standings determining their position on
the stage. And here they are. At center stage, businessman Donald Trump.

(APPLAUSE)

BAKER: Neurosurgeon Dr. Ben Carson.

(APPLAUSE)

CAVUTO: Florida Senator Marco Rubio.

(APPLAUSE)

CAVUTO: Texas Senator Ted Cruz.

(APPLAUSE)

CAVUTO: Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: Businesswoman Carly Fiorina.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: Ohio Governor John Kasich.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: And Kentucky Senator Rand Paul.

(APPLAUSE)

BAKER: Tonight's rules are simple. Up to 90 second for each answer. One minute
for each follow-up response. And if a candidate goes over their allotted time,
you'll here this.

CAVUTO: It sounds like a game show but it's not.

Now I would be remiss if I did not acknowledge the elephant in the room, and I'm
not talking about your party's fine symbol. I'm talking about the purpose of
tonight's debate.

The economy and what each of you would do to improve it. No more, no less. We
are focused on those issues, and what you have said on those issues in your
words and what your opponents have said in their words about your words. That is
the agenda tonight. How each of you plans to make America better tomorrow. And
so we begin. Candidates, as we gather tonight in this very august theater, just
outside and across the country, picketers are gathering as well. They're
demanding an immediate hike in the minimum wage to $15 an hour. Just a few hours
ago, near Governor Andrew Cuomo proposed doing the same for all state workers,
the first governor to do so.

Mr. Trump, as the leading presidential candidate on this stage and one whose tax
plan exempts couples making up to $50,000 a year from paying any federal income
taxes at all, are you sympathetic to the protesters cause since a $15 wage works
out to about $31,000 a year?

TRUMP: I can't be Neil. And the and the reason I can't be is that we are a
country that is being beaten on every front economically, militarily. There is
nothing that we do now to win. We don't win anymore. Our taxes are too high.
I've come up with a tax plan that many, many people like very much. It's going
to be a tremendous plan. I think it'll make our country and our economy very
dynamic.

But, taxes too high, wages too high, we're not going to be able to compete
against the world. I hate to say it, but we have to leave it the way it is.
People have to go out, they have to work really hard and have to get into that
upper stratum. But we can not do this if we are going to compete with the rest
of the world. We just can't do it.

CAVUTO: So do not raise the minimum wage?

TRUMP: I would not do it.

(APPLAUSE)

CAVUTO: Dr. Carson, you have long bemoaned this lackluster recovery. And this
Facebook map show Americans share your concern. The green represents how the
jobs issue is resonating all across the nation, especially here in the state of
Wisconsin.

You suggested one minimum wage does not fit all, and that perhaps we should
offer a lower or starter wage for young people. Those protesters outside are
looking for $15 and nothing less. Where are you?

CARSON: Well, first of all, delighted to be here. My family's here, and my
little granddaughter, who's three years old, said she wanted to come to the
debate. So this is very cool.

As far as the minimum wage is concerned, people need to be educated on the
minimum wage. Every time we raise the minimum wage, the number of jobless people
increases.

It's particularly a problem in the black community. Only 19.8 percent of black
teenagers have a job, who are looking for one. You know, that -- and that's
because of those high wages. If you lower those wages, that comes down.

You know, I can remember, as a youngster -- you know, my first job working in a
laboratory as a lab assistant, and multiple other jobs. But I would not have
gotten those jobs if someone had to pay me a large amount of money.

But what I did gain from those jobs is a tremendous amount of experience, and
how to operate in the world and how to relate to different people, and how to
become a responsible individual. And that's what gave me what I needed to ascend
the ladder of opportunity in this country.

That's what we need to be thinking about. How do we allow people to ascend the
ladder of opportunity, rather than how do we give them everything and keep them
dependent?

(APPLAUSE)

CAVUTO: So, sir, just to be clear, you would not raise it?

CARSON: I would not raise it. I would not raise it, specifically because I'm
interested in making sure that people are able to enter the job market and take
advantage of opportunities.

(APPLAUSE)

CAVUTO: Senator Rubio, you called the recent Democratic debate in Las Vegas a
night of giveaways, including free health care, free college and a host of other
government-paid benefits. Since you aren't a fan of all they're giving away,
tell us tonight what you would take back.

RUBIO: Well, let me begin by answering both the first question and this one,
because they're related. As I've said many times before, my parents were never
rich people. My father was a bartender. My mother was a maid. They worked for a
living. But they were successful people, because, despite the fact that they
weren't well educated and had those jobs, they made enough money to buy a home
in a safe and stable neighborhood, retire with dignity, leave all four of their
children better off than themselves.

RUBIO: We call that the American dream, but in fact, it's a universal dream of a
better life that people have all over the world. It is a reminder that every
country in the world has rich people.

What makes America special is that we have millions and millions of people that
are not rich, that through hard work and perseverance are able to be successful.

The problem is that today people are not successful working as hard as ever
because the economy is not providing jobs that pay enough. If I thought that
raising the minimum wage was the best way to help people increase their pay, I
would be all for it, but it isn't. In the 20th century, it's a disaster.

If you raise the minimum wage, you're going to make people more expensive than a
machine. And that means all this automation that's replacing jobs and people
right now is only going to be accelerated.

Here's the best way to raise wages. Make America the best place in the world to
start a business or expand an existing business, tax reform and regulatory
reform, bring our debt under control, fully utilize our energy resources so we
can reinvigorate manufacturing, repeal and replace Obamacare, and make higher
education faster and easier to access, especially vocational training. For the
life of me, I don't know why we have stigmatized vocational education. Welders
make more money than philosophers. We need more welders and less philosophers.

(APPLAUSE)

If we do that -- and if we do this -- if we do this, we will be able to increase
wages for millions of Americans and we will be able to leave everyone better off
without making anyone worse off.

CAVUTO: Thank you, Senator Rubio.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: We've asked people on Facebook to submit their questions for the
candidates. Seth Bell wrote, ''We are approaching $20 trillion in national debt.
Specifically, what plans do you have to cut federal spending?'' Governor Kasich,
you have spoken much about your success in balancing the budget under President
Clinton. Today the national debt is at record highs and growing unsustainably.
Interest will be the fastest-growing part of the federal budget, tripling over
the next 10 years. Social Security, the lifeline of millions of American
seniors, is rushing toward insolvency. With all of the tax plans presented
tonight, estimated to cost anywhere between $2 trillion and $12 trillion over a
decade, what specific steps will you take to balance the budget?

KASICH: First of all, let me just say that, in the state of Ohio -- and I'm the
only acting executive on -- on this stage today -- we do have a moderate
increase in the minimum wage. And I got to tell you, my father carried mail on
his back. His father was a coal miner. He died of black lung. He was losing his
eyesight. My mother's mother lived with us. She could barely speak English. I
come from a town where if the wind blew the wrong way, people found themselves
out of work. An economic theory is fine, but you know what? People need help.

Now, I have a plan that, in fact, would cut taxes, but not $11 trillion or $12
trillion that would put my children further in debt. I have a plan that would
not only cut taxes, lower the income tax rate for individuals, lower the tax for
businesses so businesses will compete here and not move operations overseas, and
also a plan -- the only plan of anybody standing on this stage to get us to a
balanced budget by the end of a second term.

And, you know, the simple fact of the matter is, we hear a lot of promises in
this debate, a lot of promises about these tax cuts or tax schemes sometimes
that I call them. Hillary and the Democrats promise everything on the spending
side. We've got to be responsible about what we propose on the tax side.

Yes, lower taxes, lower spending. My website, JohnKasich.com, will show you
exactly how we balance the budget. I balanced the budget in Washington as a
chief architect, and I have balanced it in Ohio for one reason. When you balance
the budget and you cut taxes, people get work.

And our most important moral purpose as leaders in the political system is to
make sure we create an environment for job creation so people can live their
dreams and realize their God-given potential. That's why it's so important.

And for those at the bottom, we've got to do what we can to train them so they
can move up. But to just look the other way is not acceptable, because, you know
what, as the governor of Ohio I have to deal with real challenges, and we've
gotten it done in our state, and I will do it for America.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: Did you want to name any specific steps, sir?

KASICH: Sure. We would move the Medicare system from a 7 percent growth down to
about a 5 percent growth. And I have a whole series of ways to do that. In Ohio,
we reduced Medicaid funding for the poor from 10 percent to 2.5 percent, didn't
cut one benefit or didn't take anybody off the rolls. Why? Because we're
innovators. I've been an innovator my entire career. And I really don't care
what special interests or lobbyists have to say. I have a job to do when I take
over a public office. Now, we freeze non-defense discretionary for eight years.
We also put an increase in defense spending. Our tax cuts balance out. And at
the end of the day, we will get to a balanced budget.

And I want everybody here to know, when I was Budget Committee chairman in
Washington, I stepped on every toe in that town, and we got to a balanced
budget, and we had enormous job growth. And as governor of Ohio, we went from
350,000 lost jobs to a gain of 347,000 jobs.

BARTIROMO: Thank you, sir.

KASICH: I'll do it in Washington. I've done it twice; I'll do it thrice for the
United States of America.

BARTIROMO: Senator Cruz, the International Monetary Fund recently cut its
expectations for economic growth. Many economists expect a recession to hit the
U.S. within the next year due to the weakening of manufacturing. The next
president will have to deal with it. You say tax reform is a powerful lever to
spur economic expansion. You're calling for a 10 percent income tax and a 16
percent business tax. What other elements do you need in this plan to actually
create jobs?

CRUZ: Well, Maria, it's great to be with you. It's great to be here in
Milwaukee. You know, the question you asked really I think is the most important
question any of us can have -- face, which is, how do we get the economy
growing? How do we bring back economic growth?

Because economic growth, it's foundational to every other challenge we have. As
you rightly noted, from 2008 to today, our economy has grown 1.2 percent a year
on average. The Obama economy is a disaster, and the IMF is telling us this is a
new normal. It doesn't have to be.

If you look at the history of America, there are three levers that government
has had to facilitate economic growth. The first is tax reform. And as you
noted, I have rolled out a bold and simple flat tax: 10 percent for every
American that would produce booming growth and 4.9 million new jobs within a
decade.

The second element is regulatory reform, pulling back the armies of regulators
that have descended like locusts on small businesses.

And the third element is sound money. Every time we've pursued all three of
those -- whether in the 1920s with Calvin Coolidge or the 1960s with JFK or the
1980s with Ronald Reagan -- the result has been incredible economic growth. We
have done it before, and with leadership, we can do it again.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: Thank you, sir.

KASICH: Excuse me.

BARTIROMO: Governor Bush...

KASICH: Yeah, I would like to make a comment.

BUSH: You've already made two comments, John. It's my turn.

BARTIROMO: We have more questions for you, Governor Kasich, coming up. We have
more questions for you, Governor Kasich.

BUSH: I got about four minutes in the last debate. I'm going to get my question
right now.

KASICH: I appreciate it, Jeb. I'm all of you. But I want at some point to talk
about a value-added tax and $11 trillion, $12 trillion tax cuts that will put
our kids way deeper in the hole than they have been at this point. So I would
like to talk about it at some point, because that's what leadership is.

BARTIROMO: We will -- we will certainly get to that. Governor Bush?

BUSH: Yes.

BARTIROMO: Almost 40 percent of Americans are without a job and are not looking.
Many have given up. That's what the participation rate tells us. You've said
your policies will drive the economy back to 4 percent growth, which we haven't
seen since the year 2000. What specific regulations would you change? And how
will that lead to jobs and growth?

BUSH: First of all, we could get to 4 percent growth. The new normal of 2
percent puts huge demands on government. The reason why we have structural
deficits is that more and more people are relying on government and the growth
that we don't have makes -- makes the deficit grow.

A 4 percent growth strategy starts with tax reform. And the proposal that I've
laid out is the one the Wall Street Journal editorial board has said is the most
pro-growth of all the proposals out there. We cut the -- we eliminate a lot of
deductions and cut the rates down. A corporate rate of 20 percent, which puts us
5 percent above -- below that of China, and allows us full expensing of
investing. It would create an explosion of investment back into this country,
creating higher-wage jobs, and so that's part of it.

On the regulatory side I think we need to repeal every rule that Barack Obama
has in terms of work in progress, every one of them.

(APPLAUSE)

And start over. For those that are already in existence, the regulation of the
Internet, we have to start over, but we ought to do that.

The clean power act, we ought to repeal that and -- and start over on that. The
waters of the United States act, which is going to be devastating for
agriculture and many industries, we should repeal that. We should repeal the
rules because the economic costs of this far exceed the social benefit.

BUSH: And if we're serious about being serious about high growth, then we have
to recognize that small businesses right now, more of them are closing than --
than are -- than are being set up.

Hillary Clinton has said that Barack Obama's policies get an A. Really? One in
10 people right now aren't working or have given up altogether, as you said.
That's not an A. One in seven people are living in poverty. That's not an A. One
in five children are on food stamps. That is not an A. It may be the best that
Hillary Clinton can do, but it's not the best America can do.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: Thank you, sir.

BAKER: Ms. Fiorina, while you've all pointed out how weak the current recovery
has been and how disappointing by any historical standards, in the general
election, the Democrats will inevitably ask you and voters to compare the recent
president's jobs performance.

Now, in seven years under President Obama, the U.S. has added an average of
107,000 jobs a month. Under President Clinton, the economy added about 240,000
jobs a month. Under George W. Bush, it was only 13,000 a month. If you win the
nomination, you'll probably be facing a Democrat named Clinton. How are you
going to respond to the claim that Democratic presidents are better at creating
jobs than Republicans?

FIORINA: Well, first of all, I must say as I think about that question, I think
about a woman I met the other day. I would guess she was 40 years old. She had
several children. And she said to me, you know, Carly, I go to bed every night
afraid for my children's future. And that really struck me. This is America. A
mother is going to bed afraid for her children's future.

And the reason she's afraid for her children's future is because we've had
problems for a long time. Yes, problems have gotten much worse under Democrats.
But the truth is, this government has been growing bigger and bigger, more
corrupt, less effective, crushing the engine of economic growth for a very long
time. This isn't about just replacing a Democrat with a Republican now. It's
about actually challenging the status quo of big government.

Big government has created a big business called politics. And there are lots of
people invested in the status quo of that big business called politics.
Specifically, we need actually to do five things to really get this economy
going again. We need to go to zero-based budgeting so we know where every dollar
is being spent, we can challenge any dollar, cut any dollar, move any dollar.

(APPLAUSE)

We need to actually reform the tax code. Go to a three-page tax code. Yes, there
are plans that would reform our tax code to three pages. In addition to rolling
back what President Obama has done, we need to do a top-to-bottom review of
every single regulation on the books. That hasn't been done in 50 years. We need
to pass the REINS Act so Congress is in charge of regulation, not nameless,
faceless bureaucrats accountable to no one. We've become a nation of rules, not
a nation of laws.

And finally we actually, yes, have to hold government officials accountable for
their performance. All this has to be done, and the citizens of this nation must
help a President Fiorina get it done. We must take our government back.

(APPLAUSE)

BAKER: Thank you. Thank you. Senator Paul, income inequality has been rising in
the United States. Fifty years ago, for example, the average CEO of a big
corporation in this country earned 20 times the average salary of one of his or
her workers. Today, that CEO earns about 300 times the average salary of a
worker. Does it matter at all that the gap between the rich and everyone else is
widening?

PAUL: Absolutely. And I think that we ought to look where income inequality
seems to be the worst. It seems to be worst in cities run by Democrats,
governors of...

(APPLAUSE)

States run by Democrats and countries currently run by Democrats. So the thing
is, let's look for root causes.

But I would also say -- lay some blame at the -- the feet of the Federal
Reserve. I think the Federal Reserve has made this problem worse. By
artificially keeping interest rates below the market rate, average ordinary
citizens have a tough time earning interest, have a tough time making money.
They're actually talking now about negative interest.

The money as it's created through quantitative easing or other means tends to
start out in the big banks in New York. And because we're now paying interest
for them to keep the money there, much of that money has not filtered out into
the economy. So what we're finding is there is increasing income disparity and
income inequality.

We also find that as the Federal Reserve destroys the value of the currency,
what you're finding is that, if you're poor, if you make $20,000 a year and you
have three or four kids, and you're trying to get by, as your prices rise or as
the value of the dollar shrinks, these are the people that are hurt the worst.

So really we need to reexamine whether we not -- we want a Federal Reserve
that's involved so much in determining interest rates. We also need to look at
root causes as to what caused the housing boom and the housing collapse.

But the bottom line is, if you want less income inequality, move to a city with
a Republican mayor or a state with a Republican governor.

(APPLAUSE)

BAKER: Thank you, Senator.

CAVUTO: All right. We're only just getting started. Coming up, your taxes. Stick
around. You're watching FOX Business

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CAVUTO: Welcome back to the Milwaukee Theater and the Republican presidential
debate. Let's get right back to our questions.

Dr. Carson, to you. You recently railed against the double- standard in the
media, sir, that seems obsessed with inconsistencies and potential exaggerations
in your life story, but looked the other way when it came to then-Senator Barack
Obama's. Still, as a candidate whose brand has always been trust, are you
worried your campaign -- which you've always said, sir, is bigger than you -- is
now being hurt by you?

CARSON: Well, first of all, thank you not asking me what I said in the 10th
grade. I appreciate that.

(LAUGHTER)

(APPLAUSE)

CAVUTO: I'll just forget that follow-up there.

(LAUGHTER)

CARSON: The fact of the matter is, you know, what -- we should vet all
candidates.

CARSON: I have no problem with being vetted. What I do have a problem with is
being lied about and then putting that out there as truth.

(APPLAUSE)

And I don't even mind that so much, if they do it about -- with everybody, like
people on the other side. But, you know, when I look at somebody like Hillary
Clinton, who sits there and tells her daughter and a government official that
no, this was a terrorist attack, and then tells everybody else that it was a
video.

Where I came from, they call that a lie. And...

(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)

I think that's very different from, you know, somebody misinterpreting, when I
said that I was offered a scholarship to West Point, that is the words that they
used. But, I've had many people come and say the same thing to me.

That is what people do in those situations. We have to start treating people the
same, and finding out what people really think and what they're made of. People
who know me know that I'm an honest person.

(APPLAUSE)

CAVUTO: Thank you, Dr. Carson.

BARTIROMO: Mr. Trump, a federal appeals court just dealt a blow to the Obama
administration's plan to prevent the deportation of 5 million people living in
this country illegally. The White House is appealing to the Supreme Court.

At the heart of this issue is the effect that illegal immigrants are having on
our economy, what will you do about it?

TRUMP: I was so happy yesterday when I saw that decision come down. That was an
unbelievable decision.

(APPLAUSE)

And we don't have enough of those decisions coming down. He of the executive
order, because nobody wants to listen to him, including the Democrats, so he
just goes around signing executive orders. That was a great day. And, frankly,
we have to stop illegal immigration. It's hurting us economically. It's hurting
us from every standpoint. It's causing tremendous difficulty with respect to
drugs and what that does to many of our inner cities in particular.

And it really is -- was such an unbelievable moment because the courts have not
been ruling in our favor. And it was a 2-1 decision. And it was a terrific thing
that happened.

And I will tell you, we are a country of laws. We need borders. We will have a
wall. The wall will be built. The wall will be successful. And if you think
walls don't work, all you have to do is ask Israel. The wall works, believe me.
Properly done. Believe me.

(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: Can we just send 5 million people back with no effect on economy?

TRUMP: You are going to have to bring people -- you are going to have to send
people out. Look, we're a country...

BARTIROMO: So what will you do?

TRUMP: Maria, we're a country of laws. We either have a country or we don't have
a country. We are a country of laws. Going to have to go out and they will come
back but they are going to have to go out and hopefully they get back.

But we have no choice if we're going to run our country properly and if we're
going to be a country.

(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: Thank you, sir.

KASICH: Maria, can we comment on that?

BAKER: Senator Rubio...

KASICH: Can we comment on that?

BAKER: Yes, one quick comment, yes.

KASICH: Well, look, in 1986 Ronald Reagan basically said the people who were
here, if they were law-abiding, could stay. But, what didn't happen is we didn't
build the walls effectively and we didn't control the border. We need to. We
need to control our border just like people have to control who goes in and out
of their house.

But if people think that we are going to ship 11 million people who are
law-abiding, who are in this country, and somehow pick them up at their house
and ship them out of Mexico -- to Mexico, think about the families. Think about
the children.

So, you know what the answer really is? If they have been law- abiding, they pay
a penalty. They get to stay. We protect the wall. Anybody else comes over, they
go back.

But for the 11 million people, come on, folks. We all know you can't pick them
up and ship them across, back across the border. It's a silly argument. It is
not an adult argument. It makes no sense.

(APPLAUSE)

TRUMP: All I can say is, you're lucky in Ohio that you struck oil. That is for
one thing.

(LAUGHTER)

Let me just tell you that Dwight Eisenhower, good president, great president,
people liked him. ''I like Ike,'' right? The expression. ''I like Ike.'' Moved a
1.5 million illegal immigrants out of this country, moved them just beyond the
border. They came back.

TRUMP: Moved them again beyond the border, they came back. Didn't like it. Moved
them way south. They never came back.

(LAUGHTER)

Dwight Eisenhower. You don't get nicer. You don't get friendlier. They moved a
1.5 million out. We have no choice. We have no choice.

(CROSSTALK)

BAKER: Governor Bush...

KASICH: Jerry, Gerald, it was an attack.

(CROSSTALK)

(UNKNOWN): If you're not going to have my back, I'm going to have my back.

(UNKNOWN): A couple things here. First of all...

BAKER: Governor -- Governor, you...

BAKER: You should let Jeb speak.

(UNKNOWN): We have grown -- we have grown...

TRUMP: No, it's unfair.

(CROSSTALK)

KASICH: In the state of Ohio, the state of Ohio, we have grown 347,000 jobs. Our
unemployment is half of what it was. Our fracking industry, energy industry may
have contributed 20,000, but if Mr. Trump understood that the real jobs come in
the downstream, not in the upstream, but in the downstream. And that's where
we're going to get our jobs.

But Ohio is diversified. And little false little things, sir, they don't really
work when it comes to the truth. So the fact is, all I'm suggesting, we can't
ship 11 million people out of this country. Children would be terrified, and it
will not work.

(CROSSTALK) TRUMP: ... built an unbelievable company worth billions and billions
of dollars. I don't have to hear from this man, believe me. I don't have to hear
from him.

BAKER: Mr. Trump, Mr. Trump, you yourself -- you yourself said let Governor Bush
speak. Governor Bush?

BUSH: Thank you, Donald, for allowing me to speak at the debate. That's really
nice of you. Really appreciate that.

(APPLAUSE)

What a generous man you are. Twelve million illegal immigrants, to send them
back, 500,000 a month, is just not -- not possible. And it's not embracing
American values. And it would tear communities apart. And it would send a signal
that we're not the kind of country that I know America is.

And even having this conversation sends a powerful signal -- they're doing
high-fives in the Clinton campaign right now when they hear this. That's the
problem with this. We have to win the presidency. And the way you win the
presidency is to have practical plans. Lay them out there. What we need to do is
allow people to earn legal status where they pay a fine, where they work, where
they don't commit crimes, where they learn English, and over an extended period
of time, they earn legal status. That's the path -- a proper path...

(APPLAUSE)

(CROSSTALK)

BAKER: Senator Rubio? Senator...

TRUMP: We have millions of people right now on line trying to come into this
country. Very, very unfair to the people that want to come into our country
legally. They've gone through the process. They're on line. They're waiting.
Very, very unfair to them. That I can tell you.

(APPLAUSE)

BAKER: Senator Rubio, Senator Rubio, let me -- let me take you to a question
that I think gets to the root of a lot of the anxiety that people have in this
country. The economy is undergoing a transformation through information
technology. Americans are anxious that the new economy isn't producing
higher-paying jobs. Many are concerned that the new wealth seems to be going
mainly to innovators and investors.

Meanwhile, with factories run by robots and shopping done increasingly on
smartphones, many traditional jobs are just going away. How do you reassure
American workers that their jobs are not being steadily replaced by machines?

RUBIO: Well, you know, that's an excellent question, because what we are going
through in this country is not simply an economic downturn. We are living
through a massive economic transformation. I mean, this economy is nothing like
what it was like five years ago, not to mention 15 or 20 years ago.

And it isn't just a different economy. It's changing faster than ever. You know,
it took the telephone 75 years to reach 100 million users. It took Candy Crush
one year to reach some 100 million users.

(LAUGHTER)

So the world is changing faster than ever, and it is disruptive. Number one, we
are in a global competition now, and several of the candidates have said that.
There are now dozens of developed economies on this planet that we have to
compete with. And we lose that competition because we have the highest business
tax rate in the industrialized world, because we have regulations that continue
to grow by the billions every single week, because we have a crazy health care
law that discourages companies from hiring people, but because we're not fully
utilizing our energy resources, that if we did, it would bring back all kinds of
growth, especially in manufacturing, and because we have an outdated higher
education system.

Our higher education system is completely outdated. It is too expensive, too
hard to access, and it doesn't teach 21st century skills. If we do what needs to
be done -- tax reform, regulatory reform, fully utilize our energy resources,
repeal and replace Obamacare, and modernize higher education, then we can grasp
the potential and the promise of this new economy. And we won't just save the
American dream. We will expand it to reach more people and change more lives
than ever before. And then truly this new century can be a new American century.

(APPLAUSE)

BAKER: Thank you. Senator Cruz -- Senator Cruz, entitlements. You've argued for
raising the retirement age and reducing benefits for future retirees, but
reducing any sort of benefits for the elderly has always been notoriously hard
to do politically. When Speaker Paul Ryan proposed replacing traditional
Medicare with federally funded private plans a few years ago, a liberal group...

MORE

(AUDIO GAP)

BAKER: ...reducing benefits for future retirees, but reducing any sort of
benefits for the elderly has always been notoriously hard to do politically.
When Speaker Paul Ryan proposed replacing traditional Medicare with federally
funded private plans a few years ago, a liberal group responded with a
commercial that featured a granny being pushed off a cliff.

What's going to be different this time? CRUZ: Well, my Mom is here, so I don't
think we should be pushing any grannies off cliffs.

(LAUGHTER)

And, you miss-stated what I've said on entitlement reform. What I've said is for
seniors we should make no changes whatsoever, for younger workers we should
gradually raise the retirement age, we should have benefits grow more slowly,
and we should allow them to keep a portion of their taxes in a personal account
that they control, and can pass on to their kids...

(APPLAUSE)

BAKER: ...I said for future retirees was your statement...

(APPLAUSE)

CRUZ: I want to go back to the discussion we had a minute ago because, you know,
what was said was right. The democrats are laughing -- because if republicans
join democrats as the party of amnesty, we will lose.

(APPLAUSE)

And, you know, I understand that when the mainstream media covers immigration,
it doesn't often see it as an economic issue. But, I can tell you for millions
-- of Americans at home watching this, it is a very personal economic issue.
And, I will say the politics of it will be very, very different if a bunch of
lawyers or bankers were crossing the Rio Grande.

(AUDIENCE REACTION)

Or if a bunch of people with journalism degrees were coming over and driving
down the wages in the press.

(AUDIENCE REACTION)

(APPLAUSE) (CHEERING)

Then, we would see stories about the economic calamity that is befalling our
nation. And, I will say for those of us who believe people 'ought to come to
this country legally, and we should enforce the law, we're tired of being told
it's anti-immigrant. It's offensive.

(APPLAUSE)

I am the son of an immigrant who came legally from Cuba...

(BELL RINGING)

...to seek the American dream. And, we can embrace legal immigration while
believing in the rule of law -- and I would note, try going illegally to another
country. Try going to China, or Japan. Try going to Mexico. See what they do.
Every sovereign nation secures its borders, and it is not compassionate to say
we're not going to enforce the laws...

(BELL RINGING)

...And we're going to drive down the wages for millions of hardworking men and
women. That is abandoning the working...

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: We go back to Facebook. Dewayne Wesley Cato asks on Facebook, how do
we get rid of regulations choking our businesses? Ms. Fiorina?

Specifically, under the president's Affordable Care Act, employers with 50 or
more employees are required to offer health insurance, or be fined. Many are
opting to pay the fine. Others are cutting back employee hours to duck the law
altogether. What specific ways will you alleviate the pressure on small
business?

FIORINA: Well, first Obamacare has to be repealed because it's failing...

(APPLAUSE)

...it's failing the very people it was intended to help, but, also, it is
croney-capitalism at its worst. Who helped write this bill? Drug companies,
insurance companies, pharmaceutical companies, every single one of those kinds
of companies are bulking up to deal with big government. See, that's what
happens. As government gets bigger, and bigger -- and it has been for 50 years
under republicans and democrats alike -- and business have to bulk up to deal
with big government.

So, we have to repeal it. It's tens of thousands of pages long, no one can
possible understand it except the big companies, the lawyers, the accountants,
the lobbyists that they hire to protect their interests. Then, we have to give
back to states the responsibility to manage a high risk pool. We need to try the
one thing in health insurance we've never tried. Health insurance has always
been a cozy, little game between regulators and health insurance companies.

We need to try the free market. The free market. Where people actually have to
compete.

(APPLAUSE)

And, we 'ought to have the government ensure that you must -- and I don't use
that term often, that government 'ought to do something, but every healthcare
provider 'ought to publish its costs, its prices, its outcomes, because as
patients we don't know what we're buying.

(APPLAUSE) Now, let me just say -- let me just say, I know more about innovation
and entrepreneurship than anyone on this panel because I have led innovative
businesses in the most highly competitive industry in the world for decades. The
truth is the secret sauce of America is innovation, and entrepreneurship, it is
why we must cut our government down to size, and hold it accountable. It's why
we have to take our government back, because innovation and entrepreneurship is
crushed by the crushing load of a 73,000 page tax code. It is crushed...

(BELL RINGING)

...by regulatory thicket that is so vast we don't even know what's in it
anymore. It is crushed as well by government bureaucrats who don't do their jobs
very well, and who are not held accountable, which is why I've said we got to
take our government back, and to do that, we have to know where every dollar
being spent, and be able to move any dollar. We have to hack through this
regulatory thicket, repeal so much, but, also, know what's in that regulatory
thicket -- we don't even know what regulations have been passed.

Third, we need to build a meritocracy -- Scott Walker, by the way, is trying now
to do in Wisconsin...

(BELL RINGING)

...Finally, we need to get to a three page tax code, and, yes, that plan exists.

BARTIROMO: Just to be clear, you want to repeal Obamacare...

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: ...but, what's the alternative?

FIORINA: Sorry, I can't hear you.

BARTIROMO: Just to be clear, you say you would repeal Obamacare...

FIORINA: ...Absolutely...

BARTIROMO: ...But, what is the alternative...

FIORINA: ...You need to give...

BARTIROMO: ...and how does that help small business...

FIORINA: The alternative is to allow states to manage high risk pools for those
who really need help. Look, I'm a cancer survivor, OK? I understand that you
cannot have someone who's battled cancer just become known as a pre-existing
condition. I understand that you cannot allow families to go bankrupt if they
truly need help. But, I also understand that Obamacare isn't helping anyone.

We're throwing more, and more people into Medicaid, and fewer, and fewer doctors
are taking those payments.

FIORINA: The point is Obamacare is crushing small businesses, it is not helping
the families it was intended to help. So, let us allow states to manage high
risk pools. Let us try the one thing in health insurance we've never tried, the
free market. Let us ensure that as patients, and customers...

BARTIROMO: ...Thank you...

FIORINA: ...that we have information to shop wisely for our health care.

CAVUTO: Alright, thank you. We're going to take a break here. Coming up, a big
issue many Americans are facing, taxes. The Republican Presidential Debate
continues now, live, from Milwaukee.

(MUSIC)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CAVUTO: Welcome back to the Republican presidential debate live from Milwaukee.
Let's get back to the questions. And we want to touch on obviously one of the
biggest of this issue in this year, taxes. And this will go to several of you.

One of the biggest economic concerns of course in the country are taxes.
Facebook data certainly backs that up. Once again the green on this map that
we're going to see here shows how the conversation around taxes is resonating
across the nation, especially here in Wisconsin.

First off, Dr. Carson, to you. You say you are in favor of a tax system, I guess
akin to tithing, sir, with a flat tax rate of up to 15 percent because you said,
if everybody pays this, I think God is a pretty fair guy, so tithing is a pretty
fair process.

But Donald Trump says that is not fair. That wealthier taxpayers should pay a
higher rate because it's a fair thing to do. So whose plan would God endorse
then, Doctor?

(LAUGHTER)

Yours or Mr. Trump's?

CARSON: Well, you know, when I say tithing, I'm talking about the concept of
proportionality.

CAVUTO: Right.

CARSON: Everybody should pay the same proportion of what they make. You make $10
billion, you pay a billion. You make $10, you pay one. You get same rights and
privileges.

I don't see how anything gets a whole lot fairer than that. But you also have to
get rid of all the deductions and all the loopholes because that is the thing
that tilts it in one direction or another. And you have to set the rate at an
appropriate level.

Now I will say that, there are a lot of people who say, if you get rid of the
deductions, you ruin the American dream because, you know, home mortgage
deduction. But the fact of the matter is, people had homes before 1913 when we
introduced the federal income tax, and later after that started deductions.

And they say there will be no more charitable giving. We had churches before
that and charitable organizations before that. The fact of the matter is, I
believe if you put more money in people's pockets that they will actually be
more generous rather than less generous. And it's...

(APPLAUSE)

... the money that they earned.

And, the other thing is, I do care about the poor people. And in the system that
we're putting together, there will be a rebate for people at the poverty level.
But I also want to emphasize the fact that as we get the economy moving, and I
hope I get a question about how do we get the economy moving, there will be a
lot more opportunities for poor people not to be poor people because this is
America.

This is the land of dreams. And our policies should be aimed at allowing people
to realize that dream.

(APPLAUSE)

CAVUTO: Thank you very much.

Senator Paul, you said you want to blow up the tax code and start over with an
across-the-board 14.5 percent fair and flat tax. You happily offered that it is
not revenue neutral and that's the idea. You want to choke off the amount of
money coming into Washington.

But don't you risk, sir, creating a near-term budget crisis just as your
presidency would be beginning?

PAUL: Well, it's a great question, Neil, and thanks for including me in the tax
debate.

I think what's important about the tax debate is, is that we have to ask the
question, where is money best spent, in the private sector or in the government
sector? I want a government really, really small, so small you can barely see
it. So I want lower taxes and much more money in the private sector.

(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)

My tax plan, however, is the only tax plan among any of the candidates on the
stage that is part of a balanced budget plan. I put forward three plans that
actually balance the budget over a five-year period.

Each of these plans have details on exactly where we would cut. The question
came up earlier, where would you cut? Nobody likes to say where they would cut.
I've put pencil to paper and done three budgets that actually balance.

I'm also in favor of a plan called the penny plan where we'd just cut 1 percent
across the board and the budget actually balances in less than five years. So I
think what is extraordinary about my tax plan is it is in the context of
balancing the budget.

PAUL: What is also extraordinary about my tax plan is it gets rid of the payroll
tax. Democrats demagogue this issue to death, and when they do they say, oh, a
millionaire would get a bigger tax cut than someone making $10,000.

That's proportionality, as Ben is trying to explain to folks. But the thing is,
is if we get rid of the payroll tax, everybody is going to get a tax cut. And
this is something that I think the public at large will support and could win an
election.

(APPLAUSE)

CAVUTO: There are no deductions on your -- under your plan?

PAUL: Ours is 14.5 percent for corporations, 14.5 percent for individuals. No
payroll tax for the employee. The business tax pays for social security, and
there would be two remaining deductions -- home mortgage and charity.

CAVUTO: Thank you, Senator.

PAUL: Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: Senator Cruz, there isn't anyone in this audience or watching at home
tonight who would not like to pay less in taxes. Most people just want a fair
shake, and they don't want their money to be wasted.

But explain how your plan works. How can you cut taxes as much as you propose
without running up debt and deficits?

CRUZ: Well, sure, you put your finger on what the problem is. The current system
isn't fair. Washington is fundamentally corrupt. There are more words in the IRS
code than there are in the Bible -- and -- and not a one of them is as good.

(LAUGHTER)

Every one of them reflects a carve-out or a subsidy, and it's all about
empowering the Washington cartel. My simple Flat Tax says that, for a family of
four, for the first $36,000 you earn, you pay no taxes whatsoever. No income
taxes, no payroll taxes, no nothing.

Above that, every American pays 10 percent across the board -- a flat, fair tax.
Which means that no longer do you have hedge-fund billionaires paying a lower
tax rate than their secretaries.

On the business side, I've got a business flat tax of 16 percent -- again, that
applies across the board. Right now, with our corporate income tax, giant
corporations with armies of accountants regularly are paying little to no taxes
while small businesses are getting hammered.

This is fair and across-the-board. Now, you ask, how do the numbers add up? I
would encourage folks, if you go to our website, tedcruz.org, we have the
specific numbers on the website.

This plan eliminates the payroll tax, eliminates the death tax, eliminates the
corporate income tax, and it abolishes the IRS.

(APPLAUSE)

And the effect of that is incredible economic growth. It means every income
group will see double-digit increases, from the very poorest to the very
weakest, of at least 14 percent.

So if you're a single mom, if you're making $40,000 a year, what that means is
an extra about $5,000 in your pocket to provide for your kids, to make ends
meet. It has a powerful, powerful effect.

And there's one other really powerful feature of my plan, which is that it's
border-adjustable. Which means, if you're an exporter -- if you're a farmer, if
you're a rancher, if you're a manufacturer, you don't pay the businesses flat
tax.

Exports are free of that tax, but all imports pay that 16 percent business flat
tax, which means this tax plan would cause jobs to boom, and it would let
America compete with China and the world on a level playing field.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: But you haven't told us how to pay for it.

CRUZ: Well, the numbers the Tax Foundation had put out is that the static cost
of the plan is $3.6 trillion over 10 years, but the dynamic cost of the plan,
which -- which is the cost that factors in growth, is about $768 billion.

It is less than a trillion. It costs less than virtually every other plan people
have put up here, and yet it produces more growth and it's one of the very few
plans that abolishes the IRS.

But on top of that, today, we rolled out a spending plan. $500 billion in
specific cuts -- five major agencies that I would eliminate. The IRS, the
Department of Commerce, the Department of Energy, the Department of Commerce,
and HUD -- and then 25 specific programs.

Again, that's on our website at tedcruz.org. You want to look at specificity?
It's easy for everyone to say, ''cut spending''. It's much harder and riskier to
put out, chapter and verse, specifically the programs you would cut to stop
bankrupting our kids and grandkids.

BARTIROMO: Thank you, Senator.

(APPLAUSE)

Governor Bush, Republican primary voters say tax reform should be a priority for
Congress and the administration. But, Governor Bush, how important is tax reform
in your domestic policy agenda? Will you guarantee it in the first year of your
presidency?

BUSH: I'm gonna fight as hard as I can to make sure that we shift power away
from Washington, simplify the tax code, to spur economic activity in this
country. Of course it's the highest priority.

If we don't do that, we're stuck with the ''new normal'' of 2 percent growth.
Hillary Clinton says, basically, we just gotta get used to it. Two percent
growth means declining income for the middle class. It means more than 6 million
people are stuck in poverty than the day that Barack Obama was inaugurated.

It means -- it means more demands on government -- growing the economy is the
first job, if we're going to be serious about dealing with the deficit and debt.
And more importantly, people are really struggling right now.

In this economy, the disposable income of the great middle is down 2,300 bucks.
So yeah, we've created jobs, your -- argue (ph) -- brought that up early, and it
was a good question. Jobs are being created, but they're lower-income jobs than
the jobs that were lost.

And the net effect of this is we need to jump-start the economy. I think of
Jonathan (ph) and Reagan Love (ph), who are supporters of mine. Jonathan has
been deployed by the National Guard, he is -- he's in Oklahoma.

Reagan Love -- by the way, pretty great name, I think -- is a teacher. When --
if they had this tax cut, what they told me was that that $2,300 of money in
their pocket -- they would go back to South Carolina and start a business.

Imagine what it would be like, instead of having more businesses closed than
started, we had it the exact opposite. We would grow our economy, and the
government would get the revenue necessary to make things -- make things better.

Hillary Clinton's approach to this is more top-down, more regulation, more
taxes, more government, and it will destroy our economy.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: Thank you, Governor.

BAKER: Senator Rubio. Can I just come to Senator Rubio? We're coming to you, Mr.
Trump, in one second. I -- I promise. TRUMP: Yes.

BAKER: Senator Rubio, your tax plan includes a large expansion of child tax
credits to raise off (ph) the tax incomes for low-income parents. A similar tax
credit that you previously proposed in the Senate was estimated to cost as much
as $170 billion a year, according to the Tax Foundation.

Isn't -- isn't there a risk you're just adding another expensive entitle program
to an already overburdened federal budget?

RUBIO: The most important job I'm ever going to have, the most important job
anyone in this room will ever have, is the job of being a parent. Not the job of
being president, or the job of being a senator, or the job of being a
congressman.

The most important job any of us will ever do is the job of being a president
(sic), because the most important institution in society is the family. If the
family breaks down, society breaks down.

You can't have a strong nation without strong values, and no one is born with
strong values. They have to be taught to you in strong families and reinforced
in you in strong communities.

And so when we set out to do tax reform, we endeavor to have a pro-family tax
code, and we endeavor to do it because we know how difficult it is for families
in the 21st century to afford the cost of living.

It is expensive to raise children in the 21st century, and families that are
raising children are raising the future taxpayers of the United States, and
everything costs more. In 35 out of 50 states, child care costs more than
college.

There are millions of people watching this broadcast tonight that understand
exactly what I'm talking about. They don't know how they're going to make that
payment every month, and if they can't make it, they can't work, because someone
needs to watch their kids during the day. They don't know how they're going to
save for their kids' future, to go to college.

And so, yes, I have a child tax credit increase, and I'm proud of it. I am proud
that I have a pro-family tax code, because the pro- family tax plan I have will
strengthen the most important institution in the -- in the country, the family.

PAUL: Neil, there's a point I'd like to make here...

(APPLAUSE)

....Neil, a point that I'd like to make about the tax credits.

We have to decide what is conservative and what isn't conservative. Is it
fiscally conservative to have a trillion-dollar expenditure? We're not talking
about giving people back their tax money. He's talking about giving people money
they didn't pay. It's a welfare transfer payment.

So here's what we have. Is it conservative to have $1 trillion in transfer
payments -- a new welfare program that's a refundable tax credit? Add that to
Marco's plan for $1 trillion in new military spending, and you get something
that looks, to me, not very conservative. Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

(CROSSTALK)

BAKER: Governor Kasich? Let me come to Governor Kasich.

TRUMP: No, I'm sorry. No, excuse me. I was there.

BAKER: Governor Kasich.

(CROSSTALK)

BAKER: Very quickly, Senator.

RUBIO: Now I get my 60 seconds to respond. He's talking about my tax plan.

BAKER: Please.

RUBIO: So let me begin with this. I actually believe -- first of all, this is
their money. They do pay. It is refundable, not just against the taxes they pay
to the government, but also the -- on their federal income tax, it's refundable
against the payroll tax.

Everyone pays payroll tax. This is their money. This is not our money. And
here's what I don't understand -- if you invest that money in a piece of
equipment, if you invest that money in a business, you get to write it off your
taxes.

But if you invest it in your children, in the future of America and
strengthening your family, we're not going to recognize that in our tax code?
The family is the most important institution in society. And, yes...

PAUL: Nevertheless, it's not very conservative, Marco.

RUBIO: ... I do want to rebuild the American military.

PAUL: How is it conservative?

RUBIO: I know that Rand is a committed isolationist. I'm not. I believe the
world is a stronger and a better place, when the United States is the strongest
military power in the world.

PAUL: Yeah, but, Marco! Marco! How is it conservative, how is it conservative to
add a trillion-dollar expenditure for the federal government that you're not
paying for?

RUBIO: Because... PAUL: How is it conservative?

RUBIO: ...are you talking about the military, Rand?

PAUL How is it conservative to add a trillion dollars in military expenditures?
You can not be a conservative if you're going to keep promoting new programs
that you're not going to pay for.

(APPLAUSE)

RUBIO: We can't even have an economy if we're not safe. There are radical
jihadist in the Middle East beheading people and crucifying Christians. A
radical Shia cleric in Iran trying to get a nuclear weapon, the Chinese taking
over the South China Sea...

(APPLAUSE)

RUBIO: ...Yes, I believe the world is a safer -- no, no, I don't believe, I know
that the world is a safer place when America is the strongest military power in
the world.

(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)

PAUL: No. I don't think we're any safer -- I do not think we are any safer from
bankruptcy court. As we go further, and further into debt, we become less, and
less safe. This is the most important thing we're going to talk about tonight.
Can you be a conservative, and be liberal on military spending? Can you be for
unlimited military spending, and say, Oh, I'm going to make the country safe?
No, we need a safe country, but, you know, we spend more on our military than
the next ten countries combined?

I want a strong national defense, but I don't want us to be bankrupt.

(BELL RINGING)

(CROSSTALK)

CRUZ: ...Middle ground that brings both of these together...

FIORINA: ...Yes, the middle ground is this...

CRUZ: ...Exactly right, that we have to defend this nation. You think defending
this nation is expensive, try not defending it. That's a lot more expensive.

(APPLAUSE) (CHEERING)

CRUZ: But, you can do that, and pay for it. You can do that, and also be
fiscally responsible. You know, I mention that the 25 programs that I put today,
that I would eliminate them. Among them are corporate welfare, like sugar
subsidies. Let's take that as an example. Sugar subsidies. Sugar farmers farm
under...

(BELL RINGING) CRUZ: ...under roughly 0.2% of the farmland in America, and yet
they give 40% of the lobbying money. That sort of corporate welfare is why we're
bankrupting our kids, and grandkids. I would end those subsidies to pay for
defending this nation...

BAKER: ...Gentleman, we need to move on...

FIORINA: ...This is why -- this is why we must combine, actually, zero-based
budgeting with tax reform because unless we can examine, and cut, and move,
every single dollar of discretionary spending in the federal government, we
cannot reform taxes and reduce spending at the same time.

Ask yourself this question, how is it possible that the federal government gets
more money each and every year, which the federal government has been doing,
receiving more money every year for 50 years under republicans and democrats
alike, and yet, never has enough money to do the important things?

The answer? All the money's always spoken for. All the money's spoken for. So,
we have to go to zero-based budgeting, which is a simple idea -- by the way,
there's been a bill for zeros-based (ph) budgeting...

(BELL RINGING)

FIORINA: ...It exists, it can be voted on. Every dollar must be examined. Any
dollar can be cut. Any dollar can be cut, any dollar can be moved. We have to go
to a three page tax code. You lower every rate, you close every loophole, why?
Because the government uses the tax code to decide winners, and losers. You have
to strip the corruption out of the tax code to pay for it. You have to know
where every single dollar is being spent...

BAKER: ...We need to move...

FIORINA: ...Cut where you need to, and invest where you need to...

BAKER: ...We need too...

FIORINA: ...The two go hand in hand...

BAKER: ...We do need to move on. Mr. Trump...

TRUMP: Please, if I could just...

BAKER: ...Very quick.

TRUMP: We have to make our military bigger, better, stronger than ever before so
that nobody messes with us, and a long run, it's going to save us. I agree with
Marco, I agree with Ted, we have no choice. And, I can tell you this with
certainty. We all have a different tax plan. Some I don't totally agree with.

One thing we understand, each one of those tax plans is better than the mess
that we have right now.

(APPLAUSE)

BAKER: Let's talk about -- No, no, Governor, I really must move on. I really
want to move on.

Mr. Trump, let's talk about the international economy...

KASICH: ...Mr. Baker, everybody got to talk about taxes...

BAKER: ...We really need to move on...

KASICH: ...I think you were coming to me and then...

BAKER: ...No, governor, I promise I will come to you...

KASICH: ...Look, I hate to crash the party to you, Mr. Baker, but, you know,
what's fair...

BAKER: ...Listen...

KASICH: ...Yes, sir...

BAKER: ...Mr. Trump, can I ask you about...

TRUMP: ...Yes...

BAKER: ...the U.S. just concluded an international trade agreement with 11
countries in the Pacific. You've said that you'd rather have no deal...

TRUMP: ...Yeah...

BAKER: ...than sign the one that's on the table...

TRUMP: ...It's a horrible deal...

BAKER: ...Most economists -- most economists say that trade is boosted growth,
and every single post war president has supported the expansion of international
trade, including the last three republican presidents. Why would you reverse
more than 50 years of U.S. trade policy?

TRUMP: The TPP is horrible deal. It is a deal that is going to lead to nothing
but trouble. It's a deal that was designed for China to come in, as they always
do, through the back door and totally take advantage of everyone. It's 5,600
pages long. So complex that nobodies read it. It's like Obamacare; nobody ever
read it. They passed it; nobody read it. And look at mess we have right now. And
it will be repealed.

But this is one of the worst trade deals. And I would, yes, rather not have it.
With all of these countries, and all of the bad ones getting advantage and
taking advantage of what the good ones would normally get, I'd rather make
individual deals with individual countries. We will do much better. We lose a
fortune on trade. The United States loses with everybody. We're losing now over
$500 billion in terms of imbalance with China, $75 billion a year imbalance with
Japan. By the way, Mexico, $50 billion a year imbalance.

So I must say, Gerard, I just think it's a terrible deal. I love trade. I'm a
free trader, 100 percent. But we need smart people making the deals, and we
don't have smart people making the deals.

BAKER: The -- the deal, as you say, the terms of the deal were published -- were
published just last week, the details, 5,000 pages of it, and 80 percent of U.S.
trade with countries in the Pacific, these countries, these 11 countries, is
actually tariff-free, and these -- the trade deal only affects the other 20
percent. Which -- are there particular parts of the deal that you think were
badly negotiated?

TRUMP: Yes. Well, the currency manipulation they don't discuss in the agreement,
which is a disaster. If you look at the way China and India and almost everybody
takes advantage of the United States -- China in particular, because they're so
good. It's the number-one abuser of this country. And if you look at the way
they take advantage, it's through currency manipulation. It's not even discussed
in the almost 6,000-page agreement. It's not even discussed.

BAKER: There was a separate -- separate...

(CROSSTALK)

TRUMP: And as you understand, I mean, you understand very well from the Wall
Street Journal, currency manipulation is the single great weapon people have.
They don't even discuss it in this agreement.

So I say, it's a very bad deal, should not be approved. If it is approved, it
will just be more bad trade deals, more loss of jobs for our country. We are
losing jobs like nobody's ever lost jobs before. I want to bring jobs back into
this country.

PAUL: Hey, Gerard, you know, we might want to point out China is not part of
this deal.

(UNKNOWN): True. It's true.

BARTIROMO: That's right. That's right.

PAUL: Before we get a little bit off-kilter here...

BAKER: But isn't that -- isn't that part of the problem? When I say, Senator,
that if -- if this deal is not ratified by -- by the U.S. -- by the Senate, then
it would actually give China an opportunity to grow its economic leadership,
which it's been seeking to do? And if the U.S. is unable to take part in this
trade deal with these countries in Asia, China will take the lead? PAUL: There
is an argument that China doesn't like the deal, because in us doing the deal,
we'll be trading with their competitors. You're exactly right. But I think we've
sort of missed the point a little bit here.

There is an important point, though, about how we discuss these trade treaties
that I do agree with Mr. Trump on. We should negotiate from a position of
strength. And we also should negotiate using the full force and the
constitutional power that was given to us. I think it's a mistake that we give
up power to the presidency on these trade deals. We give up the power to
filibuster, and I'm kind of fond of that power.

(LAUGHTER)

We give up the power to amend. And I think, really, one of the big problems we
have in our country is, over the last century, really, so much power has
gravitated to the executive branch. Really, Congress is kind of a bystander. We
don't write the rules. We don't make the laws. The executive branch does. So
even in trade -- and I am for trade -- I think we should be careful about giving
so much power to the presidency.

(APPLAUSE)

BAKER: Thank you. Thanks, Senator.

BARTIROMO: Coming up, the biggest threats facing the next commander-in-chief.
You're watching the Republican presidential debate, live tonight from Milwaukee.
We'll be right back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BARTIROMO: Welcome back. Welcome back to the Republican presidential debate. The
candidates taking the questions you want answered. Also tonight, you can see
what America is saying about the debate. Go to Facebook and type #gopdebate into
the search box.

Now, back to the questions. Americans face security threats at home and abroad.
Last year, terrorist attacks rose 61 percent, according to the Institute for
Economics and Peace, with the most deaths occurring in just five countries,
Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Nigeria, and Syria.

Dr. Carson, you were against putting troops on the ground in Iraq and against a
large military force in Afghanistan. Do you support the president's decision to
now put 50 special ops forces in Syria and leave 10,000 U.S. troops in
Afghanistan?

CARSON: Well, putting the special ops people in there is better than not having
them there, because they -- that's why they're called special ops, they're
actually able to guide some of the other things that we're doing there.

And what we have to recognize is that Putin is trying to really spread his
influence throughout the Middle East. This is going to be his base. And we have
to oppose him there in an effective way.

We also must recognize that it's a very complex place. You know, the Chinese are
there, as well as the Russians, and you have all kinds of factions there.

What we've been doing so far is very ineffective, but we can't give up ground
right there. But we have to look at this on a much more global scale. We're
talking about global jihadists. And their desire is to destroy us and to destroy
our way of life. So we have to be saying, how do we make them look like losers?
Because that's the way that they're able to gather a lot of influence.

And I think in order to make them look like losers, we have to destroy their
caliphate. And you look for the easiest place to do that? It would be in Iraq.
And if -- outside of Anbar in Iraq, there's a big energy field. Take that from
them. Take all of that land from them. We could do that, I believe, fairly
easily, I've learned from talking to several generals, and then you move on from
there.

But you have to continue to face them, because our goal is not to contain them,
but to destroy them before they destroy us.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: We asked Facebook to take a look at some of the major issues we're
talking about, and tackling in this debate tonight. This word cloud shows what
people are focusing on the most. The bigger the word, the more the talk. One of
the most discussed issues in the last month, homeland security. Governor Bush,
what is the biggest threat facing America today?

BUSH: It is -- I'd say it is Islamic terrorism, and, back to the question of
what we are dealing with in Iraq, when we pull back voids are filled. That's the
lesson of history, and, sadly, this president does not believe in American
leadership. He does not believe it, and the net result is that we have a
caliphate the size of Indiana that gains energy each and everyday to recruit
Americans in our own country, and the threat to the homeland relates to the fact
that we have not dealt with this threat of terror in the Middle East.

We should have a no fly zone in Syria. We should have a support for the remnants
of the Syrian Free Army, and create safe zones. If you want to deal with the
four million refugees that are leaving Syria because of the devastation there,
then we 'ought to create safe zones for them to stay in the region rather than
go to Europe. And, that requires American leadership.

Without American leadership every other country in the neighborhood beings to
change their priorities. It is tragic that you see Iraq, and other countries now
talking to Russia. It wasn't that long ago that Russia had no influence in the
region at all. And, so, the United States needs to lead across the board.

This president, and Hillary Clinton both do not believe the United States has a
leadership role to play, and we're now paying a price, and it will have a huge
impact on the economy of this country if we don't deal with this.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: Thank you, sir.

Mr. Trump, in 2012 debate, President Obama mocked Mitt Romney's assertion that
Russia was the top geopolitical challenge facing the United States, saying he
was a Cold War dinosaur. Now, Russia has invaded Ukraine, and has put troops in
Syria. You have said you will have a good relationship with Mr. Putin. So, what
does President Trump do in response to Russia's aggression?

TRUMP: Well, first of all, it's not only Russia. We have problems with North
Korea where they actually have nuclear weapons. You know, nobody talks about it,
we talk about Iran, and that's one of the worst deals ever made. One of the
worst contracts ever signed, ever, in anything, and it's a disgrace. But, we
have somebody over there, a madman, who already has nuclear weapons we don't
talk about that. That's a problem.

China is a problem, both economically in what they're doing in the South China
Sea, I mean, they are becoming a very, very major force. So, we have more than
just Russia. But, as far as the Ukraine is concerned, and you could Syria -- as
far as Syria, I like -- if Putin wants to go in, and I got to know him very well
because we were both on 60 Minutes, we were stablemates, and we did very well
that night.

But, you know that.

But, if Putin wants to go and knocked the hell out of ISIS, I am all for it,
100%, and I can't understand how anybody would be against it...

BUSH: ...They're not doing that...

TRUMP: ...They blew up -- hold it....

BUSH: (INAUDIBLE)

TRUMP: ...They blew up, wait a minute...

(AUDIENCE REACTION)

TRUMP: ...They blew up a Russian airplane. He cannot be in love with these
people. He's going in, and we can go in, and everybody should go in. As far as
the Ukraine is concerned, we have a group of people, and a group of countries,
including Germany -- tremendous economic behemoth -- why are we always doing the
work?

We are -- I'm all for protecting Ukraine and working -- but, we have countries
that are surrounding the Ukraine that aren't doing anything. They say, ''Keep
going, keep going, you dummies, keep going. Protect us...''

(BELL RINGING) TRUMP: ...And we have to get smart. We can't continue to be the
policeman of the world. We are $19 trillion dollars, we have a country that's
going to hell, we have an infrastructure that's falling apart. Our roads, our
bridges, our schools, our airports, and we have to start investing money in our
country.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: Thank you, sir.

BUSH: Donald -- Donald's wrong on this. He is absolutely wrong on this. We're
not going to be the world's policeman, but we sure as heck better be the world's
leader. That's -- there's a huge difference where, without us leading...

(CHEERING)

BUSH: ...voids are filled, and the idea that it's a good idea for Putin to be in
Syria, let ISIS take out Assad, and then Putin will take out ISIS? I mean,
that's like a board game, that's like playing Monopoly or something. That's not
how the real world works.

We have to lead, we have to be involved. We should have a no fly zone in Syria.
There are -- they are barrel bombing the innocents in that country. If you're a
Christian, increasingly in Lebanon, or Iraq, or Syria, you're going to be
beheaded. And, if you're a moderate Islamist, you're not going to be able to
survive either.

We have to play a role in this be able to bring the rest of the world to this
issue before it's too late.

TRUMP: Assad is a bad guy, but we have no idea who the so-called rebels -- I
read about the rebels, nobody even knows who they are. I spoke to a general two
weeks ago, he said -- he was very up on exactly what we're talking about. He
said, ''You know, Mr. Trump? We're giving hundreds of millions of dollars of
equipment to these people, we have no idea who they are.''

So, I don't like Assad. Who's going to like Assad? But, we have no idea who
these people, and what they're going to be, and what they're going to represent.
They may be far worse than Assad. Look at Libya. Look at Iraq. Look at the mess
we have after spending $2 trillion dollars, thousands of lives, wounded warriors
all over the place -- who I love, OK? All over.

We have nothing. And, I said, keep the oil. And we should have kept the oil,
believe me. We should have kept the oil. And, you know what? We should have
given the oil...

(BELL BRINGING)

...We should've given big chunks to the people that lost their arms, their legs,
and their families, and their sons, and daughters, because right now, you know
who has a lot of that oil? Iran, and ISIS.

FIORINA: You know, Mr. Trump fancies himself a very good negotiator. And, I
accept that he's done a lot of good deals, so, Mr. Trump 'ought to know that we
should not speak to people from a position of weakness. Senator Paul should know
that as well.

One of the reasons I've said that I would not be talking to Vladimir Putin right
now, although I have met him as well, not in a green room for a show, but in a
private meeting.

(LAUGHTER) (APPLAUSE) (CHEERING)

FIORINA: One of the reasons I've said I wouldn't be talking to Vladimir Putin
right now is because we are speaking to him from a position of weakness brought
on by this administration, so, I wouldn't talk to him for awhile, but, I would
do this. I would start rebuilding the Sixth Fleet right under his nose,
rebuilding the military -- the missile defense program in Poland right under his
nose. I would conduct very aggressive military exercises in the Baltic States so
that he understood we would protect our NATO allies...

(BELL RINGING)

...and I might also put in a few more thousand troops into Germany, not to start
a war, but to make sure that Putin understand that the United States of America
will stand with our allies. That is why Governor Bush is correct. We must have a
no fly zone in Syria because Russia cannot tell the United States of America
where and when to fly our planes. We also have a set of allies...

(APPLAUSE)

FIORINA: ...We also have a set of allies in the Arab Middle East that know that
ISIS is their fight. They have asked us specifically over, and over again to
support them. King Abdullah of Jordan, a man I've known for a very long time,
has asked us for bombs and material, we have not provided it.

The Egyptians are asking us to share intelligence, we are not, I will. The Kurds
have asked us to arm them for three years, we are not, I would. The Egyptians,
the Saudis, the Kuwaitis, the Bahrain's, the Emirati, the Kurds...

(BELL RINGING)

...all of these, I know, by the way, understand ISIS is their fight, but they
must see leadership support and resolve from the United States of America...

MALE: ...let me follow up that...

FIORINA: ...we have the strongest military on the face of the planet, and
everyone has to know it.

CAVUTO: Senator Paul...

(APPLAUSE) (CHEERING)

CAVUTO: Senator Paul, you have already said, sir, that that would be a mistake
in not talking to Vladimir Putin, or to rule it out. You've argued that it's
never a good idea to close down communication. With that in mind, do you think
the same applies to administration efforts right now to include the Iranians in
talks on Syria?

PAUL: I'd like first to respond to the acquisition, we should -- I think it's
particularly naive, particularly foolish to think that we're not going to talk
to Russia. The idea of a no fly zone, realize that this is also something that
Hillary Clinton agrees with several on our side with, you're asking for a no fly
zone in an area in which Russia already flies.

Russia flies in that zone at the invitation of Iraq. I'm not saying it's a good
thing, but you better know at least what we're getting into. So, when you think
it's going to be a good idea to have a no fly zone over Iraq, realize that means
you are saying we are going to shoot down Russian planes. If you're ready for
that, be ready to send your sons and daughters to another war in Iraq.

I don't want to see that happen. I think the first war in Iraq was a mistake...

(CHEERING) (APPLAUSE)

PAUL: You can be strong without being involved in every civil war around the
war...

MALE: (INAUDIBLE)

CAVUTO: ...Well, then how would you respond?

PAUL: Ronald Reagan was strong, but Ronald Reagan didn't...

FIORINA: ...Ronald Reagan walked away at Reykjavik.

PAUL: ...send troops into the Middle East...

FIORINA: ...he walked away, he quit talks...

PAUL: ...Can I finish...

FIORINA: ...when it was time to quit talking...

PAUL: ...Can I finish my time?

PAUL: Could I finish with my time?

TRUMP: Why does she keep interrupting everybody?

(LAUGHTER)

TRUMP: Terrible.

(BOOING)

PAUL: Yes, I would like to finish my response, basically.

RUBIO: You know, if I may respond...

PAUL: This is an important question. This is an incredibly important question.
And the question goes to be, who do we want to be our commander-in-chief? Do you
want a commander-in-chief who says something that we never did throughout the
entire Cold War, to discontinue having conversations with the Russians?

I am not happy about them flying over there. But I'm not naive enough to say,
well, Iraq has them flying over their airspace, we're just going to announce
that we're shooting them down?

That is naive to the point of being something you might hear in junior high. But
it's scary...

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: But if you're not going to respond in a no-fly zone strategy, what would
yours be?

PAUL: The first thing I would do is I wouldn't arm our enemies. I wouldn't arm
ISIS.

(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)

Most of the people who want to the no-fly zone also favored arming the allies of
al Qaeda, which became ISIS. That was the dumbest, most foolhardy notion. And
most of the people up here supported it. They wanted to arm the allies of al
Qaeda. Some of them still do.

That's how ISIS grew. We pushed back Assad, and ISIS was allowed to grow in the
vacuum. So the first thing you do is don't arm your enemies. (CROSSTALK)

RUBIO: I need to add a couple of points to this. The first is, I've never met
Vladimir Putin, but I know enough about him to know he is a gangster. He is
basically an organized crime figure that runs a country, controls a $2 trillion
economy. And is using to build up his military in a rapid way despite the fact
his economy is a disaster.

He understands only geopolitical strength. And every time he has acted anywhere
in the world, whether it's in Ukraine or Georgia before that, or now in the
Middle East, it's because he is trusting in weakness.

His calculation in the Middle East is that he has seen what this president has
done, which is nothing, the president has no strategy, our allies in the region
do not trust us. For goodness sake, there is only one pro-American free
enterprise democracy in the Middle East, it is the state of Israel.

And we have a president that treats the prime minister of Israel with less
respect than what he gives the ayatollah in Iran. And so our allies in the
region don't trust us.

(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)

Vladimir Putin is exploiting that weakness, for purposes of edging the Americans
out as the most important geopolitical power broker in the region. And we do
have a vested interest. And here's why.

Because all those radical terrorist groups that, by the way, are not just in
Syria and in Iraq, ISIS is now in Libya. They are a significant presence in
Libya, and in Afghanistan, and a growing presence in Pakistan.

Soon they will be in Turkey. They will try Jordan. They will try Saudi Arabia.
They are coming to us. They recruit Americans using social media. And they don't
hate us simply because we support Israel. They hate us because of our values.
They hate us because our girls go to school. They hate us because women drive in
the United States.

Either they win or we win, and we had better take this risk seriously, it is not
going away on its own.

(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)

BAKER: Thank you, Senator.

Governor Kasich, I want to ask you about China, in particular hundreds of
American companies have been subjected to cyber attacks from the Chinese
military, yet state-backed Chinese companies, growing their presence in the
United States, Chinese investments in U.S., which were nearly nonexistent a few
years ago, are now over $50 billion. And as my newspaper recently reported,
Chinese companies are planning to bid for one of the largest hotel chains in the
United States, what would be the largest ever Chinese takeover of a U.S.
company. Would you stop them?

KASICH: Let me tell you this, Mr. Baker, in terms of the cyber attacks, we have
the capability to not only have a defensive posture, but it also to make it
clear to people that if you attack us with cyber attacks, we will destroy the
mechanisms that you are using to attack us.

I want to give you a little trip around the world. I served on the Defense
Committee for 18 years. In the Ukraine, arm the people there so they can fight
for themselves. In the eastern part of Europe, make sure that Finland and the
Baltics know that if the Russians move, we move.

In Syria, yes, a no-fly zone in the north on the Turkish border, a no-fly zone
on the south on the Jordanian border. Anybody flies in the first time, maybe
they can fly out. They fly in there a second time, they will not fly out.

And it also becomes a sanctuary for the people to be. And it also sends many
messages in the Middle East that we're still involved.

Saudi Arabia, cut off the funding for the radical clerics, the ones that preach
against us. But they're fundamentally our friends. Jordan, we want the king to
reign for 1,000 years. Egypt, they have been our ally and a moderating force in
the Middle East throughout their history.

In the groups -- in the countries of the Gulf states of Bahrain, the Cleveland
Clinic is opening an operation. Clearly we see the same with them. And in
Israel, we have no better ally in the world, and no more criticizing them in
public, we should support them.

And finally China, China doesn't own the South China Sea, and I give the
president some credit for being able to move a naval force in there to let the
Chinese know that we're not going to put up with it any more.

And in the trade agreement, the TPP, it's critical to us, not only for economic
reasons and for jobs, because there are so many people who are connected to
getting jobs because of trade, but it allows us to create not only economy
alliances, but also potentially strategic alliances against the Chinese. They
are not our enemy, but they are certainly not our friend.

And finally, I will say to everyone in this room, we have been talking about
taxes and economics. When the fall comes, and we run against Hillary, which will
be a disaster if she got elected. I have two 16-year-old girls, and I want this
country to be strong.

We make promises we can't keep under the bright light of the fall, we will have
trouble. We must make sure that economic programs and our military programs are
solid. I served in Washington as the chairman of the Budget Committee, and we
got the budget balanced.

And in Ohio, as the CEO, and guess what, we have got to have a CEO mentality and
a way to beat Hillary Clinton and the Democracies in the fall. And our ideas
have to add up. They have to be solid. And people have to know we have the
confidence to lead America.

And as president, I will lead this country, as I have before in Washington and
in Ohio, and will return both on domestic and international affairs. And I
appreciate the opportunity to speak this time, Gerry.

(APPLAUSE)

BAKER: Thank you, Governor. Plenty of opportunities. Thank you.

Neil?

CAVUTO: All right. And look at the time, look at the time. You are watching FOX
Business, we'll take a break. Stick around.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BAKER: Welcome back to the Republican presidential debate, live from Milwaukee.

Now let's get straight back to the questions, and Governor Bush.

Governor, Hillary Clinton recently said that if we had another financial crisis
like the one in 2008, she wouldn't bail out the banks. Would you?

BUSH: We're not -- we shouldn't have another financial crisis. What we ought to
do is raise the capital requirements so banks aren't too big to fail. Dodd-Frank
has actually done the opposite, totally the opposite, where banks now have
higher concentration of risk in assets and the capital requirements aren't high
enough. If we were serious about it, we would raise the capital requirements and
lessen the load on the community banks and other financial institutions. This
vast overreach has created a huge problem for our country, and Hillary Clinton
wants to double down on that.

I was in Washington, Iowa, about three months ago talking about how bad
Washington, D.C., is. It was -- get the -- kind of the -- anyway. We had...

(LAUGHTER)

It -- and I talked to a banker there. This is a bank that had $125 million of
assets, four branches. Their compliance costs because of Dodd-Frank went from
$100,000 to $600,000 in a two-year period. The net effect of that is -- and they
had -- they had not one loan that went bad during the financial crisis. They
knew -- they knew their borrowers. They gave back to the community. They were
engaged in the community. And imagine America without its community banks. Well,
that's what's happening because of Dodd-Frank. That's -- that's my worry. My
worry is that the real economy has been hurt by the vast overreach of the Obama
administration.

And Hillary Clinton, she wants to double down on that. She wants to create even
more so. She is a captive of the left of her party to the point now where she is
-- she was for the trade agreement in -- the Pacific agreement. Now she's
against it. She was -- hinted she was for the XL pipeline. Now she's opposed to
it. All the things that would create sustained economic growth she's now
doubling down against it.

BAKER: But, Governor, but can I just quickly -- did -- you can't seriously
guarantee that there won't be another financial crisis, can you?

BUSH: You could, if you were serious about...

BAKER: Ever? There will never be another financial crisis?

BUSH: No, I can't say that. But I can say, if you created higher capital
requirements, that's the solution to this, not having concentration of assets.
The bigger banks now have more and more control over -- over the financial
assets of this country. And that is the wrong approach to take.

BAKER: Dr. Carson, if I may, just on that point, despite measures taken, as the
governor says, since the crisis to make the financial system safer, the major
banks in the U.S., many of them are actually bigger than ever. Asset held by
JPMorgan Chase, for example, the very largest bank, have increased by nearly 40
percent to over $2.6 trillion. Do you think JPMorgan and the other big banks
should be broken up?

CARSON: Well, I think we should have policies that don't allow them to just
enlarge themselves at the expense of smaller entities. And certainly some of the
policies, some of the monetary and Fed policies that we're using makes it very
easy for them, makes it very easy for the big corporations, quite frankly, at
these very low interest rates to buy back their stock and to drive the price of
that up artificially. Those are the kinds of things that led to the problem in
the first place.

And I think this all really gets back to this whole regulation issue which is
creating a very abnormal situation. This country was -- declared its
independence in 1776. In less than 100 years, it was the number-one economic
power in the world. And the reason was because we had an atmosphere that
encouraged entrepreneurial risk- taking and capital investment. Those are the
fuels that drive it.

And what we've done now is let the creep of regulation turn into a stampede of
regulations, which is involved in every aspect of our lives. If we can get that
out, it makes a big difference. And even for the average person, every single
regulation costs money. And it's shifted to the individual.

So -- and it hurts the poor and the middle class much more than it does the
rich. They go into the store and they buy a bar of soap, it costs 10 cents more,
they notice it. And the middle class, when they come to the cash register, have
a whole cart full of things that cost 5, 10 or 15 cents more, they notice it. It
is hurting the poor.

Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton won't tell you that that's the thing that's
really hurting middle class in the core. They'll say it's the rich, take their
money, but that won't help. You can take all of the rich's money and it won't
make a dent in the problem that we're having. We have to come back to the
fundamental principles that made America great.

(APPLAUSE)

BAKER: But just to be clear, just -- just to be clear, then, you wouldn't -- you
wouldn't favor breaking up the big banks? You think they're big enough --
they're OK as they are, as big as they are?

CARSON: I would have policies that wouldn't allow that to occur. I don't want to
go in and tear anybody down. I mean, that doesn't help us. But what does help us
is stop tinkering around the edges and fix the actual problems that exist that
are creating the problem in the first place.

BAKER: Thank you, Dr. Carson.

RUBIO: Can I just add what -- he's right on point there. Do you know why these
banks are so big? The government made them big. The government made them big by
adding thousands and thousands of pages of regulations. So the big banks, they
have an army of lawyers, they have an army of compliance officers. They can deal
with all these things. The small banks, like Governor Bush was saying, they
can't deal with all these regulations. They can't deal with all -- they cannot
hire the fanciest law firm in Washington or the best lobbying firm to deal with
all these regulations. And so the result is, the big banks get bigger, the small
banks struggle to lend or even exist, and the result is what you have today.

And in Dodd-Frank, you have actually codified too big to fail. We have actually
created a category of systemically important institutions, and these banks go
around bragging about it. You know what they say to people with a wink and a
nod? We are so big, we are so important that if we get in trouble, the
government has to bail us out. This is an outrage. We need to repeal Dodd-Frank
as soon as possible.

(APPLAUSE)

KASICH: Let me -- let me also say, Gary -- Gary, let me also say, Jeb is -- what
Jeb is talking about with the big banks is to force them to reserve their
capital, people who invest it and they hold their capital, so that if the bank
goes down, the people who are invested in the bank are the ones that pay. That's
what he's trying to say.

Secondly, I'll tell you about Wall Street: There's too much greed. And the fact
is, a free enterprise system is a system that's produced the greatest wealth for
the world. But you know Michael Novak, the great Catholic theologian, says that
a free enterprise system that is not underlaid with values -- and we should all
think about the way we conduct our lives -- yes, free enterprise is great,
profits are great, but there have to be some values that underlay it, and they
need a good ethics lesson on Wall Street on a regular basis to keep them in
check so we, the people, do not lose.

BAKER: Thank you.

PAUL: Gerard, can I comment...

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: Senator Cruz -- and I will get to you -- but, Senator Cruz, on that
theme, Facebook data shows that over the last month alone, nearly 1 million
people -- nearly 1 million -- have been concerned about reining in Wall Street,
apparently believing that some have not been punished enough.

So, as an accomplished litigator yourself and a former solicitor general, would
you go after the very people who believe and fear that Wall Street has ignored,
in other words, the crooks that Bernie Sanders say have gotten away with a
financial murder?

CRUZ: Absolutely yes. You know, I have spent much of my adult life enforcing the
law and defending the Constitution. And the problem that underlies all of this
is the cronyism and corruption of Washington.

You know, the opening question Jerry asked, would you bail out the big banks
again? Nobody gave you an answer to that. I'll give you an answer. Absolutely
not.

(APPLAUSE)

And what we have right now is we have Washington -- as government gets bigger
and bigger, you know, the biggest lie in all of Washington and in all of
politics is that Republicans are the party of the rich. The truth is, the rich
do great with big government. They get in bed with big government. The big banks
get bigger and bigger and bigger under Dodd-Frank and community banks are going
out of business. And, by the way, the consequence of that is small businesses
can't get business loans, and it is that fundamental corruption that is why six
of the 10 wealthiest counties in America are in and around Washington, D.C.

And let me give you a contrast to Washington cronyism. Some weeks ago, a woman
named Sabina Loving testified at a hearing that I chaired in the Senate. Sabina
Loving is an African-American single mom who started a tax preparation business
in the south side of Chicago. She found a store front, she wanted to have her
own business. She started a business.

But then the IRS promulgated new regulations targeting tax preparers. They did
it under a more than 100-year-old statute called the Dead Horse Act. Now, this
statute and the IRS in classic Washington crony fashion had exemptions for
lawyers and big fancy accountants, but Sabina had to pay $1,000 an employee. It
would have driven her out of business, and Ms. Loving sued the IRS. She took the
Obama IRS to court, and she won, and they struck down the rule for picking the
big guys over the little guys.

CAVUTO: Senator...

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: Senator, I really want to be clear here. Are you saying, sir, that if
Bank of America were on the brink, you would let it fail?

CRUZ: Yes. Now, let's be clear, there is a role for the Federal Reserve -- what
the Fed is doing now is it is a series of philosopher- kings trying to guess
what's happening with the economy. You look at the Fed, one of the reasons we
had the financial crash is throughout the 2000s, we had loose money, we had an
asset bubble, it drove up the price of real estate, drove up the price of
commodities, and then in the third quarter of 2008, the Fed tightened the money
and crashed those asset prices, which caused a cascading collapse. That's why I
am supporting getting back to rules-based monetary system not with a bunch of
philosopher-kings deciding, but tied...

(CROSSTALK)

CAVUTO: Sir, I understand that. I just want to be clear, if you don't mind, that
millions of depositors would be on the line with that decision. And I just want
to be clear. If it were to happen again, for whatever the reason, you would let
it go, you would let a Bank of America go?

CRUZ: So let me be clear. I would not bail them out, but instead of adjusting
monetary policy according to whims and getting it wrong over and over again and
causing booms and busts, what the Fed should be doing is, number one, keeping
our money tied to a stable level of gold, and, number two, serving as a lender
of last resort.

That's what central banks do. So if you have a run on the bank, the Fed can
serve as a lender of last resort, but it's not a bailout. It is a loan at higher
interest rates. That's how central banks have worked.

And I'll point out -- look, we had a gold standard under Bretton Woods, we had
it for about 170 years of our nation's history, and enjoyed booming economic
growth and lower inflation than we have had with the Fed now.

We need to get back to sound money, which helps, in particular, working men and
women. What Washington does -- the people who are doing well in the Obama
economy are those with power and influence in the Obama government. The people
who (inaudible) working men and women...

(CROSSTALK)

KASICH: Neil, that's the difference of being an executive. And let me just
explain: when a bank is ready to go under and depositors are getting ready to
lose their life savings, you just don't say we believe in philosophical
concerns. You know what an executive has to decide? When there's a water crisis,
how do we get water to the city? When there's a school shooting, how do you get
there and help heal a community? When there are financial crisis, or a crisis
with ebola, you got to go there and try to fix it.

Philosophy doesn't work when you run something. And I gotta tell you, on-the-job
training for president of the United States doesn't work. We've done it for 8
years, -- and almost 8 years now. It does not work.

(APPLAUSE)

We need an executive who's been tried, has been tested, and judge the decisions
that that executive makes. I don't like what the Fed is doing, but I'll tell you
what worries me more than anything else: turning the Fed over to the Congress of
the United States...

BARTIROMO: Thank you, governor.

CRUZ: So, Governor Kasich...

KASICH: ...so they can print the money. That would be a very bad approach.

BARTIROMO: Senator Rubio.

CRUZ: ...why would you then bail out rich Wall Street banks, but not Main
street, not Mom and Pop, not Sabina Loving?

KASICH: I wouldn't. I wouldn't.

CRUZ: But you just said an executive...

KASICH: No. No, I didn't say that.

CRUZ: ...knows to step in and bail out a bank.

KASICH: They were -- they were talking about what you would do with depositors.
Would you let these banks shut down?

My argument is, going forward, the banks have to reserve the capital, so that
the -- so that the people who own the capital start pressuring the banks to not
take these risky approaches, Ted.

But at the end of the day...

CRUZ: So you said you'd abandon philosophy and abandon principle...

KASICH: ... I'm gonna tell you this. Let me tell you this. If during -- if
during...

CRUZ: ...but what would you do if the bank was failing?

KASICH: ...because if during -- well, I'll tell you what (ph). CRUZ: What would
you do if the bank was failing?

KASICH: I would not let the people who put their money in there all go down.

CRUZ: So you -- you would bail them out.

KASICH: As an executive -- no. As an executive, I would figure out how to
separate those people who can afford it versus those people, or the hard-working
folks who put those money in those institutions...

(BOOING)

... let me -- no, no. Let me say another thing. Here's what I mean by that.
Here's what I mean by that.

(UNKNOWN): Oh, great.

KASICH: When you are faced -- when you are faced, in the last financial crisis,
with banks going under -- with banks going under, and people, people who put
their -- their life savings in there, you got to deal with it. You can't turn a
blind eye to it.

Now, going forward, that's one thing. If you had another financial crisis,
perhaps there would be an effort to make sure that we do (ph).

BARTIROMO: Thank you, Governor Kasich.

FIORINA: Can I just -- could I just say, as a chief executive who's had to make
tough calls to save jobs and to grow jobs, I think what's interesting about
Dodd-Frank is it's a great example of how socialism starts.

Socialism starts when government creates a problem, and then government steps in
to solve the problem. Government created the problem.

(APPLAUSE)

Government created the problem of a real estate boom. How did we create it?
Under Republican and Democrats alike, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, everybody
gathered together, Republicans and Democrats, and said, ''home ownership is part
of the American dream. Let's create a bubble,'' and then government stepped in
-- by the way, under president George W. Bush, banks were told -- encouraged --
told, really -- to buy other banks, to take money.

And now what do we have with Dodd-Frank? The classic of crony capitalism. The
big have gotten bigger, 1,590 community banks have gone out of business, and on
top of all that, we've created something called the Consumer Financial
Production Bureau, a vast bureaucracy with no congressional oversight that's
digging through hundreds of millions of your credit records to detect fraud.

This is how socialism starts, ladies and gentlemen. We must take our government
back.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: More questions -- more questions coming up, when the Republican
presidential debate comes right back, live from Milwaukee. Stay with us.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BARTIROMO: Welcome back to the fourth Republican presidential debate.

Senator Rubio, Hillary Clinton is the clear front runner for the Democratic
nomination. If she is indeed the nominee, you will be facing a candidate with an
impressive resume.

She was the first lady of the United States, a U.S. senator from New York, and
secretary of state under Barack Obama. She has arguably more experience,
certainly more time in government than almost all of you on stage tonight.

Why should the American people trust you to lead this country, even though she
has been so much closer to the office?

RUBIO: Well, that's a great question, and let me begin by answering it.

(LAUGHTER)

This election is about the future, about what kind of country this nation is
gonna be in the 21st century. This next (ph) election is actually a generational
choice. A choice about what kind of nation we will be in the 21st century.

For over 2.5 centuries, America's been a special country, the one place on earth
where anyone from anywhere can achieve anything, a nation that's been a force
for good on this planet.

But now, a growing number of Americans feel out of place in their own country.
We have a society that stigmatizes those that hold cultural values that are
traditional.

We have a society where people -- millions of people -- are living paycheck to
paycheck. They're working as hard as they ever have, but they're living paycheck
to paycheck because the economy has changed underneath their feet.

We have young Americans who owe thousands of dollars in student loans for a
degree that doesn't lead to a job. For the first time in 35 years, we have more
businesses dying than starting, and around the world, every day brings news of a
new humiliation for America -- many the direct response -- direct consequence of
decisions made when Hillary Clinton was the secretary of the -- of state.

And so here's the truth: this election is about the future, and the Democratic
Party, and the political left has no ideas about the future. All their ideas are
the same, tired ideas of the past. More government, more spending. For every
issue for America, their answer is a new tax on someone, and a new government
program. This nation is going to turn the page, and that's what this election
should be about, and, as I said at the first debate...

(BELL RINGING)

RUBIO: ...If I am our nominee, they will be the party of the past, we will be
the party of the 21st century.

(CHEERING)

CRUZ: And, Maria, I will note, she's got a lot of experience, but her policies
have proven disastrous. If you look at foreign policy, every region in the world
has gotten worse. Under her leadership, we abandon the nation of Israel. Under
her leadership, radical Islamic terrorism has been on to the rise. Under her
leadership, and Obama's leadership, Iran is getting $100 billion dollars, and on
the verge of getting a nuclear weapon.

Everything she's put her hand to, or has touched -- and when we talk about the
cronyism of Washington, Hillary Clinton embodies the cronyism...

(BELL RINGING)

CRUZ: ...of Washington. And, I'll give you an example of that, which is the
Congressional exemption from Obamacare, which is fundamentally wrong, and I'll
tell you this, if I'm elected president, I will veto any statute that exempts
members of congress. The law should apply evenly to every American.

(APPLAUSE)

CAVUTO: OK, I think it's fair to say you're not fans of Hillary Clinton's
resume. Alright, Mr. Trump....

TRUMP: We are not.

CAVUTO: I had a feeling. Perhaps the most successful capitalist on this stage
tonight, you've acknowledged that some give capitalism a bad name. You've been
particularly critical of businesses that find all sorts of ways of paying their
taxes by keeping money abroad, but your own plan includes an incentive to bring
-- that more the $2 trillion dollars home.

Isn't that, like, a one-time bounty...

TRUMP: ...No, no, no...

CAVUTO: ...Some of the guys you all but call pirates, so they still keep the
loot, and pay only a price to bring it back.

TRUMP: Well, what's happening right now, Neil, is something that not been a
subject of conversation by politicians. As primarily the only politician, I
guess other than Carly on the stage, they haven't talked about a corporate
inversion. A corporate inversion -- companies are leaving. You know, we used to
leave New York to go to Florida. We got better taxes, we got, maybe, something
else.

Now, they're the United States to go to other countries. They have trillions of
dollars in those other countries. They're going for two reasons, they can't get
their money back in. It's something where the democrats and the republicans both
agree, it's the only thing I can think of. They both agree, let the money come
back in.

Three and a half years, they still can't make a deal. They can't get the money
in. It's probably two and a half trillion, but, I think it's much more than
that. All of that money could become -- could come right in and be used to
rebuild our country, and investments in our country. They can't do it. What we
have to do, and what I've done, is made the tax rate -- and one of the reasons
they don't (INAUDIBLE) the taxes so obnoxious, they can't do it.

Where, I made it a 10% number, as you know. I've been very highly praised for
it. A lot of money's going to come back in, we're going to get rid of the
bureaucratic problems, and roadblocks, because that's also a problem. And, we're
going to have all of this money pour back into the United States. It's going to
be used to build businesses, for jobs, and everything else.

And, as I say, my expression is, let's make America great again.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: Senator Paul, you were one of 15 republicans to vote for an amendment
which states that human activity contributed to climate change. President Obama
has announced an aggressive plan to cut carbon emissions. At the same time,
energy production in America has boomed. Is it possible to continue this boom,
and move toward energy self-sufficiency, while at the same time pursuing a
meaningful climate change program?

PAUL: The first thing I would do as president is repeal the regulations that are
hampering our energy that the President has put in place.

(APPLAUSE)

PAUL: Including the Clean Power Act. While I do think that man may have a role
in our climate, I think nature also has a role. The planet's 4.5 billion years
old, we've been through geologic age after geologic age. We've had times when
the temperatures been warmer, we've had times when the temperatures been colder.
We've had times when the carbon in the atmosphere's been higher. So, I think
before we -- we need to look before we leap.

President's often fond of saying he wants a balance solution, but, really we do
need to balance both keeping the environment clean, and we will have some rules
for that. We got to balance that with the economy.

He's devastated my state. I say the President's not only destroying Kentucky,
he's destroying the democrat party down there because nobody wants to associate
with him. So, what we really need is somebody that understands that we do need
energy of all forms, and that means we will have solar, and wind, and hydro, but
we will still have coal, and we still will have natural gas. And, we've got to
have an all of the above policy.

But, it would be a mistake to shut down all of our industries in the coal
fields, and shut down the coal power plants. If we did so we're going to have a
day where we wake up and some of our big cities are either very cold, or very
hot. So, I think it's a big danger, and we shouldn't do it. And, what we should
do is say we want all of the above...

(BELL RINGING)

PAUL: ...We want to free up the energy sector, and let people produce, let them
drill, let them explore.

BUSH: Maria?

(APPLAUSE)

CRUZ: Maria, critically, when it comes to climate change...

BUSH: ...We've had a 10% reduction in carbon emissions, and it isn't because of
Solyndra. It isn't because of the central planners in Washington D.C. It's
because we've had a great American success story, the explosion of natural gas.

Taking two existing technologies, and applying it through innovation has created
lower carbon emissions, lower energy costs -- 40% of all the economic activity
in the age of Obama has come from the energy sector, and Hillary Clinton wants
to suppress that. We -- I think we ought to be expanding this. High growth is
the path to lower carbon, and more jobs.

I know for a fact, as Governor of the State of Florida, we created the largest
land purchasing programs, and environment clean-up programs because we had a
growing economy. Our revenues were growing at 4.4%. It allowed for resources to
be able to protect the natural system.

We got to get to a conservation...

(BELL RINGING)

BUSH: ...in environmental policy that goes beyond just carbon...

CRUZ: ...Our -- our...

CAVUTO: ...Alright, gentlemen, I know you want to -- and I want to, be we also
promised to get people home tonight, and we are going to take a quick break
here. I think it is fair to say at this juncture that you can discuss these
issues, and only business issues, but still keep it interesting. Stick around
for these candidates closing statements. (MUSIC)

(APPLAUSE)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BAKER: Welcome back to the Republican presidential debate. And now, candidates,
it's time for your closing statements. You get 30 seconds each, and, Senator
Paul, we will begin with you.

PAUL: We're the richest, freest, most humanitarian nation in the history of
mankind. But we also borrow a million dollars a minute. And the question I have
for all Americans is, think about it, can you be a fiscal conservative if you
don't conserve all of the money? If you're a profligate spender, you spend money
in an unlimited fashion for the military, is that a conservative notion? We have
to be conservative with all spending, domestic spending and welfare spending.
I'm the only fiscal conservative on the stage.

(APPLAUSE)

BAKER: Thank you, Senator. Governor Kasich?

KASICH: Well, ladies and gentlemen, if Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders were to
win this election, my 16-year-olds, I -- I worry about what their life is going
to be like.

You know, the conservative movement is all about opportunity. It is about lower
taxes. It's about balanced budgets. It's about less regulation. And it's about
sending power, money and influence back to where we live so we can run America
from the bottom up.

In addition to that, once we have the power and the money and the influence with
programs we shift out, that each of us have a responsibility to reach out and to
rebuild our families, make them stronger, and connect our neighborhoods. All
that together -- wealth, connection, family -- America's greatest days are
ahead. We must win this election.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: Carly Fiorina?

FIORINA: Imagine a Clinton presidency. Our military will continue to
deteriorate. Our veterans will not be cared for. And, no, Mrs. Clinton, that
situation is not exaggerated. The rich will get richer. The poor will get
poorer. The middle class will continue to get crushed.

And as bad as that picture is, what's even worse is that a Clinton presidency
will corrode the character of this nation. Why? Because of the Clinton way: Say
whatever you have to, lie as long as you can get away with it.

We must beat Hillary Clinton. Carly Fiorina can beat Hillary Clinton. I will
beat Hillary Clinton. And under a President Fiorina, we will restore the
character of this nation, the security of this nation, the prosperity of this
nation, because as citizens, we will take our government back.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: Former Governor Jeb Bush?

BUSH: Jane Horton is sitting with my wife here today. Her husband, Chris, was
killed in action in Afghanistan. And Jane spends her time now defending and
fighting for military families. They're both heroes.

I don't think we need an agitator-in-chief or a divider-in-chief. We need a
commander-in-chief that will rebuild our military and restore respect to our
veterans by revamping and fixing a broken Veterans Administration, That's my
pledge to you. I ask for your support. Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: Senator Ted Cruz?

CRUZ: Fifty-eight years ago, my father fled Cuba. As he stood on the deck of
that ferryboat with the wind and salt air blowing, he looked back at the
oppression and torture he was escaping. And yet he looked forward to the promise
of America. His story is our story. What ties Americans together is we are all
the children of those who risked everything for freedom.

America is in crisis now. I believe in America. And if we get back to the free
market principles and constitutional liberties that built this country, we can
turn this country around. I believe that 2016 will be an election like 1980,
that we will win by following Reagan's admonition to paint in bold colors, not
pale pastels. We're building a grassroots army. I ask you to join us at
tedcruz.org. And we, the people, can turn this nation around.

(APPLAUSE)

CAVUTO: Senator Marco Rubio?

RUBIO: Ours -- the story of America is an extraordinary story. It is the story
of a nation that for over two centuries each generation has left the next better
off than themselves. But now, because Washington is out of touch, for the fault
of both political parties, for the first time in our history, that is in doubt.

And that is what this election must be about, because if the next four years are
anything like the last eight years, our children will be the first Americans
ever left worse off by their parents. This election is about making a different
choice, about applying our principles of limited government and free enterprise
to the unique issues of our time. And if we do, we will not just save the
American dream. We will expand it to reach more people and change more lives
than ever before. And the 21st century can be a new American century.

So tonight, I ask you for your vote and I ask you to join us at my website,
marcorubio.com.

(LAUGHTER)

(APPLAUSE)

BARTIROMO: He's funny.

CAVUTO: Dr. Ben Carson?

CARSON: In the two hours of this -- of this debate, five people have died from
drug-related deaths, $100 million has been added to our national debt, 200
babies have been killed by abortionists, and two veterans have taken their lives
out of despair. This is a narrative that we can change, not we the Democrats,
not we the Republicans, but we the people of America, because there is something
special about this nation, and we must embrace it and be proud of it and never
give it away for the sake of political correctness.

(APPLAUSE)

CAVUTO: Donald Trump?

TRUMP: Thank you. Over the years, I've created tens of thousands of jobs and a
great company. It's a company I'm very proud of. Some of the most iconic assets
anywhere in the world. And I will tell you, I don't have to give you a website
because I'm self-funding my campaign. I'm putting up my own money.

I want to do something really special. I want to make our country greater than
it's ever been. I think we have that potential. We cannot lose this election. We
cannot let Hillary Clinton, who is the worst secretary of state in the history
of our country, win this election.

We will fight. We will win. And we truly will make this even more special. We
have to make it better than ever before. And I will tell you, the United States
can actually be better than ever before. Thank you.

CAVUTO: Candidates, we want to thank you all. We also appreciate your helping
save time by talking over one another at times. That was welcomed. But by all
means, it was a very riveting debate. Business issues can be -- can be riveting,
because it wasn't about us, it's about them.

BARTIROMO: Thank you.

CAVUTO: That'll do it. Thank you for joining us.

END




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/11/us/politics/transcript-republican-presidential
-debate.html

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (News)

                          November 11, 2015 Wednesday

Morning Agenda: Anheuser-Busch InBev Finalizes SABMiller Deal

BYLINE: AMIE TSANG

LENGTH: 1834 words



HIGHLIGHT: Dizzying Ride May Be Ending for Start-Ups | No Clear Answer on
Director Pay | More Charges in Online Attack at JPMorgan


 ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV FINALIZES SABMILLER DEAL   |  Anheuser-Busch InBev said it
had finalized an agreement to buy its closest rival, SABMiller, for about $105
billion, Chad Bray reports in DealBook.

In the hopes of receiving regulatory approval,
SABMiller also said on Wednesday that it would sell its 58 percent stake in
MillerCoors to Molson Coors Brewing Company for about $12 billion. The closing
of the transaction with Anheuser-Busch InBev is a condition of the deal and
includes rights to the Miller brand globally.

"We believe this combination will generate significant growth opportunities and
create enhanced value to the benefit of all stakeholders," Carlos Brito, the
chief executive of Anheuser-Busch InBev, said in a news release.

SABMiller's board is recommending that shareholders accept the deal and the
directors have agreed to vote in favor of the transaction.

Anheuser-Busch InBev is offering to pay 44 pounds, or about $66.49, a share for
SABMiller. That would represent more than a 50 percent premium to SABMiller's
closing price in mid-September, before Anheuser-Busch InBev's approach was
announced.

DIZZYING RIDE MAY BE ENDING FOR START-UPS  |  Unease over the dizzying
valuations of private companies is bringing some prices back down,
Michael J. de la Merced and Katie Benner report in DealBook.

Snapchat was discounted 25 percent by one of its more recent investors, the
mutual fund giant Fidelity, as The Financial Times reported.
The Information also reported that Dropbox was devalued by Blackrock, the giant
asset manager.

These markdowns may put the brakes on a market where investors have been pouring
in billions in the hope of getting the next Facebook or Google.

Fidelity valued its stake in Snapchat at $22.91 a share as of Sept. 30, down
from $30.72 in the previous quarter, though the reasons for the markdown are
unclear.

One late-stage investor in Dropbox said that the drop in that company's value by
mutual funds was a result of the company being compared with Box, a storage
company that went public in January and has a market value of about $1.6
billion. Dropbox was valued in its last fund-raising at about $10 billion.

Mutual funds had fought to buy pieces of companies like Snapchat and Dropbox
because their value was growing faster than that of many publicly traded
companies. Private shares also allowed mutual funds to get to know the start-ups
and put them in a good position to buy shares when they went public.

Their jockeying with venture capitalists, hedge funds and sovereign wealth funds
helped push up prices.

Unlike venture capital firms, mutual funds have to value each of their portfolio
holdings every day and report the values at least every half year, even
hard-to-value assets like shares in private companies.

There are often discrepancies between mutual funds that own pieces of the same
private companies because they can negotiate for special treatment.

Sometimes valuations can also be tricky because there aren't always fair
publicly traded comparisons either. In this case, mutual funds may look at
whether the companies have lived up to their earlier projections.

NO CLEAR ANSWER ON DIRECTOR PAY  |  Litigation against Facebook, claiming that
the directors voted to pay themselves too much, has made compensation the latest
issue du jour,

The charge of overreach is important because the Facebook board is considered
Silicon Valley royalty and how they pay themselves sets the tone for other
directors.

Pay for directors can pale in comparison to that for chief executives, but many
argue that directors are underpaid for the level of work they do.

Boards these days have more meetings and require more work. There is also a
higher likelihood of being sued if things go wrong.

This has made it harder to find the right people for boards. Hedge funds are
even paying directors a cut of their profits to attract the best candidates.

An argument could be made that board pay should be higher and that the Facebook
director compensation is a pittance, Mr. Solomon writes. On the other hand, why
should a public company pay more than it has to - particularly when the
compensation is voted on by the directors themselves?

Director compensation often makes no sense and has no bearing on the experience
brought to the table. Sometimes directors may be too beholden to the nice
paycheck and unwilling to challenge management.

Indeed, pay for performance may not be a good idea. It could give directors an
incentive to encourage outsize risk-taking when they are unlikely to be held
liable - unlike chief executives who have their career and reputation staked to
the company.

This case is unlikely to strike a blow against director compensation, Mr.
Solomon writes, but the case shows that when it comes to director pay, there is
just no clear answer.

ON THE AGENDA  |  Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, will
give the keynote speech at 8:15 a.m. at the Bank of England open forum on
"Building Real Markets for the Good of the People." Macy's will hold a
conference call on its latest quarterly earnings at 9 a.m.

MORE CHARGES IN ONLINE ATTACK AT JPMORGAN  |  Prosecutors in Manhattan said on
Tuesday that they uncovered a global, multiyear scheme to steal information on
100 million customers of a dozen companies in the United States and use the data
to advance stock manipulation activities, illicit online gambling and fraud,

The discovery came from an investigation into a computer hacking at JPMorgan
Chase last year that involved the breach of information from 83 million customer
accounts.

Investigators uncovered a trail of 75 shell companies and a hacking scheme in
which the three defendants used 30 false passports from 17 different countries.
Activity went back as far as 2007 and reaped hundreds of millions of dollars,
some hidden in Swiss accounts.

The accused - two Israelis and one American - face 23 counts of fraud and other
illegal activities. They are the first charges directly linked to the JPMorgan
hacking.

Prosecutors said the group had infiltrated seven financial institutions and two
newspapers for contact information with which they could advance their
pump-and-dump stock manipulation scheme. They "took the classic stock fraud
scheme and brought it into the cyber age,"  said Preet Bharara, the United
States attorney for the Southern District of New York.

Prosecutors also said the group was involved in processing payments for illegal
pharmaceutical suppliers, running illegal online casinos and owning an
unlicensed Bitcoin exchange.

Separately, federal prosecutors in Atlanta on Tuesday announced charges against
two of the group and another unnamed defendant in the late 2013 attacks on
E-Trade Financial Corporation and Scottrade Financial Services, both major
online brokers. The 10 charges include aggravated identity theft, computer fraud
and wire fraud.

|  Contact amie.tsang@nytimes.com

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Tullett Prebon Agrees to Buy ICAP's Global Brokering Business  |  The
transaction between the British firms would expand Tullett Prebon's role as an
intermediary for trading stocks, currencies and commodities.
NYT »

Liberty Global and Discovery Communications Take Stakes in Lions Gate  |  With
the investments, the media and telecommunications billionaire John Malone
strengthens his ties to the home of "Mad Men" and the "Hunger Games" franchise.
NYT »

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Breakingviews: Caution Needed on Push Into Repo Lending  |  As big investment
banks pull back, some lenders are bulking up in repo, a form of short-term
collateralized lending that may carry hidden risks, Dominic Elliott writes.
Breakingviews »

HEDGE FUNDS »

Activists to Intensify Pressure on Boards  |  Activist investors will intensify
their pressure on the boards of companies by pushing for strategic disposals and
higher capital returns to shareholders ahead of a rate rise, according to a
report from Moody's.
THE FINANCIAL TIMES

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Postal Savings Bank of China Seeks $10 Billion I.P.O.  |  Postal Savings Bank of
China is seeking a $10 billion initial public offering in Hong Kong toward the
end of next year, and has attracted a prominent group of private investors to
jump-start the process, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing people with
direct knowledge of the matter.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Joint Venture in Brazil Adds a Top Entrepreneur  |  Romero Rodrigues, who helped
found the price-comparison site Buscapé, will join Redpoint Eventures.
NYT »

Cloud-Based Education Platform Lands $32 Million in Financing  |  Schoology, the
learning management system that focuses on cloud collaboration, announced the
close of a $32 million Series D financing led by JMI Equity, with participation
from existing investors including FirstMark Capital, Intel Capital and Great
Road Holdings.
Tech Crunch

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

Brazil Mogul Banned From Serving as a Corporate Officer  |  Eike Batista, a
fallen businessman, also faces a criminal case, which has been suspended.
NYT »

Ex-Treasury Official Named President of Minneapolis Fed  |  The former official,
Neel Kashkari, is the third new president of a regional reserve bank named this
year, and all three previously worked at Goldman Sachs.
NYT »

New York Regulator Seeks Proposals to Improve Online Security  |  The Department
of Financial Services in New York calls for financial companies to name chief
information security officers.
NYT »

Survey Finds Corporations Looking to Reduce Outside Legal Spending  |  Nearly
half of the 258 corporate law departments surveyed intend to cut their spending
with outside legal firms as they take a harder look at costs and risks.
NYT »

Valeant Chief Says Issues Stem From Fast Growth  |  The chief, J. Michael
Pearson, said in a conference call with investors that the company was strong,
despite recent issues.
NYT »

Biggest Valeant Holder Investigated Philidor Ties  |  As shares in Valeant
plunged in recent weeks, representatives from its largest shareholder went to
great lengths to check up on its multibillion-dollar investment, including
paying hundreds of dollars for information and offering thousands more to not
talk with anyone else.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

Express Scripts Cuts Ties to New York Specialty Pharmacy  |  A spokesman for
Express Scripts said it was taking action against "captive" pharmacies that
seemed to be aimed at pushing a single manufacturer's products.
NYT »

How a McKinsey Chairman Made Millions of Dollars Off His Maid  |  Anil Kumar
had provided  Raj Rajaratnam, the founder of the Galleon Group with secret,
non-public information on McKinsey's clients, for which he received millions of
dollars.   In order to avoid incurring taxes or raising any flags in the United
States, he used his housekeeper to hide the payments.
The Nation

Raymond Kelly, Former New York Police Commissioner, Joins K2  |  He will become
vice chairman of the investigations company.
NYT »

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Well)

                           November 14, 2015 Saturday

Feeling Woozy? It May Be Cyber Sickness

BYLINE: KATE MURPHY

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1098 words



HIGHLIGHT: A peculiar side effect of screen time is cybersickness, which causes
a person to feel woozy from viewing moving digital content.


If you are watching computer-generated mayhem in the latest action film or
scrolling rapidly on your smartphone, you may start to feel a little off. Maybe
it is a dull headache or dizziness or creeping nausea.

And no, it is not something you ate.

A peculiar side effect of the 21st century is something called digital motion
sickness or cybersickness. Increasingly common, according to medical and media
experts, it causes a person to feel woozy, as if on a boat in a churning sea,
from viewing moving digital content.

"It's a fundamental problem that's kind of been swept under the carpet in the
tech industry," said Cyriel Diels, a cognitive psychologist and human factors
researcher at Coventry University's Center for Mobility and Transport in
England. "It's a natural response to an unnatural environment."

Digital motion sickness, known among medical professionals as visually induced
motion sickness, stems from a basic mismatch between sensory inputs, said Steven
Rauch, medical director of the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Balance and Vestibular
Center and professor of otolaryngology at Harvard Medical School.

"Your sense of balance is different than other senses in that it has lots of
inputs," he said. "When those inputs don't agree, that's when you feel dizziness
and nausea."

In traditional motion sickness, the mismatch occurs because you feel movement in
your muscles and joints as well as in the intricate coils of your inner ear, but
you do not see it. That is why getting up on the deck of a ship and looking at
the horizon helps you feel better.

But with digital motion sickness, it is the opposite. You see movement - like
the turns and twists shown in a movie or video game car chase - that you do not
feel. The result is the same: You may have sensory conflict that can make you
feel queasy.

It can happen to anyone, even if you are someone who is not prone to motion
sickness in cars, boats or airplanes. Various studies indicate it can affect 50
percent to 80 percent of people, depending on the fidelity of the digital
content and how it is presented.

Studies show that women are more susceptible than men, as are those with a
history of migraines or concussion. Anecdotally, researchers say that people
with traits associated with the "Type A" personality - such as perfectionism or
ambition - also seem to be more vulnerable. Nobody knows exactly why this might
be, but one theory is that people with these traits may also have a tendency to
be more alert and reactive to sensory inputs, similar to people who get
migraines.

Often symptoms are subtle. As a result, many people with digital motion sickness
do not quite know what is causing their discomfort, typically chalking it up to
stress, stomach upset, eyestrain or vertigo.

None of this is news to the military, which has long known about the sickness
that even seasoned pilots can feel in flight simulators. And the problem has
only gotten worse as simulators have gotten better with virtual reality and 3D
imagery.

It is the same sort of mind-bending artistry that is now pervading television
and film and that even underlies the way the icons seem to float on your
smartphone's home screen. Quick cuts, rapid panning and first-person-view camera
angles intensify the effect.

"The idea is to get audiences to feel like participants in the action rather
than outside observers of the action," said Jonathan Weinstein, a former film
producer and now a professor at the Kanbar Institute for Film and Television at
New York University's Tisch School of the Arts. "It makes viewers more connected
to the story - or it makes them hurl because in a film there's really no horizon
to look at."

Indeed, there is a website called MovieHurl.com that rates movies on how likely
they are to make you feel sick. And mobile device and gamer forums are full of
postings looking for advice on how to engage with the latest operating systems
and interfaces without throwing up.

Apple had to add extra accessibility settings to its mobile operating system to
allow users to tone down the visual stimuli. And executives at Oculus V.R.,
makers of the much-anticipated virtual reality headset Oculus Rift (the company
was purchased by Facebook last year for $2 billion), have said digital motion
sickness is one of their biggest hurdles.

"The more realistic something is, the more likely you are going to get sick,"
said Thomas Stoffregen, professor of kinesiology at the University of Minnesota,
who has done extant research on digital motion sickness. "No one got sick
playing Pac-Man."

Balance specialists said the problem can often be improved with habituation -
watching, say, a chaotically cut film or playing a virtual reality game in short
spurts just until the onset of mild symptoms, then recovering and repeating at
specified intervals.

"People usually respond well if we have them do it in a very controlled,
conservative way," said Lisa Heusel-Gillig, a physical therapist and
neurological clinical specialist at the Emory Dizziness and Balance Center in
Atlanta.

But some experts wonder whether it is a good idea to train your brain to ignore
conflicting sensory stimuli because it might inhibit your ability to react
appropriately in the real world.

"There are certainly concerns, particularly when it comes to long term
exposure," said Kay Stanney, a human factors researcher in Orlando, Fla., who
consults with the military and businesses on the design and use of virtual
reality and other immersive technologies.

Dr. Stanney said her team has tested more than a thousand subjects in virtual
reality sessions and has seen that the magnitude of aftereffects can be strong
and long lasting. When study subjects returned to the real world,they had
trouble with visual focusing, tracking images and hand-eye coordination.

Dr. Stanney said her team also measured a fundamental shift in people's postural
stability.

The worry is that a teenager, after several hours of playing a virtual reality
game, might get behind the wheel of a car and have balance and vision
impairments similar to being drunk. Lengthy viewing of high-definition
televisions or scrolling wildly on a phone might also somehow alter people's
sense of equilibrium, making them more likely to trip and fall.

"Long-term studies need to be done to understand the full impact," Dr. Stanney
said. "In the military you can be grounded for up to 12 hours after a simulator
session because they understand the aftereffects are real."

Related:


     ·    Apps to Improve Your Swing, Lift or Stride
     ·    Mastering the Art of Not Cooking With Dinner-on-Demand Services
     ·    See all Wired Well stories.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Well)

                            November 16, 2015 Monday

Special Section: Wired Well

BYLINE: TARA PARKER-POPE

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 325 words



HIGHLIGHT: We explore the lives of newly wired consumers and the consequences,
good and bad, that arise from our increasing reliance on trackers, monitors,
guides and a vast array of other devices to better our health.


Once personal health technology meant little more than bathroom scales,
thermometers and electric toothbrushes. Now, these devices and apps are
everywhere: on our wrists, in our phones, the bedroom, the kitchen, even on our
children and pets. In this special issue of Science Times, we explore the lives
of newly wired consumers and the consequences, good and bad, that arise from our
increasing reliance on trackers, monitors, guides and a vast array of other
devices to better our health.

Fitness
­Health consumers are counting steps, measuring heart rates and tracking sleep.
The Consumer Electronics Association estimates that device makers will sell more
than 40 million personal health and wellness devices this year; sales may reach
$8 billion by 2018.


     ·    Apps to Improve Your Swing, Lift or Stride
     ·    Assessing the Fitness of Wearable Tech
     ·    Five Ways Your Smartphone Can Help Your Health


Food
Home meals are now high-tech affairs: a number of apps and devices aim to make
cooking less complicated, helping users source healthful ingredients and stick
to nutritious diets.


     ·    Diary of a Food Tracker
     ·    The Food Police in My Phone
     ·    Mastering the Art of Dinner-on-Demand Services


Family
Technology isn't just for snooping on the whereabouts of family members
(although it's good for that, too). Various online tools now help kids finish
homework faster, teen girls navigate adolescence, and keep pets safe.


     ·    How Period Trackers Have Changed Girl Culture
     ·    Online Matchmaking, but With Dogs as Dates
     ·    Doing Online Homework to Help Children Do Theirs
     ·    What Happens to Childhood When You Start Counting Steps?


Mind
While many people unplug from technology to reduce stress, a few devices
actually promise to the calm the mind. Meditation apps, nerve stimulation
devices and yoga apps may help you relax, while more practical devices simply
help you find your keys.


     ·    How to Pick a Meditation App
     ·    Feeling Woozy? It May Be Cyber Sickness
     ·    Taking the (Often Imprecise) Measure of Stress


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 17, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Setting Illness in Digital Motion

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1127 words


If you are watching computer-generated mayhem in the latest action film or
scrolling rapidly on your smartphone, you may start to feel a little off. Maybe
it is a dull headache or dizziness or creeping nausea.

And no, it is not something you ate.

A peculiar side effect of the 21st century is something called digital motion
sickness or cybersickness. Increasingly common, according to medical and media
experts, it causes a person to feel woozy, as if on a boat in a churning sea,
from viewing moving digital content.

''It's a fundamental problem that's kind of been swept under the carpet in the
tech industry,'' said Cyriel Diels, a cognitive psychologist and human factors
researcher at Coventry University's Center for Mobility and Transport in
England. ''It's a natural response to an unnatural environment.''

Digital motion sickness, known among medical professionals as visually induced
motion sickness, stems from a basic mismatch between sensory inputs, said Steven
Rauch, medical director of the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Balance and Vestibular
Center and professor of otolaryngology at Harvard Medical School.

''Your sense of balance is different than other senses in that it has lots of
inputs,'' he said. ''When those inputs don't agree, that's when you feel
dizziness and nausea.''

In traditional motion sickness, the mismatch occurs because you feel movement in
your muscles and joints as well as in the intricate coils of your inner ear, but
you do not see it. That is why getting up on the deck of a ship and looking at
the horizon helps you feel better.

But with digital motion sickness, it is the opposite. You see movement -- like
the turns and twists shown in a movie or video game car chase -- that you do not
feel. The result is the same: You may have sensory conflict that can make you
feel queasy.

It can happen to anyone, even if you are someone who is not prone to motion
sickness in cars, boats or airplanes. Various studies indicate it can affect 50
percent to 80 percent of people, depending on the fidelity of the digital
content and how it is presented.

Studies show that women are more susceptible than men, as are those with a
history of migraines or concussion. Anecdotally, researchers say that people
with traits associated with the ''Type A'' personality -- such as perfectionism
or ambition -- also seem to be more vulnerable. Nobody knows exactly why this
might be, but one theory is that people with these traits may also have a
tendency to be more alert and reactive to sensory inputs, similar to people who
get migraines.

Often symptoms are subtle. As a result, many people with digital motion sickness
do not quite know what is causing their discomfort, typically chalking it up to
stress, stomach upset, eyestrain or vertigo.

None of this is news to the military, which has long known about the sickness
that even seasoned pilots can feel in flight simulators. And the problem has
only gotten worse as simulators have gotten better with virtual reality and 3D
imagery.

It is the same sort of mind-bending artistry that is now pervading television
and film and that even underlies the way the icons seem to float on your
smartphone's home screen. Quick cuts, rapid panning and first-person-view camera
angles intensify the effect.

''The idea is to get audiences to feel like participants in the action rather
than outside observers of the action,'' said Jonathan Weinstein, a former film
producer and now a professor at the Kanbar Institute for Film and Television at
New York University's Tisch School of the Arts. ''It makes viewers more
connected to the story -- or it makes them hurl because in a film there's really
no horizon to look at.''

Indeed, there is a website called MovieHurl.com that rates movies on how likely
they are to make you feel sick. And mobile device and gamer forums are full of
postings looking for advice on how to engage with the latest operating systems
and interfaces without throwing up.

Apple had to add extra accessibility settings to its mobile operating system to
allow users to tone down the visual stimuli. And executives at Oculus V.R.,
makers of the much-anticipated virtual reality headset Oculus Rift (the company
was purchased by Facebook last year for $2 billion), have said digital motion
sickness is one of their biggest hurdles.

''The more realistic something is, the more likely you are going to get sick,''
said Thomas Stoffregen, professor of kinesiology at the University of Minnesota,
who has done extant research on digital motion sickness. ''No one got sick
playing Pac-Man.''

Balance specialists said the problem can often be improved with habituation --
watching, say, a chaotically cut film or playing a virtual reality game in short
spurts just until the onset of mild symptoms, then recovering and repeating at
specified intervals.

''People usually respond well if we have them do it in a very controlled,
conservative way,'' said Lisa Heusel-Gillig, a physical therapist and
neurological clinical specialist at the Emory Dizziness and Balance Center in
Atlanta.

But some experts wonder whether it is a good idea to train your brain to ignore
conflicting sensory stimuli because it might inhibit your ability to react
appropriately in the real world.

''There are certainly concerns, particularly when it comes to long term
exposure,'' said Kay Stanney, a human factors researcher in Orlando, Fla., who
consults with the military and businesses on the design and use of virtual
reality and other immersive technologies.

Dr. Stanney said her team has tested more than a thousand subjects in virtual
reality sessions and has seen that the magnitude of aftereffects can be strong
and long lasting. When study subjects returned to the real world,they had
trouble with visual focusing, tracking images and hand-eye coordination.

Dr. Stanney said her team also measured a fundamental shift in people's postural
stability.

The worry is that a teenager, after several hours of playing a virtual reality
game, might get behind the wheel of a car and have balance and vision
impairments similar to being drunk. Lengthy viewing of high-definition
televisions or scrolling wildly on a phone might also somehow alter people's
sense of equilibrium, making them more likely to trip and fall.

''Long-term studies need to be done to understand the full impact,'' Dr. Stanney
said. ''In the military you can be grounded for up to 12 hours after a simulator
session because they understand the aftereffects are real.''

Related:

Apps to Improve Your Swing, Lift or Stride

Mastering the Art of Not Cooking With Dinner-on-Demand Services

See all Wired Well stories.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/11/14/feeling-woozy-it-may-be-cyber
-sickness/

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Digital motion sickness is a concern in high-tech gadgets such
as the Oculus Rift virtual reality headsets, top, and the Nintendo Star Fox Zero
game. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OLE SPATA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
 DAMIAN DOVARGANES/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 22, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

When the Presents Come Early: Seasonal Discounts

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; THE GETAWAY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1217 words


As every American knows, after the turkey comes the shopping. And not just for
clothes and toys. In the days following Thanksgiving (Black Friday and
especially Cyber Monday), scores of travel companies offer discounted hotel
rooms, vacation packages, rail passes, rental cars, cruises and flights.

One can argue that this is the best kind of holiday gift: Studies show that an
experience -- a night at a favorite hotel, a trip to London -- will, ultimately,
provide greater happiness than a new TV or a necklace.

Like other holiday sales, some of the most compelling travel deals will be
revealed at the last minute. This is typically true of airfare, so keep an eye
on the Twitter and Facebook feeds of your preferred airlines for announcements,
and look at your inbox if you've signed up for their emails. ''Last year Cyber
Monday triggered a fourfold increase in worldwide flight bookings,'' according
to research by Sojern, a data-marketing company that expects November bookings
to skyrocket again this year.

Also check out booking sites such as Expedia, and visit the websites and social
media feeds of your favorite travel brands on Thanksgiving weekend to ensure you
don't miss their sales.

In the meantime, many hotels have already announced deals, some of which promise
to be the biggest Cyber Monday bargains the brands have ever offered. (Note: The
promotions are often for particular rooms, subject to availability, and may have
blackout dates.) Rail Europe, a major purveyor of European train tickets in
North America, has also revealed its deals. Below, a peek at some of what's to
come.

Big Deals From Big Chains

Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide -- which includes brands such as Westin,
Sheraton, Le Méridien, W, St. Regis, the Luxury Collection, Four Points, Aloft,
Element and Tribute Portfolio -- is planning its broadest Cyber Monday sale to
date. Beginning Nov. 23, more than 1,000 hotels and resorts will offer discounts
of up to 25 percent; some locations will have rooms up to 50 percent off.
Members of the Starwood Preferred Guest program will receive an additional
savings of at least 5 percent during the sale, which runs through Dec. 6 for
stays through Sept. 6, 2016. Information: Starwoodhotels.com.

Morgans Hotel Group said that on Nov. 30 it will offer rooms up to 41 percent
off (its lowest rates of the year) for stays on specific dates. In New York,
hotels include the Royalton, Morgans Hotel and Hudson New York (valid for stays
Dec. 20 through 25 and January and February 2016); London hotels include the
Sanderson, Mondrian London and St. Martins Lane (for stays Dec. 20 through 29
and Jan. 2 through 10, 2016); California hotels include the Mondrian Los Angeles
(for stays Dec. 1 through 30) and Clift in San Francisco (for stays Nov. 29 and
30 and Dec. 1 through 11, 18 through 25, and 27 through 30); in Miami hotels
include the Delano, Mondrian South Beach and Shore Club (for stays May 1 through
Sept. 30, 2016); and in Istanbul, 10 Karakoy (for stays on Sundays through March
2016). Information (the site is scheduled to go live on Nov. 30):
Morganscyber.com.

At the Red Roof Inn economy chain, which has more than 425 hotels from
California to New York, rooms booked on Nov. 30 will be up to 30 percent off.
Valid for stays through March 31, 2016. Information: Redroof.com.

Kimpton hotels in Florida -- including EPIC Miami; Surfcomber in South Beach;
the Angler's in South Beach; Tideline Ocean Resort and Spa in Palm Beach, and
Vero Beach Hotel and Spa in Vero Beach -- are discounting rooms up to 15 percent
Nov. 30 through Dec. 1, for stays through Feb. 29, 2016. Information:
Kimptonhotels.com.

Luxury Hotels, Half Off

A number of upscale hotels and resorts plan to slash the price of rooms in half
if you book on certain days and, in some cases, within a particular hour.

In Turks and Caicos, the Seven Stars Resort, a luxury hotel on Providenciales,
is offering 50 percent off all room categories booked from Nov. 27 to Nov. 30
for stays between April 16 and Aug. 12, 2016. Information:
Sevenstarsgracebay.com.

At the Charles Hotel in Cambridge, Mass., rooms booked on Nov. 30 from 11 a.m.
to noon will be 50 percent off; rooms will be 20 percent off the rest of the
day. The offer is good for stays Dec. 11 through March 31, 2016. Information:
Charleshotel.com.

On the beach in Long Island, N.Y., at Gurney's Montauk Resort & Seawater Spa,
private oceanfront cottages will be 50 percent off on Nov. 30 between 1 and 2
p.m.; all other rooms will be 30 percent off that day. The offer is good for
stays from Dec. 2 through April 30, 2016. Information: GurneysMontauk.com.

The Rancho Bernardo Inn in San Diego is offering 50 percent off rooms booked on
Nov. 27 and 30 for stays through Jan. 7, 2016. Information:
RanchoBernardoInn.com.

Winter Getaways

For those in the market for a beach getaway, Half Moon, a RockResort in Jamaica
in Montego Bay, is offering up to 30 percent off rooms for those who book
between Nov. 27 and Dec. 1. Information: Halfmoon.rockresorts.com.

Also in the Caribbean, the beachfront Hyatt Regency Aruba Resort, Spa and Casino
will give those who book on Nov. 30 a deal on stays of five nights or more from
April 1 to Dec. 19, 2016. It includes 20 percent off a deluxe room, a welcome
drink, a $100 resort credit to be used at the hotel's restaurants and spa,
cocktails for two at Piet's Pier Bar, and Wi-Fi. Information: Aruba.hyatt.com.

In San Juan, Puerto Rico, several hotels are offering deals, including Courtyard
by Marriott Isla Verde Beach Resort, Doubletree by Hilton San Juan, Condado
Vanderbilt and La Concha, a Renaissance Resort. Information: Sjcourtyard.com
(use code 444), Sanjuandoubletree.com (use code P02), Condadovanderbilt.com, and
Marriott.com (use code 7YM).

Prefer powder to sand? Skiers can nab up to 50 percent off deals in Vail, Colo.,
at the Lodge at Vail, a RockResort, and at Austria Haus, a 25-room boutique
hotel. The discount will be offered Nov. 25 through Dec. 1 for stays during this
ski season. Information: Snow.com.

In Jackson Hole, Wyo., Spring Creek Ranch plans to discount rooms by 50 percent
for those who book on Nov. 30 for stays in January (a four-night minimum is
required). Information: 800-443-6139.

For spagoers and hikers there is  L'Auberge de Sedona, a luxury resort in
Sedona, Ariz.. Those who book on Nov. 30 will receive 20 percent off room rates
as well as resort credits from $50 to $325, depending on the length of their
visit, for stays from Nov. 30 through Feb. 11, 2016. Information: Lauberge.com.

Those who want to snap up a city-escape at an affordable price may want to
consider the Hotel Abri in San Francisco near Union Square. Deluxe rooms will go
for $99 a night to those who book between Nov. 27 and 30 for stays through Jan.
31, 2016. Information: Hotelabrisf.com.

Europe by Train

You can buy train tickets at stations in major European cities, but if you'd
like to give someone a gift ahead of time, Rail Europe has several deals
available from Nov. 27 through Dec. 4, including 30 percent off Eurostar
Standard Premier train tickets; $100 off bookings on certain Eurail Passes (use
code EURAILCYBER100); and an additional $30 if you buy a $300 Rail Europe gift
card (for a total value of $330). Information: Raileurope.com.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/22/travel/black-friday-cyber
-monday-cheap-flights.html

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM BLOOM)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 24, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Holiday Weekend Bargain-Hunting, for Fares and Rooms

BYLINE: By JULIE WEED

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 924 words


Last year on the Friday after Thanksgiving, Diana Stilson snagged a stay at a
Hawaiian hotel, paying 10 percent of the list price through a deal on Expedia.
This Thanksgiving weekend, she hopes to find a similar vacation bargain online.

After years of intense competition among retailers over Thanksgiving weekend,
hotel, airline and other travel websites have entered the fray, holding sales of
their own in the hope of steering holiday spending to travel and experiences.

The cut-rate travel deals are already now ''standard in the industry,'' said
Cole Hernandez, a spokesman for Denihan, a hotel operator. Her company has
Thanksgiving weekend deals planned for its upscale hotels in Manhattan.

''We saw a real jump in Black Friday-Cyber Monday hotel deals last year and
expect even more this year,'' said Chris Anderson, professor of hotel
administration at Cornell University. The hotels use the promotions for a
variety of reasons, he said, including to attract new customers, to sell rooms
that might otherwise be empty and to associate their brand with the excitement
of the season.

Hotels are not the only ones offering the bargains: Airlines, aggregators, tour
companies and others with travel-focused websites are joining in.

Customers are responding to the offers, companies say. A 2014 deal that cut the
price of stays at the Hilton Waikoloa Village in Hawaii by 50 percent generated
more than 11,000 booked nights in 24 hours, a significant increase compared with
the daily average, according to Hilton. Grand Lucayan, a resort on Grand Bahama
Island, topped $103,000 in revenue on the day of its 2014
Monday-after-Thanksgiving sale, five times the revenue generated on that day the
previous year.

Like many of the best-priced deals on Thanksgiving weekend, supplies are often
limited. There are only so many rooms or flights that travel companies are
willing to part with at the lowest prices, Mr. Anderson said. Additionally,
those sales aim to be incremental and not replacing higher-revenue business.

''The last thing a hotel wants is customers who would have purchased at higher
prices getting access to these low prices,'' he said, so programs are devised
with parameters like specific stay dates or limited room availability.

Val Kalliecharan, a vacation planner on Turks and Caicos, said that sales there
helped hotels fill rooms that might be vacant in their least popular times like
January. ''Any holes that can be filled go directly to the bottom line,'' he
said. The sales also allow hotels to sell the rooms straight to guests rather
than through third-party booking sites like Expedia, Ms. Hernandez said.

Expedia itself is offering deep discounts. The company tried its first
large-scale Monday-after-Thanksgiving promotion last year, said Sarah Waffle
Gavin, a spokeswoman for Expedia, and ended up with the third-busiest day of the
year in terms of transactions. This year's post-Thanksgiving sales will be even
more extensive, she said, including a mobile-only offer on Friday and promotions
on Monday for 90 percent off room rates at four top-tier hotels in four cities.
Every hour, the hotels and cities will change, encouraging customers to check
the site often.

Thanksgiving weekend travel purchases may be displacing physical purchases as
experiences gain in popularity as gift items. Salina Gray hopes to find a
Christmas vacation for her family instead of store-bought gifts like electronics
and clothing.

''It's the only time of year the whole family can go away together,'' Ms. Gray
said, ''but it's also the most expensive time to travel.'' If she can find a
trip, she said, ''we can just shop the after-Christmas sales for a few things
when we get back.''

Travel companies are encouraging this shift. ''We see travel gift-giving pick up
during the holiday time frame,'' Ms. Gavin said. Expedia's Hotels.com started
gift cards last year to serve this market.

Smaller travel companies are also joining the sale. Peggy Goldman, owner of
Friendly Planet Travel in Jenkintown, Pa., is offering a 24-hour deal promoting
up to $500 off her company's tours to destinations like Cuba and India. ''It's
one of the most searchable sales of the year,'' she said, and plans to
participate using digital marketing techniques to compete with the larger travel
companies.

Student Universe, a Boston travel agency that aims at students, says it holds
after-Thanksgiving sales because college students are typically home with their
parents over the weekend and can make large purchase decisions together for
their travel.

Airlines are also promoting discounts. The Alaska Airlines website is
advertising a Monday sale, but no specific travel dates or destinations have
been released yet. The site encourages customers to keep checking back for
details. On Nov. 29-30, Fiji Airways is offering up to 40 percent off round-trip
flights to Fiji, Australia and New Zealand.

Travel companies are mixing and matching their delivery vehicles to reach a
variety of customers. Hotwire will have an email exclusive offer on Friday, and
a mobile exclusive offer on Monday, both adding savings on top of the broader
sale it is holding in November.

For consumers, part of the lure is the thrill of the hunt. ''The deals get
snapped up quickly, so you have to be ready to hit the buy button,'' said Ms.
Stilson, who found the hotel deal in Hawaii. ''But you also have to read the
fine print about restrictions.''

According to Ms. Gavin, it took only nine minutes for Expedia's Cyber Monday
deals to sell out last year.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/24/business/online-travel-deals-black-friday-
cyber-monday.html

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Diana Stilson snagged a stay at a Hawaiian hotel, paying 10
percent of the list price through a deal on Expedia.
 A vacation planner on Turks and Caicos said that sales there helped hotels fill
rooms that might be vacant during slow times. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS RIVERA FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 25, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iran Hones Cyberattacks on U.S. After Nuclear Deal

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and NICOLE PERLROTH; David E. Sanger reported from
Washington, and Nicole Perlroth from San Francisco.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1311 words


WASHINGTON --  Four months after a historic accord with Tehran to limit its
atomic ambitions, American officials and private security groups say they see a
surge in sophisticated computer espionage by Iran, culminating in a series of
cyberattacks against State Department officials over the past month.

The surge has led American officials to a stark conclusion: For Iran,
cyberespionage -- with the power it gives the Iranians to jab at the United
States and its neighbors without provoking a military response -- is becoming a
tool to seek the kind of influence that some hard-liners in Iran may have hoped
its nuclear program would eventually provide.

While American officials doubt cyber skills, or even the most advanced cyber
weapons, will ever have that kind of power, Iran's cyber focus these days is
notable.

Over the past month, Iranian hackers identified individual State Department
officials who focus on Iran and the Middle East, and broke into their email and
social media accounts, according to diplomatic and law enforcement officials
familiar with the investigation. The State Department became aware of the
compromises only after Facebook told the victims that state-sponsored hackers
had compromised their accounts.

''It was very carefully designed and showed the degree to which they understood
which of our staff was working on Iran issues now that the nuclear deal is
done,'' said one senior American official who oversees much of that operation
and who requested anonymity to discuss a continuing investigation. ''It was
subtle.''

Iran's cyberskills are not yet equal to those of Russia or China. But the attack
against the State Department by using the social media accounts of young
government employees to gain access to their friends across the administration
-- a focus that had not been seen before -- showed an ingenuity beyond the
Russian brute-force attack that infiltrated the State Department's unclassified
email system a year ago.

In the aftermath of the nuclear accord, American intelligence officials have
warned senior officials that they expect Iran to ramp up its use of
cyberespionage.

The director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., has told Congress
in closed sessions that he believes state-sponsored Iranian hackers are not
attempting big attacks that could threaten their ability to reap the financial
rewards of complying with the nuclear accord, according to two officials
familiar with those briefings. But he said they were stepping up traditional
cyberespionage, and getting better at it.

''The Iranians have not been as destructive as they could be, but they are
getting far more aggressive in cyberespionage, which they know is less likely to
prompt a response from the United States,'' said James Lewis, who runs the
cyberprogram at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington. ''They seem very attuned to every stage of implementing the nuclear
agreement.''

Congress is responding. In the defense bill lawmakers passed this month, United
States Cyber Command, which runs the military's offensive and defensive Internet
activities, is instructed to conduct computer war games next year. The games are
intended to replicate the threats from China, Iran, North Korea and Russia.

Iranian cyberattacks are hardly new. They arose after the American cyberattacks
on Iran's nuclear facility at Natanz, an  operation that destroyed upward of a
thousand Iranian centrifuges and drove home to the Iranian leadership the
destructive power of computer weapons. The American attacks began toward the end
of the George W. Bush administration.

Since then, American government officials and private security researchers say
Iranian hackers have been behind a series of powerful attacks against American
banks that took their websites offline, as well as a destructive attack at Saudi
Aramco, the world's largest oil producer, that replaced data on employee
machines with an image of a burning American flag.

American government officials also blame Iran for a similarly destructive attack
at RasGas, the Qatari natural gas giant, and for an attack at the Sands Casino
in Las Vegas, where a large number of computers were destroyed.

(The casino, while a seemingly odd target, is controlled by Sheldon Adelson, a
major funder of Republican candidates, and the attack followed his suggestion
that the United States detonate a nuclear weapon in the Iranian desert to force
the country to give up its nuclear technology.)

But last year, private security researchers say, Iranians began using
cyberattacks for espionage, rather than for destruction and disruption.

Beginning in May 2014, researchers found evidence that Iranian hackers were
targeting Iranian dissidents, and later policy makers, senior military personnel
and defense contractors in the United States, England and Israel, according to a
report by iSight Partners, a computer intelligence firm in Dallas.

For the most part, researchers said, the attacks were basic ''spear phishing''
attempts, in which attackers tried to lure their victims into clicking on a
malicious link, in this case by impersonating members of the news media. Iranian
hackers were successful in more than a quarter of their attempts.

The number of such attacks reached a climax in May -- just ahead of the nuclear
talks in Vienna in July -- reaching more than 1,500 attempts, according to
researchers at Check Point, the Israeli cybersecurity company.

Some researchers witnessed an even more troubling trend: In the months leading
up to the talks, Iran's hackers began probing critical infrastructure networks
in what appeared to be reconnaissance for cyberattacks meant to cause physical
damage, said John Hultquist, the director of cyberespionage analysis at iSight
Partners.

And then something curious happened: In June and July, as American and Iranian
negotiators gathered in Vienna to cut a deal on Iran's nuclear program, attacks
against targets in the United States stopped. Not a single phishing attempt was
logged by Check Point. And the critical infrastructure probes went silent as
well, according to iSight Partners, and have not resumed.

Instead, iSight's researchers saw Iran's hackers switch focus. They began
targeting victims in Israel as well as members of the Islamic State in July as
the militant group began expanding its territory across Iraq.

And then, in August, just two weeks after the nuclear accord was reached, the
trickle of cyberattacks against the group's usual targets resumed. Check Point's
researchers were able to hack the attackers' target list, which included 1,600
individuals, from scholars, scientists, chief executives and ministry officials
to education institutes, journalists and human rights activists across the
globe.

The victims may have never learned of the compromises were it not for a decision
by Facebook last month to use a new alert system to notify users when Facebook's
security team believed state-sponsored hackers had hijacked their accounts. Just
weeks into the new alert system, State Department officials began to see a
troubling new message pop up on their Facebook accounts:

''We believe your Facebook account and your other online accounts may be the
target of attacks by state-sponsored actors,'' the message read.

Some details of the espionage on State Department employees were first  reported
by The Wall Street Journal.

State Department officials say none of this will affect the coming turning
points in the nuclear deal. The International Atomic Energy Agency reported last
week that Iran is already beginning to dismantle some of its centrifuges -- at
the same site the United States and Israel attacked with cyberweapons.

Follow The New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/25/world/middleeast/iran-hackers-cyberespionage-s
tate-department-social-media.html

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State John Kerry, second from left, with staff
members in Vienna in July during nuclear talks with Iran. (POOL PHOTO BY CARLOS
BARRIA)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Dot Earth)

                          November 25, 2015 Wednesday

Perfect Black Friday Fare: An Oversized Book About Overconsumption

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 364 words



HIGHLIGHT: Giant books about Earth&#8217;s endangered places and overconsumption
seem to send a mixed message.


As the world (no longer just the United States) prepares for the shopping blitz
called Black Friday, which has increasingly migrated into Thanksgiving Thursday
in the United States, I find myself asking a question about some illustrated
books on environmental themes that have come to me at The Times in recent
months.

Who thought up the idea of massive books about the world's wild extremes and,
more surreally, about overconsumption itself?

They are admittedly beautiful. "Extreme Earth" is like walking into a
photography gallery in SoHo - full of spacious, sprawling imagery from four
climate zones shot by the veteran photographer Michael Martin.

"Over," formally titled "Overdevelopment, Overpopulation, Overshoot," explores
themes at the heart of this blog - the harms from persistent high fertility
rates, consumption for consumption's sake, disregard for the environmental and
social impacts of resource extraction.

But even as I embrace some of the themes and marvel at the imagery, I can't help
recoiling simply because the book's dimensions and mass clash so primally with
its call to stop overloading the planet with too many people consuming too much
stuff - stuff like books that weigh almost as much as a Thanksgiving turkey.

In defense of "Over," it's not meant as a disposable mass market item. It took a
lot of carbon to make these books but at least it will be sequestered for a very
long time on coffee tables and shelves around the world.

The tome is also connected to the Global Population Speak Out campaign, which is
offering a limited number of copies free to "people and organizations who can be
ambassadors of information and inspiration, promising personalized delivery to
policymakers, opinion leaders, activists, allied organizations, and new
learners."

As for Black Friday, thankfully, as The Times reported today, consumers seem
less enthused about binging these days despite billions of promotional dollars
being spent to whip up spending, even when accounting for the shift to online
buying.

Could we be seeing the prospect of "peak shopping"? It certainly seems that way.
As the Reverend Billy Talen of the Church of Stop Shopping would say,
"Hallelujah!"

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 26, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Graying Out of Black Friday

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI and NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1338 words


In 1939, the nation's largest retailers sent Franklin D. Roosevelt an urgent
plea. Thanksgiving fell on the last day of November that year, giving merchants
too few days before Christmas to unleash the season's sales.

The holiday might be a time-honored tradition, but wouldn't Mr. Roosevelt
consider moving the day up by a week?

The president's acquiescence to retailers helped cement the pre-eminence of the
post-Thanksgiving sales rush, now known as Black Friday. The day became an
annual ritual, a family affair -- a shopping orgy that delivered big profits for
retailers, as well as a lift to the entire economy.

Seven decades later, Black Friday has lost its distinctive edge. Tens of
millions of Americans will still hit the malls this Friday. But the relentless
race for holiday dollars has blunted the day's oomph, as stores offer deep
discounts weeks before Thanksgiving and year-round deals in stores and online
are causing sales fatigue. Some fed-up shoppers cheered this year when the
outdoors retailer, REI, declared it was opting out of Black Friday sales
altogether.

On the eve of yet another Thanksgiving weekend, retail experts and economists
are asking the question: Is Black Friday over?

''It definitely matters so much less than it's mattered in the past,'' said John
J. Canally, chief economic strategist at LPL Research. ''The last couple of
years, 'Black Friday disappoints' has been the usual story.''

But contrary to doom-and-gloom predictions this holiday season, dwindling sales
for the long Thanksgiving weekend (which now begins Thursday afternoon) do not
necessarily signal a cautious consumer. Americans are generally spending just as
much of their hard-earned dollars as in the past.

Overall consumer spending since the beginning of 2014 has risen at a rate of 3
percent after lackluster gains in 2012 and 2013, and most stores achieve decent
profits, on an earnings per share basis, during their holiday quarter.

The decline of Black Friday instead points to a shift in the way consumers spend
their money.

''They're online,'' Mr. Canally said. ''And they're spending more on
experiences. A day at the spa, a baseball game, the ballet -- rather than a
sweater or a pair of socks that no one wants.''

As a result, retailers rang up $51 billion on the day after Thanksgiving last
year, down from a peak of almost $60 billion in 2012, according to the San
Diego-based private equity firm LPL Research, which crunched data from the
National Retail Federation and comScore.

The history of Black Friday tracks the history of modern American retailing, and
of personal consumption in the United States, which makes up a bigger part of
the economy than in almost any other industrialized country.

Consumer spending's share of total economic output grew substantially in the
1980s, 1990s and 2000s. And shopping became almost a 24/7 activity.

Holiday sales begin earlier and earlier. A Sears ad from 1983 advertises an 8
a.m. Friday opening. By the late 1980s, national retailers were offering dawn
''doorbuster'' deals.

That discounting escalated by leaps and bounds in the dismal years after the
housing boom collapsed and Lehman Brothers' failure ushered in a global
financial panic. Sales that had generally been confined to two times a year
multiplied.

Target now offers 10 days of deals leading up to Black Friday. Old Navy will
stay open for 32 consecutive hours, starting at 4 p.m. Thanksgiving Day.

But Paul Arnhold is not interested. On Black Friday, he plans to spend the
morning solo cycling -- followed by time with his wife, Shana Arnhold, and their
3-year-old son. Several Black Fridays ago, he trekked with his wife to a packed
furniture store for a deal on a digital photo frame -- only to find the store
had long sold out of the item.

This year, the Arnholds, who live in Lenexa, Kan., in the Kansas City
metropolitan area, are spreading out their Christmas shopping, grabbing Royals
commemorative gear in post-World Series sales, and scouring e-commerce sites
like Etsy for handmade gifts.

A lot of their spending has also gone into their new home, which they bought in
May. They have refinished the hardwood floors, and hired a carpenter to build
cabinets and shelves and touch up their fireplace.

''Waiting in lines forever and other crazy things just makes you think: Is it
worth it?'' said Mr. Arnhold, 35, who works in customer marketing at Lexmark,
the software and printer company. ''The last place I want to be this weekend is
in a store.''

Some of Mr. Arnhold's spending patterns are mirrored in recent retail data.
Spending on autos, home furnishings, sports and hobbies, and eating out grew
much faster than spending on clothing, accessories or electronics.

Shifts in spending and behavior have kept many stores discounting heavily to
pique shoppers' interest, hurting retailers' profit margins. And this year,
there were fresh worries among fashion retailers and department stores as
unseasonably warm weather hurt sales of winter coats and boots.

Awash with merchandise after missing sales targets, Nordstrom and Macy's said
this month that they would mark down items even more aggressively this holiday
season.

But even as some individual chains suffer, economists and investment strategists
insist the overall outlook for the holiday season remains robust.

Philip J. Orlando, chief equity strategist at Federated Investors, said he saw
enormous pent-up demand, for example, for home furnishings at retailers like
Home Depot or Lowe's.

These days, with the Great Recession finally starting to become a distant
memory, younger consumers, Mr. Orlando said, have ''finally gotten jobs, they're
getting their first homes and they want to fix it up rather than buying
sweaters.''

''We fully respect the fact that Macy's and Nordstrom put out atrocious
numbers,'' he said. ''But we're going to see a better Christmas than these
missed numbers suggest. This doesn't sound the death knell for the consumer.''

Chris G. Christopher Jr., an economist at IHS, a research firm which tracks the
economy, said he was looking for retail sales this holiday season to be up by
about 3.5 percent from last year's levels. While that isn't as strong as the 4.1
percent gain recorded in 2014, it is still well above the 2.7 percent advance
seen in 2012 and 2013.

Mr. Christopher also estimates that digital shopping will rise by 11.7 percent
this year, lifting the overall proportion of online sales to 14.7 percent of
total retail activity, or $1 out of every $7 that consumers lay out this holiday
season.

That's not great news for brick-and-mortar retailers (though more and more are
expanding their presence online), and could make lining up for Black Friday
sales feel pointless, even quaint. But online sales also drive economic growth.

While wages have stagnated and the recovery over the last six years has fallen
short of past trends, consumer spending still represents nearly 70 percent of
economic activity.

And with businesses hesitant to invest heavily in new capacity, federal spending
delayed, and sectors like construction and home building flattened after the
recession, shoppers picked up much of the slack in the last few years.

Michael Gapen, chief United States economist at Barclays, cites the drop in
energy prices this year, along with solid hiring and healthier household balance
sheets, to explain why consumers not only have more to spend, but will feel more
confident doing so.

''It would be a surprise if retail sales during the holiday season were soft,''
he said.

And even traditional retailers aren't giving up hope. Gerald L. Storch, chief
executive of the Hudson's Bay Company, which owns Saks Fifth Avenue and Lord &
Taylor, struck a positive tone on the evolving consumer. The shifts in spending
were cyclical, he said.

''Cars instead of clothes, the Internet suddenly reaching a tipping point --
I've heard every theory imaginable,'' Mr. Storch said. ''But Christmas always
comes, and people have to shop. They will be back.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/26/business/black-friday-falters-as-consumer-beha
viors-change.html

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shopping in Lower Manhattan a week before Thanksgiving.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES)
President Franklin D. Roosevelt moved Thanksgiving up one week for retailers.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
A Home Depot in Miami. Consumers are spending more on home décor than apparel, a
change from retail expectations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES)
Daybreak at a Los Angeles mall last Black Friday. Macy's opened Thursday night,
and many shoppers had gone home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENDRICK BRINSON FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)
An Amazon fulfillment center in Tracy, Calif., ready for a rush of online
buying. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER/REUTERS) (B1)
 Holiday decorations on Fifth Avenue in New York. Americans still spend for the
holidays, but do more of it online than in the past. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEWEL
SAMAD/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) CHART: Shopping Fatigue: Retail
sales on Cyber Monday have risen, but not nearly enough to offset the overall
declines in Black Friday sales over the last couple of years. (Source: LPL
Financial)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 26, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Black Friday Bargains Are Fewer Than You Think

BYLINE: By BRIAN X. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TECH FIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words


Before lining up at a retail store or firing up your computer for Black Friday
bargains this week, ask yourself one question: Have you ever scored a great deal
from the annual post-Thanksgiving shopping bonanza?

If you were hard-pressed to think of something, you would not be alone. Black
Friday, which has traditionally been the moment to flock to stores for steep
discounts, and which has evolved to also include major online sales events for
retailers like Amazon, Best Buy and Walmart, is not all that it is billed to be.
We asked J. D. Levite, the deals editor of the product recommendations website
The Wirecutter, for some data on just how beneficial the deals are on Black
Friday -- and the answer was not encouraging.

Year round, Mr. Levite and his team track product prices across the web to
unearth discounts on goods of all types, from gadgets to kitchenware. They also
look at whether the product is high quality and durable based on their own
testing and other reviews, and whether the seller or brand has a reasonable
return or warranty policy. By those measures, Mr. Levite said, only about 0.6
percent, or 200 out of the approximately 34,000 deals online, which typically
carry the same price tags inside retailers' physical stores, will be good ones
on Black Friday.

''There are just more deals on that day than any other day of the year,'' he
said. ''But for the most part, the deals aren't anything better than what you'd
see throughout the rest of the year.''

There's a smarter way to shop than relying on Black Friday. With the plethora of
web tools now available, consumers can research online and then use trackers to
follow product pricing for drops throughout the year. While it's a
time-consuming effort, the method is more precise for understanding pricing
trends, both online and in stores.

One useful tracking tool is Camel Camel Camel, which is geared toward users of
the online retail behemoth Amazon. Using the Camel Camel Camel website, people
can view a product's price history on Amazon.com and then create alerts to
receive an email as soon as the item's price falls to a certain threshold.

Over time, interesting trends emerge. One is that some product prices are raised
in October, a few weeks before Black Friday. The prices are reduced again on
Black Friday.

Mr. Levite cited the example of the Basis Peak Ultimate Fitness and Sleep
Tracker, which was listed on Amazon at around $150 in September. At the
beginning of November, the gadget shot up to $170. This week, the price fell
back down to $150.

''We do not raise prices ahead of Black Friday deals to make deals look more
attractive,'' Sarah Gelman, an Amazon spokeswoman, said.

Camel Camel Camel's database also shows some items have predictable pricing
patterns over the course of a year. A pair of bookshelf speakers made by Pioneer
are typically $127, but that tends to drop significantly in August -- to $60 in
August 2014 and to $88 in August 2015, timed to the back-to-school season. This
week, the same pair of speakers was again $127. In other words, there are times
of year when different types of products decline in price -- and Black Friday
isn't one of them.

Price tracking also illuminates the seasonality of products. Between June and
August, when people are more likely to plan camping trips, tents often get
heavier discounts on Amazon, for example. Camel Camel Camel's database showed
that a Coleman six-person tent cost $169 in August, but the price is now about
$236.

Other items rarely budge in price. A pair of high-end Bose headphones has stayed
firm at $299 for over a year, according to Camel Camel Camel's database. It
wouldn't hurt to buy items like this anytime you want, or to wait for the
pricing to drop when a new version of the product is released.

Daniel Green, the founder of Camel Camel Camel, agreed with these assessments.
''Shopping the Black Friday sales is no different from any other time,'' he
said.

There's still a way to take advantage of Black Friday by checking for price
reductions on specific items -- like a particular television set -- that you
have been wanting. I found a well-reviewed Vizio television that was $1,633 in
April but dropped to $1,098 this month, according to Camel Camel Camel.

Price tracking data also illustrate that the lack of real deals holds true for
Cyber Monday, the Monday after Black Friday that is billed as an online
shopper's heaven with numerous digital discounts. Rendering the shopping event
even more absurd, Walmart has said it would begin its Cyber Monday Sunday
evening, so people wouldn't have to stay up late to shop online.

Of course it's a tad late to start price tracking now. So for this week, try
other web tools like PriceGrabber.com, which compares pricing of products across
different retailers. On the website, you enter the name of a product, and the
tool pulls up a search. Clicking the ''Compare Now'' button shows the bottom
line pricing of the product (including tax and shipping costs) for various
retailers.

The New York Times also tested other shopping tools. They include ShopSavvy, an
app for scanning item bar codes to do price comparisons online, and Slice, an
app that tracks your previous purchases in case the price of something you
recently bought gets marked down later, which may spur a refund.

Some shopping data suggests that consumers are wising up by shopping well ahead
of Black Friday. About 25 percent of American consumers had already finished
some holiday shopping before Halloween, according to a report from eMarketer,
the research firm. The report also said 48 percent of American shoppers last
year finished most of their holiday shopping by Cyber Monday, up from 40 percent
the previous year.

Some retailers are opting out of Black Friday. Last month, the sporting goods
retailer REI said its stores would close during Black Friday as part of a
campaign urging people to go outside. Ben Steele, the chief creative officer of
REI, said in an interview that the company made the decision after assessing the
chaotic environment that Black Friday tends to create.

''Do we want employees to leave their families early on Thanksgiving? No,'' Mr.
Steele said. ''There's an opportunity for us to do something different.'' Other
stores, like Joe's Bike Shop in Maryland and Outdoor Research in Seattle, have
since said they were closing shop this Friday, too.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/26/technology/personaltech/black-friday-deal-or-d
ud-how-to-shop-smart-this-holiday-season.html

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 29, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Swatted

BYLINE: By JASON FAGONE.

Jason Fagone is writer based near Philadelphia. He is working on a book about
American women code breakers in the world wars.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FEATURE; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 6353 words


Early one weekend morning in January 2014, Janet was sleeping fitfully in her
parents' home in Toronto. A junior studying elementary education at a nearby
college, she had gone home for the weekend in a state of nervous collapse. For
months, someone going by the name ''Obnoxious'' had been harassing her online.
He had called her cellphone repeatedly and sent her threatening texts. Worst of
all, he had threatened to ''swat'' her at school -- to make a false emergency
call to the police and lure a SWAT team to her door.

Janet was afraid to go to sleep; she kept thinking that he was going to swat her
in the middle of the night. He said he was going to swat her family, too. Her
father owned a bar, and her mother worked at a hotel. They were from China, and
their English wasn't great. They didn't know much about her life online, and
they would never understand why someone would stalk their daughter on the
Internet.

Around 6:30 a.m., her father jostled her awake and said she needed to come
downstairs. When she got to the top of the steps, she saw her family's living
room ''covered in cops.'' There were at least five officers in riot gear, guns
drawn. They had bulletproof vests and pads and helmets with visors. She
remembers the eerie silence of the officers -- they said nothing at all. She had
no idea what to do with her hands. ''I was scared to move,'' she says. ''I
wanted to go downstairs with my hands up. I was afraid they would shoot me. I
was so scared. I feel like they just didn't really let their guard down until I
told them what happened.''

Hoax, she said finally, this is a hoax. It's not real. I'm being stalked. It
started with DDoSing. As soon as she said ''DDoSing,'' she could tell that the
officers weren't following. Then she checked her phone and saw a stream of texts
from Obnoxious. They were still arriving, crawling down the screen, when she
held up her phone to show the officers and ask for help.

She didn't know how to make the harassment stop. And she was just one victim
among many. Obnoxious had swatted multiple women across North America and would
swat many more in the months to come, as part of one of the most disturbing
crime sprees in Internet history.

Janet spent a lot of time on a website called Twitch. It can be hard to explain
Twitch to nongamers. The site is a lot of different things -- a fast-­growing
online community, an interactive TV universe, a Wild West of frenzied
entrepreneurialism -- but at its core, it's a place where people watch other
people play video games. If you don't understand why anyone would want to do
that, you're not alone, but there are tens of millions of young people who would
rather spend two hours on Twitch than endure two minutes of an N.F.L. game or
''The Big Bang Theory.'' Only four years old, Twitch already has 100 million
viewers who consume 20 billion minutes of gaming every month. According to one
2014 study, Twitch is the fourth-­most-­visited site on the Internet during peak
traffic periods, after Netflix, Google and Apple and above Facebook and Amazon.
(Amazon bought Twitch in 2014 for about $1 billion, all of it cash.) And there
is money in it for the gamers themselves, called ''streamers'': Fans can
subscribe to channels for extra access, or they can send donations of any
amount. Streamers with modest followings can make respectable incomes --
hundreds or thousands of dollars a month -- and the very top streamers are
getting rich.

A friend told Janet about Twitch in 2013, and she decided to try. ''It's
addicting,'' she says. ''I love it.'' She could play games she liked with
friends and build a following. Once she got up to 10,000 followers or so, she
could pay for books for college, and food, and candles -- she had an obsession
at one point with candles. She loved the way Twitch enlarged her world. ''I love
the community,'' she says. ''You get to hear about them and their life. And you
get to share things with them and share funny moments with them. And they become
a part of your life, too. It's like every day you get on stream, and the same
people are there -- it's just nice to see them. It's like, Hey, what have you
done since you were gone?''

There have always been jerks on the Internet who say rude things to women, and
Twitch was hardly free of this -- female streamers can usually tune it out with
help from their moderators. But when Obnoxious started targeting women, around
August 2013, it was clear that he was something different, more frightening. It
began with a persistent glitch that drove many streamers offline for hours at a
time. They would be streaming some game -- say, League of Legends, the most
popular PC game, a sprawling battle world with about 30 million daily players --
and their Internet connection would slow to a crawl. The cause didn't become
clear until the women received private Twitch messages from Obnoxious, saying he
was responsible: I'm DDoSing you right now. ''DDoS'' stands for ''distributed
denial of service,'' a type of attack that is difficult to defend against and
straightforward to execute. It requires only a moderate level of technical
ability and the I.P. address -- the unique network identity -- of the target.
And there are websites called ''Skype resolvers'' on which anyone can type in a
Skype user name and find its I.P. address. Once the I.P. address is known, the
attacker swamps it with traffic, and the connection goes down.

The women targeted by these attacks were mostly like Janet, college students in
their late teens and early 20s. The attacks were eating into their viewer bases,
costing them money. If you want it to stop, Obnoxious typed, add me on Skype,
and we can talk about it. When the women did as they were asked, they realized
that they were dealing with a teenager -- a strange, depressive 16-year-old. He
told part of his story to one streamer. Growing up in Canada somewhere, his
father had abused him and beat him. When he turned 18, he said, he was going to
kill himself. The streamer felt sorry for him and urged him not to go through
with it. Another streamer took notes on his likes and dislikes. ''Plays
Runescape,'' she wrote. ''Periodically watches cartoon pornography. Runs game
servers. Has a Taylor Swift fetish.''

At first, Obnoxious seemed content with just having women to talk to. ''He
wanted friends,'' says K., a 22-year-old streamer in Florida. (Most of the women
interviewed for this article did not want their full names used, fearing future
harassment.) Then he started asking for ''fan signs'': selfies of the women
holding pieces of paper with ''Obnoxious'' written on them. Some women granted
this request -- no big deal. Then he demanded nude pictures. He had a foot
fetish. He asked them to talk about sex.

As he was asking for these things, they started to get weird messages on Skype,
supposedly from their friends, but really from Obnoxious in disguise. Their
chats filled with abuse from multiple screen names:

Mibbzz im gona driveto your house[a friend] gave me money for the gasand im gona
pour it all over the side ofyour houseand pull out some matchesand just throw
emon yourhouse [ ... ]

obnoxious LOL

Mibbzz [ ... ] and who has her dox again?wanna send me it

FreezeD0ng giv mepls [ ... ]

Mibbzz obnoxious send teh dox [ ... ]

obnoxious dude this guyis hilarious

FreezeD0ng im gonna go swat myself

''Dox'' is a scary word. It's a document of your private information posted
online for anyone to see and exploit. Doxing makes you vulnerable to all sorts
of mischief, from phone harassment to credit-­card fraud or worse. Obnoxious was
able to obtain this sort of information for dozens of women. He mainly did it by
cold-­calling Internet companies and duping customer-­service representatives
over the phone. He would use one small piece of public information, a birthday
or a favorite pet, to get yet another from one company, and then he would use
the new piece to get more information from a different company. He had a con
man's gift for deception. Sometimes he was even able to take over a woman's
account. ''He loved to tell me how he did it,'' Janet says. ''He told me that he
would call customer service at Amazon, say that he forgot my password but he
knows my birthday, and the Amazon people, they just give it. And if they
wouldn't, he would just call again.'' (Amazon did not respond to multiple
requests for comment.)

When the women stopped responding to him, he escalated his attacks. He told a
transgender streamer named Alexa Walk that he had her medical records and knew
her birth name. Then he posted her birth name on Twitter. He posted nude
pictures of some women on Twitter as well. He once posted a nude shot of a
14-year-old girl and later bragged that he was a pedophile. Women reported the
abuse to Twitter, but whenever Twitter banned him, he would just make a new
account and continue as before.

Online abuse began to cross over into the physical world. He sent pizzas to
their homes. A string of deliverymen climbed the stairs to K.'s apartment in
Florida, carrying unappetizing pies: deep-dish pizza with no cheese, pizza with
anchovies and jalapeños, double bacon and double pepperoni. He called their
cellphones repeatedly and sent ''text bombs'' of hundreds of messages at a time.
If all else failed and Obnoxious couldn't get a hold of a woman, he would start
threatening to dispatch a SWAT team to her house, or her parents' house, or her
college -- a kind of intrusion that couldn't be ignored. When Janet wouldn't
respond to his texts, he reached out to one of her friends and asked the friend
to convey a message:

[1:06:17 AM] obnoxious: and if she isnt willing[1:06:21 AM] obnoxious: to speak
to [me] secretly[1:06:23 AM] obnoxious: she is going to get[1:06:26 AM]
obnoxious: a swat team[1:06:28 AM] obnoxious: in her parents house[1:06:30 AM]
obnoxious: holding them at gun point[1:06:34 AM] obnoxious: with all their
ssns[1:06:35 AM] obnoxious: on doxbin[1:06:39 AM] obnoxious: and her credit
ruinedTell her right now[1:07:31 AM] obnoxious: idc [I don't care] where[1:07:31
AM] obnoxious: or how[1:07:39 AM] obnoxious: but this is last chance im giving
her[1:07:50 AM] obnoxious: be friends with me secretly or get wrecked

The SWAT team grew from the tumult of the 1960s. In Philadelphia, a string of
armed robberies prompted a ''stakeout'' unit of officers who received extra
weapons training; in Los Angeles, after the Watts riots of 1965, an ambitious
police commander, Daryl Gates, who later became the chief of police, argued that
the city needed elite officers with rifles, shotguns and armored cars, trained
in military-­style tactics. Gates explained to The Los Angeles Times in 1968
that during the unrest, ''suddenly we found ourselves with almost a guerrilla
warfare without weaponry. ... I felt the frustration of being almost helpless.''

At first, the SWAT idea struck some officers as strange -- wouldn't the units
scare residents and damage relationships with communities? -- but lax gun
regulations and strict national drug laws encouraged cities and towns to invest
in bigger weaponry. The ''war on drugs'' in particular pressured officers to
conduct militarized drug enforcement. (Mother Jones recently analyzed 465 police
requests for armored tactical vehicles that resemble small tanks, and more
requests said the vehicles would be used for drug enforcement than any other
reason.) And the grim logic of mass shootings and hostage situations, where
seconds and minutes can matter, pushed communities to form local SWAT teams
instead of relying on teams from farther away that took longer to arrive. (A
recent study led by a professor at Texas State University analyzed 84 ''active
shooter'' incidents from 2000 to 2010, and about half the time, the shootings
were over by the time any officers arrived at the scene.) ''We want to keep the
community safe,'' says the tactical commander of a SWAT team in Georgia. ''And
if responding in a very short time period saves lives, that's what we want to
do. And we can do that by having a team readily available. We do.''

Through the 1990s and 2000s, SWAT teams started cropping up in smaller American
towns, even in places where violent crime is fairly uncommon. According to
research done by Peter Kraska, a criminologist at Eastern Kentucky University,
by the mid-2000s, 80 percent of law-enforcement agencies in towns with
populations of 25,000 to 50,000 had a military-­style unit, compared with just
20 percent in the mid-1980s. In the last decade, the ''war on terror'' has
helped local law-­enforcement agencies acquire unprecedented firepower. One
Pentagon program has sent at least $5.6 billion in equipment to police
departments, including 625 armored tactical vehicles, more than 200 grenade
launchers and around 80,000 assault rifles. Many people had no idea that SWAT
teams owned gear like this until the protests in Ferguson, Mo., last summer,
when images spread around the world of white officers confronting black
protesters with tear gas and a type of armored truck called a BearCat. People
all along the political spectrum expressed horror at these pictures; Senator
Rand Paul wrote that ''the images and scenes we continue to see in Ferguson
resemble war more than traditional police action.''

Ferguson renewed a debate about the legitimacy of SWAT tools and strategies that
is still being argued. Critics say SWAT teams have become like occupying forces,
deploying for purposes beyond their core mission (Radley Balko, the author of
''Rise of the Warrior Cop,'' found instances of military-­style raids on
nonviolent offenders like poker players and pot growers); the police say they
need the teams and the weapons as deterrents and as bulwarks against the
unknown.

But the unknown is where swatters step in. They exploit the ubiquity of SWAT
teams and the readiness of the police to respond. The Georgia tactical
commander, a veteran of the Marines, says that for planned raids, when he and
his team are considering whether to deploy, they use a ''matrix'' of risk
factors to decide if a SWAT response is justified: Does the suspect have a
history of violence? Does the suspect have weapons? Has the suspect made threats
to law enforcement? For a situation in progress, though -- an emergency call --
there is no time to go through all of that, and from a police point of view,
it's better to ''respond high and then downgrade'' than it is to show up
unprepared. So when a situation arises with a possible active shooter,
especially one who says he is heavily armed and will kill officers, dispatch
sends a text to team members' cellphones to respond to a certain address, and
the police are ready for confrontation.

And when the police ''respond high,'' residents can become disoriented. Maybe
they assume they are being robbed. Maybe they pick up a gun. In 2011, a former
Marine and Iraq war veteran named Jose Guerena was awakened by his wife, who
thought she saw intruders outside their home in Arizona. Guerena picked up his
AR-15 rifle, with the safety on, to protect his wife and family. SWAT officers
entered the house, saw the gun and shot Guerena dozens of times, killing him.
They were conducting a drug investigation. In 2010, during a military-­style
raid on a home in east Detroit, a police officer looking for a murder suspect
accidentally shot and killed a 7-year-old girl while she slept.

Swatting isn't new; law enforcement encountered a ring of swatters in the
mid-2000s. But the phenomenon is touching more and more lives in more serious
ways. (The F.B.I. doesn't keep statistics on swatting incidents; a bureau
spokeswoman says it is still working out which part of the F.B.I. should handle
swatting investigations, because the crime ''crosses so many of our delineated
thresholds for who handles what.'') Activists and political operatives on the
right and the left have been swatted. Reporters writing about computer security
have been swatted. Celebrities have been swatted: Ashton Kutcher, Justin
Timberlake, Rihanna. Politicians trying to pass anti-­swatting bills, including
a state senator in California and a state assemblyman in New Jersey, have been
swatted at their homes. Video gamers, male and female, have been swatted.

While a swatting hoax is often preceded by other kinds of Internet attacks
(Twitter threats, the public posting of a home address or phone number),
swatting is the most troubling manifestation of online harassment, because it's
not online at all -- it's actual weapons and confusion, showing up at your door.

What a lot of the victims remember is a sense of unreality, a feeling like they
were watching a movie. K. says she opened the door of her Florida apartment one
evening to find a dozen SWAT officers lined up on the stairs with riot shields
and black guns pointed at her. She froze and thought of the metal belt buckle
she happened to be clutching in her left hand. They're going to think I have a
weapon in my hand. They're going to shoot me.

Obnoxious often sent a text to his target telling her that the SWAT team was on
its way -- too late to stop it -- just so she would know it was him. Sometimes
victims received phone calls from the police before the SWAT team arrived. A
Canadian Twitch streamer named Maple Ong got a call one night in January 2014,
telling her to leave her house with her hands up, along with her panicked father
and younger brother, so the police could search it for bombs that Obnoxious had
told them were placed there. Allison Henderson, a 26-year-old artist and
streamer who lived with two other streamers in Costa Mesa, Calif., received a
phone call one night from a woman with the Police Department, asking her how
many people were in her apartment and what she was wearing. Allison and her
roommates had recently been DDoSed and harassed by Obnoxious. The policewoman
told Allison to step outside with her hands above her head.

''I held my breath and slowly opened the door to the sight of rifles pointed at
me from every direction,'' she says. ''It was the most terrifying experience of
my life.'' When officers questioned her, she couldn't make them understand.
''They were completely lost on the idea of a stranger harassing us over the
Internet,'' she says. ''It's a feeling like you're drowning, and the person
doesn't understand what water is.''

A few months after Obnoxious swatted Janet and her family, he swatted them
again. The officers who showed up this time seemed irritated at Janet, ''like it
was my fault that I got swatted, because I do what I do, because I play video
games.'' She says one told her, ''Just pick up a book.'' The officers who
responded to these calls did a professional job -- in the sense that they
assessed the situation, de-­escalated it and didn't fire their weapons. At the
same time, they misjudged what they were seeing. They didn't grasp that each
swatting was merely a spike in a long-­running pattern of abuse that would
continue when they drove away. ''You don't want to dwell on it,'' says K., the
Florida streamer. ''You just want to go back to doing what you love. But it
isn't that simple. Because everything's changed. As he was attacking us, we
couldn't be the same anymore.'' Some of Obnoxious's swatting victims took long
breaks from streaming, even though it was a major social outlet and an income
source for them. ''I just wanted to be alone,'' says Alexa Walk, who was swatted
by Obnoxious at her apartment in North Carolina. ''I didn't want people to see
me upset.''

After being attacked, several victims reached out to Twitch, asking for
information that they could give to detectives or for advice on how to protect
themselves from further abuse. In early January 2014, one victim wrote to
Twitch, saying that she and ''a lot of other female streamers have been severely
harassed and attacked by a 'hacker' named Obnoxious and his friends.'' She
continued: ''It has gotten to the point that he is calling SWAT teams into
houses. I just dealt with the SWAT team at my house.'' A Twitch representative
replied that he was aware of Obnoxious and the swattings -- he had seen one
victim's anguished Facebook post -- but that ''in some cases, there is not a lot
we can do when things happen off of our site.'' Another Twitch representative
told Jamie Lynn Greenwood, 32, a streamer who was swatted in Montana while
playing Minecraft (not by Obnoxious but by someone else) and was ordered from
her home at gunpoint along with her husband, ''I sympathize for you going
through that -- best of luck to the police to catch the perpetrator!''

(Twitch's initial response to questions emailed by this magazine was brief. A
company spokesman called swatting ''an age-old stunt far from unique to Twitch''
and claimed that swattings of Twitch broadcasters are ''infrequent.'' Later,
after being told of the magnitude of the Obnoxious case, he wrote, ''We are
adding info about swatting as part of our Education portal, which will also have
info on protection from DDoS and other common ways of being harassed.'')

B.A. Finley, a detective sergeant with the Johns Creek Police Department outside
Atlanta, had heard about swatting but never really understood it until Jan. 16,
2014. That afternoon, a man called a police line in Alpharetta, Ga., and said he
had killed three people in a home in nearby Johns Creek and was holding a girl
hostage. ''If you send any cops here, I swear to God I'll shoot their ass.'' The
dispatcher tried to get information as the man stammered and cursed at her. ''I
got the little girl right here.'' He said he needed $30,000 or he would kill the
girl, too.

Officers -- including Finley -- raced to the address with rifles and shotguns,
unholstering loaded pistols at the scene, only to find that there was no
hostage-­taker, no dead family, no emergency. There was only chaos: close to 40
responders and their vehicles, gawking neighbors, traumatized victims, everyone
trying to figure out what had happened.

The hoax made the news, and the Johns Creek mayor expressed his anger publicly.
Then, nine days later, the police got a second call of an emergency at the same
address, this time from a different-­sounding man. ''Hey, yo,'' he said. ''I'm
at one of my old buddies' house. He stole, like, ten grand from me.'' And then:
''I planted four bombs in his house.'' It was another swatting hoax.

The police chief asked Finley to make the case his top priority, to take
whatever time he needed to catch the perpetrator -- a mandate that detectives,
especially those looking into swatting cases, don't often enjoy.

Finley is a tall, big-­torsoed man with a thick drawl. At that time, he didn't
have any ''cyber'' experience, in the charming archaism often used by law
enforcement. But he possessed unusual patience, and this was an investigation
that required a great deal of it. Neither of the caller-­ID numbers attached to
the two hoax calls belonged to an individual. They had to be traced through a
laby­rinth of companies that buy blocks of numbers and resell them to
voice-­over-­IP providers; the only way to do this was to subpoena the
companies, wait for records to come back (it could take a week), analyze the
records and send out more subpoenas, court orders and search warrants -- 75 of
them by the end. It was all very analog; when Finley needed to update his
commander on the investigation, he would print out photos of his white board on
sheets of 8½-by-11 paper and tape the pages together.

By April, he had filled a conference room with stacks of documents. He asked the
cleaning crew not to touch the room. He was getting somewhere. The first
swatting seemed to be a one-off; it pointed to a suspect in New York. (The
suspect has yet to be charged.) But the second swatting led to a bigger world of
crimes. After weeks of slogging through paper, Finley linked the call to a Skype
account that had also called 10 other police agencies across the United States
and Canada in the same month. Finley got in touch with these agencies, and sure
enough, they had received hoax emergency calls on those dates. Finley compared
the recordings of some of those calls with the Georgia call. It was obviously
the same suspect; he hadn't bothered to alter his voice. He had a vocal tic that
Finley kept trying to place, some slight cold-­weather quirk, as if he were from
way up north, Wisconsin, maybe Canada.

It wasn't easy to pinpoint the swatter's location, in part because he had masked
his I.P. address by using virtual private networks. The VPNs flung the swatter's
traffic back and forth from Russia to the Netherlands and other places. ''These
things can make your head spin,'' Finley says. He spent a lot of time staring at
the conference-room wall and asking computer analysts questions on the phone.
Using an email address associated with the Skype account to pry out more
records, he eventually discovered what looked like the swatter's personal
website, listing his name as ''Obnoxious.'' He also found a page on Pastebin
that purported to reveal Obnoxious's true name, along with his birth date and
hometown. Apparently, one of his online enemies had doxed him. According to the
dox, the swatter was a minor living in Coquitlam, a suburb of Vancouver, British
Columbia.

This news, if true, was unpromising; Finley obviously couldn't just fly to
another country and put a juvenile in handcuffs. But he kept pulling threads.
Finley called the police in Coquitlam, and while they wouldn't give him the
swatter's name, they confirmed that they knew all about him. He had been
arrested earlier that year, in fact, and released on bail on the condition that
he not access the Internet or use a computer without supervision. The
authorities would arrest him again in the fall -- only to release him on bail
yet again.

Now Finley had a suspect. The problem was how to make the arrest. Swatting isn't
an easy crime to charge; law enforcement is still developing a language for it.
Is it a type of fraud? Identity theft? Cyberterrorism? Is it a prank? Three
federal lawmakers, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York and Representatives
Katherine M. Clark of Massachusetts and Patrick Meehan of Pennsylvania, recently
introduced bills to increase penalties for swatting, but right now, many
swatters, if charged at all, are charged with misdemeanors. Finley knew that
Obnoxious was causing real harm, but he didn't seem to have good options; even
if he could persuade a prosecutor in Georgia to take an interest in the case,
they would never be able to extradite an underage suspect from Canada. The
swatter seemed keenly aware of this reality. ''UNTOUCHABLE,'' Finley saw him
tweet once. ''UNEXTRADITEABLE.''

At the same time that Finley was researching Obnoxious, his victims were
undertaking their own investigation. The police couldn't or wouldn't help, they
assumed, and the Internet companies were useless. If they wanted to protect
themselves and others, they had to organize.

In private and on Facebook, they began to network and gather evidence, and soon
they had a pool of screen shots and chat logs, as well as a zip file that
appeared to contain the swatter's ''hit list'' -- a folder of text files with
private information about 99 female gamers, obtained by a woman who had been
harassed by Obnoxious and who found it on Doxbin. They also found the same dox
that Finley found, the one that listed the swatter's hometown and real name. A
few victims had been assigned local detectives who asked them to send along any
relevant information, and the women now shared what they had.

Obnoxious must have felt exposed by the doxing, because around this time he went
on Twitter and apologized to some of his victims, saying he was going to stop
swatting people. But his attacks only intensified over that spring and into
summer. ''We knew he wasn't going to stop doing it,'' Alexa Walk says. ''He was
going really hard on it this time.''

He started skipping the intermediate step of pizza and went straight to
swatting. He also broadened his list of targets. In June, in the California city
of Ontario, 35 miles east of Los Angeles, the police got a call that a local man
was doing dope, had shot and killed his father with an AR-15 and was thinking
about killing his mother. They sent 32 units to the address, representing 90
percent of its available law-­enforcement resources -- three supervisors,
throngs of squad cars, an armored BearCat, a helicopter, a canine unit -- only
to find three people, a mother, her boyfriend and her son, inside the home and
perfectly safe. The son was a League of Legends gamer who had angered Obnoxious
by defending one of his female victims online.

The ordeal cost the taxpayers of Ontario $6,500, yet it was sometimes difficult
for the Ontario detective assigned to the case to justify spending time on it.
''I have felony cases sitting on my lap,'' he says. ''Why would I take this
cyber case, tracking down all these records, trying to find a guy who's in
another country?''

Finley understood that sentiment, one echoed by many other officers. But the
swatter enraged him. He knew, from talking to victims, that people were hurting
and struggling. ''Do you just say, Oh, sorry, he's a teenage boy, and he lives
in Canada, and there's nothing we can do? I do not like telling people there's
nothing we can do.''

By August 2014, Finley had reached out to the F.B.I.'s Atlanta field office,
asking if the bureau could help with a swatting case in which the suspect was a
minor. He was told the swatter would have to be ''prolific.'' Finley asked what
that meant. He knew the swatter had made hoax calls to 11 police departments in
that one January alone. How many swattings is prolific? No one Finley spoke to
at the bureau could say. But Finley kept tracking Obnoxious, kept calling the
F.B.I. with updates -- he could connect the guy to 20 swatting calls, then 30
calls. When he got past 40 about a month later, he finally found a special agent
named Andrew Young. Forty was definitely prolific.

Young met with Finley and looked at all he had gathered. The swatter ''was very
brazen in his activity,'' Young says, ''very mean­spirited and destructive.''
Young thought the best strategy was to persuade Canada to make the arrest, given
that there was little chance of extradition. He could open a parallel F.B.I.
case, help Finley package up his research ''nice and neatly'' and get it into
the right Canadian hands.

In September and October last year, Obnoxious launched new attacks. He swatted a
girl's high school in Fort Meade, Fla., saying he would drive there ''in a black
Jeep Cherokee and shoot everyone with an AK-47''-- a threat that sent the school
into lockdown for hours. According to the Polk County Sheriff's Office, he
swatted the same school again a month later, then swatted the student at her
family's home in nearby Winter Haven. He swatted a female Twitch streamer in
­Tucson, where she was attending the University of Arizona, then swatted her
again five days later while her mother was visiting; at the exact moment, he
also swatted the family homestead back in Phoenix, with the streamer's brother
and father in the house at the time, removed by the police at gunpoint.

Over the next month, the mother watched her daughter's sleep pattern change. She
lost the ability to keep up at college and decided to withdraw for the semester.
Obnoxious broke into her Twitter feed and started posting abuse from it. ''He
just ripped her life apart,'' the mother says. ''And ours, too.''

Still, Canada couldn't make the arrest. They told the United States authorities
that they didn't have enough evidence to get a warrant to search the swatter's
home.

By late 2014, there were still women on Twitch who didn't know about Obnoxious
and his swatting, who continued streaming their games and building their
channels. One was Hayli Metter, age 23, a journalism major at Arizona State. She
had played games since she was 6, when her father introduced her to Doom; after
her parents went through a difficult divorce, she sought refuge in a ''Harry
Potter'' fan site called MuggleNet, where she wrote and shared fan fiction. When
she discovered Twitch, ''I just fell in love with it,'' she says. ''Best thing
in the world.'' In six months, she had amassed 5,000 or 6,000 followers and was
thinking seriously about a professional life in video games. The most important
thing to her was creating a welcoming community: ''People come, and they want to
feel that they have a home. It's a family.''

The first she heard of Obnoxious was on the night of Nov. 30, when he donated $1
to her channel while she was streaming. Thanks, she thought. Then he started
abusing her via chat. He doxed her, posting her address and apartment number,
which he had filched from her Internet provider, Cox Communications, by
pretending to be a company technician. (Cox says that ''we regret that this
incident occurred'' and that it is constantly updating its security protocols.)
Hayli's moderators tried to ban him, but he kept reappearing under new names.
''Hayli,'' he typed, ''if your mods don't stop banning me, I swear to God I'm
going to swat you.''

Private messages from friends started pouring in, telling Hayli to call the
police. She called 911 and tried to explain that someone was threatening to swat
her. Minutes later, Obnoxious called the Tempe police, pretended that he was
afraid he was going to be swatted and asked if they could send a squad car. He
gave Hayli's address. ''Can I tell you something?'' he said. ''If I see any
police officers, I'm shooting them.''

Confused but cautious, the Tempe police sent a few officers to Hayli's apartment
to make sure she was O.K. Obnoxious kept sending threats while Hayli was
speaking to them; they took photos of her screen with their phones.

At some point after midnight on Dec. 1, Obnoxious started broadcasting his
crimes on multiple sites. When one site would ban him, he would switch to
another. The stream showed everything but his face. His voice was audible, and
sometimes the voices of five or six other male teenagers, egging him on.
Incredibly, in full view of anyone who wanted to watch (he posted links to the
streams on Twitter), he made two hoax emergency calls to two American police
departments: St. Paul and Grove City, Ohio. Grove City sent officers with
tactical rifles to surround a house in a residential neighborhood, surprising a
woman's husband when he opened the door.

Obnoxious's stream continued for more than eight hours and 40 minutes, enough
time for many of his victims to realize what he was doing and frantically email
their police contacts: He is swatting people right now, in front of an audience.
Hayli saw the stream and couldn't believe it. Finley was watching it, too. The
mother of the University of Arizona victim tipped him off. He emailed a link to
his contacts in Canada and told them to tune in.

The Canadian police arrested the suspect on Dec. 5, four days after he tried to
swat Hayli. Much of the case against him had been shipped up from Georgia.
Prosecutors eventually charged him with 46 counts, including criminal
harassment, public mischief and extortion; he pleaded guilty to 23 counts. (His
Vancouver lawyer didn't return phone calls.) He was interviewed at length by a
social worker, a psychiatrist and a psychologist, who confirmed that the
swatter's childhood had been tragic, marred by an abusive father and a mentally
ill mother. The psychiatric report noted that he had essentially no remorse:
''His description of the pleasure he gets from causing humiliation and harm ...
is suggestive of quite significant emerging psychopathic traits.'' At a court
appearance in May, he wore a sweatsuit, ankles shackled together; a local
reporter observed him smiling occasionally and flicking his brown hair. In July,
a judge sentenced him to 16 months in youth jail, with credit for time served
while awaiting trial. He is scheduled to be released in March, at age 18.

Finley estimates that he spent 1,000 hours on the case, an incredible amount of
effort to catch one teenager. But the kid was exploiting an obvious flaw in the
system. When he called the police in Ontario, Calif., in June 2014 and said he
had killed his father with an AR-15 and had taken his mother hostage and would
shoot any officers who showed up, ''Guys are thinking: This is it. This is what
we've been trained for,'' the Ontario detective says. ''This is why we get this
tactical equipment. This is why we have a BearCat. This is why we have armor and
rifles.'' In the United States, law enforcement and the public are still
grappling with what SWAT teams are for and how they should be used, but the
swatter knew exactly how to use them.

Some of Obnoxious's victims were initially wary of talking about him or their
cases. They eventually did so in hopes that it would make it easier for future
victims of swatting, doxing and online harassment to explain what they were
enduring. ''This means that more people will take it seriously,'' one victim
says. ''This means that it's a crime.'' The women have proved resilient: Hayli
says she returned to Twitch almost immediately after her swatting because ''I
didn't want him to win,'' and she now has 58,000 followers and 1.8 million
views. Janet now makes a living streaming full-time. ''I try to focus on the
good parts and the good people of the Twitch community,'' she says.

Many, though, are still worried about the swatter and what he will be like when
he is released. (One victim says, ''I just hope he leaves me alone, forever,
ever, ever.'') They wonder, too, about the others: the swatter's friends and
fans, the ones who cheered, the ones who might decide to try it for themselves.
''It was never really him that I was really afraid of,'' Hayli says. ''It was
all the other people who I had no idea who they were.'' There's nothing stopping
them from doing everything Obnoxious did. They just need to make a call.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/29/magazine/the-serial-swatter.html

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ROBERT SAMMELIN) (MM33
MM34-MM35
 MM36-MM37)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 30, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Black Friday Just a Day, No Longer a Bellwether

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 975 words


If the lines at Target or Macy's this Black Friday seemed shorter than in years
past, shoppers have the Internet to thank.

More people shopped online over the Thanksgiving weekend than in
brick-and-mortar stores, according to a closely watched survey released by
retail's biggest trade group, the National Retail Federation. (Spending at
physical stores still dwarfs online spending, however.)

The trade group also stuck by its forecast on Sunday that retail sales this
holiday season will rise 3.7 percent this year, below last year's growth of 4.1
percent. For the first time in over a decade, however, the group did not release
estimates of total spending for the holiday weekend.

The federation's chief executive, Matthew Shay, said big shifts in consumer
behavior made Black Friday weekend sales less of a bellwether for holiday
spending, or for the state of the American consumer.

Shoppers are taking advantage of a deluge of sales and promotions to shop when
they want, and how they want, he said.

Retailers, in turn, are scrambling to offer sales earlier each year, both in
stores and online.

''Shopping has changed and the consumer has changed and retailers have
changed,'' Mr. Shay said. ''Retailers are heavily promoting starting the day
after Halloween.''

Meanwhile, there is ''a broad and deep expectation'' among shoppers that sales
and promotions will continue far beyond Black Friday, and less of an imperative
to spend over the weekend, Mr. Shay said.

The importance of Black Friday has long been more myth than fact. Black Friday
is generally not the year's biggest shopping day. MasterCard estimated that
shoppers bought more on Dec. 23 last year, presumably in a late scramble for
Christmas gifts.

And Black Friday's importance has waned even further in recent years, as
retailers offered holiday sales earlier and longer. Some industry experts have
questioned whether the holiday season itself is losing significance as retailers
increasingly offer sales all year round. And data shows that consumers are
spending less on clothing and shoes and more on traveling, eating out and on
their cars and homes.

Still, holiday promotions -- many of them on Black Friday -- remain critically
important for some products, like new gadgets and technology.

''For new categories, historically, over half of the volume in early years shows
up in the fourth quarter,'' Shawn DuBravac, chief economist of the Consumer
Technology Association, said on Sunday. That has been true for DVDs,
high-definition TVs, Blu-ray technology and Apple's iPad, he said.

''That's what we'll likely see with smartwatches this year,'' he said. ''Half of
overall volume for smartwatches should show up in the holiday quarter.''

But for the consumer technology industry over all, about 27 percent of the
year's sales came during the holiday quarter, only slightly more than during
other times of the year, he said.

The National Retail Federation, which surveyed about 4,300 consumers before and
during the Thanksgiving weekend, said that shoppers had spent or planned to
spend $300 over the weekend this year. Because of a change in methodology, that
figure was not directly comparable to the $381 that consumers said they had
spent or would spend in the group's survey last year.

Nearly 102 million people said they shopped in stores over the Thanksgiving
weekend, the trade group said, compared with more than 103 million who said they
had shopped online. Some did both, and over all, more than 151 million people
shopped over the weekend, according to the federation's survey.

Getting an early reading of holiday sales has always been based on guesswork. A
more accurate measure of holiday spending will not be available until the
Department of Commerce releases retail spending figures next month for November,
and for December in January.

ShopperTrak, which estimates sales at about 12,000 brick-and-mortar retailers
worldwide using location analytics, said that combined sales in the United
States on Thanksgiving and Black Friday totaled about $12.1 billion. That
compares with an estimate of $12.3 billion spent over those two days in stores
last year.

But Kevin Kearns, ShopperTrak's chief revenue officer, cautioned against reading
too much into those results. ShopperTrak's data showed greater spending before
Black Friday, he said.

''This year, we saw Black Friday ads emerge before Halloween, as retailers aimed
to get at the shopper's wallet early,'' he said in a statement. Over all,
ShopperTrak forecasts that retail sales will climb 2.4 percent this holiday
season.

Data from Adobe that aggregated sales on about 4,500 retail websites underscored
the growing importance of online shopping. Shoppers spent a record $7.2 billion
online on Thanksgiving Day and Black Friday, Adobe said, a 14.3 percent jump
from the previous year. About a third of purchases came from mobile devices,
according to Adobe.

The company predicted that shoppers would spend another $3 billion on Monday,
when retailers offer fresh deals on electronics and other merchandise. (On the
other hand, the significance of so called Cyber Monday is also declining, as
online shopping becomes ubiquitous. ''I anticipate the term will slowly go
away,'' said Mr. DuBravac of the Consumer Technology Association.)

Mr. Kearns, of ShopperTrak, said that shopping websites were also changing the
way people shop in stores.

''Shoppers are researching products ahead of time, targeting their store visits
and arriving in-store with the intention of making a purchase,'' Mr. Kearns
said.

Social media also played a part in shaping shopper sentiment going into the
holiday weekend, he said. In particular, he suggested, more shoppers may be
staying away from stores on Thanksgiving Day as part of a ''social backlash
against store openings on the holiday.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/30/business/black-friday-just-a-day-this-year-no-
longer-a-bellwether.html

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fifth Avenue in New York on Sunday. Shoppers now have fewer
incentives to wait for holiday sales, either in stores or online. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DINA LITOVSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 1, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Target and PayPal Sites Report Problems on Cyber Monday

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 435 words


Cyber Monday, the online version of Black Friday, is not immune to traffic jams
of shoppers rushing to take advantage of post-Thanksgiving sales. Some of the
most popular websites experienced an overload on Monday, similar to a crowd
pushing its way into an already packed brick-and-mortar store.

Shoppers were for a period of time unable to gain access to the site of Target,
the discount chain,and PayPal, the online payments processing service. Both are
now back online after an onslaught that reflects the shifting trends in the way
consumers are looking for shopping bargains.

Foot Locker, Groupon and Victoria's Secret also experienced brief outages or
slowdowns Monday afternoon, according to Catchpoint Systems, a web monitoring
firm.

In a statement on Monday, Target said it was experiencing its biggest online
volumes ever in response to a 15 percent online discount that it had announced
previously.

Visitors to the site early Monday got a message saying: ''Please hold tight. So
sorry, but high traffic's causing delays. If you wouldn't mind holding, we'll
refresh automatically & get things going ASAP.''

According to a statement from Target, the company said it placed online shoppers
in a queue in order to manage the volume of users, but it then allowed them to
keep trying to gain access by refreshing their browser.

A heat map on downdetector.com showed most of the problems with PayPal were
reported in North America and Europe. Problems started around 8:30 a.m. Eastern
time.

PayPal said in an emailed statement that the ''brief, intermittent
interruption'' in service was resolved. It did not provide a reason.

The holiday buying frenzy has evolved over the years as more stores offer sales
before and sometimes on Thanksgiving Day. It has also shifted away from physical
stores as Americans have increasingly turned to online shopping.

For many people, Monday was their first day back at work after the long
Thanksgiving weekend, so some shopping was presumably being done surreptitiously
while at work.

More than 121 million holiday shoppers planned to shop online on Monday,
according to a survey by the National Retail Federation. Thanksgiving results
showed that 103 million people shopped online over the weekend, it said.

According to the trade group, this year is the 10th anniversary of Cyber Monday.
But the event has broadened in recent years; some retailers advertise deals that
stretch for days, complete with countdown clocks.

Adobe Digital Index said online spending in the morning hours until 10 a.m. was
up 14 percent this year compared with the previous year.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/01/technology/target-paypal-website-cyber
-monday.html

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                            December 1, 2015 Tuesday

Amid the Buying, a Tuesday Devoted to Giving

BYLINE: DAVID BORNSTEIN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1981 words



HIGHLIGHT: Three years ago, two organizations set out to follow Thanksgiving
with a day for generosity fueled by social media. Giving Tuesday has since gone
global.


"Every man takes the limits of his own field of vision for the limits of the
world," wrote the philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer. That field has been pretty
narrow lately, with so much of the news focused on murderous violence - from
Paris to Colorado Springs. So let's take note: today is #GivingTuesday, the
fourth anniversary of a day that offers a glimpse of the world beyond the
pathological extremes: a view of the commonplace generosity and social concerns
of millions of people.

Giving Tuesday was introduced in 2012 by the 92nd Street Y in New York in
partnership with the United Nations Foundation. Speaking with friends and
colleagues, Henry Timms, the executive director of the Y, had observed that many
people felt a jarring sense of disconnect between the Thanksgiving holiday - a
moment to reflect on one's blessings - and the frantic consumerism of Black
Friday and Cyber Monday that follows it.

The mission of the Y, a Jewish organization founded in 1874, is to foster the
well-being, education and spiritual growth of people from diverse backgrounds
and to promote participation in civic life. "The job of any stewards of a great
institution is to renew its values over time," said Timms. "How do we shift them
for a new generation?"

As he thought about Thanksgiving, he says, he wondered whether something could
be done to circle the holiday back to its core: gratitude. What if there were a
day immediately after the shopping spree that was focused broadly on giving?

People were accustomed to end-of-year and holiday fund-raising appeals linked to
religious holidays or tax-deduction deadlines, of course, but this would be
different: a day that was only about generosity for its own sake, with this
premise:

Most giving is done privately. What if the power of social media could be
harnessed to allow many individuals and communities to come together around the
act of giving - and make their collective impulses and messages visible to one
another?

"After two days good for the economy, this would be a day good for the soul,"
Timms said. "Every time we talked about it, eyes lit up. We realized it had a
broad appeal."

Giving Tuesday has struck a chord. In three years, it has taken off well beyond
its early partners' expectations. Earlier this year, a Harris Poll found that
more than one in eight Americans is familiar with it. This year more than 40,000
organizations have registered to participate, while thousands more pursue
giving-themed campaigns without direct association. Last year, activities were
organized in 68 countries. Online giving for the Tuesday after Thanksgiving was
four times higher in 2014 than in 2011, as registered by Blackbaud, the company
that processes most online philanthropic donations. From 2013 to 2014, Network
for Good, another online platform for fund-raising that serves many small and
medium-size nonprofits, saw a spike in donations on Giving Tuesday of 145
percent.

How did this come about? And how did it get off the ground with just a tiny team
and no marketing budget to speak of?

During the spring and summer of 2012, Timms and Asha Curran, director of the
92nd Street Y's Center for Innovation and Social Impact, traveled around the
United States to build partnerships with leaders in the nonprofit sector,
philanthropy, business, media and technology. Rather than present a pre-cooked
formula, however, they invited people to shape the idea. "We asked everyone two
questions," recalled Timms. "How could we make this a better idea? And: What
could you do with your institution?"

The approach allowed many individuals and groups to assume co-ownership of the
campaign, which was crucial to its success. The United Nations Foundation, led
by Kathy Calvin, helped develop the communication strategy and subsequently took
the lead spreading the idea internationally. Curran recalled that Adam Hirsch,
who had been the chief operating officer at the web-based media company
Mashable, crafted the social media outreach and advised that the idea not be
branded by the founding organizations, but rather be framed as a collaboration
open to all. Matthew Bishop, a senior editor at The Economist and co-author of
the book "Philanthrocapitalism," gave advice on how to build a "posse" of key
influencers and ambassadors. Rob Reich at Stanford University's Center on
Philanthropy and Civil Society, helped figure out how to measure the campaign's
impact. Many others played important roles.

When the campaign began that September, the organizers had 75 days to build it.
Curran's team created an array of tool kits: sample press releases and tweets,
guides on how to pitch to a morning show, how to use social media creatively,
and how to talk with your children about giving. They organized Google hangouts
with nonprofit social media experts like Beth Kanter. The goal was to make it
"frictionless," said Timms.

Some advisers had suggested waiting a year to plan more judiciously. In
retrospect, Timms believes that going fast proved critical: It kept matters
clear. "This wasn't a complicated idea," he said. "We had a three-phone-call
rule. If anyone took more than three phone calls to get on board it wasn't worth
it."

He had hoped to attract a couple of hundred partners. They got 2,500.

Among the earliest partners was DonorsChoose.org, an organization that makes it
simple for people to support public school teachers' classroom projects. In the
first year, DonorsChoose.org received contributions on Giving Tuesday totaling
$69,086 from 752 donors. Last year, it received $379,199 from 3,947 donors.

Some fund-raising professionals had worried that the day would cannibalize
end-of-year funding. By contrast, it appears to have opened new streams of
support. "It's additive," said Caryn Stein, vice president for communications
and content at Network for Good. "We actually see people give twice in a month
because there are different reasons to give."

"Roughly half of the donors each year on Giving Tuesday were brand-new to our
site," added Katie Bisbee, the chief marketing officer at DonorsChoose.org. She
helped build support for the day by reaching out to other nonprofit groups that
included Kiva, Charity: Water and Global Giving.

DonorsChoose.org noticed an interesting gender pattern. "Our donors want to be
reminded to give around the holidays," said Charles Best, the organization's
founder. "We found that it's especially true of our male donors. Female giving
tends to be more evenly distributed; male giving concentrates on special
occasions. Men need an external prompt to remind them to be philanthropic."

Today, they'll be getting a big one: DonorsChoose.org will be featured on the
home page of Google, which will be providing half the funding for all of the
group's teacher-led projects that focus on students with special needs.

Perhaps the biggest lesson from Giving Tuesday is how much creativity a simple
idea can unleash when it is unbranded and people are encouraged to freely
repurpose and remix it. Timms sees this as an example of what he calls "new
power." "With old power you create something perfect, and ask people to sign on
to it," he says. "With new power, you create a context for people to add their
identity and sense of agency."

Witness some of the inventions: #GivingShoesDay, Dress for Success's efforts to
advance a 'shoe-gooder' movement; #GivingZooDay, to highlight the importance of
zoos and aquariums; #GamingTuesday, to galvanize gamers in support of Save the
Children; #GivingTuesdayRamadan, organized earlier this year by the Syrian
Community Network in Chicago to mark the second Tuesday of the Muslim holy
month, and #GivingJewsDay, from the Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit,
to inspire people to improve their communities.

There are also civic-oriented campaigns like #GuelphGives, in Ontario;
#BoothbayTreasures, in Maine; and #MarylandGivesMore. And you can watch the
Crowdrise Giving Tower grow, explore multilingual versions (#UnDiaParaDar,
#DiaDeDoar, #MardiJeDonne), or enjoy the view from the #Unselfie, to see the
faces, and hopes, behind the gifts.

At least two new platforms are being introduced for this year's day: Small
Token, an app (currently for the iPhone) that allows you to treat a donation to
a nonprofit as a gift to someone else; and Catapultian, a web-based service that
provides a charitable savings account for tax-deductible deposits and donations.

While stories about the day often focus on money raised, there are many forms of
giving - giving time, labor, knowledge or thanks, for example. Staff members at
the United Nations Development Program have marked the day in previous years by
rehabilitating a school for children with disabilities in Zimbabwe, leading a
community blood drive in Burundi, and donating clothing and housing appliances
to people living in slums in Bangkok. Some companies participate by organizing
volunteer activities for their employees. This year the group Learning to Give
is running a "TeachOne" campaign to encourage 10,000 teachers to lead lessons in
philanthropy or civic responsibility. Today, Union Settlement, in East Harlem,
will be handing out 500 single ride Metrocards. In exchange, they'll ask
recipients to perform three acts of kindness.

Since 2012, the meaning of the day has evolved subtly. Of course, many companies
and organizations get involved to promote their own brands or work. But
increasingly, groups take the opportunity just to say thank you and participate
in something that transcends their own concerns.

"Most of what we do is about one topic - girls or education or whales," said
Kathy Calvin, referring to the social sector. "But this is about celebrating the
larger impulse." Asha Curran added: "We're seeing that it's important that we
don't consider this just a giving day, but rather an opportunity to unite people
around something positive at a particularly painful time for the world."

Robert Reich, the former secretary of labor, has observed that the story of
America is dominated by four essential stories, which he calls "The Triumphant
Individual," "The Benevolent Community," "The Mob at the Gates," and "The Rot at
the Top." All of these stories contain elements of truth. At any moment in time,
one tends to dominate. These days, it seems to be "The Mob at the Gates" - the
story that we are "continuously endangered by foreign menaces."

It's a worrisome moment. If there is one thing we know about fear, it is that it
tends to bring out the worst in people. In this context, Giving Tuesday provides
an important and salutary counterpoint, an opportunity to see the "Benevolent
Community" in action - the "story of neighbors and friends who roll up their
sleeves and pitch in for the common good." Giving Tuesday is like a giant barn
raising among people around the globe, made visible through social media.

Underpinning the idea is the notion that individuals and societies have the
potential to change course. As with genes, what is expressed in any society is a
function of what is triggered. Giving Tuesday shows the power of creating
contexts that bring out the best in people, rather than the opposite. There's no
reason we can't have more of them.

"It's important that we have these moments," says Timms. "It matters that we
demonstrate our values. We have very public demonstrations of our capacity to
consume. We need public demonstrations about our capacity to connect and care."

Join Fixes on Facebook and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes. To
receive e-mail alerts for Fixes columns, sign up here.

David Bornstein is the author of "How to Change the World," which has been
published in 20 languages, and "The Price of a Dream: The Story of the Grameen
Bank," and is co-author of "Social Entrepreneurship: What Everyone Needs to
Know." He is a co-founder of the Solutions Journalism Network, which supports
rigorous reporting about responses to social problems.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nonprofits Seek a Name to Reflect Their Mission

BYLINE: By NIKITA STEWART

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1320 words


Something about the Council of Senior Centers and Services of New York City Inc.
just did not sound right anymore.

For one, the council, a nonprofit organization, does not operate senior centers.
It advocates against the abuse of older adults, helps them apply for rental and
food assistance and lobbies for affordable housing on their behalf.

A year ago, the council began a search for a new name. Neither its existing
name, all 10 words of it, nor its initials, C.S.C.S., could live up to
everything the organization had done and is doing, said Igal Jellinik, who has
led the group since 1987.

By July, the organization was LiveOn NY.

LiveOn NY is among dozens of nonprofit groups in the city and surrounding area
that are shedding longstanding -- and sometimes long-winded -- names and
embarking on efforts to rebrand themselves.

Organizations such as a food bank and a prison-reform group are weighing the
risks and potential rewards of discarding names that, in some cases, they have
had for more than 100 years.

A catchy name that succinctly captures a group's mission can be a vital
fund-raising tool at a time when even the smallest of organizations are just a
Kickstarter campaign away from reaching millions of potential donors.

And with the Giving Tuesday initiative, now in its fourth year, joining Black
Friday and Cyber Monday in the after-Thanksgiving competition for cash,
nonprofits are facing some of the same pressures that retailers have long
shouldered around this time of year.

''They feel the need to be relevant, emotionally relevant,'' said David Kessler,
a founder of Starfish, a brand consulting firm.

Some groups have received donations specifically to help pay for image
makeovers, which can cost up to $200,000. Many have names and identities that no
longer reflect what they do, if they ever did, said Kevin Lane Keller, a
professor at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College who teaches
strategic brand management.

''One of the hardest things with nonprofits is that they do a lot of different
things,'' he said. ''It's hard to put in a box and put a label on. It's a
paragraph, not a couple of words.''

In October, Common Ground, a 25-year-old organization in Manhattan that builds
housing for the chronically homeless, people who are mentally ill and people
with H.I.V., became Breaking Ground.

The group had received an in-kind donation on space on an electronic billboard
at the Port Authority Bus Terminal and realized that its name was not ready for
the bright lights of the Times Square area, said Dan Sheehan, group creative
director at Siegelvision, the consulting firm that worked on the organization's
rebranding initiative. ''Common'' no longer seemed to suggest shared goals, he
said; rather, it had begun to connote ''ordinary.''

The group needed a name that reflected its accomplishments (3,200 units built in
Connecticut and New York over 25 years) and its plans (another 1,000 units to be
built mostly in Bronx over the next five years), said Brenda Rosen, the
organization's president and chief executive.

When a Google search can make or break a group's reputation, the Common Ground
name had become a liability, Mr. Sheehan said. In searches, the name often
yielded results for sites belonging to coffee shops and even a divorce
litigation firm, he said. (Google knows the value of a name. It was once known
as BackRub.)

A rebranding can take months. In the most involved efforts, consultants conduct
one-on-one interviews with current and former employees, clients, contributors
and staff members at government agencies that provide nonprofits with financing.

For example, Starfish interviewed 45 people to begin a rebranding process that
is not yet complete for the Carter Burden Center for Aging. The organization
began 43 years ago with one social worker operating what amounted to a referral
service from the office of Carter Burden, a City Council member who represented
the Upper East Side of Manhattan at the time. It has expanded over four decades,
said Bill Dionne, the executive director. ''We're not just a center; we're at
eight different locations.''

The Correctional Association of New York has struggled throughout its 171 years
to explain exactly what it is. It was originally called the Prison Association
of New York, a name no less puzzling to many people.

The group has for decades been a leader in advocating criminal justice reform,
pushing for more humane conditions in prisons, libraries for prisoners and a
separate system of incarceration for juvenile offenders. More recently, it has
helped promote a ban on shackling female prisoners who are giving birth.

But the group is frequently mistaken for a government agency or a labor union,
said J. Soffiyah Elijah, its executive director. Corrections officers sometimes
call, seeking help when one of their number is cited for wrongdoing, she said.

Ms. Elijah, a longtime social activist and a former clinical instructor at
Harvard Law School, said her friends were ''mortified'' when she took the job in
2011 because they mistakenly believed she was going work against prison reform.
The group is hoping to announce a new name soon.

For the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, a monthslong search for a new
identity proved difficult.

Jennifer Jones Austin took the helm of the organization three years ago and
quickly realized that she was spending much of her time explaining the name of
the group, which has worked to reduce poverty for more than 90 years.

The federation was founded in 1922 as the Federation of Institutions Caring for
Protestant Children. Three years later, it dropped ''children'' from its name.
By the Great Depression, it had put an emphasis on ''welfare.''

But that word, employees of the organization and consultants said, had become
loaded over time, associated with fraud and abuse, real and imagined. ''It has a
very kind of status quo, safety net feel to it,'' Ms. Jones Austin said.

After months of study, Ms. Jones Austin said the organization realized that even
if some of the words in the name, like welfare, left a less-than-positive
impression, the public was familiar with the group's initials. ''It was these
kinds of light-bulb moments where we appreciated what we had,'' she said. ''It
would be foolhardy to walk completely away from it.''

In October, the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies announced a transition
to simply using its initials, a move similar to the shift Kentucky Fried Chicken
made to become KFC. The F in the logo got a ''swoosh'' and the name got a
tagline, ''Fulfilling the Promise of Opportunity.''

Sometimes a group thinks about making a change and then decides against it.
Community FoodBank of New Jersey, which thought it had outgrown its name, was
such an organization.

Founded in 1975 by Kathleen DiChiara, who distributed food out of the trunk of
her car, the group now serves 1,000 nonprofit groups, distributing 43 million
pounds of food annually in 18 counties. It has also branched out into other
social services, including providing low-income people with job training and
helping them file tax returns.

After considering a name change, the group's leaders concluded that it was still
a food bank and still mainly concerned with ''community.'' That, said Debra
Vizzi, the president and chief executive, gave the organization more of a local
appeal to potential contributors in different areas.

Ms. Vizzi likened Community FoodBank to a household name, such as Johnson &
Johnson. She said a change would not make sense for Johnson & Johnson and would
make even less sense for her organization.

''We are selling help and hope,'' she said. ''That's much harder to put your
hands on than baby powder.''

The group did add a tagline: ''Food, Help, Hope.''

Follow The New York Times's Metro coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the New York Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/02/nyregion/nonprofits-aiming-for-relevance-try-o
n-new-names.html

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jennifer Jones Austin, left, leads a nonprofit that changed its
old name, Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, to the initials.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAITLIN OCHS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 4, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Declines to Reinstate Cannibal Case Conviction

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 932 words


A federal appeals court declined on Thursday to reinstate the conviction of a
former New York police officer who was accused of plotting actual kidnappings
when he exchanged online messages about abducting, torturing, killing and eating
women.

Saying they were loath ''to give the government the power to punish us for our
thoughts and not our actions,'' a majority of a divided three-judge panel wrote
that ''fantasizing about committing a crime, even a crime of violence against a
real person whom you know, is not a crime.''

The former officer, Gilberto Valle, who became widely known as the cannibal cop
after his 2012 arrest, was convicted by a jury the following year of kidnapping
conspiracy, a charge that carries a maximum sentence of life in prison, and a
second count that involved illegally gaining access to a law enforcement
database that the government said he used to conduct research on potential
victims.

The case against Mr. Valle touched on a fundamental question of the digital era:
When does a plot discussed in Internet chat rooms cross the line into actual
criminality?

Evidence presented at Mr. Valle's trial in Federal District Court in Manhattan
showed he had used screen names like Girlmeat Hunter to communicate with others
in gruesome exchanges on fetish websites.

And while prosecutors did not present evidence that the former officer had
actually harmed any women, they argued that he had taken steps to advance his
plot such as conducting surveillance of potential victims and doing Google
searches with phrases like ''how to abduct a girl'' that they said lifted his
activities out of the realm of fiction.

Mr. Valle, at the time a six-year veteran of the New York Police Department, was
arrested in October 2012. Evidence presented at his trial showed he had created
a document on his computer hard drive called ''Abducting and Cooking'' a
potential victim. In one exchange with a co-conspirator, he described tying down
a woman, adding, ''Cook her over a low heat, keep her alive as long as
possible.''

The defense asked the trial judge, Paul G. Gardephe, to find Mr. Valle not
guilty, notwithstanding the verdict. More than a year later, Judge Gardephe
issued an opinion overturning the kidnapping conspiracy charge, saying there was
not enough evidence to support it.

''The evidentiary record is such that it is more likely than not the case that
all of Valle's Internet communications about kidnapping are fantasy role-play,''
Judge Gardephe wrote on June 30, 2014.

The government appealed that ruling to the United States Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit, with a prosecutor, Justin Anderson, telling the three-judge
panel in an oral argument that it was not Judge Gardephe's role ''to see himself
as a 13th juror in the trial and decide whether his view of the evidence was in
line with the jury's view of the evidence.''

On Thursday, the Second Circuit, by a vote of 2 to 1, affirmed Judge Gardephe's
decision overturning the conspiracy conviction, calling his opinion ''thorough
and thoughtful.''

''This does not mean that fantasies are harmless,'' Judge Barrington D. Parker
Jr. wrote for the majority. ''To the contrary, fantasies of violence against
women are both a symptom of and a contributor to a culture of exploitation, a
massive social harm that demeans women.''

''Yet,'' Judge Parker added, ''we must not forget that in a free and functioning
society, not every harm is meant to be addressed with the federal criminal
law.''

Dawn Dearden, a spokeswoman for Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for
the Southern District of New York, said the office had no comment on the appeals
court's decision.

In its ruling, the panel also reversed Mr. Valle's conviction on the charge that
he had illegally gained access to the law enforcement database, which Judge
Gardephe had upheld, and which the defense had appealed.

In a statement, Mr. Valle's federal public defenders, Julia L. Gatto, Edward S.
Zas and Robert M. Baum, said the ''ruling is a very important victory not just
for Mr. Valle, who has now been cleared of all criminal charges, but for an open
society that treasures freedom of thought and expression.''

Judge Parker was joined in the majority decision by Judge Susan L. Carney; the
third panel member, Judge Chester J. Straub, dissented, saying the majority
opinion ''seeks to enshrine all the conduct in this case in an academic
protective halo.''

''This is not a case about governmental intrusion on one's personal inclinations
and fantasies,'' Judge Straub wrote, ''nor is it a case about governmental
punishment of one's thoughts. It is, instead, a jury's determination of guilt
for a conspiracy based on definitive conduct.''

Mr. Valle, who had served 21 months in prison, has been free pending his appeal.

In April, Mr. Valle was the subject of a documentary film, ''Thought Crimes,''
by the director Erin Lee Carr, which made its premiere at the Tribeca Film
Festival and was shown on HBO. In interviews, Mr. Valle described how he hid
behind online identities and communicated with others about abducting and
killing women, while contending that it was all fantasy.

''When you're behind a computer screen late at night, no one knows who you are,
where you are,'' Mr. Valle says in the film. ''I became part of this cyber
-community, where people are exploring deviant thoughts and exploring their
fetishes.''

''The anonymity,'' he adds, ''makes you try and outdo the other person: Who can
be the sicker one?'' But, after shutting off the computer, he added, ''I go back
to being the regular me.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/04/nyregion/appeals-court-gilberto-valle-cannibal
-case.html

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gilberto Valle, a former police officer, was accused of plotting
to abduct and kill women. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Wordplay)

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday

Round Numbers

BYLINE: DEB AMLEN

SECTION: CROSSWORDS

LENGTH: 171 words



HIGHLIGHT: Saturday with Barry C. Silk.


 FRIDAY PUZZLE - If I was going to try to spot a minitheme for Barry Silk's
crossword puzzle, it would have to be a combination of "Ancient Greece" and "The
Internet."

SPAM FILTER makes its debut today, as does CYBER WAR, plus we also have
E-VERIFY. We also have the twin "Ancient Greek State" clue for both ATTICA and
SPARTA.

We also have a crossing that intrigued me: AAA CELL crosses TRIPLE A, but it's
not a duplicate. The former is clued as the battery and the latter is clued as
the credit rating.

I got HEELPAD for 44 Across's "Runner's shock absorber," but as a runner, I can
tell you that if you are striking the ground on your heel, you are setting
yourself up for injury. It's much better to strike with your mid- or forefoot.

And how is it possible that the lovely phrase STARRY EYED has just made its
first appearance since 1991? Let's bring that one back. It's beautiful.

Now, we assume the lotus pose and breathe deeply as we move on to the Saturday
puzzle with some Ravi SHANKAR:

[Video:  Watch on YouTube.]

Your thoughts?

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 11, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Navy Quarterback Sets His Sights on the Pros

BYLINE: By TOM PEDULLA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 869 words


PHILADELPHIA --  Keenan Reynolds never campaigned for the Heisman Trophy. He
never struck a Heisman pose after scoring one of his many touchdowns. He never
boasted of his achievements. And Reynolds will not win the trophy on Saturday
night, having been left off the list of finalists despite an online campaign on
his behalf.

But that all seems to be fine with Reynolds, who has expertly commanded Navy's
intricate triple-option offense the last four years but is suddenly entering a
jolting new phase of his life, one over which he has no control.

''I'm trying,'' he said recently, ''to stay focused on what is in front of me.''

This week, that is Saturday's regular-season finale against Army (2-9) at
Lincoln Financial Field. Reynolds's focus on that game narrowed even tighter
this week when he learned that he would not be invited to the Heisman ceremony
in New York, forcing Navy (9-2) to scrap plans to use two helicopters to ferry a
nine-person contingent, including Reynolds, from Philadelphia, where kickoff is
set for 3 p.m., to New York for the 8 p.m. ceremony.

Instead, Reynolds will be able to focus on one more milestone in his
record-setting career: becoming the first starting quarterback to sweep four
games in the series. After that, he will look ahead to Navy's Military Bowl
matchup against Pittsburgh on Dec. 28 in Annapolis, Md.

''I don't know what the future holds after graduation,'' he said, but he surely
has thought about that as well.

Any opportunity to play in the N.F.L. will depend not only on whether he can
overcome doubts about his size (5 feet 11 inches, 205 pounds) and throwing
ability, but also on whether the secretary of the Navy is willing to allow him
to simultaneously meet his obligations to a team while he fulfills the mandatory
five-year military commitment. Though Reynolds might be disappointed if he does
not receive an accommodation, he said that he had gotten his first choice for
his service assignment -- information warfare -- and that he was enthusiastic
about it.

The toughest part of the football season is behind him. Reynolds said he found
the Heisman talk so distracting that he dropped off Facebook and Twitter,
leaving fans and news media members to debate whether voters were keeping to
their mission of recognizing the player ''whose performance best exhibits the
pursuit of excellence with integrity.''

The debate intensified last week when ESPN dropped Reynolds as one of five
listed candidates from an online vote after Navy lost to Houston on Nov. 27,
even though he was leading fan voting by a substantial margin. Navy voiced its
objection through the athletic department's Twitter account, and Senator John
McCain, a Naval Academy graduate, was among those who rallied to the cause. He
wrote on Twitter that dropping Reynolds was ''outrageous'' and urged fans to go
through the more laborious process of a write-in campaign. ESPN later restored
Reynolds to the list of candidates, though voting ended last Saturday.

Reynolds's parents left the impression that they were bitterly disappointed that
Keenan was not invited to New York. His mother, Jackie, said, ''He epitomizes
what the award stands for.'' His father, Donnie, said: ''He should be there.
Just look at his résumé.''

It is quite a résumé. Reynolds became the career leader in the Football Bowl
Subdivision this season, with 83 rushing touchdowns, and he ranks fifth among
quarterbacks in N.C.A.A. history with 4,279 rushing yards. He holds Navy records
for points (674) and wins by a quarterback (30), and with 36 passing yards
against Army, he will become the first Midshipman with two seasons of 1,000
yards rushing and passing.

But the Heisman is not based on a career, only the current season, and
Reynolds's rushing statistics (1,093 yards, 19 touchdowns) hardly leap off the
page when compared to the named finalists. Yet Reynolds also completed 46 of 84
passes for 964 yards and six touchdowns, and did it while taking courses that
included National Security Decision Making in the Cyber Age and Politics of
Irregular Warfare.

Bernard Sarra, a Navy nose guard, said of Reynolds, ''Keenan definitely sets the
tone for the kind of Midshipman you want to be, the kind of man off the field
that you want to be.''

Although Reynolds fell short of the Heisman, N.F.L. scouts will make the
evaluation that matters most to him, and he can only hope the Navy will
accommodate him if the opportunity arises for a professional career. Navy Coach
Ken Niumatalolo said he believes Reynolds possesses some of the intangibles that
allowed Russell Wilson, the Seattle Seahawks' dynamic 5-foot-11 quarterback, to
succeed.

''You look at the things they've done with Russell Wilson, and it seems he's a
very similar type of quarterback,'' Niumatalolo said.

Reynolds hopes a recent precedent may favor him if there is N.F.L. interest. His
former teammate Joe Cardona, a long snapper, is playing his rookie season with
the New England Patriots while fulfilling his five-year military commitment in
Rhode Island.

Donnie Reynolds said of his son's aspirations, ''He looks at it that it would be
nice to let kids know you can come to Navy and serve your country and still play
football.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/11/sports/ncaafootball/after-heisman-snub-navy-pa
sser-focuses-on-what-he-can-control.html

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Keenan Reynolds (19) and Navy will play their regular-season
finale on Saturday against Army. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TROY TAORMINA/USA TODAY SPORTS,
VIA REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 13, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Readers Respond on Progressive Private Schools

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; READER COMMENTS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 637 words


Tiny School, Bold Idea

In last week's Big City column, Ginia Bellafante wrote about the AltSchool
network of progressive private schools, which just opened a branch in Brooklyn
Heights. Readers responded on nytimes.com. Comments have been edited for length
and clarity.

This school has kept a very low profile in Brooklyn Heights. I was not aware it
was even open. It has an entrance through a former store on Hicks Street, just
south of Montague Street, and I never see anyone going in or coming out. The
actual school must be on the second floor, where it shares space with several
other companies. Andrew Porter, Brooklyn Heights

How cloying to read of the dabbling done by the rich and powerful, creating
boutique, for-profit schools, while doing their utmost to take money away from
the public school system, filled with what they must view as all bad, union
member, antiquated teachers. Back in the day, I sent my son to an alternative
school in Vermont for one year. The main subjects covered were cooking, running
in the fields, and skiing on the Cochran's ski run. Very touchy feely, but my
son was so bright he could have learned anywhere. Here's hoping the titans wake
up and figure out ways to strengthen the public school system, doing away with
the punishing, teacher bashing, teach-to-the-test tragedy that was No Child Left
Behind. This terrible law, a legacy of George Bush -- with all the rewards of
corporatizing public education going to his buddies -- has at least just been
modified to the good -- but there is a long way to go to reclaim public
education. Ellen Liversidge, San Diego, CA

Although I was prepared to hate them -- because I taught in public elementary
schools for 31 years -- I have to say these schools sound wonderful. I hope the
ideas expressed in this article accurately describe the AltSchools and their
ideas do eventually become incorporated into the public schools' curriculum. I
always wished for more time to develop units based on what the kids were
interested in, and vacations with parents seemed like great learning
experiences. Homework was a drag for my own kids, and as a teacher I hated being
falsely evaluated by how much homework I assigned. It's appropriate now and
then. Sounds like AltSchools teach kids how to learn and to enjoy the process.
Good for them and lucky the children who get in. Catherine Korten, Highland
Park, NJ

When we have public schools that are decent, clean, equipped and staffed by
qualified teachers, one teacher for every 15 or so students, all paid for with
our taxes -- which are now being avoided by these wealthy creators of wealthy
alternatives to the Common Good schools -- all of our children including the
children of the wealthy will be well educated, caring citizens that will care
for the Common Good rather than personal profit. Tom Carney, Manhattan Beach

''For-profit schools?'' ''Technology enhances the process through the use of
software and applications''? Sounds as though these schools are designed to
enhance the wealth of their chief donors and ensure that people are even more
enslaved by their devices and apps. Those who found (and subsidize) them are
conveniently ignoring the growing number of scientific studies that show the
devastating impact of electronics, virtual reality, and device addiction on
human intelligence, human empathy, and social skills. What we need are schools
that can teach students how to read books, do math without a calculator or apps,
learn language without software skills, and be able to carry society on -- if
indeed something should go wrong with technology one day as it no doubt will. Do
we really want to leave our children and grandchildren without the knowledge to
rebuild their country after a cyber war, which becomes a more frightening
reality each day? Leona, New York




URL:

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 16, 2015 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Transcript: Republican Presidential Debate

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Politics; Pg.

LENGTH: 22855 words


Following is a transcript of the main Republican debate, as transcribed by the
Federal News Service.

BLITZER: Welcome to the CNN-Facebook Republican presidential debate here at the
Venetian Las Vegas.

We have a very enthusiastic audience. Everyone is here. They're looking forward
to a serious and spirited discussion about the security of this nation.

I'm Wolf Blitzer, your moderator tonight. This debate is airing on CNN networks
here in the United States and around the world, and on the Salem Radio Network.
The nine leading candidates, they are here. Let's welcome them right now.

Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky.

(APPLAUSE)

New Jersey Governor Chris Christie.

(APPLAUSE)

Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush.

(APPLAUSE)

Senator Ted Cruz of Texas.

(APPLAUSE)

Businessman and real estate developer Donald Trump.

(APPLAUSE)

Retired neurosurgeon, Dr. Ben Carson.

(APPLAUSE)

Senator Marco Rubio of Florida.

(APPLAUSE)

Former Hewlett Packard CEO Carly Fiorina.

(APPLAUSE)

And Ohio Governor John Kasich.

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome these Republican candidates for president of the
United States.

(APPLAUSE)

This is the final Republican debate before the election year begins, and we're
taking a moment for the photographs of the candidates together on the stage.
Now, everyone, please rise for the national anthem sung by Ayla Brown.

(NATIONAL ANTHEM)

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: I know everyone is eager to get started. So, candidates, please take
your places while I explain the ground rules for tonight.

As moderator, I'll guide the discussion, and I'll be joined in the questioning
by Salem Radio Network talk show host Hugh Hewitt and CNN's chief political
correspondent Dana Bash. We also asked Republicans and independents nationwide
to share their questions for the candidates. We teamed up with Facebook to send
a campaign camper across the country over the past several weeks.

Thousands of people stepped inside and recorded their questions on video.
Millions more have weighed in on Facebook. Candidates, I'll try to make sure
each of you gets your fair share of questions. You'll have a minute and 15
seconds to answer and 30 seconds for follow-ups and rebuttals. I'll give you
time to respond if you're singled out for criticism.

Our viewers should know that we have timing lights that are visible to the
candidates to warn them when their time is up. And as the candidates requested,
a bell will sound like this. We know you are all eager to jump in and debate
these important issues, so, please, wait until you're called on.

These nine Republicans are positioned on stage based on their ranking in the
recent polls, so let's begin right now. I'd like to invite each candidate to
introduce himself or herself to our audience. You'll have one minute.

First to you, Senator Paul.

PAUL: The question is, how do we keep America safe from terrorism? Trump says we
ought to close that Internet thing. The question really is, what does he mean by
that? Like they do in North Korea? Like they do in China?

Rubio says we should collect all Americans' records all of the time. The
Constitution says otherwise. I think they're both wrong. I think we defeat
terrorism by showing them that we do not fear them. I think if we ban certain
religions, if we censor the Internet, I think that at that point the terrorists
will have won. Regime change hasn't won. Toppling secular dictators in the
Middle East has only led to chaos and the rise of radical Islam. I think if we
want to defeat terrorism, I think if we truly are sincere about defeating
terrorism, we need to quit arming the allies of ISIS. If we want to defeat
terrorism, the boots on the ground -- the boots on the ground need to be Arab
boots on the ground.

As commander-in-chief, I will do whatever it takes to defend America. But in
defending America, we cannot lose what America stands for. Today is the Bill of
Rights' anniversary. I hope we will remember that and cherish that in the fight
on terrorism.

BLITZER: Thank you, Senator.

(APPLAUSE)

Governor Kasich?

KASICH: Thank you, Wolf. Just last weekend, just last week, a friend asked one
of my daughters, ''Do you like politics?'' And my daughter said, ''No, I don't.
And the reason I don't like it is because there's too much fighting, too much
yelling. It's so loud, I don't like it.'' You know, I turned to my friend and I
said, ''You know, she's really on to something.''

And when we think about our country and the big issues that we face in this
country; creating jobs, making sure people can keep their jobs, the need for
rising wages, whether our children when they graduate from college can find a
job, protecting the homeland, destroying ISIS, rebuilding defense. These are all
the things that we need to focus on but we'll never get there if we're divided.
We'll never get there if republicans and democrats just fight with one another.

Frankly, we are republicans and they're democrats but before all of that, we're
Americans. And I believe we need to unify in so many ways to rebuild our
country, to strengthen our country, to rebuild our defense, and for America to
secure it's place it world; for us, for our children, and for the next
generation.

Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Governor Christie?

CHRISTIE: Thank you Wolf.

America has been betrayed. We've been betrayed by the leadership that Barack
Obama and Hilary Clinton have provided to this country over the last number of
years. Think about just what's happened today. The second largest school
district in America in Los Angeles closed based on a threat. Think about the
effect that, that's going to have on those children when they go back to school
tomorrow wondering filled with anxiety to whether they're really going to be
safe.

Think about the mothers who will take those children tomorrow morning to the bus
stop wondering whether their children will arrive back on that bus safe and
sound. Think about the fathers of Los Angeles, who tomorrow will head off to
work and wonder about the safety of their wives and their children.

What is Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton done to this country? That the most
basic responsibility of an administration is to protect the safety and security
of the American people. I will tell you this, I'm a former federal prosecutor,
I've fought terrorists and won and when we get back in the White House we will
fight terrorists and win again and America will be safe.

(APPLAUSE) BLITZER: Ms. Fiorina?

FIORINA: Like all of you I'm angry. I'm angry at what's happening to our nation.
Citizens, it's time to take our country back.

Bombastic insults wont take it back. Political rhetoric that promises a lot and
delivers little, won't take it back. All of our problems can be solved. All of
our wounds can be healed by a tested leader who is willing to fight for the
character of our nation.

I have been tested. I have beaten breast cancer. I have buried a child. I
started as a secretary. I fought my way to the top of corporate America while
being called every B word in the book. I fought my way into this election and on
to this debate stage while all the political insiders and the pundits told, ''it
couldn't be done.''

I've been told, ''no,: all my life. And all my life, I've refused to accept no
as an answer. Citizens, it is time to take our country back from the political
class, from the media, from the liberal elite. It can be done, it must be done,
join me and we will get it done.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Governor Bush?

BUSH: Our freedom is under attack. Our economy is under water. The leading
democrat is under investigation. And America is under the gun to lead the free
world to protect our civilized way of life.

Serious times require strong leadership, that's what at stake right now.
Regarding national security, we need to restore the defense cuts of Barack Obama
to rebuild our military, to destroy ISIS before it destroys us. Regarding
economic security, we need to take power and money away from Washington D.C. and
empower American families so that they can rise up again.

Look, America still is an exceptional country. We love to lead and we love to
win. And we do it, when we take on any challenge and when we take - we support
our friends.

As president, I will keep you and our country safe, secure, and free.

Thank you.

BLITZER: Senator Rubio?

RUBIO: Thank you Wolf.

It's really amazing to be back in Las Vegas. I spent six years as a child
growing not far from where we stand tonight. I use to sit on the porch of our
home and listen to my grandfather tell stories as he smoked one of three daily
cigars.

One of the things my grandfather instilled in me, was that I was really blessed
because I was a citizen of the greatest country in the history of our mankind.
But there have always been people in American politics that wanted America to be
more like the rest of the world. And In 2008, one of them was elected president
of this country and the result has been a disaster.

Today you have millions of Americans that feel left out and out of place in
their own country, struggling to live paycheck to paycheck, called bigots
because they hold on to traditional values.

And around the world, America's influence has declined while this president has
destroyed our military, our allies no longer trust us, and our adversaries no
longer respect us. And that is why this election is so important.

That is why I'm running for president. And that's why I'm going to ask you for
your vote tonight. If you elect me president, we will have a president that
believes America is the greatest country in the world and we will have a
president that acts like it.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Senator Cruz.

CRUZ: Thank you, Wolf.

America is at war. Our enemy is not violent extremism. It is not some unnamed
malevolent force. It is radical Islamic terrorist. We have a president who is
unwilling to utter its name. The men and women on this stage, every one of us,
is better prepared to keep this nation safe than is Barack Obama or Hillary
Clinton.

We need a president who understands the first obligation of the
commander-in-chief is to keep America safe. If I am elected president, we will
hunt down and kill the terrorists. We will utterly destroy ISIS.

We will stop the terrorist attacks before they occur because we will not be
prisoners to political correctness. Rather, we will speak the truth. Border
security is national security and we will not be admitting jihadists as
refugees.

We will keep America safe.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Dr. Carson.

CARSON: Thank you, Wolf.

Please join me for a moment of silence and remembrance of the San Bernardino
victims. Thank you. You know, our country since its inception has been at war,
every 15 or 20 years. But the war that we are fighting now against radical
Islamist jihadists is one that we must win. Our very existence is dependent upon
that.

You know, as a pediatric neurosurgeon, I frequently faced life and death
situations, and had to come up with the right diagnosis, the right plan, and
execute that plan frequently with other colleagues.

Right now, the United States of America is the patient. And the patient is in
critical condition and will not be cured by political correctness and will not
be cured by timidity.

And I am asking the Congress, which represents the people, to declare a war on
ISIS so that we can begin the process of excising that cancer and begin the
healing process, and bring peace, prosperity, and safety back to America.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Mr. Trump.

TRUMP: Thank you.

I began this journey six months ago. My total focus was on building up our
military, building up our strength, building up our borders, making sure that
China, Japan, Mexico, both at the border and in trade, no longer takes advantage
of our country.

Certainly would never have made that horrible, disgusting, absolutely
incompetent deal with Iran where they get $150 billion. They're a terrorist
nation. But I began it talking about other things.

And those things are things that I'm very good at and maybe that's why I'm
center stage. People saw it. People liked it. People respected it.

A month ago things changed. Radical Islamic terrorism came into effect even more
so than it has been in the past. People like what I say. People respect what I
say. And we've opened up a very big discussion that needed to be opened up.

Thank you very much.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Thank you.

Since you last debated, Americans have witnessed terror attacks in Paris and San
Bernardino. The FBI director says the country now faces the greatest terror
threat since 9/11. You all have different approaches to keeping the country
safe. And that will be the focus of tonight's debate.

BLITZER: Mr. Trump, as you mentioned in your opening statement, part of your
strategy is to focus in on America's borders. To keep the country safe, you say
you want to temporarily ban non-American Muslims from coming to the United
States; ban refugees fleeing ISIS from coming here; deport 11 million people;
and wall off America's southern border. Is the best way to make America great
again to isolate it from much of the rest of the world?

TRUMP: We are not talking about isolation. We're talking about security. We're
not talking about religion. We're talking about security. Our country is out of
control. People are pouring across the southern border. I will build a wall. It
will be a great wall. People will not come in unless they come in legally. Drugs
will not pour through that wall.

As far as other people like in the migration, where they're going, tens of
thousands of people having cell phones with ISIS flags on them? I don't think
so, Wolf. They're not coming to this country. And if I'm president and if Obama
has brought some to this country, they are leaving. They're going. They're gone.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Governor Bush, you called Mr. Trump ''unhinged'' when he proposed
banning non-American Muslims from the United States. Why is that unhinged?

BUSH: Well, first of all, we need to destroy ISIS in the caliphate. That's --
that should be our objective. The refugee issue will be solved if we destroy
ISIS there, which means we need to have a no-fly zone, safe zones there for
refugees and to build a military force.

We need to embed our forces -- our troops inside the Iraqi military. We need to
arm directly the Kurds. And all of that has to be done in concert with the Arab
nations. And if we're going to ban all Muslims, how are we going to get them to
be part of a coalition to destroy ISIS?

The Kurds are the greatest fighting force and our strongest allies. They're
Muslim. Look, this is not a serious proposal. In fact, it will push the Muslim
world, the Arab world away from us at a time when we need to reengage with them
to be able to create a strategy to destroy ISIS.

So Donald, you know, is great at -- at the one-liners, but he's a chaos
candidate. And he'd be a chaos president. He would not be the commander in chief
we need to keep our country safe.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Mr. Trump?

TRUMP: Jeb doesn't really believe I'm unhinged. He said that very simply because
he has failed in this campaign. It's been a total disaster. Nobody cares. And
frankly, I'm the most solid person up here. I built a tremendous company and all
I want to do is make America great again.

I don't want our country to be taken away from us, and that's what's happening.
The policies that we've suffered under other presidents have been a disaster for
our country. We want to make America great again. And Jeb, in all fairness, he
doesn't believe that.

BUSH: Look, he mentioned me. I can bring -- I can talk. This is -- this is the
problem. Banning all Muslims will make it harder for us to do exactly what we
need to do, which is to destroy ISIS. We need a strategy. We need to get the
lawyers off the back of the warfighters. Right now under President Obama, we've
created this -- this standard that is so high that it's impossible to be
successful in fighting ISIS.

We need to engage with the Arab world to make this happen. It is not a serious
proposal to say that -- to the people that you're asking for their support that
they can't even come to the country to even engage in a dialogue with us. That's
not a serious proposal. We need a serious leader to deal with this. And I
believe I'm that guy.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Senator Rubio -- I'm going to go to Senator Rubio and get his thoughts.

You have said banning Muslims is unconstitutional. But according to a recent ABC
News-Washington Post poll, a majority of Republicans support Mr. Trump's idea.
Why are they wrong?

RUBIO: Well, I understand why they feel that way, because this president hasn't
kept us safe. The problem is we had an attack in San Bernardino. And we were
paying attention to the most important issue we have faced in a decade since
9/11, and then all the talk was about this proposal, which isn't going to
happen.

But this is what's important to do is we must deal frontally with this threat of
radical Islamists, especially from ISIS. This is the most sophisticated terror
group that has ever threatened the world or the United States of America. They
are actively recruiting Americans. The attacker in San Bernardino was an
American citizen, born and raised in this country. He was a health inspector;
had a newborn child and left all that behind to kill 14 people.

We also understand that this is a group that's growing in its governance of
territory. It's not just Iraq and Syria. They are now a predominant group in
Libya. They are beginning to pop up in Afghanistan. They are increasingly
involved now in attacks in Yemen. They have Jordan in their sights.

This group needs to be confronted with serious proposals. And this is a very
significant threat we face. And the president has left us unsafe. He spoke the
other night to the American people to reassure us. I wish he hadn't spoken at
all. He made things worse. Because what he basically said was we are going to
keep doing what we're doing now, and what we are doing now is not working.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Hugh Hewitt, you have a question.

HEWITT: Senator Cruz, you've said you disagree with Mr. Trump's policy. I don't
want a cage match; you've tweeted you don't want a cage match. But Republican
primary voters deserve to know, with the kind of specificity and responsiveness
you delivered in your nine Supreme Court arguments, how you disagree with Mr.
Trump. Would you spell that out with us?

CRUZ: Well, listen, Hugh, everyone understands why Donald has suggested what he
has. We're looking at a president who's engaged in this double-speak where he
doesn't call radical Islamic terrorism by its name. Indeed, he gives a speech
after the San Bernardino attack where his approach is to try to go after the
constitutional rights of law-abiding citizens rather than to keep us safe.

And even worse, President Obama and Hillary Clinton are proposing bringing tens
of thousands of Syrian refugees to this country when the head of the FBI has
told Congress they cannot vet those refugees.

I understand why Donald made that proposal. I introduced legislation in the
Senate that I believe is more narrowly focused at the actual threat, which is
radical Islamic terrorism, and what my legislation would do is suspend all
refugees for three years from countries where ISIS or Al Qaida control
substantial territory.

HEWITT: So you're saying you disagree because he's too broad and you have a
narrower focus? Why do you disagree with him?

CRUZ: Well, you know, I'm reminded of what FDR's grandfather said. He said,
''All horse-thieves are Democrats, but not all Democrats are horse-thieves.''

(LAUGHTER)

In this instance, there are millions of peaceful Muslims across the world, in
countries like India, where there is not the problems we are seeing in nations
that are controlled -- have territory controlled by Al Qaida or ISIS, and we
should direct at the problem, focus on the problem, and defeat radical Islamic
terrorism. It's not a war on a faith; it's a war on a political and theocratic
ideology that seeks to murder us.

HEWITT: Carly Fiorina... (APPLAUSE)

... this is the Christmas dinner debate. This will be the debate that Americans
talk about at Christmas. And thus far, in the first 10 minutes, we haven't heard
a lot about Ronald Reagan's city on a hill. We've heard a lot about keeping
Americans out or keeping Americans safe and everyone else out. Is this what you
want the party to stand for?

FIORINA: What I think we need to stand for are solutions. I offer myself as a
leader to the people of this country because I think they're looking for
solutions, not lawyers arguing over laws or entertainers throwing out sound
bites that draw media attention. We need to solve the problem.

To solve the problem, we need to do something here at home and something over
there in their caliphate. We need to deny them territory.

But here at home, we need to do two fundamental things. Number one, we need to
recognize that technology has moved on. The Patriot Act was signed in 2001,
roughly. The iPhone was invented in 2007. The iPad was invented in 2011.
Snapchat and Twitter, all the rest of it, have been around just for several
years. Technology has moved on, and the terrorists have moved on with it.

Let me tell you a story. Soon after 9/11, I got a phone call from the NSA. They
needed help. I gave them help. I stopped a truckload of equipment. I had it
turned around. It was escorted by the NSA into headquarters. We need the private
sector's help, because government is not innovating. Technology is running ahead
by leaps and bound. The private sector will help, just as I helped after 9/11.
But they must be engaged, and they must be asked. I will ask them. I know them.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Governor Christie, Americans are clearly more afraid today than at any
time since 9/11. As you mentioned in your opening statement, today in Los
Angeles, 650 schoolchildren didn't go to -- 650,000 schoolchildren didn't go to
school because of an e-mail threat, this two weeks after an attack killed 14
people in San Bernardino. Is this the new normal? And if so, what steps would
you take as president of the United States to ensure that fear does not paralyze
America?

CHRISTIE: Wolf, unfortunately, it's the new normal under Barack Obama and
Hillary Clinton. The fact is that if you listen to Hillary Clinton the other
day, what she said to the American people was, as regards to ISIS, my strategy
would be just about the same as the president's.

Just about the same as the president's? We have people across this country who
are scared to death. Because I could tell you this, as a former federal
prosecutor, if a center for the developmentally disabled in San Bernardino,
California, is now a target for terrorists, that means everywhere in America is
a target for these terrorists.

Now, I spent seven years of my life in the immediate aftermath of September 11th
doing this work, working with the Patriot Act, working with our law enforcement,
working with the surveillance community to make sure that we keep America safe.

What we need to do, Wolf, is restore those tools that have been taken away by
the president and others, restore those tools to the NSA and to our entire
surveillance and law enforcement community.

We need a president who is going to understand what actionable intelligence
looks like and act on it. And we need a president and a cabinet who understands
that the first and most important priority of the president of the United States
is to protect the safety and security of Americans.

As someone who has done it, I will make sure it gets done again.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Thank you.

Governor Kasich, one of the killers in San Bernardino was an American who was
not on anyone's watch list. How are you going to find that radicalized person
and stop another such attack?

KASICH: Well, first of all, Wolf, I said last February that we needed to have
people on the ground, troops on the ground in a coalition similar to what we had
in the first Gulf War.

I remember when the Egyptian ambassador to the United States stood in the Rose
Garden and pledged Arab commitment to removing Saddam Hussein from Kuwait.
Before we came out here tonight, I am told that the Saudis have organized 34
countries who want to join in the battle against terrorism.

First and foremost, we need to go and destroy ISIS. And we need to do this with
our Arab friends and our friends in Europe.

And when I see they have a climate conference over in Paris, they should have
been talking about destroying ISIS because they are involved in virtually every
country, you know, across this world.

(APPLAUSE)

Now, you destroy ISIS in a coalition. You get joint intelligence with our
European friends. And then here at home, there are things called the Joint
Terrorism Task Force, headed by the FBI, and made up of local law enforcement,
including state police.

They need the tools. And the tools involve encryption where we cannot hear what
they're even planning. And when we see red flags, a father, a mother, a neighbor
who says we have got a problem here, then we have to give law enforcement the
ability to listen so they can disrupt these terrorist attacks before they occur.

We can do this, but we've got to get moving. Pay me now or pay me a lot more
later. This is the direction we need to go.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Thank you.

Dana Bash, you have the next question.

BASH: A crucial question is how to balance surveillance with privacy and keeping
Americans safe.

Senator Cruz, you voted for a bill that President Obama signed into law just
this past June that made it harder for the government to access Americans' phone
records. In light of the San Bernardino attack, was your vote a mistake?

CRUZ: Well, Dana, the premise of your question is not accurate. I'm very proud
to have joined with conservatives in both the Senate and the House to reform how
we target bad guys.

And what the USA Freedom Act did is it did two things. Number one, it ended the
federal government's bulk collection of phone metadata of millions of
law-abiding citizens.

But number two in the second half of it that is critical. It strengthened the
tools of national security and law enforcement to go after terrorists. It gave
us greater tools and we are seeing those tools work right now in San Bernardino.

And in particular, what it did is the prior program only covered a relatively
narrow slice of phone calls. When you had a terrorist, you could only search a
relatively narrow slice of numbers, primarily land lines.

The USA Freedom Act expands that so now we have cell phones, now we have
Internet phones, now we have the phones that terrorists are likely to use and
the focus of law enforcement is on targeting the bad guys.

You know what the Obama administration keeps getting wrong is whenever anything
bad happens they focus on law-abiding citizens instead of focusing on the bad
guys.

We need to focus on radical Islamic terrorists and we need to stop them before
they carry out acts of terror.

(APPLAUSE)

BASH: Thank you.

Senator Rubio, Senator Cruz is right there was bipartisan support for that. But
you voted against it. So, is Senator Cruz wrong?

RUBIO: He is and so are those that voted for it. There were some that voted for
it because they wanted to keep it alive and they were afraid the whole program
would expire.

Here's the world we live in. This is a radical jihadist group that is
increasingly sophisticated in its ability, for example, to radicalize American
citizens, in its inability to exploit loopholes in our legal immigration system,
in its ability to capture and hold territory in the Middle East, as I outlined
earlier, in multiple countries.

This is not just the most capable, it is the most sophisticated terror threat we
have ever faced. We are now at a time when we need more tools, not less tools.
And that took we lost, the metadata program, was a valuable tool that we no
longer have at our disposal.

BASH: Senator Cruz?

CRUZ: Well, you know, I would note that Marco knows what he's saying isn't true.
You know, Mark Levin wrote a column last week that says that the attack ads his
Super PAC is running that are saying the same thing, that they are knowingly
false and they are, in fact, Alinsky-like attacks like Barack Obama.

And the reason is simple. What he knows is that the old program covered 20
percent to 30 percent of phone numbers to search for terrorists. The new program
covers nearly 100 percent. That gives us greater ability to stop acts of
terrorism, and he knows that that's the case.

RUBIO: Dana, may I interject here?

BASH: Senator -- Senator -- Senator Rubio, please respond.

RUBIO: Let me be very careful when answering this, because I don't think
national television in front of 15 million people is the place to discuss
classified information. So let me just be very clear. There is nothing that we
are allowed to do under this bill that we could not do before.

This bill did, however, take away a valuable tool that allowed the National
Security Agency and other law -- and other intelligence agencies to quickly and
rapidly access phone records and match them up with other phone records to see
who terrorists have been calling. Because I promise you, the next time there is
attack on -- an attack on this country, the first thing people are going to want
to know is, why didn't we know about it and why didn't we stop it? And the
answer better not be because we didn't have access to records or information
that would have allowed us to identify these killers before they attacked.

(CROSSTALK)

(APPLAUSE)

BASH: Senator Paul, Senator Paul, I know this is -- this has been a very big
issue for you. You hear many of your colleagues are calling for increased
surveillance by law enforcement. You call that hogwash. Why is that hogwash?

PAUL: You know, I think Marco gets it completely wrong. We are not any safer
through the bulk collection of all Americans' records. In fact, I think we're
less safe. We get so distracted by all of the information, we're not spending
enough time getting specific immigration -- specific information on terrorists.

The other thing is, is the one thing that might have stopped San Bernardino,
that might have stopped 9/11 would have been stricter controls on those who came
here. And Marco has opposed at every point increased security -- border security
for those who come to our country.

On his Gang of Eight bill, he would have liberalized immigration, but he did not
-- and he steadfastly opposed any new border security requirements for refugees
or students.

Last week, I introduced another bill saying we need more security, we need more
scrutiny. Once again, Marco opposed this. So Marco can't have it both ways. He
thinks he wants to be this, ''Oh, I'm great and strong on national defense.''
But he's the weakest of all the candidates on immigration. He is the one for an
open border that is leaving us defenseless. If we want to defend the country, we
have to defend against who's coming in, and Marco is -- has more of an
allegiance to Chuck Schumer and to the liberals than he does to conservative
policy.

(APPLAUSE)

BASH: Senator Rubio?

RUBIO: I want to thank Rand for another 30 seconds, because, number one, what
he's pointing to is a bill last week that -- amendment that he voted for that
only 10 people voted for. You know why? Because it's not focused on terrorists.
It would have banned anyone from coming here. Someone from Taiwan would not have
been able to come here as a tourist.

Number two, this program, this metadata program is actually more strict than
what a regular law enforcement agency has now. If a regular law enforcement
agency wants your phone records, all they have to do is issue a subpoena. But
now the intelligence agency is not able to quickly gather records and look at
them to see who these terrorists are calling. And the terrorists that attacked
us in San Bernardino was an American citizen, born and raised in this country.
And I bet you we wish we would have had access to five years of his records so
we could see who he was working with...

(CROSSTALK)

BASH: Governor Christie, Governor Christie...

(CROSSTALK)

(APPLAUSE)

BASH: Governor Christie, I'll come to you in a minute. Go ahead, Senator Paul.

PAUL: If I was mentioned in the question, can I respond? BASH: Go ahead, please.

PAUL: Marco still misunderstands the immigration issue. What I put forward was
an amendment that would have temporarily halted immigration from high-risk
terrorist countries, but would have started it up, but I wanted them to go
through Global Entry, which is a program where we do background checks.

The thing is, is that every terrorist attack we've had since 9/11 has been legal
immigration. Marco wants to expand that. I want more rules, more scrutiny, and
to defend the country, you have to defend the border.

(APPLAUSE)

BASH: Senator, we're going to talk about immigration in a while. But, Governor
Christie, just listening to this...

RUBIO: Do I get another 30 seconds? He mentioned me.

BASH: Listening to this, you talked -- you heard Senator Paul, Senator Cruz talk
about how important it is to protect Americans' privacy, even in a time of grave
danger. Why -- what's wrong with that?

CHRISTIE: Listen, I want to talk to the audience at home for a second. If your
eyes are glazing over like mine, this is what it's like to be on the floor of
the United States Senate. I mean, endless debates about how many angels on the
head of a pin from people who've never had to make a consequential decision in
an executive position.

The fact is, for seven years, I had to make these decisions after 9/11, make a
decision about how to proceed forward with an investigation or how to pull back,
whether you use certain actionable intelligence or whether not to. And yet they
continue to debate about this bill and in the subcommittee and what -- nobody in
America cares about that.

CHRISTIE: What they care about is, are we going to have a president who actually
knows what they're doing to make these decisions? And for the seven years
afterwards, New Jersey was threatened like no other region in this country and
what we did was we took action within the constitution to make sure that law
enforcement had all the information they needed.

We prosecuted two of the biggest terrorism cases in the world and stopped Fort
Dix from being attacked by six American radicalized Muslims from a Mosque in New
Jersey because we worked with the Muslim American community to get intelligence
and we used the Patriot Act to get other intelligence to make sure we did those
cases. This is the difference between actually been a federal prosecutor,
actually doing something, and not just spending your life as one of hundred
debating it.

Let's talk about how we do this, not about which bill, which one these guys like
more. The American people don't care about that.

BLITZER: Thank you.

Dr. Carson, you're in favor of monitoring mosques and schools where there is
anti-America sentiment, what do you consider anti- America?

CARSON: First of all, let me just complain a little bit. This is the first time
I've spoken and several people have had multiple questions so please try to pay
attention to that. Now, as far as monitoring is concerned, what my point is, we
need to make sure that any place - I don't care whether it's a mosque, a school,
a supermarket, a theater, you know it doesn't matter. If there are a lot of
people getting there and engaging in radicalizing activities then we need to be
suspicious of it.

We have to get rid of all this PC stuff. And people are worried about if
somebody's going to say that I'm Islamophobic or what have you. This is
craziness because we are at war. That's why I asked congress, go ahead and
declare the war .

We need to be on a war footing. We need to understand that our nation is in
grave danger. You know, what the Muslim Brotherhood said in the explanatory
memorandum that was discovered during the Holy Land Foundation Trial was that,
''they will take advantage of our PC attitude to get us. :''

We have to be better than this. We have to be smarter than they are.

BLITZER: Dr. Carson, who was right in that little debate that we just heard
between Senator Rubio and Senator Paul?

CARSON: I think you have to ask them about that. I don't want to get in between
them. Let them fight.

(CROSSTALK)

BLITZER: Hold on a sec, we have a lot more to come and everybody's going to have
their full opportunity.

Governor Bush, six days after 9/11 your brother visited a mosque and said quote,
''Islam is peace.'' The conversation tonight is about banning Muslims and
surveillance of mosques, are President Bush's words still relevant in today's
Republican party?

BUSH: They are reverent if we want to destroy ISIS. If we want to destroy
radical Islamic terrors, we can't disassociate ourselves from peace loving
Muslims. If we expect to do this on our own, we will fail but if we do it in
unison with people who are also are at risk and threatened by Islamic Radical
terrorism, we'll be far more successful.

Look, the FBI has the tools necessary un-American activities in our country. It
goes on, we shouldn't even be talking about it, to be honest with you out in the
public. Of course they have those capabilities and we should make sure that we
give the FBI, the NSA, our intelligence communities, all the resources they need
to keep us safe.

But the main thing we should be focused on is the strategy to destroy ISIS. And
I laid out a plan that the Reagan Library before the tragedy of Paris, and
before San Bernardino to do just that. It requires leadership, it's not filing
an amendment and call it a success.

It is developing a strategy, leading the world, funding it to make sure that we
have a military that's second to none, and doing the job and making sure that we
destroy ISIS there. That's how you keep America safe.

BLITZER: Ms. Fiorina, as you pointed out you were a CEO in Silicon Valley on
9/11. Companies there, they say they won't help the FBI now crack encrypted
communication from ISIS, should they be forced to.

FIORINA: You know, listening to this conversation, let me just say, we have a
lot of argument about laws but none of it solves the problem. Let's examine what
happened, why did we miss the Tsarnaev brothers, why did we miss the San
Bernardino couple? It wasn't because we had stopped collected metadata it was
because, I think, as someone who comes from the technology world, we were using
the wrong algorithms.

This is a place where the private sector could be helpful because the government
is woefully behind the technology curve. But secondly, the bureaucratic
processes that have been in place since 9/11 are woefully inadequate as well.
What do we now know? That DHS vets people by going into databases of known or
suspected terrorists.

FIORINA: And yet, we also know that ISIS is recruiting who are not in those
databases. So of course, we're going to miss them. And then we now learn that
DHS says, ''No, we can't check their social media.''

For heaven's sakes, every parent in America is checking social media and every
employer is as well, but our government can't do it. The bureaucratic procedures
are so far behind. Our government has become incompetent, unresponsive, corrupt.
And that incompetence, ineptitude, lack of accountability is now dangerous.

It is why we need a different kind of leadership in the White House that
understands how to get bureaucracies competent again.

BLITZER: But my question was: Should these Silicon Valley companies be forced to
cooperate with the FBI?

FIORINA: They do not need to be forced. They need to be asked to bring the best
and brightest, the most recent technology to the table. I was asked as a CEO. I
complied happily. And they will as well. But they have not been asked. That's
why it cost billions of dollars to build an Obama website that failed because
the private sector wasn't asked.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Mr. Trump, you recently suggested closing that Internet up, those were
your words, as a way to stop ISIS from recruiting online. Are you referring to
closing down actual portions of the Internet? Some say that would put the U.S.
in line with China and North Korea.

TRUMP: Well, look, this is so easy to answer. ISIS is recruiting through the
Internet. ISIS is using the Internet better than we are using the Internet, and
it was our idea. What I wanted to do is I wanted to get our brilliant people
from Silicon Valley and other places and figure out a way that ISIS cannot do
what they're doing.

You talk freedom of speech. You talk freedom of anything you want. I don't want
them using our Internet to take our young, impressionable youth and watching the
media talking about how they're masterminds -- these are masterminds. They
shouldn't be using the word ''mastermind.'' These are thugs. These are terrible
people in ISIS, not masterminds. And we have to change it from every standpoint.
But we should be using our brilliant people, our most brilliant minds to figure
a way that ISIS cannot use the Internet. And then on second, we should be able
to penetrate the Internet and find out exactly where ISIS is and everything
about ISIS. And we can do that if we use our good people.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Let me follow up, Mr. Trump.

So, are you open to closing parts of the Internet?

TRUMP: I would certainly be open to closing areas where we are at war with
somebody. I sure as hell don't want to let people that want to kill us and kill
our nation use our Internet. Yes, sir, I am.

BLITZER: Thank you.

Governor Kasich, is shutting down any part of the Internet a good idea?

KASICH: No, I don't think it is. And I want to go back to two other issues. One
is the metadata. We know we have to hold this data for a longer period of time.
And, you know, in a lot of ways, Chris is right. Look, what a president has to
do is take a position. We don't want to err on the side of having less. We want
to err on the side of having more. That's good for our families.

In addition to that, Wolf, there is a big problem. It's called encryption. And
the people in San Bernardino were communicating with people who the FBI had been
watching. But because their phone was encrypted, because the intelligence
officials could not see who they were talking to, it was lost.

We have to solve the encryption problem. It is not easy. A president of the
United States, again, has to bring people together, have a position. We need to
be able to penetrate these people when they are involved in these plots and
these plans. And we have to give the local authorities the ability to penetrate
to disrupt. That's what we need to do. Encryption is a major problem, and
Congress has got to deal with this and so does the president to keep us safe.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Thank you, Governor.

The fight against radical Islamic terrorists and ISIS has been called the war of
our time. So let's talk about how each of you, as commander in chief, would
fight this war and win it.

Senator Cruz, you have said you would, quote, ''carpet bomb ISIS into
oblivion,'' testing whether, quote, ''sand can glow in the dark.'' Does that
mean leveling the ISIS capital of Raqqa in Syria where there are hundreds of
thousands of civilians?

CRUZ: What it means is using overwhelming air power to utterly and completely
destroy ISIS. To put things in perspective, in the first Persian Gulf War, we
launched roughly 1,100 air attacks a day. We carpet bombed them for 36 days,
saturation bombing, after which our troops went in and in a day and a half
mopped up what was left of the Iraqi army.

Right now, Obama is launching between 15 and 30 air attacks a day. It is photo
op foreign policy. We need to use overwhelming air power. We need to be arming
the Kurds. We need to be fighting and killing ISIS where they are.

And let me go back to the earlier discussion a minute ago. It's not a lack of
competence that is preventing the Obama administration from stopping these
attacks. It is political correctness. We didn't monitor the Facebook posting of
the female San Bernardino terrorist because the Obama DHS thought it would be
inappropriate. She made a public call to jihad, and they didn't target it.

The Tsarnaev brothers, the elder brother made a public call to jihad and the
Obama administration didn't target it. Nidal Hasan communicated with Anwar
al-Awlaki, a known radical cleric, asked about waging jihad against his fellow
soldiers. The problem is because of political correctness, the Obama
administration, like a lot of folks here, want to search everyone's cell phones
and e-mails and not focus on the bad guys. And political correctness is killing
people.

BLITZER: Thank you. To be clear, Senator Cruz, would you carpet bomb Raqqa, the
ISIS capital, where there are a lot of civilians, yes or no?

CRUZ: You would carpet bomb where ISIS is, not a city, but the location of the
troops. You use air power directed -- and you have embedded special forces to
direction the air power. But the object isn't to level a city. The object is to
kill the ISIS terrorists.

To make it -- listen, ISIS is gaining strength because the perception is that
they're winning. And President Obama fuels that perception. That will change
when militants across the globe see that when you join ISIS that you are giving
up your life, you are signing your death warrant, and we need a president who is
focused on defeating every single ISIS terrorist and protecting the homeland,
which should be the first priority.

BLITZER: Thank you. Thank you, Senator.

Senator Rubio, you've been critical of Senator Cruz's strategy. You say his
voting record doesn't match his rhetoric. Why?

RUBIO: Well, let me begin by saying that we have to understand who ISIS is. ISIS
is a radical Sunni group. They cannot just be defeated through air strikes. Air
strikes are a key component of defeating them, but they must be defeated on the
ground by a ground force. And that ground force must be primarily made up of
Sunni Arabs themselves, Sunni Arabs that reject them ideologically and confront
them militarily.

We will have to embed additional American special operators alongside them to
help them with training, to help them conduct special missions, and to help
improve the air strikes. The air strikes are important, but we need to have an
air force capable of it. And because of the budget cuts we are facing in this
country, we are going to be left with the oldest and the smallest Air Force we
have ever had. We have to reverse those cuts, in addition to the cuts to our
Navy and in addition to the cuts to our Army, as well.

And beyond that, I would say we must win the information war against ISIS. Every
war we have ever been involved in has had a propaganda informational aspect to
it. ISIS is winning the propaganda war. They are recruiting people, including
Americans, to join them, with the promise that they are joining this great
apocalyptic movement that is going to defeat the West. We have to show what life
is really like in ISIS territory, and we have to show them why ISIS is not
invincible, by going out and conducting these attacks and publicizing them to
those who they recruit.

BLITZER: Because I asked the question, Senator, because you said this. You said
he, referring to Senator Cruz, voted against the Defense Authorization Act every
year that it came up, and I assume that if he voted against it, he would veto it
as president. That's the bill that funds our troops.

RUBIO: That is accurate. Three times he voted against the Defense Authorization
Act, which is a bill that funds the troops. It also, by the way, funds the Iron
Dome and other important programs. And I have to assume that if you vote against
it in the Senate, you would also veto it as president.

He has also supported, by the way, a budget that is called the containment
budget. And it is a budget that would radically reduce the amount of money we
spend on our military. You can't carpet bomb ISIS if you don't have planes and
bombs to attack them with. And if we continue those cuts that we're doing now,
not to mention additional cuts, we are going to be left with the oldest and the
smallest Air Force this country has ever had, and that leaves us less safe.

BLITZER: Senator Cruz?

CRUZ: Well, you know, Marco has continued these attacks, and he knows they're
not true. Yes, it is true that I voted against the National Defense
Authorization Act, because when I campaigned in Texas I told voters in Texas
that I would oppose the federal government having the authority to detain U.S.
citizens permanently with no due process. I have repeatedly supported an effort
to take that out of that bill, and I honored that campaign commitment.

CRUZ: But more broadly, you know, the notion Marco is suggesting, that somehow
-- he also has tossed more than a few insults this direction -- let's be
absolutely clear. ISIS and radical Islamic terrorism will face no more
determined foe than I will be.

We will utterly destroy them by targeting the bad guys. And one of the problems
with Marco's foreign policy is he has far too often supported Hillary Clinton
and Barack Obama undermining governments in the Middle East that have helped
radical Islamic terrorists.

We need to focus on killing the bad guys, not getting stuck in Middle Eastern
civil wars that don't keep America safe.

BLITZER: Senator Rubio.

RUBIO: Yes, let me -- three points of distinction. The first is, if you're an
American citizen and you decide to join up with ISIS, we're not going to read
you your Miranda rights. You're going to be treated as an enemy combatant, a
member of an army attacking this country.

(APPLAUSE)

Number two, we do need our defense capabilities. It is a fact that the cuts we
are facing today and the cuts that Senator Cruz would have supported would leave
us with an even smaller Air Force and a smaller Navy than the one we are going
to be left with.

And the final point that I would make is Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama's
strategy is to lead from behind. It sounds like what he is outlining is not to
lead at all. We cannot continue to outsource foreign policy. We must lead. We
are the most powerful nation in the world. We need to begin to act like it,
again.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: We are going to have much more on this...

PAUL: Wolf...

BLITZER: We're going to have much more on this. But I want to move now back to
Mr. Trump.

PAUL: Wolf, this legislation...

BLITZER: Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. PAUL: This legislation on indefinite
detention...

BLITZER: We have a lot...

PAUL: ... I think deserves a little more attention.

BLITZER: We have a lot to discuss. I want to move to Mr. Trump right now. We
have a question on this war against ISIS and how you would fight and win this
war. Here's the question from Facebook. Listen to this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOSH JACOB, COLLEGE STUDENT: I'm Josh Jacob from Georgia Tech. Recently Donald
Trump mentioned we must kill the families of ISIS members. However, this
violates the principle of distinction between civilians and combatants in
international law.

So my question is, how would intentionally killing innocent civilians set us
apart from ISIS?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BLITZER: Mr. Trump.

TRUMP: We have to be much tougher. We have to be much stronger than we've been.
We have people that know what is going on. You take a look at just the attack in
California the other day. There were numerous people, including the mother, that
knew what was going on.

They saw a pipe bomb sitting all over the floor. They saw ammunition all over
the place. They knew exactly what was going on.

When you had the World Trade Center go, people were put into planes that were
friends, family, girlfriends, and they were put into planes and they were sent
back, for the most part, to Saudi Arabia.

They knew what was going on. They went home and they wanted to watch their
boyfriends on television. I would be very, very firm with families. Frankly,
that will make people think because they may not care much about their lives,
but they do care, believe it or not, about their families' lives.

(APPLAUSE)

BUSH: Donald, this has got...

BLITZER: Governor Bush. Governor Bush.

BUSH: This is another example of the lack of seriousness. Look, this is -- this
is troubling because we're at war. They've declared war on us and we need to
have a serious strategy to destroy ISIS.

But the idea that that is a solution to this is just -- is just crazy. It makes
no sense to suggest this. Look, two months ago Donald Trump said that ISIS was
not our fight. Just two months ago he said that Hillary Clinton would be a great
negotiator with Iran. And he gets his foreign policy experience from the shows.

That is not a serious kind of candidate. We need someone that thinks this
through. That can lead our country to safety and security.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Mr. Trump.

TRUMP: Look, the problem is we need toughness. Honestly, I think Jeb is a very
nice person. He's a very nice person. But we need tough people. We need
toughness. We need intelligence and we need tough.

Jeb said when they come across the southern border they come as an act of love.

BUSH: You said on September 30th that ISIS was not a factor.

TRUMP: Am I talking or are you talking, Jeb?

BUSH: I'm talking right now. I'm talking.

TRUMP: You can go back. You're not talking. You interrupted me.

BUSH: September 30th you said...

TRUMP: Are you going to apologize, Jeb? No. Am I allowed to finish?

BLITZER: Just one at a time, go ahead...

TRUMP: Excuse me, am I allowed to finish?

BLITZER: Go ahead, Mr. Trump.

TRUMP: So...

BUSH: A little of your own medicine there, Donald.

TRUMP: ... again...

(CROSSTALK)

BLITZER: Governor Bush, please.

TRUMP: I know you're trying to build up your energy, Jeb, but it's not working
very well.

(LAUGHTER)

BLITZER: One at a time.

TRUMP: Look, look, look. We need a toughness. We need strength. We're not
respected, you know, as a nation anymore. We don't have that level of respect
that we need. And if we don't get it back fast, we're just going to go weaker,
weaker and just disintegrate.

We can't allow that to happen. We need strength. We don't have it. When Jeb
comes out and he talks about the border, and I saw it and I was witness to it,
and so was everyone else, and I was standing there, ''they come across as an act
of love,'' he's saying the same thing right now with radical Islam.

And we can't have that in our country. It just won't work. We need strength.

BLITZER: Governor Bush.

BUSH: Donald, you're not going to be able to insult your way to the presidency.
That's not going to happen.

(APPLAUSE)

And I do have the strength. Leadership, leadership is not about attacking people
and disparaging people. Leadership is about creating a serious strategy to deal
with the threat of our time.

BUSH: And I laid out that strategy before the attacks in Paris and before the
attacks in San Bernardino. And it is the way forward. We need to increase our
military spending. We need to deal with a no- fly zone in Syria, a safe zone. We
need to focus on building a military that is second-to-none...

BLITZER: Thank you.

BUSH: ... so that we can destroy Islamic terrorism.

TRUMP: With Jeb's attitude, we will never be great again, that I can tell you.
We will never be great again.

BLITZER: All right. Hugh Hewitt and Dana Bash, Hugh, go ahead with the next
question.

HEWITT: Dr. Carson...

(APPLAUSE)

... you mentioned in your opening remarks that you're a pediatric neurologist
surgeon...

CARSON: Neurosurgeon.

HEWITT: Neurosurgeon. And people admire and respect and are inspired by your
life story, your kindness, your evangelical core support. We're talking about
ruthless things tonight -- carpet bombing, toughness, war. And people wonder,
could you do that? Could you order air strikes that would kill innocent children
by not the scores, but the hundreds and the thousands? Could you wage war as a
commander-in-chief?

CARSON: Well, interestingly enough, you should see the eyes of some of those
children when I say to them we're going to have to open your head up and take
out this tumor. They're not happy about it, believe me. And they don't like me
very much at that point. But later on, they love me.

Sometimes you -- I sound like him.

(APPLAUSE)

You know, later on, you know, they really realize what's going on. And by the
same token, you have to be able to look at the big picture and understand that
it's actually merciful if you go ahead and finish the job, rather than death by
1,000 pricks.

HEWITT: So you are OK with the deaths of thousands of innocent children and
civilian? It's like...

CARSON: You got it. You got it.

HEWITT: That is what war -- can you be as ruthless as Churchill was in
prosecuting the war against the Nazis?

CARSON: Ruthless is not necessarily the word I would use, but tough, resolute,
understanding what the problems are, and understanding that the job of the
president of the United States is to protect the people of this country and to
do what is necessary in order to get it done.

(APPLAUSE)

BASH: Senator Paul, you said ISIS grew stronger because of the hawks in your
party. Do you really think that Republicans have fueled the rise of ISIS?

PAUL: I think that by arming the allies of ISIS, the Islamic rebels against
Assad, that we created a safe space or made that space bigger for ISIS to grow.
I think those who have wanted regime change have made a mistake. When we toppled
Gadhafi in Libya, I think that was a mistake. I think ISIS grew stronger, we had
a failed state, and we were more at risk.

I'd like to also go back to, though, another question, which is, is Donald Trump
a serious candidate? The reason I ask this is, if you're going to close the
Internet, realize, America, what that entails. That entails getting rid of the
First amendment, OK? It's no small feat.

If you are going to kill the families of terrorists, realize that there's
something called the Geneva Convention we're going to have to pull out of. It
would defy every norm that is America. So when you ask yourself, whoever you
are, that think you're going to support Donald Trump, think, do you believe in
the Constitution? Are you going to change the Constitution?

(APPLAUSE)

TRUMP: So, they can kill us, but we can't kill them? That's what you're saying.
And as far as the Internet is concerned, we're not talking about closing the
Internet. I'm talking about parts of Syria, parts of Iraq, where ISIS is,
spotting it.

Now, you could close it. What I like even better than that is getting our
smartest and getting our best to infiltrate their Internet, so that we know
exactly where they're going, exactly where they're going to be. I like that
better.

(APPLAUSE)

But we have to -- who would be -- I just can't imagine somebody booing. These
are people that want to kill us, folks, and you're -- you're objecting to us
infiltrating their conversations? I don't think so. I don't think so.

(APPLAUSE)

BASH: Senator Paul, Senator Paul, I want to go back to my initial question,
which is you saying that ISIS grew stronger because of hawks in your party. And
do you think your own party, the people who you're describing, are responsible
for the rise of ISIS?

PAUL: I think that if you believe in regime change, you're mistaken. In 2013, we
put 600 tons of weapons -- us, Saudi Arabia, and Qatar -- into the war against
Assad. By pushing Assad back, we did create a safe space.

We had people coming to our Foreign Relations Committee and saying, ''Oh, we
need to arm the allies of Al Qaida.'' They are still saying this. It is a crazy
notion. This is the biggest debate we should be having tonight is is regime
change a good idea; has it been a good idea.

There are still people -- the majority on the stage, they want to topple Assad.
And then there will be chaos, and I think ISIS will then be in charge of Syria.

BASH: Senator, we're going to talk about regime change in a bit.

But Governor Kasich, would you like to respond to Senator Paul?

KASICH: Yeah, let me -- let me just suggest to everybody, and I hear -- last
February, I said we needed to have people on the ground in a coalition with
Europe and our allies. This is not going to get done just by working with the
Sunnis. And it is not going to get done if we just embed a few people.

We have to go massively, like we did in the first Gulf War where we destroyed
Saddam's ability to take Kuwait. We need to have a coalition that will stand for
nothing less than the total destruction of ISIS and we have to be the leader. We
can't wait for anybody else. I served on the Armed Services Committee for 18
years and we must lead, or the job won't get done, unfortunately, for our
country.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Thank you, Governor.

Senator Rubio? Let's continue this conversation. This is a critically important
issue.

FIORINA: I hope at some point you're going to ask me my strategy.

BLITZER: We will get to -- we have a lot of time, Ms. Fiorina.

I want to get to Senator Rubio right now. Let's talk about, one of the aspects
of your strategy, you say the only way to defeat ISIS is with ground forces made
up primarily of Sunni-Arab forces. Those Arab nations, though, as you well know,
they've conducted less than five percent of the airstrikes and actually none
since August. What makes you think they are willing to fight on the ground if
they're not even willing to fight from the air?

RUBIO: Well, they most certainly will have to be worked on to provide more than
what they are doing now. There's no doubt about it. And there's one -- one major
reason why they have not been willing to be a broader part of the coalition, and
that is they have lost complete trust and confidence in this president. This
president cut a deal with their moral enemy, the Shia, in Iran. And this is the
reason why they no longer trust this president and are willing to work alongside
them.

But they have as much invested in this as we do. In fact, more so, for it is the
king of Saudi Arabia they want to behead first. It's the king of Jordan that
they want to dethrone. It's the -- they want to go into Egypt the way they've
already gone into Libya.

And on another point that we need to talk about, Assad is one of the main
reasons why ISIS even exists to begin with. Assad is a puppet of Iran. And he
has been so brutal toward the Sunni within Syria that he created the space that
led to the people of Syria themselves to stand up and try to overthrow him. That
led to the chaos which allowed ISIS to come in and take advantage of that
situation and grow more powerful.

And the fact that this president led from behind meant there were no alternative
groups on the ground to be empowered, leaving ISIS with the prime operating
space they needed to become the force they have now become.

(CROSSTALK)

BLITZER: Thank you, Senator. Stand by.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Ms. Fiorina, the former defense secretary, Bob Gates, says the chances
of getting Sunni-Arab forces on the ground to get the job done, his words,
''chances very remote.'' What's your strategy?

FIORINA: Well, first I'll just point out that talking tough is not the same as
being strong. And to wage war, we need a commander in chief who has made tough
calls in tough times and stood up to be held accountable over and over, not
first-term senators who've never made an executive decision in their life.

One of the things I would immediately do, in addition to defeating them here at
home, is bring back the warrior class -- Petraeus, McChrystal, Mattis, Keane,
Flynn. Every single one of these generals I know. Every one was retired early
because they told President Obama things that he didn't want to hear.

We must have Sunni-Arabs involved in this coalition. We must commit leadership,
strength, support and resolve. I'll just add that Margaret Thatcher once said,
''If you want something talked about, ask a man; if you want something done, ask
a woman.''

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Thank you.

Governor Christie, what's your strategy?

CHRISTIE: Wolf, you sit up here and you listen to this stuff, and you think that
so many of these people have had so much to do in this national debate, they
talk like they were bystanders. You know, we talk about our military being
degraded over time, and yet we've had folks on this stage who've been a part of
Congress who have participated in sequester; who participated in the degrading
of this military over time.

And that's why I think people get so frustrated with Washington, D.C. now.
That's why they're so angry with the -- the electorate is so angry with
everybody who is involved in government in Washington, D.C. Because if you
listen to the folks up here, you think that they weren't even there; they had
nothing to do with this.

CHRISTIE: This is a difference between being a governor and being in a
legislature. See, because when something doesn't work in New Jersey, they look
at me, say: ''Why didn't it get done? Why didn't you do it?'' You have to be
responsible and accountable.

And so on ISIS, let's be clear, the president needs to be a force that is
trusted in the world. On this I agree with Marco. You know, this president is
not trusted.

If you're the King of Jordan, if you're a part of the royal family in Saudi
Arabia and he's made this deal with Iran which gives them $150 billion to wage a
war and try to extend their empire across the Middle East, why would you want to
do it now?

But I will tell you this, when I stand across from King Hussein of Jordan and I
say to him, ''You have a friend again sir, who will stand with you to fight this
fight,'' he'll change his mind.

BLITZER: Dr. Carson, what is your strategy?

CARSON: First of all, I've been talking about this for over a year. We have to
destroy their caliphate because that gives them legitimacy to go ahead with the
global Jihad. We have to take their energy because they are -- ISIS is the
richest terrorist organization there is. We have to take their oil, shut down
all of the mechanisms whereby they can disperse money because they go after
disaffected individuals from all over the place, and they're able to pay them.
That makes a difference.

As far as the command centers are concerned in Raqqa and to a lesser degree
Mosul, cut those off. Do the same kind of thing that we did with Sinjar a few
weeks ago, working with our embedded special forces with the Kurds, shut off the
supply route, soften them up, then we go in with specials ops followed by our
air force to take them over. Those are things that work.

But also, you know, this whole concept of boots on the ground, you know, we've
got a phobia about boots on the ground. If our military experts say, we need
boots on the ground, we should put boots on the ground and recognize that there
will be boots on the ground and they'll be over here, and they'll be their boots
if we don't get out of there now.

BLITZER: Thank you.

Everyone stand by. We're only just beginning. Coming up, which candidates on
this stage tonight want to move foreign policy in a dramatically new direction?

We'll be right back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BLITZER: Welcome back to the CNN-Facebook Republican Presidential Debate here at
the Venetian, Las Vegas.

The war against ISIS will pose many new challenges for the next
commander-in-chief. The last two presidents pursued a Middle East policy that
supported toppling dictators to try to promote democracy.

Senator Cruz, you have said the world would be safer today if Saddam Hussein
were still in power in Iraq, Moammar Gadhafi ruled Libya, and Hosni Mubarak
ruled Egypt. So would it be your policy to preserve dictatorships, rather than
promoting democracy in the Middle East?

CRUZ: Wolf, I believe in a America first foreign policy, that far too often
President Obama and Hillary Clinton -- and, unfortunately, more than a few
Republicans -- have gotten distracted from the central focus of keeping this
country safe.

So let's go back to the beginning of the Obama administration, when Hillary
Clinton and Barack Obama led NATO in toppling the government in Libya. They did
it because they wanted to promote democracy. A number of Republicans supported
them. The result of that -- and we were told then that there were these moderate
rebels that would take over. Well, the result is, Libya is now a terrorist war
zone run by jihadists.

Move over to Egypt. Once again, the Obama administration, encouraged by
Republicans, toppled Mubarak who had been a reliable ally of the United States,
of Israel, and in its place, Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood came in, a
terrorist organization.

And we need to learn from history. These same leaders -- Obama, Clinton, and far
too many Republicans -- want to topple Assad. Assad is a bad man. Gadhafi was a
bad man. Mubarak had a terrible human rights record. But they were assisting us
-- at least Gadhafi and Mubarak -- in fighting radical Islamic terrorists.

And if we topple Assad, the result will be ISIS will take over Syria, and it
will worsen U.S. national security interests. And the approach, instead of being
a Woodrow Wilson democracy promoter...

BLITZER: Thank you.

CRUZ: ... we ought to hunt down our enemies and kill ISIS rather than creating
opportunities for ISIS to take control of new countries.

BLITZER: Thank you, Senator. Thank you, Senator.

(APPLAUSE)

Senator Rubio, you supported the removal of Moammar Gadhafi in Libya. Now that
country is in turmoil, as ISIS is clearly growing there. Senator Cruz says you
haven't learned your lesson. Do you have any regrets for supporting President
Obama's intervention in Libya?

RUBIO: To begin with, Moammar Gadhafi and the revolt against Gadhafi was not
started by the United States. It was started by the Libyan people. And the
reason why I argued we needed to get involved is because he was going to go one
way or the other. And my argument then was proven true, and that is, the longer
that civil war took, the more militias would be formed and the more unstable the
country would be after the fact.

As far as Moammar Gadhafi is concerned, by the way, Moammar Gadhafi is the man
that killed those Americans over Lockerbie, Scotland. Moammar Gadhafi is also
the man that bombed that cafe in Berlin and killed those Marines. And you want
to know why Moammar Gadhafi started cooperating on his nuclear program? Because
we got rid of Saddam Hussein. And so he got scared that he would be next, and
that's why he started cooperating.

Look, we will have to work around the world with less than ideal governments.
The government in Saudi Arabia is not a democracy, but we will have to work with
them. The government in Jordan is not perfect, but we will have to work with
them. But anti-American dictators like Assad, who help Hezbollah, who helped get
those IEDs into Iraq, if they go, I will not shed a tear.

BLITZER: Senator Cruz?

CRUZ: Well, it's more than not shedding a tear. It's actively getting involved
to topple a government. And we keep hearing from President Obama and Hillary
Clinton and Washington Republicans that they're searching for these mythical
moderate rebels. It's like a purple unicorn. They never exist. These moderate
rebels end up being jihadists.

And I'll tell you whose view on Assad is the same as mine. It's Prime Minister
Netanyahu. Prime Minister Netanyahu has said Israel doesn't have a dog in that
fight because Assad is a puppet of Iran, a Shia radical Islamic terrorist, but
at the same time, Prime Minister Netanyahu doesn't want to see Syria governed by
ISIS. And we need to focus on American interests, not on global aspirations...

(CROSSTALK)

BLITZER: Standby. Everybody standby for a moment. Governor Kasich, go ahead.

KASICH: I don't understand this thing about Assad. He has to go. Assad is
aligned with Iran and Russia. The one thing we want to prevent is we want to
prevent Iran being able to extend a Shia crescent all across the Middle East.
Assad has got to go.

KASICH: And there are moderates there. There are moderates in Syria who we
should be supporting. I do not support a civil war. I don't want to be policeman
of the world. But we can't back off of this. And let me tell you, at the end,
the Saudis have agreed to put together a coalition inside of Syria to stabilize
that country.

BLITZER: Thank you.

KASICH: He must go. It will be a blow to Iran and Russia.

BLITZER: We're going to talk about Assad in a moment.

Mr. Trump, are Americans safer with dictators running the world in the Middle
East?

TRUMP: In my opinion, we've spent $4 trillion trying to topple various people
that frankly, if they were there and if we could've spent that $4 trillion in
the United States to fix our roads, our bridges, and all of the other problems;
our airports and all of the other problems we've had, we would've been a lot
better off. I can tell you that right now.

We have done a tremendous disservice, not only to Middle East, we've done a
tremendous disservice to humanity. The people that have been killed, the people
that have wiped away, and for what? It's not like we had victory.

It's a mess. The Middle East is totally destabilized. A total and complete mess.
I wish we had the $4 trillion or $5 trillion. I wish it were spent right here in
the United States, on our schools, hospitals, roads, airports, and everything
else that are all falling apart.

(APPLAUSE)

FIORINA: That is exactly what President Obama said. I'm amazed to hear that from
a republican presidential candidate. But let's just start with, who got it
wrong? Who really got it wrong?

Hillary Clinton has gotten every foreign policy challenge wrong. Hitting the
reset button with Vladimir Putin - recall that she called Bashar Al-Assad a
positive reformer and then she opened an embassy and then later she said, over,
and over, and over again, ''Bashar Al-Assad must go.'' Although she wasn't
prepared to do anything about it. Recall that Hillary Clinton was all for
toppling Gadhafi then didn't listen to her own people on the ground. And then of
course, when she lied about the terrorist attack in Benghazi, she invited more
terrorist attacks.

BLITZER: Thank you.

Mr. Trump?

TRUMP: Well, there's nothing to respond to. Well, people feel differently. I
mean, the fact is Benghazi was a disaster because of Libya, everything just fell
into place. It could not have been worse.

What do we have now? We have nothing. We've spent $3 trillion and probably much
more - I have no idea what we've spent. Thousands and thousands of lives, we
have nothing. Wounded warriors all over the place who I love, we have nothing
for it.

And by the way - and Ben said incorrectly - and I'm not saying this as a knock -
he's one of finest men. You're not going to find a finer men.

But I've been talking about oil for three years. I've been saying,, ''take the
oil, take the oil.'' I didn't say, ''just bomb it,'' I said,'' take it and use
it and distribute it so that the wounded warriors -'' People, I've been saying
this now for many years.

BLITZER: All right.

TRUMP: Now, all of a sudden everybody's saying, ''take the oil.'' It wasn't so
fashionable to take the oil six months ago. I've been saying it for years.

BLITZER: Thank you.

FIORINA: We've mismanaged going into Iraq.

BLITZER: Dr. Carson, is the Middle East...

FIORINA: We've mismanaged going out of Iraq.

BLITZER: Dr. Carson, is the Middle East better off with dictators?

CARSON: No one is ever better off with dictators but there comes a time you
know, when you're on an airplane, they always say, ''in case of an emergency
oxygen masks will drop down. Put yours on first and then administer help to your
neighbor.'' We need oxygen right now.

And we need to start thinking about the needs of the American people before we
go and solve everybody else's problems. The fact of the matter is, is that the
Middle East has been in turmoil for thousands of years. For us to think that
we're going to in there and fix that with a couple of little bombs and a few
little decorations is relatively foolish.

FIORINA: We actually...

BLITZER: Governor Bush.

BUSH: I think we're focusing a whole...

BLITZER: Hold on Governor Bush., here's the question. You said, ''getting rid of
Saddam Hussein in your words was a pretty good deal.'' In light of what has
happened in Iraq, do you still feel that way?

BUSH: I do. I think the lesson's learned are that we have to have to have a
strategy to get and a strategy to get out. Which means, that you create a stable
situation.

This president and this is what the focus ought to be, it's not the differences
between us, it's Barack Obama does not believe America's leadership in the world
is a force for good. He does not believe that our strength is a place where
security can take place. He leads from behind. He creates an environment that
now we're creating the most unstable situation we've had since the World War II
era.

The focus ought to be on the single fact that Hillary Clinton wants to double
down on a failed foreign policy and we need to be united to defeat that because
we're going to be in a place that is far less secure than it is today. Don't you
all agree?

BLITZER: Senator Paul, was getting rid of Saddam Hussein a pretty good deal?

PAUL: These are the fundamental questions of our time, these foreign policy
questions, whether or not regime change is a good idea or a bad idea. I don't
think because I think the regime change was a bad idea it means that Hussein was
necessarily a good idea.

There is often variations of evil on both sides of the war. What we have to
decide is whether or not regime change is a good idea. It's what the
neoconservatives have wanted. It's what the vast majority of those on the stage
want.

They still want regime change. They want it in Syria. They wanted it in Iraq.
They want it in Libya. It has not worked.

Out of regime change you get chaos. From the chaos you have seen repeatedly the
rise of radical Islam. So we get this profession of, oh, my goodness, they want
to do something about terrorism and yet they're the problem because they allow
terrorism to arise out of that chaos.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Thank you.

(CROSSTALK)

BLITZER: Hugh Hewitt, go ahead.

(CROSSTALK)

BLITZER: Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hugh.

CRUZ: The question of whether we should toppling dictatorships is asking the
wrong question. We should be defeating our enemies. So the problem with
defeating...

BLITZER: Senator, Senator, we're going to get to you. Wait your turn. We have
two hours of debate. We'll have plenty of time. Let Hugh ask his question.

CRUZ: Well, but let me explain, the focus should be...

BLITZER: Senator, please.

CRUZ: ... on defeating our enemies. So, for example...

BLITZER: Senator... CRUZ: ... a regime we should change is Iran...

BLITZER: You'll have plenty of opportunity.

Hugh, go ahead.

CRUZ: ... because Iran has declared war on us. But we shouldn't be toppling
regimes...

(CROSSTALK)

CRUZ: ... that are fighting radical Islamic terrorists that are helping...

BLITZER: These are the rules all of you agreed to.

Hugh, go ahead with your question.

HEWITT: Mr. Trump, we are talking about the most important thing, that's why
it's heated. And it's, you are OK with Mr. Assad staying in power, but you are
also in favor of winning.

If he stays in power, Iran is winning, Hezbollah is winning. Iran is winning in
Yemen. They are winning everywhere. If they are winning how can we be winning?

TRUMP: I think Assad is a bad guy, a very bad guy, all right? Lots of people
killed. I think we are backing people we have no idea who they are. The rebels,
we call them the rebels, the patriotic rebels. We have no idea. A lot of people
think, Hugh, that they are ISIS.

We have to do one thing at a time. We can't be fighting ISIS and fighting Assad.
Assad is fighting ISIS. He is fighting ISIS. Russia is fighting now ISIS. And
Iran is fighting ISIS.

We have to do one thing at a time. We can't go -- and I watched Lindsey Graham,
he said, I have been here for 10 years fighting. Well, he will be there with
that thinking for another 50 years. He won't be able to solve the problem.

We have to get rid of ISIS first. After we get rid of ISIS, we'll start thinking
about it. But we can't be fighting Assad. And when you're fighting Assad, you
are fighting Russia, you're fighting -- you're fighting a lot of different
groups.

But we can't be fighting everybody at one time.

HEWITT: Governor Christie, is he right? Because if we step back, Iran goes
nuclear. Is Donald Trump right?

CHRISTIE: Well, I think we have to focus, Hugh, on exactly what the priorities
are. And to me, what I've always said is that the president has set up an awful
situation through his deal with Iran, because what his deal with Iran has done
is empower them and enrich them. And that's the way ISIS has been created and
formed here. ISIS is created and formed because of the abuse that Assad and his
Iranian sponsors have rained down on the Sunnis in Syria.

And so when we empower Iran, this is why this president -- and when Hillary
Clinton says her theory against ISIS will be just about the same as the
president, then get ready for more unrest and more murder and more violence in
the Middle East.

We need to focus our attention on Iran, because if you miss Iran, you are not
going to get ISIS. The two are inextricably connected because one causes the
other.

HEWITT: Senator Paul, let me ask you, you heard Governor Kasich say Assad must
go. Do you agree?

PAUL: No, I think it's a huge mistake. I think regime change in Syria, and this
is what -- I've been saying this for several years now. In 2013 when we first
went in, I said, you are going to give arms to the allies of al Qaida, to
radical jihadists? That's crazy.

But the other thing I said is the great irony is you will be back fighting
against your own weapons. Had Assad been bombed when he used chemical weapons
two years ago, ISIS would be in charge of all of Syria now.

We have to have a more realistic foreign policy and not a utopian one where we
say, oh, we're going to spread freedom and democracy, and everybody in the
Middle East is going to love us. They are not going to love us.

(APPLAUSE)

(CROSSTALK)

KASICH: The foreign policy, you have to know how to pick and choose. There's no
way, if Saddam had not had weapons of mass destruction, I would have gone,
because I don't believe that the U.S. should be involved directly in civil wars.

I opposed the U.S. involvement in Lebanon. We ended up having to withdraw our
marines after our barracks were blown up.

There is a difference between Iraq, where you have Sunni, Shia, and Kurds put
together after the First World War by the Western powers. It doesn't work. It
needs to break up into three parts.

KASICH: And for the Russians, frankly, it's time that we punched the Russians in
the nose. They've gotten away with too much in this world and we need to stand
up against them, not just there, but also in Eastern Europe where they threaten
some of our most precious allies.

BLITZER: Let's continue with Russia right now. We have another question from
Facebook. Listen and watch.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

QUESTION: My name is Ashley Tofil. Ms. Fiorina, in November, you said that you
would not talk to Vladimir Putin after you were elected because you would be
communicating from a position of weakness. Do you believe that it is feasible to
not communicate with another world leader? And do you think that that also is a
sign of weakness?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BLITZER: Ms. Fiorina, as you know, U.S. and Russian warplanes are flying all
over Syria right now. With so many lives on the line, is this a good time for
the United States not to talk to Putin?

FIORINA: I didn't say I would cut off all communication with Putin. What I said
was as president of the United States, now is not the time to talk with him.
Reagan walked away at Reykjavik. There is a time and a place for everything.
There is a time and a place for talk. And there is a time and a place for
action.

I know Vladimir Putin. He respects strength. He lied to our president's face;
didn't both to tell him about warplanes and troops going into Syria. We need to
speak to him from a position of strength. So as commander in chief, I will not
speak to him until we've set up that no-fly zone; until we've gathered our
Sunni-Arab allies and begun to deny ISIS territory; until I've called the
supreme leader of Iran and told him new deal -- new deal. We the United States
of America are going to cut off the money flow, which we can do; which we don't
need anyone's permission or collaboration to do.

And I will not speak to him personally until we've rebuilt the 6th Fleet a
little bit right under his nose; rebuilt the missile defense program in Poland
right under his nose; and conducted a few military exercises in the Baltic
states.

And let us remember one other thing. Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama are
responsible for the growth of ISIS because they precipitously withdrew from Iraq
in 2011 against the advice of every single general and for political expediency.
It's not these people up here. It's Hillary Clinton.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Thank you, Ms. Fiorina.

Governor Christie, if the U.S. imposed a no-fly zone over Syria and a Russian
plane encroached, invaded that no-fly zone, would you be prepared to shoot down
that Russian plane and risk war with Russia?

CHRISTIE: Not only would I be prepared to do it, I would do it. A no-fly zone
means a no-fly zone, Wolf. That's what it means.

(APPLAUSE)

See, maybe -- maybe because I'm from New Jersey, I just have this kind of plain
language hangup. But I would make very clear -- I would not talk to Vladimir
Putin. In fact, I would talk to Vladimir Putin a lot. But I'd say to him,
''Listen, Mr. President, there's a no-fly zone in Syria; you fly in, it applies
to you.'' And yes, we would shoot down the planes of Russian pilots if in fact
they were stupid enough to think that this president was the same feckless
weakling that the president we have in the Oval Office is right now.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Senator Paul -- Senator Paul, I want you to respond to what we just
heard from Governor Christie. If there was a no-fly zone, you say that
potentially could lead to World War III. Why?

PAUL: Well, I think if you're in favor of World War III, you have your
candidate. You know, here's...

(APPLAUSE)

... the thing. My goodness, what we want in a leader is someone with judgment,
not someone who is so reckless as to stand on the stage and say, ''Yes, I'm
jumping up and down; I'm going to shoot down Russian planes.'' Russia already
flies in that airspace. It may not be something we're in love with the fact that
they're there, but they were invited by Iraq and by Syria to fly in that
airspace.

And so if we announce we're going to have a no-fly zone, and others have said
this. Hillary Clinton is also for it. It is a recipe for disaster. It's a recipe
for World War III. We need to confront Russia from a position of strength, but
we don't need to confront Russia from a point of recklessness that would lead to
war.

This is something -- this type of judgment, you know, it's having that kind of
judgment; who you would appoint and how you're going to conduct affairs, that is
incredibly important.

I mean, I think when we think about the judgment of someone who might want World
War III, we might think about someone who might shut down a bridge because they
don't like their friends; they don't want to -- you know, they want to
(inaudible) a Democrat.

So I think we need to be very careful.

BLITZER: Governor Christie?

CHRISTIE: Well, Wolf, I'll tell you what reckless is. What reckless is is
calling Assad a reformer. What reckless is allowing Russia to come into Crimea
and Ukraine. What reckless is is inviting Russia into Syria to team with Iran.
That is reckless. And the reckless people are the folks in the White House right
now. Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton are the reckless people.

CHRISTIE: And if you think that a no-fly zone is a reckless policy, you're
welcome to your opinion. But how is it working so far? As we have 250,000
Syrians murdered, slaughtered; millions running around the world, running for
their lives. It's not working. We need to try something else. And that is not
reckless.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: All right, let's go back -- Hugh and Dana?

HEWITT: Governor Bush, a commander-in-chief question. You've said that Mr. Trump
is not qualified to be president because he's not qualified to deal with
Vladimir Putin. Why are you better qualified to deal with Vladimir Putin than
Mr. Trump?

BUSH: Because I -- first of all, I know what I don't know. I know what I don't
know. I would seek out, as I have, the best advice that exists. I won't get my
information from the shows. I don't know if that's Saturday morning or Sunday
morning. I don't know which one.

(LAUGHTER)

I will seek out the best advice, and I will create a strategy and I will
persuade the American people what the role of America should be. I've laid out a
policy of rebuilding our military.

All of the talk that we're seeing here -- most of which I agree on, frankly --
requires a much stronger military. We now have a lack of readiness that is quite
scary. We have planes that were -- that Harry Truman inaugurated, the B-52. We
have -- the Navy has been gutted and decimated. The readiness of the Marines is
way down.

If we're serious about America's leadership in the world, then we need to make
sure that we have the back of the armed forces. The Armed Forces Radio is here
listening to this today. I hope they know that if I'm president, I'll be a
commander-in-chief, not an agitator- in-chief or a divider-in-chief, that I will
lead this country in a way that will create greater security and greater safety.

HEWITT: Mr. Trump?

TRUMP: I think it's very sad that CNN leads Jeb Bush, Governor Bush, down a road
by starting off virtually all the questions, ''Mr. Trump this, Mister'' -- I
think it's very sad. And, frankly, I watched -- I think it's very sad. And,
frankly, I watched the first debate, and the first long number of questions
were, ''Mr. Trump said this, Mr. Trump said that. Mr. Trump'' -- these poor guys
-- although, I must tell you, Santorum, good guy. Governor Huckabee, good guy.
They were very nice, and I respect them greatly. But I thought it was very
unfair that virtually the entire early portion of the debate was Trump this,
Trump that, in order to get ratings, I guess. In order to get ratings, I guess.

HEWITT: But, Mr. Trump, it's not CNN -- I was on CNN last night...

TRUMP: I just think it's very -- excuse me.

HEWITT: ... watching...

TRUMP: Excuse me. I think it's very unprofessional.

HEWITT: But it wasn't -- it wasn't CNN. It was me. I watched you last night for
16 minutes. It's not CNN.

(APPLAUSE)

TRUMP: Well, I think it's very unprofessional.

HEWITT: It's not CNN. It's America's watching you.

TRUMP: OK, fine.

HEWITT: It's America's watching.

(CROSSTALK)

BUSH: So I was -- I was -- I was mentioned, so I can bring up something, I
think, right? Look, the simple fact is, if you think this is tough you're not
being treated fairly...

TRUMP: This isn't tough and easy. I wish it...

BUSH: ... imagine what it's going to be like dealing with Putin or dealing with
President Xi.

TRUMP: I wish it was always this easy as you, Jeb.

BUSH: Or dealing with the Islamic terrorism that exists.

TRUMP: Oh, yeah.

BUSH: This is a tough business to run for president.

TRUMP: Oh, I know. You're a tough guy, Jeb. I know.

BUSH: And it's -- and we need...

(LAUGHTER)

... to have a leader that is...

(CROSSTALK) TRUMP: You're tough.

BUSH: You're never going to be president of the United States by insulting your
way to the presidency.

TRUMP: Well, let's see. I'm at 42, and you're at 3. So, so far, I'm doing
better.

BUSH: Doesn't matter. Doesn't matter.

TRUMP: So far, I'm doing better. You know, you started off over here, Jeb.
You're moving over further and further. Pretty soon you're going to be off the
end...

(CROSSTALK)

FIORINA: This doesn't do a thing to solve the problems.

(CROSSTALK)

FIORINA: It doesn't do a thing to solve the problems.

(CROSSTALK)

BLITZER: One at a time. Hugh, go ahead.

KASICH: It sounds more and more what my daughter said that I said in the
beginning, all the fighting and arguing is not advancing us.

FIORINA: It will not solve the problem.

KASICH: It is not the way we're going to strengthen our country. We will
strengthen our country when we come together.

(APPLAUSE)

And, look, you've got Rand Paul, you've got Ted Cruz, you've got Marco, you've
got a lot of people on this stage that have studied these issues. You know what
a leader does? A leader has a sound program, has a good policy, and then brings
people together to solve problems.

(APPLAUSE)

Guess what? Both in Congress in balancing the budget and in Ohio fixing the
economy -- and, by the way, we talk about the fence. The first thing we better
get going is strengthening our economy, because if we don't have a strong
economy, we can't pay for all of this. And the world wants us to be able to
function from strength, believe it or not. Get our economy going, get these
people together in a room. We can fix this, ladies and gentlemen.

(CROSSTALK)

KASICH: We don't have to fight all the time. It can be done, and we will be
great...

HEWITT: Governor -- thank you, Governor.

KASICH: ... when we join together. Thank you, Hugh.

HEWITT: Dr. Carson, commander-in-chief question again. You've been the head of
neurosurgery for a big hospital. You're on a lot of boards of a lot of
companies. You've traveled the world. You're going traveling again next week.
But does that prepare you to command troops from Djibouti to Japan, troops from
Afghanistan to Iraq to be in charge of the men and women watching on Armed
Services Network tonight?

CARSON: Well, you know, there's a false narrative that only the political class
has the wisdom and the ability to be commander-in- chief. But if you go back and
you study the design of our country, it was really designed for the citizen
statesman.

And we need to be talking about where does your experience come from? You know,
and I've had a lot of experience building things, organizing things, you know, a
national scholarship program.

One of the things that you'll notice if you look through my life is that I don't
do a lot of talking. I do a lot of doing. And really, it says more about a
person than how much they talk. And then some people say you're weak because,
you know, you're not loud and you're not boisterous and you're not rude. But the
fact of the matter is, look and see what I've done. And that speaks volumes
about strength.

BASH: Thank you, Dr. Carson. We've been talking tonight about programs and
policy proposals that you all have to keep Americans safe and it's a big
discussion on the campaign trail. Also about border security and immigration. So
let's talk about immigration.

Senator Rubio. You co-authored a bill with Democrats two years ago that allowed
a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants. Do you still support that
path to citizenship, which means giving those immigrants rights, like the right
to vote?

RUBIO: Yeah. Immigration is not an issue that I read about in the newspaper or
watch a documentary on PBS or CNN. It's an issues I've lived around my whole
life. My family are immigrants. My wife's family are immigrants. All of my
neighbors are immigrants.

I see every aspect of this problem. The good, the bad, and the ugly. And here's
what we learned in 2013. The American people don't trust the Federal Government
to enforce our immigration laws, and we will not be able to do anything on
immigration until we first prove to the American people that illegal immigration
is under control. And we can do that. We know what it takes to do that.

It takes at least 20,000 more additional border agents. It takes completing
those 700 miles of fencing. It takes a mandatory e-verify system and a mandatory
entry/exit tracking system to prevent overstays. After we have done that, the
second thing we have to do is reform and modernize the legal immigration system.
And after we have done those two things, I think the American people are gonna
be reasonable with what do you do with someone who has been in this country for
10 or 12 years who hasn't otherwise violated our laws -- because if they're a
criminal they can't stay. They'll have to undergo a background check, pay a
fine, start paying taxes. And ultimately, they'll given a work permit and that's
all they're gonna be allowed to have for at least 10 years. But you can't get to
that third step until you have done the other two things, and that was the
lesson we learned in 2013. There is no trust that the Federal Government will
enforce the law. They will not support you until you see it done first.

BASH: Senator, you haven't answered the question. You described a very long path
but does that path end at citizenship?

RUBIO: But I've answered that question repeatedly. I am personally open -- after
all that has happened and after ten years in that probationary status where all
they have is a permit, I personally am open to allowing people to apply for a
green card.

That may not be a majority position in my party, but that's down the road. You
can't even begin that process until you prove to people -- not just pass a law
that says you're gonna bring illegal immigration under control. You're gonna
have to do it and prove to people that it's working.

And that was the lesson of 2013. And it's more true today, than it was then.
After a migratory crisis on the border with minors coming over that you're
seeing start up again now, after all these executive orders the President has
issued. More than ever we need to...

BASH: Thank you, senator.

RUBIO: ... prove to people that illegal immigration is under control.

BASH: Thank you, senator. Senator Cruz.

(APPLAUSE)

BASH: Senator Cruz, on the campaign trail, Senator Rubio has said that his
immigration plan is not that different from yours. Is that true?

CRUZ: Well, he -- he has attempted to muddy the waters, but I think that anyone
who watched the battle that we had. You know, there was a time for choosing as
Reagan put it. Where there was a battle over amnesty and some chose, like
Senator Rubio to stand with Barack Obama and Chuck Schumer and support a massive
amnesty plan.

Others chose to stand with Jeff Sessions and Steve King and the American people
and secure the border.

And let me mention, this issue is actually directly connected to what we've been
talking about. Because the front line with ISIS isn't just in Iraq and Syria,
it's in Kennedy Airport and the Rio Grande. Border security is national
security. And, you know, one of the most troubling aspects of the Rubio-Schumer
Gang of Eight Bill was that it gave President Obama blanket authority to admit
refugees, including Syrian refugees without mandating any background checks
whatsoever. Now we've seen what happened in San Bernardino. When you are letting
people in, when the FBI can't vet them, it puts American citizens at risk. And I
tell you, if I'm elected president, we will secure the border. We will triple
the border patrol. We will build a wall that works and I'll get Donald Trump to
pay for it.

(APPLAUSE)

BASH: Senator Rubio, please.

RUBIO: Yeah, a couple points. In 2013 we had never faced a crisis like the
Syrian refugee crisis now. Up until that point, a refugee meant someone fleeing
oppression, fleeing Communism like it is in my community.

As far as Ted's record, I'm always puzzled by his attack on this issue. Ted, you
support legalizing people who are in this country illegally. Ted Cruz supported
a 500-percent increase in the number of H-1 visas, the guest workers that are
allowed into this country, and Ted supports doubling the number of green cards.

So I think what's important for us to understand and there is a way forward on
this issue that we an bring our country together on. And while I'm president I
will do it. And it will begin by bringing illegal immigration under control and
proving to the American people.

BASH: Senator Cruz?

CRUZ: Look, I understand Marco wants to raise confusion, it is not accurate what
he just said that I supported legalization. Indeed, I led the fight against his
legalization and amnesty. And you know, there was one commentator that put it
this way that, for Marco to suggest our record's the same is like suggesting
''the fireman and the arsonist because they are both at the scene of the fire.''

He was fighting to grant amnesty and not to secure the border, I was fighting to
secure the border. And this also goes to trust, listening on to campaign trails.
Candidates all the time make promises. You know, Marco said,'' he learned that
the American people didn't trust the federal government.''

BASH: Senator Cruz?

RUBIO: No, no, give him time.

CRUZ: In Florida promising to...

(CROSSTALK)

RUBIO: Ted, do you...

CRUZ: go in the fight against amnesty...

RUBIO: Did Ted Cruz fight to support legalizing people that are in this country
illegally?

CRUZ: He campaigned promising to lead the fight against amnesty.

FIORINA: Ladies and gentleman, this is why the American people are standing up.

BASH: Senator Cruz, can you answer that question please?

RUBIO: Does Ted Cruz rule out ever legalizing people that are in this country
now?

BASH: Senator Cruz?

CRUZ; I have never supported a legalization...

RUBIO: Would you rule it out?

CRUZ : I have never supported legalization, and I do not intend to support
legalization. Let me tell you how you do this, what you do is you enforce the
law...

(CROSSTALK)

FIORINA: This is why the nation is fed up...

BASH: One at a time please.

CRUZ: Watt you do is enforcement the law...

FIORINA: We have been talking about this...

BASH: Ms. Fiorina, please wait your turn, we're going to get to you.

FIORINA: Sorry, but you haven't gotten to me. This is why...

CRUZ: What you do...

BASH: Senator Cruz go ahead.

FIORINA: the people are fed up with the political class.

CRUZ: What you do is you enforce the law. I've laid out a very, very detailed
immigration plan on my website, tedcruz.org. It's 11 pages of existing federal
law and in particular the question of what to do with people who are here now?
You enforce the law.

That means you stop the Obama administration's policy of releasing criminal
illegal aliens. Do you know how many aliens Bill Clinton deported? 12 million.
Do you know how many illegal aliens, George W. Bush deported? 10 million.

We can enforce the laws and if we secure the border, that solves the problem.
And as president I will solve this problem and secure the border.

BASH: Mr. Trump, you like to say that you restarted this conversation in the
campaign. TRUMP: I believe I did.

BASH: So who do you side with? Who do you side with in this, Senator Rubio or
Senator Cruz?

TRUMP: I have a very hardline position, we have a country or we don't have a
country. People that have come into our country illegally, they have to go. They
have to come back into through a legal process.

I want a strong border. I do want a wall. Walls do work, you just have to speak
to the folks in Israel. Walls work if they're properly constructed. I know how
to build, believe me, I know how to build.

I feel a very, very strong bind, and really I'm bound to this country, we either
have a border or we don't. People can come into the country, we welcome people
to come but they have to come in legally.

BASH: Thank you.

Governor Bush?

BUSH: Yes.

BASH: Listening to this, do you think this is the tone -- this immigration
debate that republicans need to take to win back Hispanics into our party
especially states like where we are in Nevada that has a pretty Hispanic
community?

BUSH: No it isn't but it is an important subject to talk about for sure. And I
think people have good ideas on this. Clearly, we need to secure the border.
Coming here legally needs to be a lot easier than coming here illegally.

If you don't have that, you don't have the rule of law. We now have a national
security consideration, public health issues, we have an epidemic of heroine
overdoses in all places in this country because of the ease of bringing heroine
in. We have to secure the border.

It is a serious undertaking and yes, we do need more fencing and we do need to
use technology, and we do need more border control. And we need to have better
cooperation by the way with local law enforcement. There are 800,000 cops on the
beat, they ought to be trained to be the eyes and ears for law enforcement for
the threat against terror as well as for immigration.

This is a serious challenge and if we can get it right, yes, we'll start winning
votes again. The real problem isn't anybody on this stage, the real problem is
Barack Obama has had six years to advocate a position to fix this and he's done
nothing. The congress has funded these programs of building more fencing and
doing all this and he hasn't done it.

He wants to maintain it as a wedge issue and so does Hillary Clinton.
Republicans need to fix it and when we do, we'll be better off.

BLITZER: Governor, thank you very much.

BLITZER: So, Dr. Carson, you recently visited a refugee camp in Jordan and you
deemed it your words, ''really quite nice.'' Saying the people there didn't want
to come to the United States. Do you think these camps are a long-term solution
of the problem of Syrian refugees?

CARSON: Well, it was very interesting having an opportunity to talk to the
Syrians themselves. And I asked them: What do you want? What is your supreme
desire? Their supreme desire was to be settled back in their own country. I
said, ''What can Americans and other countries do?'' They said, ''Support the
efforts of those who are trying to provide safety for us, including the
Jordanians.''

Of course, they had a brand new hospital, for instance, that was unstaffed
because there wasn't enough money to do it. But here's what's really neat. If
you go into Hasakah province in northeast Syria, that's an area that's as big as
Lebanon. It's controlled by the Kurds, the Christians and the moderate Sunnis.
And there are airstrips and hotels. You could settle a lot of people there.

All we would have to do is be willing to provide them with some weaponry, some
defensive weaponry. And we seem to be afraid to give the Kurds weaponry. We like
to send it for some strange reason through Baghdad, and then they only get a
tenth of it.

And if we would support them, we'd have a perfect ideal there. We don't need to
set this up as we either take a bunch of refugees who will be infiltrated with
terrorists, I guarantee you. For them not to be would be terrorist malpractice.
And we need to -- to choose the right choice, not these false choices.

BLITZER: Senator Paul, you oppose letting in Syrian refugees at this time into
the United States. The U.S. has already accepted 2,000 Syrian refugees,
including 13 living here in Las Vegas right now. Would you send them back? What
would you do with these people?

PAUL: You know, I think we need to set the record straight on this, because I
think Marco misspoke about the bill. On the Gang of Eight bill, there was no
provisions really for extra scrutiny or safety for refugees. At the time the
bill came up, two Iraqi refugees came to my home town, Bowling Green, Kentucky.
Their fingerprints were on a bomb from Iraq. They were in the database, but we
didn't pick them up.

We relocated them here, put them in government housing, got them on food stamps.
And we began providing for them, but we didn't have adequate security. On the
Gang of Eight bill, on Marco's bill, we had an opportunity. There was a
conservative consensus for an amendment I put forward called Trust, But Verify
that would have strengthened border security on both refugees, students and
those coming here. And Marco sided and I guess was more sympathetic to Chuck
Schumer and to the president than he was to conservative principles.

But this goes directly to national defense. And if he wants to run as a national
-- national defense conservative, he's got to explain why he hasn't stepped up
to support border security.

BLITZER: Senator Rubio?

(APPLAUSE)

RUBIO: Well, he's just admitted -- as he's just admitted, the reason why those
refugees were allowed in was because they messed up in how they used the actual
database. They should have know. They didn't because they didn't run the actual
law as it exists now. It didn't work well.

As far as the refugees are concerned, it's not that America doesn't want to
accept refugees, Wolf. It's that we may not be able to, because this is an issue
we have to be 100 percent right on. If we allow 9,999 Syrian refugees into the
United States, and all of them are good people, but we allow one person in who's
an ISIS killer -- we just get one person wrong, we've got a serious problem.

And there is not a single person in the national defense apparatus of this
country that can guarantee you are going to be 100 percent right. And that's why
as president, I'll take this very seriously.

BLITZER: Senator Paul, you didn't answer the question about the 2,000 Syrian
refugees who are already here in the United States. Will you send them back or
let them stay?

PAUL: What my bill would do would be only for refugees going forward. So I
haven't taken a position on sending anyone home. But I have taken the position
that we have a lot of problems here in our country. And that one of the things
that we do -- charity is about giving your own money. Charity isn't giving
someone else's money. To put everyone in government housing and food stamps and
bring them in from around the world I think is a mistake. To give of your own
money, I've given to my church. My church has helped people that came from
Bosnia. That's a good thing.

But we shouldn't have a program where we just say that we're going to take care
of the world's refugees. Nobody in the Middle East is doing anything. Saudi
Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait -- all the Gulf nations are doing nothing. They need to
step up and take...

(CROSSTALK)

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: We have another -- we have another question. We have another question
from Facebook. Let's listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

QUESTION: My name is Carla Hernandez. I'm from the University of Texas at
Austin. And my question is directed to all the candidates.

If the Bible clearly states that we need to embrace those in need and not fear,
how can we justify not accepting refugees?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BLITZER: Governor Christie, you say there should be a pause in allowing new
refugees to come into the United States, including orphans under the age of
five. What do you say to Carla?

CHRISTIE: What I say to Carla is that the first job of the president of the
United States is to protect your safety and your security and the security and
safety of your family. And this debate stops with me in the discussions with the
FBI director.

CHRISTIE: Now, listen, I'm a former federal prosecutor, I know Jim Comey. We've
worked together. He was the U.S. attorney in Manhattan when I was a U.S.
attorney in New Jersey.

And when Jim Comey gets up before Congress and says, we cannot effectively vet
these people, for me as president, that's the end of the conversation. We have
to put America's security first.

(APPLAUSE)

The American people -- we on this stage need to open our ears. We need to open
our ears. The American people are not whispering to us. They are screaming to
us. And they're screaming to us that it's our job to actually make this
government work.

It's so dysfunctional under Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. It's so
ineffective. It's so ineffectual that the American people say, we don't trust
them to do anything anymore. So I'm not going to let Syrian refugees, any Syrian
refugees in this country.

And it was widows and orphans, by the way, and we now know from watching the San
Bernardino attack that women can commit heinous, heinous acts against humanity
just the same as men can do it.

And so I don't back away from that position for a minute. When the FBI director
tells me that he can vet those people, then we'll consider it and not a moment
before because your safety and security is what's most important to me.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Governor Kasich.

KASICH: You know, obviously, as president of the United States, we've got to
keep the people safe. That's first and foremost.

But as governor of Ohio, I have an obligation to keep the 11.5 million people in
Ohio safe. And we have been very effective with our Joint Terrorism Task Force,
being able to make busts.

In fact, we just made one three-four weeks ago against a person who was
favorable to ISIS living in Akron.

But let me tell you what is interesting about the administration. We had Central
American miners that were placed in Ohio, and we never knew a thing about it. We
didn't know where they were. And, in fact, we know now that some of them, there
is a case going on where some of them may have been human-trafficked.

So when the administration tells me we have a great vetting process, the proof
is in the pudding. They sent these miners to us. Our schools were disrupted. We
didn't know where they were. And bad things happened to them. And now they tell
me that we ought to be able to admit these Syrian refugees.

So, Wolf, look, people have accused me at times of having too big of a heart.
You know, that's OK. But I have to also to say I must keep the people of my
state safe. So we take a pause.

BLITZER: Thank you, Governor.

There is much more coming up. We are only just beginning. Coming up, what other
global hot spots await the next president of the United States.

(APPLAUSE)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BLITZER: Welcome back to the CNN-Facebook Republican Presidential Debate. We're
here at the Venetian Las Vegas. Tonight we have been focusing on the Middle
East, but let's turn to some other world threats that you will potentially face
as Commander in Chief.

Ms. Fiorina, candidates here have called the North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un a
maniac who is mentally unstable. Last week he said he now has a hydrogen bomb.
If you were elected president, what would you do about Kim Jong-Un?

FIORINA: Well, first, Kim Jong-Un is a dangerous leader, without a doubt. And
both Republican and Democrat administrations have been completely ineffective in
dealing with him. So we must continue to isolate him. We will need China as part
of that strategy.

China is a rising adversary. So one of the things we have to do if we want
China's support is to push back on China. They, too, recognize one thing --
strength and their own economic interest.

I have done business in China for 25 years, so I know that in order to get China
to cooperate with us, we must first actually retaliate against their cyber
-attacks so they know we're serious. We have to push back on their desire to
control the trade route through the South China Sea through which flows $5
trillion worth of goods and services every year.

We cannot let them control the disputed islands, and we must work with the
Australians, the South Koreans, the Japanese and the Filipinos to contain China.
And then we must ask for their support and their help with North Korea. Because
believe it or not, China is as concerned about Kim Jong-Un as we are.

BLITZER: Dr. Carson, what would you do about Kim Jong-Un?

CARSON: Well, I definitely believe that he is unstable, and I do, in fact,
believe that China has a lot more influence with him than we do. But we also
recognize that North Korea is in severe financial straits, and they have decided
to use their resources to build their military, rather than to feed their people
and to take care of the various humanitarian responsibilities that they have.

We can capitalize upon that. You know, we should use our economic power in lots
of different ways. I think we can use that in order to keep Putin contained,
because he is a one-horse show. Energy. And we have an abundance of energy, but
we have archaic energy exportation rules. We need to get rid of those, allow
ourselves to really make Europe dependent on us and other parts of the world
dependent on us for energy. Put him back in his little box where he belongs.

And, you know, we need to be doing lots of other things with the resources that
we have. So economic power works just as well as military power, perhaps even
better. And speaking of that, our Military needs to be upgraded. You know, you
look at things like our Ohio Class submarines, they're 25 years old. Our
minuteman 3 missiles -- they are 34 years old. Our B-52 bombers -- 50 years old.
You know, if we don't get the military right nothing else matters.

BLITZER: Thank you, Dr. Carson. Dana and Hugh you have questions as well.

BASH: Governor Christie, you've said if China launches a cyber- attack against
the U.S. on your watch, ''they're going to see cyber- warfare like they have
never seen before.'' What exactly would that response look like?

CHRISTIE: Well, what it would like is, we have one of the great advantages of
America being the open society that we are. It is, we are not hiding things from
the American people, but China everyday is conducting business in a way that
hides things from their people.

CHRISTIE: So if they want to come in and attack all the personnel records in the
federal government, which they've done, and which -- they now have my Social
Security number and my fingerprints, as well as maybe some other folks' who are
on this stage.

The fact is, they need to be fought back on. And what we need to do is go at the
things that they are most sensitive and most embarrassing to them; that they're
hiding; get that information and put it out in public. Let the Chinese people
start to digest how corrupt the Chinese government is; how they steal from the
Chinese people; and how they're enriching oligarchs all throughout China.

They need to understand that. And we need to take those type of steps. This
president has seen personnel records of people who have sacrificed for the
American people and for the federal government stolen by the Chinese and he's
done nothing in return. This is why -- this is what I said at the beginning that
this administration, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton through their foreign
policy, have betrayed the American people, because the weakness they've
displayed has led to Putin's incursions in the Middle East and in eastern
Europe, and has led -- has led to significant problems in the Middle East as
well, and the death and murder of lots of folks.

BASH: Governor Bush, what you just heard from Governor Christie, are you
concerned that that could really escalate with China, that they would retaliate?
And, for example, as the NSA has said, attack the U.S. and maybe it's power
grid, which the Chinese have the capability to do?

BUSH: I completely agree with Chris. And this administration has been so lax.
Think about it. Hillary Clinton is using a private server for -- where
classified information go by. This is a -- this is a serious administration?

The president receives an inspector general's report that the Office of
Personnel Management could be hacked into; they had antiquated firewalls; 23
million files have been -- are in the hands of the Chinese allegedly, including,
by the way, members of the press, it turns out, last week. Maybe that's the only
part that's good news, so that you guys can get a feel for what it's like now to
see this type of attack.

This is something -- we have to have the best defensive capabilities. We need to
coordinate all of our efforts with the private sector. We need to give them
liability relief so that we can do that. And offensively, we need to have
capabilities second to none. We need to create a situation where they know that
there will be adverse impacts if they continue to do what they're doing.

They'll respect that. They'll respect a United States that is serious about
protecting our -- our infrastructure. If we don't do it, we'll continue to see
what's -- exactly what's happening, not just from the Chinese, by the way. The
Russians and rogue actors, including ISIS -- this is a serious part of the 21st
century security challenge that we face.

HEWITT: Mr. Trump...

(APPLAUSE)

... Dr. Carson just referenced the single most important job of the president,
the command, the control and the care of our nuclear forces. And he mentioned
the triad. The B-52s are older than I am. The missiles are old. The submarines
are aging out. It's an executive order. It's a commander-in-chief decision.

What's your priority among our nuclear triad?

TRUMP: Well, first of all, I think we need somebody absolutely that we can
trust, who is totally responsible; who really knows what he or she is doing.
That is so powerful and so important. And one of the things that I'm frankly
most proud of is that in 2003, 2004, I was totally against going into Iraq
because you're going to destabilize the Middle East. I called it. I called it
very strongly. And it was very important.

But we have to be extremely vigilant and extremely careful when it comes to
nuclear. Nuclear changes the whole ball game. Frankly, I would have said get out
of Syria; get out -- if we didn't have the power of weaponry today. The power is
so massive that we can't just leave areas that 50 years ago or 75 years ago we
wouldn't care. It was hand-to-hand combat.

The biggest problem this world has today is not President Obama with global
warming, which is inconceivable, this is what he's saying. The biggest problem
we have is nuclear -- nuclear proliferation and having some maniac, having some
madman go out and get a nuclear weapon. That's in my opinion, that is the single
biggest problem that our country faces right now.

HEWITT: Of the three legs of the triad, though, do you have a priority? I want
to go to Senator Rubio after that and ask him.

TRUMP: I think -- I think, for me, nuclear is just the power, the devastation is
very important to me.

HEWITT: Senator Rubio, do you have a response?

RUBIO: I do. First, let's explain to people at home who the triad -- what the
triad is. Maybe a lot of people haven't heard that terminology before. The triad
is our ability of the United States to conduct nuclear attacks using airplanes,
using missiles launched from silos or from the ground, and also from our nuclear
subs' ability to attack. And it's important -- all three of them are critical.
It gives us the ability at deterrence.

Now, some have become more critical than others; for example, the submarines.
And that's the Ohio Class submarine that needs to be modernized. The air
component also needs to be modernized. The B-52, as someone earlier pointed out,
is an outdated model that was flown by the grandparents of people that are
flying it now. And we need a serious modernization program as well on our
silo-launched missiles. All three are critical for the defense of the country.

BLITZER: Thank you, Senator Rubio.

Some of you on this stage have questioned whether your opponents have
temperament, the right temperament, to be in control of the nuclear codes.

Dana, you have a question on this?

BASH: Mr. Trump, just this weekend you said Senator Cruz is not qualified to be
president because he doesn't have the right temperament and acted like a maniac
when he arrived in the Senate. But last month you said you were open to naming
Senator Cruz as your running mate.

TRUMP: I did.

BASH: So why would you be willing to put somebody who's a maniac one heartbeat
away from the presidency?

TRUMP: Let me just say that I have gotten to know him over the last three or
four days. He has a wonderful temperament.

(LAUGHTER)

TRUMP: He's just fine. Don't worry about it.

(APPLAUSE)

BASH: Okay.

Senator Cruz. Senator Cruz, you have not been willing to attack Mr. Trump in
public.

TRUMP: You better not attack...

(LAUGHTER)

BASH: But you did question his judgment in having control of American's nuclear
arsenal during a private meeting with supporters. Why are you willing to say
things about him in private and not in public?

CRUZ: Dana, what I said in private is exactly what I'll say here, which is that
the judgment that every voter is making of every one of us up here is who has
the experience, who has the vision, who has the judgment to be commander in
chief. That is the most important decision for the voters to make. That's a
standard I'm held to. And it's a standard everyone else is held to.

And I will note, you know, in the whole course of this discussion about our
foreign policy threats, it actually illustrates the need for clarity of focus.

You know, my daughters, Caroline and Catherine, came tonight. They're 7 and 5.
And you think about the Los Angeles schools canceling their schools today.

And every parent is wondering, how do we keep our kids safe? We need a commander
in chief who does what Ronald Reagan did with communism, which is he set out a
global strategy to defeat Soviet communism. And he directed all of his...

(CROSSTALK)

CRUZ: I'm answering the question, Dana.

He directed all of his forces to defeating communism.

One of the things we've seen here is how easy it is for Barack Obama and Hillary
Clinton to get distracted from dealing with radical Islamic terrorism. They
won't even call it by its name.

We need a president who stands up, number one, and says, we will defeat ISIS.
And number two, says the greatest national security threat facing America is a
nuclear Iran.

BASH: Senator, senator, I just...

CRUZ: And we need to be focused on defeating...

BASH: Senator, a lot of people have seen...

CRUZ: ... defeating radical Islamic terrorists.

BASH: ... a lot of people have seen these comments you made in private. I just
want to clarify what you're saying right now is you do believe Mr. Trump has the
judgment to be commander in chief?

CRUZ: What I'm saying, Dana, is that is a judgment for every voter to make. What
I can tell you is all nine of the people here would make an infinitely better
commander in chief than Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Thank you, senator. Thank you.

CRUZ: And there is a real danger, Dana, when people get distracted.

I'm answering the question, Wolf.

CRUZ: There's a real danger when people get distracted by peripheral issues.
They get distracted by democracy building. They get distracted about military
conflicts. We need to focus on defeating jihadism. ISIS and Iran have declared
war on America, and we need a commander in chief who will do everything
necessary to keep our children safe.

BLITZER: Thank you, Senator.

CRUZ: And I will do everything necessary to keep our children safe.

BLITZER: Thank you, Senator.

We're a month and a half away now from the first real test who will be the
Republican presidential nominee.

Hugh, you have a question?

HEWITT: My listeners tell me again and again they are worried that Hillary
Clinton will win the White House because you'll run as an independent. Are you
ready to assure Republicans tonight that you will run as a Republican and abide
by the decision of the Republicans?

TRUMP: I really am. I'll be honest, I really am.

(APPLAUSE)

TRUMP: I mean, the people have been putting me...

(APPLAUSE)

TRUMP: I really am.

(APPLAUSE)

HEWITT: Dr. Carson, last week...

TRUMP: Let me just. Can I just finish my...

HEWITT: Please.

TRUMP: I've gained great respect for the Republican leadership. I've gained
great respect for many -- and I'm going to even say -- I mean, in different
forms for the people on the dais, in different forms.

(LAUGHTER)

TRUMP: In different forms.

But I have great respect for the people I have met through this process. I've
never done this process before. I've never been a politician. I mean, for the
last six months I've been a politician.

But I will tell you, I am totally committed to the Republican Party. I feel very
honored to be the front runner.

(APPLAUSE) TRUMP: And I think I'll do very well if I'm chosen. If I'm so
fortunate to be chosen, I think I'll do very well.

Polls have come out recently saying I would beat Hillary. I will do everything
in my power to beat Hillary Clinton, I promise you.

(APPLAUSE)

HEWITT: Dr. Carson, Mr. Trump just committed to stay the distance regardless of
the result. How about you?

CARSON: Well, you know, the statement that I made last week, that I would leave
the party was contingent upon whether in fact the party acts like they have in
the past with a lot of subterfuge and dishonesty, or like they're going act now
because I spike to Reince Priebus, and he assured me that the Washington Post
writer had it all wrong, and that they're not be engaging in anything to thwart
the will of the people.

That's why I got into this race, as a member of we the people, to try bring some
honesty and integrity back to the process.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: All right. Candidates, we have more coming up. When we come back,
everyone will have an opportunity to explain why this particular candidate, each
of you on the stage, believes he or she should be the Republican presidential
nominee.

(APPLAUSE)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BLITZER: Now it's time for the closing statements from the candidates. Each one
has 30 seconds.

Senator Paul.

PAUL: The greatest threat to our national security is our debt. We borrow a
million dollars a minute. And whose fault is it? Well, frankly, it's both
parties' fault. You have those on the right who clamor and say, oh, we will
spend anything on the military, and those on the left who say the same for
domestic welfare.

But what most Americans don't realize is there is an unholy alliance. They come
together. There's a secret handshake. We spend more money on everything. And we
are not stronger nation if we go further into debt. We are not projecting power
from bankruptcy court.

To me, there is no greater threat than our debt. I'm the only fiscal
conservative on the stage because I'm willing to hold the line on all spending.
I hope you will consider me in the election. Thank you very much.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Governor Kasich. KASICH: No Republican has ever been elected president
of the United States without winning Ohio. Let me give you a little tip on how
you win Ohio, it's reform, it's hope, it's growth, it's opportunity, and it's
security.

The people of Ohio are the people of America. The people of America are
reflected in Ohio. Our message has to be big, and bold, and positive, and
connect, not just with people's heads but also connect with their hearts.

If we do it, we will beat Hillary Clinton, and we will run the White House, and
we will strengthen and fix America, I promise you.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Governor Christie.

CHRISTIE: On September 10th, 2001, I was named chief federal prosecutor in New
Jersey and on September 11th, 2001, my wife and my brother who are in the
audience tonight went through the World Trade Center and to their offices just
blocks away from the Trade Center.

I lost touch with them for six hours that day and prayed that they were alive.
Luckily, they were sent home. But many of our friends and others in our
neighborhood lost their lives that day.

Terrorism -- radical jihadist terrorism is not theoretical to me. It's real. And
for seven years, I spent my life protecting our country against another one of
those attacks. You won't have to worry when I'm President of the Untied States
whether that can be done because I've already done it. I want the chance to do
it again to protect you, your children and your families.

If you give me the chance and give me your vote I will protect America from the
wars that are being brought to our door step.

BLITZER: Ms. Fiorina.

FIORINA: I too remember September 11th. I remember immediately putting into
place security procedures all throughout our company that did business in 170
countries where we thought corporate interests would be attacked next. To take
our country back, to keep our nation safe, we have to begin by beating Hillary
Clinton.

We need to unify our party. We need to better than our government, which 75
percent of the American people now think is corrupt and incompetent. They're
right. We need to better than our politics. 80 percent think we have a
professional/political class of both parties that cares more about its power,
position and privilege than actually on getting anything done.

We need to unify our party, we need a real Conservative in the White House, and
we need to beat Hillary Clinton to take our country back and keep our nation
safe.

I can. I am. And together, if you join me, we will take our country back.

BLITZER: Governor Bush. BUSH: Ask yourself, which candidate will keep you and
our country safer, stronger and freer?

Hillary Clinton has aligned herself with Barack Obama on ISIS, Iran and the
economy. It's an alliance doomed to fail. My proven record suggests that -- my
detailed plans will fortify our national and economic security. And my proven
record as governor makes -- will give you a sense that I don't make false
promises. I deliver real results.

For America to be safe and sound, I ask for you support. Thank you all very
much.

BLITZER: Senator Rubio.

RUBIO: Thank you. As we near the end of this year, we enter one of the most
important elections in a generation. For what's at stake in this election is not
simply what party's going to be in charge. But our very identity as a people and
as a nation. For over 200 years this has been a special country. A unique place
where anyone from anywhere can achieve anything. But now millions of Americans
feel like they're being left behind. Insecure in their future and unsafe in the
face of terrorism. This election is about electing a president that will restore
our economic vibrancy so that the American dream can expand to reach more people
and change more lives than ever before. And rebuild our Military and our
intelligence programs so that we can remain the strongest nation on earth.
Tonight I ask you for your vote.

If you do this, we will rebuild this country, and together we will usher in a
new American century -- the greatest era in the history of this great land.

BLITZER: Senator Cruz.

CRUZ: Judgment, strength, clarity and trust. Barack Obama has said he doesn't
believe in American leadership or America winning -- he is wrong. America can
win again and we will win again. Ronald Reagan reignited the American economy,
rebuilt the Military, bankrupted the Soviet Union and defeated Soviet Communism.
I will do the same thing.

Cutting taxes, cutting regulation, unleashing small businesses and rebuilding
the Military to defeat radical Islamic terrorism -- our strategy is simple. We
win, they lose. We've done it before and we can do it again.

BLITZER: Dr. Carson.

CARSON: I've been fortunate enough to travel to 58 different countries and I
thank God everyday that I was born in this country. The most exceptional country
that the world has ever known. And I want to make sure that we preserve that
exceptionalism for the next generation. My mother told me if I work hard and I
really believed in American principles and I believed in God, anything is
possible. I believe that is true, and that's why I'm not anxious to give away
American values and principles for the sake of political correctness.

XXX of political correctness.

TRUMP: Our country doesn't win anymore. We don't win on trade. We don't win on
the military. We can't defeat ISIS. We're not taking care of our great people,
the veterans. We're not taking care of them.

We have to change our whole way, our health care system is a disaster. It's
going to implode in 2017, just like you're sitting there. It doesn't work.
Nothing works in our country. If I'm elected president, we will win again. We
will win a lot. And we're going to have a great, great country, greater than
ever before.

Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

BLITZER: Thanks to all the Republican presidential candidates. That does it for
this Republican presidential debate.

On behalf of everyone at CNN, we want to thank the candidates, Facebook, the
Republican National Committee, and the Venetian Las Vegas. My thanks also to
Hugh Hewitt and Dana Bash.

We especially want to wish everyone a very merry Christmas, happy holidays,
especially to the soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines protecting us around
the world.

Anderson Cooper picks up our coverage of tonight's debate right now -- Anderson.

END

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/16/us/politics/transcript-main-republican-preside
ntial-debate.html

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 20, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Murder at a Remove

BYLINE: By MARILYN STASIO

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CRIME; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 248 words


Why go through all the fuss and bother of committing murder when you can stalk
your victims on the Internet and bully them into doing the deed themselves?
Carol Jordan, the self-destructive but intensely interesting protagonist of
SPLINTER THE SILENCE (Atlantic Monthly, $26) and other mysteries by Val
McDermid, doesn't buy that explanation for the death of Jasmine Burton, a
forceful advocate for women and children exploited by traffickers in the sex
trade. The ''suicides'' of other outspoken feminists may reveal a pattern, but
that still doesn't answer an important question: How could a pack of cyber
-trolls persuade a strong, self-assured woman to take her own life?

Carol used to be one of those women, a detective chief inspector and boss of an
elite murder squad until she lost herself in the bottle, quit the police force,
cut ties with her best friend and sloped off to bury herself in the Yorkshire
countryside. But ''in spite of everything, Carol Jordan's still standing,'' and
she's got her faithful friend, the psychologist Tony Hill, to thank for that.
When she hits rock bottom and is arrested on a D.U.I., he stages an
intervention, moving into the barn she's restoring and seeing her through the
worst of the drying out. But what really gets Carol on her feet and back on the
force is the chance to assemble a crack team of investigators to hunt down the
cyberbully -- or is it the ­murderer? -- punishing upstart women who ''deny
their proper role in family structures.''



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/20/books/review/murder-at-a-remove.html

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 166 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 25, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gap in Views on Threat of ISIS' Digital Powers

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1018 words


George Osborne, the British chancellor of the Exchequer, said in a speech last
month that Islamic State militants were trying to develop the ability to carry
out digital attacks on critical systems, like hospitals, air traffic controls
and power plants.

In the United States, Clifton Triplett, the new cybersecurity adviser hired by
the Office of Personnel Management to help get the agency back on track after a
series of hackings traced to China, said this month that he expected the Islamic
State, also known as ISIS, might ultimately breach the agency's systems, too.

But private security researchers who track the Islamic State's online efforts
say the group's capabilities are in fact not much better than those of
tech-savvy teenagers who deface websites for thrills. That view illustrates a
growing perception gap between officials' fears and what security experts
consider a believable threat.

Indeed, two men considered the Islamic State's most sophisticated hackers have
been sidelined. One is dead; the other, in jail.

''To date, the attacks attributed or believed to be conducted by ISIS have been
embarrassing, but not necessarily complex or sophisticated,'' said Christopher
Ahlberg, the chief executive and co-founder of Recorded Future, a company based
in Somerville, Mass., that analyzes online threats.

Mr. Ahlberg cautioned that the Islamic State is trying to recruit replacements
for the hackers it lost. But, for now, its hacking capabilities appear
rudimentary.

In April, an attack knocked a   French television station, TV5Monde, off the air
for nearly an entire day. At first, the hacking was attributed to the Islamic
State. But security experts later tied it to a Russian group engaged in what
appeared to be an aggressive counterintelligence operation -- aimed at gleaning
more information about ISIS.

Indeed, the online focus of Islamic State members and sympathizers has been
recruitment, not computer attacks.

A search of password-protected, online ISIS forums by Recorded Future yields
mild discussion of digital attacks elsewhere on the web, for instance, those
launched by the activist hacker group known as the Lizard Squad. But little
emerges on politically motivated hacking planning or substance.

Mr. Ahlberg said his company, which pulls intelligence from open and closed web
forums, ISIS propaganda forums, social media and an array of other information
tools, has yet to see any public pronouncement from the Islamic State that would
indicate it has acquired hacking capabilities.

Hacking attacks are barely mentioned in Dabiq, the Islamic State's online
magazine, and other instructional documents, according to an analysis by
Recorded Future. The words ''cyber,'' ''cyber attack'' and ''hacking'' do not
appear in any of the 740 recent ISIS propaganda and instructional materials that
Mr. Ahlberg's company looked at. Nor do any ISIS materials focus on such attacks
as a core ambition.

Of the two Islamic State sympathizers believed to have the most sophisticated
hacking skills, one, Ardit Ferizi, a 20-year-old citizen of Kosovo, has been
imprisoned in Malaysia. He is awaiting extradition to the United States where he
faces up to 35 years in prison, according to a Justice Department indictment.

The other, Junaid Hussain, a 21-year-old British-born Pakistani who is credited
with breaking into the United States Central Command's Twitter and YouTube
accounts in January, was killed in a drone strike in Syria in August.

Still, officials worry that even with their ranks of talented hackers depleted,
the Islamic State could one day recruit more sophisticated hackers. The group
has already shown itself to be adept at using social media to draw in new
members, said Rita Katz, the executive director and co-founder of the SITE
Intelligence Group, which monitors ISIS's online activity.

Online discussions among ISIS members used to take place almost exclusively in
password-protected forums, Ms. Katz said. But Twitter, YouTube and Tumblr offer
a far bigger audience, as well as a means of communicating with other fighters
and prospective recruits.

It was on Twitter that Mr. Hussain and Mr. Ferizi, both well-known hackers,
re-emerged as ISIS fighters. On Twitter, Mr. Hussain publicly instigated online
attacks, posted information on American military forces and officers, and
cheered on other fighters in the group, according to Ms. Katz.

''Junaid Hussain and Ardit Ferizi are exactly the type of people ISIS is trying
to recruit,'' Mr. Ahlberg said.

Both were young, alienated from society and proficient with computers. Mr.
Hussain was born in Birmingham, England, and began hacking as a teenager with a
pro-Palestinian group called Team Poison, which has hit a range of targets,
including Mark Zuckerberg's personal Facebook page and NATO's website.

After a six-month stint in a British prison for hacking into the address book of
Tony Blair, Mr. Hussain resurfaced with a new identity: In his new Twitter
photo, a scarf masks the lower half of his face, he is pointing a weapon at the
viewer, and he had acquired a nom de guerre: Abu Hussain al-Britani.

Mr. Ferizi was born in Kosovo one year after Mr. Hussain and started hacking as
a teenager for a group called Kosova Hacker's Security.

Last summer, while studying in Malaysia he began passing information stolen in a
K.H.S. breach to Mr. Hussain, including the personal data of more than 1,000
American service members and federal employees, according to his indictment.

The two linked up on Twitter. And that, Ms. Katz said, is where she believes the
government battle against the Islamic State is falling short.

A study by the Brookings Institution published in March estimated that in the
last quarter of 2014, ISIS supporters used at least 46,000 Twitter accounts,
each with an average of about 1,000 followers. Whenever Twitter suspended one
account, others popped up almost instantaneously.

''Twitter is going to continue to be the main problem we face right now because
it takes no time for ISIS to find lone wolves to pull off its plots and
attacks,'' Ms. Katz said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/25/technology/security-experts-and-officials-dive
rge-on-isis-as-hacking-threat.html

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: George Osborne, Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer, has
spoken on digital threats. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOBY MELVILLE/REUTERS) (B1)
 George Osborne says ISIS is trying to develop the ability to digitally disable
public infrastructure. Others are less convinced. (POOL PHOTO BY ANDY RAIN) (B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
