
                               1 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 5, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Aircraft Carrier Captain Is Removed Over His Role in Coarse Videos

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 549 words


WASHINGTON -- The United States Navy removed the commanding officer of the
aircraft carrier Enterprise on Tuesday, citing his ''profound lack of good
judgment'' for creating and starring in a series of coarse and sexually explicit
onboard videos several years ago that were meant as entertainment for the ship's
crew.

The officer, Capt. Owen Honors, was permanently relieved of his duties some two
weeks before the Enterprise, the world's first nuclear-powered carrier, is due
to leave its home port in Norfolk, Va., to support combat missions in
Afghanistan.

Adm. John C. Harvey Jr., the commander of the United States Fleet Forces Command
in Norfolk, said in a statement that after viewing the videos, he had lost
confidence in the captain's ability to lead. Captain Honors's lack of judgment
and professionalism, the admiral said, ''calls into question his character and
completely undermines his credibility to continue to serve effectively in
command.''

The videos include scenes of simulated masturbation, simulated eating of feces,
a simulated rectal exam, antigay slurs and a pair of men and a pair of women
showering together. They were produced by Captain Honors and shown to sailors
and Marines aboard the Enterprise, which has a crew of some 6,000, in 2006 and
2007. The videos, which also include a scene that suggests an officer is engaged
in sex with a donkey in his stateroom, were first disclosed by the Norfolk
newspaper, The Virginian-Pilot.

Capt. Dee L. Mewbourne, the chief of staff of Navy Cyber Forces and a former
commander of the aircraft carrier Dwight D. Eisenhower, was permanently assigned
as the commanding officer of the Enterprise. Captain Honors has been reassigned
to an administrative position at Fleet Forces Command in Norfolk. The Navy said
he was not available for comment.

It remains unclear why it took five years for the videos to surface and whether
any of Captain Honors's superiors knew about the videos, shown weekly on
closed-circuit television aboard the Enterprise. Captain Honors, who was the
Enterprise's executive officer, or second in command, at the time of the videos,
was supervised by the ship's commanding officer, Lawrence S. Rice, now a rear
admiral.

Two other superior officers, Rear Adm. Raymond Spicer and Vice Adm. Daniel
Holloway, commanded the Enterprise strike group -- made up of the combat and
support vessels that accompanied the carrier -- during Captain Honors's time as
executive officer. Typically the admirals would have lived on the Enterprise.
Admiral Spicer recently retired; Admiral Holloway is now commander of the Second
Fleet.

Admiral Harvey's statement said that the Navy was continuing an investigation
into the videos, including ''the actions of other senior officers who knew of
the videos and the actions they took in response.''

In one of the videos, the actress Glenn Close makes an appearance, the result of
video taken when she visited the carrier four years ago. In a statement Tuesday,
Ms. Close called the use of her image in the video ''deeply offensive and
insulting.''

As of Tuesday afternoon, more than 11,000 people had posted comments on a
Facebook page in support of Captain Honors. The vast majority of them expressed
the view that the videos were morale boosters and that the news media were
overreacting.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Capt. Owen Honors (PHOTOGRAPH BY U.S. NAVY, VIA AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 6, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Narrowing the Field Before Playing It

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1349 words


WHOM do you want to date? A bookworm? A beauty queen? A virgin? A vegan?
Whatever you're seeking, chances are there's a niche dating site for you. Yes,
even you, mustache fetishists (see StachePassions.com).

Singles on major sites like Match.com and Lavalife.com have long been able to
narrow their searches for potential matches, based on their preferences for
height, weight, smoking habits and other personal details. But in an age when
consumers can customize their sneakers, their sweaters, even the writing on
their M & Ms, is it any wonder they want even more control when it comes to
cyber dating?

A raft of niche sites is offering the granularity they crave. A handful of them,
like BlackSingles and JDate, have been around for a few years.

But now that broad-brush dating sites have saturated the market, niche players
are growing ever more plentiful and popular, according to major market research
firms that monitor the dating industry.

Here's a smattering of what's out there, be it new, intriguing or weird, or all
three.

Alikewise.com

You can't judge a book by its cover, but you can tell a lot about a person by
looking at his or her books. At least, that's the idea behind this dating site,
which went live last summer. On this site, members with screen names befitting
bibliophiles -- BookBender, InkSmudge, LostinTheStacks -- peruse lists and
images of one another's favorite page-turners. Take, for instance, the
45-year-old man from Los Angeles who relished ''Into the Wild'' by Jon Krakauer.
''I can relate to the wanderlust portrayed in this book,'' the man wrote on his
profile page, ''as well as the integration of soul with pristine nature.''
Members of the site can click on the image of a book to see others who have
enjoyed it. They can also receive alerts when a book that they love is mentioned
by another member. And a ''Literary Missed Connections'' feature is in the
works, as in: ''I saw you reading Gladwell on the C train Thursday night. ...''
The hope is that if two people fall for the same tome, they just might fall for
each other, too. Subscriptions: free.

Cupidtino.com

''Are you a Mac or a PC?'' There is only one answer on this nascent dating site
for Apple product enthusiasts. The site's founders contend that Apple fans tend
to have creative professions, a similar sense of style and an appetite for
technology. As they put it, ''We believe these are enough fundamental reasons
for two people to meet and fall in love.'' To join the site -- which echoes the
clandestine minimalism of Apple advertisements but is not affiliated with the
company -- you must own a Mac. Members (known as Machearts) can then share their
favorite apps, music and movies, and swap stories about the moment they first
laid eyes on ... an Apple device. Subscriptions: $4.79 a month.

WeWaited.com

Not every dating site is like OnlineBootyCall.com, where members adhere to
''Booty Call Commandments'' like ''thou shalt get out before the sun rises'' and
''if someone cometh over whilst thou art here, thou art my cousin from out of
town.'' Rather, there are dating sites like WeWaited.com, for virgins seeking
other virgins. Don't get any ideas: the site says it conducts background checks
on would-be members to ensure they're virgins. Now, there is only one way to
confirm that -- and it doesn't involve a database. Even so, the site's founders,
Leticia and Jose Colin, explain on their Web page that the screenings performed
on prospective users reveal whether they have lied about their personal history
(are they married or have they ever been arrested?). If that's the case, the
assumption is that the candidates have not been truthful about their virginity
either. Subscriptions: $5 a month; $29.95 a year.

DateHarvardSq.com

When this site -- the brainchild of two Harvard Business School graduates, Beri
Meric and Philipp Triebel -- went live a few months ago, it appeared to be a
highbrow take on the likes of SugarDaddie.com. Heterosexual women who did not
graduate from Harvard could pay to date men who had. Yet the site, which is not
associated with the university, has since begun allowing other singles --
Harvard women, gay men, lesbians -- to join. Each week Harvard singles receive a
mix of potential matches including other Harvard singles as well as well as
''interested singles,'' a k a everyone else. ''Interested singles'' receive only
Harvard matches. (There are no publicly searchable profiles on the site.)
Members can then pick the matches, if any, they care to study further.
Subscriptions: free for Harvard students and alumni; $19.99 to $39.99 for
others. (The site's founders are also creating IvyDate.com, for other
universities.)

BeautifulPeople.com

This dating pool for the genetically blessed came under fire when it ousted some
5,000 members for packing on the pounds during Christmastime. The site has a
''strict ban on ugly people,'' and issued a news release this month saying the
cuts were made after many members posted photographs of themselves looking plump
in the weeks after Thanksgiving. ''Letting fatties roam the site is a direct
threat to our business model,'' the site's founder, Robert Hintze, said in a
statement. If you can resist eggnog and want to apply for membership, you can
submit photos, which will be voted on by existing members. Subscriptions: $25 a
month.

DateMyPet.com

Members of this dating site enjoy long walks and cuddling -- with their cats and
dogs. Singles post photos and essays about not only themselves, but also their
puppies, rabbits, horses, birds, fish and other dependents. A 31-year-old woman
from Springfield, N.J., channeled her 5-year-old Bichon mix, writing: ''I can be
selfish and dominant, just don't go near my food.'' There is an area for members
to describe their pet's ''ideal date,'' and a ''pet heaven'' section enables
members to tell prospective dates about their deceased Spots and Fidos.
Subscriptions: $6.66 to $14.95 a month.

SeniorPeopleMeet.com

This dating site for the A.A.R.P. set is aimed at one of the fastest growing
demographics in online dating. The number of seniors using the Internet in
general increased to 17.5 million in November 2009, up from 11.3 million users
in November 2004, according to Nielsen Media. And the Pew Research Center has
noted that the biggest increase in Internet use since 2005 is from people ages
70 to 75. Dating sites for elderly people essentially resemble other singles
sites, though members typically post fewer lingerie shots. Subscriptions: $13.95
to $19.95 a month.

420Dating.com

The words ''Why Toke Alone?'' are emblazoned above a woman in leafy green
lingerie on the home page of this dating site, named for a code for marijuana
(it supposedly originated in the 1970s when groups of teenagers gathered at 4:20
p.m. to smoke). A disclaimer notes that while the site is ''smoker friendly,''
it ''does not advocate the use of illegal substances.'' The same cannot be said
of its members. One of the tamer entries is from a 54-year-old woman who
employed a stream-of-consciousness style on her profile page: ''older hippie
chick missin' the '60s empty nester needing to get back where I belong. Veggie
growin' and smokin' energetic loves outdoors.'' Subscriptions: $9.95 a month for
a year.

VeggieDate.org

Dating sites for vegetarians abound. To name a few:

VeggieConnection.com

VeggieRomance.com

VeggieFishing.com

SingleVegetarians.com

Vegetarian-Dating.net

VegConnect.com

VeggieDate.org is one of the oldest, and its members' diets run the gamut from
vegan to ''almost veg.'' Subscriptions: $9.95 for three months; $19.95 for one
year; $69.95 for lifetime membership. (Note to singles seeking long-term love:
it is not advisable to pursue people who buy lifetime memberships to dating
sites.)

DemocratSingles.com and ConservativeDates.com

These sites are for singles looking for love along party lines. Look more
closely, however, and you'll see that almost all of the same blithe models are
pictured on the home pages of both the liberal and conservative Web sites. How's
that for bipartisanship? Subscriptions: $19.95 for a month; $44.95 for three
months.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SPIN THE BOTTLE: There seem to be as many sites these days for
dating as there are people looking for a date, including, from top:
beautifulpeople.com
alikewise.com
420dating.com
veggiedate.org
datemypet.com
 and cupidtino.com. (E2) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JENNIFER DANIEL)(E1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 6, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

GADGETWISE; A Sony Point-and-Shoot With a Superbright Screen

BYLINE: By STEPHEN WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Personal Tech; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 285 words


Sony is back at the Consumer Electronics Show with a new OLED screen. But don't
plan on hanging this one on the wall; it measures three-and-a-half inches.

OLED has been a once-and-future technology for a half-dozen years now, and
unless some flat-panel maker shows up in Las Vegas with a surprise this year --
Mitsubishi, perhaps? -- the technology, at least at the consumer level, remains
in CE limbo. So far, except for Sony's 11-inch, $2,500 TV, OLED has only been
applied to small-screen uses, such as mobile devices, a Walkman and a few
cameras.

At any rate, Sony has revamped most of its line of point-and-shoots, upping
megapixels (the aforementioned TX100v employs a 16.2-mp Exmor R low-light CMOS
sensor, as do a couple of other models) and adding the 3D ''Sweep Panorama''
feature to a few, for the 17 folks out there who own Sony 3D televisions.
Actually, we saw some stills taken with this feature displayed on a big screen,
and the effect was very impressive. To this end, Sony wants us to know that this
is the year that ''3D goes personal.''

To stay in the highly competitive race for low-end digicams as they evolve into
impulse buys, Sony opens its pricing at $110 for the low-end DSC-W510, part of
the expansive ''W'' model line up that extends to the $280 WX10, which includes
a 7-times optical lens and Full HD capability for movies. The budget W510 has a
wide-angle 4-times optical zoom lens, the (non-3D) Panorama function, 12
megapixel capability and an image stabilization circuit.

All of the new Cyber-shots will be on sale in February and March, and a couple
of as-yet-unannounced models will appear next month.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 9, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

China Rises, and Checkmates

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 756 words


BEIJING

If there's a human face on Rising China, it belongs not to some Politburo chief,
not to an Internet tycoon, but to a quiet, mild-mannered teenage girl named Hou
Yifan.

Ms. Hou (whose name is pronounced Ho Ee-fahn) is an astonishing phenomenon: at
16, she is the new women's world chess champion, the youngest person, male or
female, ever to win a world championship. And she reflects the way China -- by
investing heavily in education and human capital, particularly in young women --
is increasingly having an outsize impact on every aspect of the world.

Napoleon is famously said to have declared, ''When China wakes, it will shake
the world.'' That is becoming true even in spheres that China historically has
had little connection with, like chess, basketball, rare earth minerals, cyber
warfare, space exploration and nuclear research.

This is a process that Miss Hou exemplifies. Only about 1 percent of Chinese
play chess, and China has never been a chess power. But since 1991, China has
produced four women's world chess champions, and Ms. Hou is the one with by far
the most promise.

At this point, I have to put my sensitive male ego aside. You see, Ms. Hou
gamely agreed to play me after I interviewed her. She had just flown into
Beijing after winning the world championship, and she was exhausted -- and she
shredded me in 21 moves.

Most dispiriting, when I was teetering at the abyss near the end of the game,
her coach nudged her and suggested mischievously that we should switch sides.
Ms. Hou would inherit my impossible position -- and the gleam in her coach's eye
suggested that she would still win.

I protested that I could survive being beaten on the chess board by a
schoolgirl. But to be toyed with, like a mouse by a cat -- that would be too
much. Ms. Hou nodded compassionately and checkmated me a few moves later.

At 14 she became the youngest female grandmaster ever. She's still so young that
it's unclear just how remarkable she will become.

Women in general haven't been nearly as good at chess as men, and the world's
top women are mostly ranked well below the top men -- but Ms. Hou could be an
exception. She is the only female chess player today considered to have a shot
at becoming one of the top few players in the world, male or female.

Cynics sometimes suggest that China's rise as a world power is largely a matter
of government manipulation of currency rates and trade rules, and there's no
doubt that there's plenty of rigging or cheating going on in every sphere. But
China has also done an extraordinarily good job of investing in its people and
in spreading opportunity across the country. Moreover, perhaps as a legacy of
Confucianism, its citizens have shown a passion for education and
self-improvement -- along with remarkable capacity for discipline and hard work,
what the Chinese call ''chi ku,'' or ''eating bitterness.''

Ms. Hou dined on plenty of bitterness in working her way up to champion. She
grew up in the boondocks, in a county town in Jiangsu Province, and her parents
did not play chess. But they lavished attention on her and spoiled her, as
parents of only children (''little emperors'') routinely do in China.

China used to be one of the most sexist societies in the world -- with female
infanticide, foot binding, and concubinage -- but it turned a corner and now is
remarkably good at giving opportunities to girls as well as boys. When Ms. Hou's
parents noticed her interest in a chess board at a store, they promptly bought
her a chess set -- and then hired a chess tutor for her.

Ye Jiangchuan, the chief coach of the national men's and women's teams, told me
that he played Ms. Hou when she was 9 years old -- and was stunned. ''I saw that
this kid was special,'' he told me, and he invited her to move to Beijing to
play with the national teams. Three years later she was the youngest girl ever
to compete in the world chess championships.

It will be many, many decades before China can challenge the United States as
the overall ''No. 1'' in the world, for we have a huge lead and China still must
show that it can transition to a more open and democratic society. But already
in discrete areas -- its automobile market, carbon emissions and now women's
chess -- China is emerging as No. 1 here and there, and that process will
continue.

There's a lesson for us as well. China's national commitment to education,
opportunity and eating bitterness -- those are qualities that we in the West
might emulate as well. As you know after you've been checkmated by Hou Yifan.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 18, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Me and My Algorithm

BYLINE: By SETH FREEMAN.

Seth Freeman is a writer for television.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 610 words


Los Angeles

ALGORITHMS, as you probably know, are the computer programs that infer from your
profile (in the case of Facebook) and from the content of your e-mails (in the
case of Gmail) your interests and preferences, enabling ads to be displayed to
the customers most likely to be interested in specific products. This feature is
prized by advertisers and accounts for the multibillion-dollar value of the most
successful Web networks.

The algorithms are programmed, I believe, to get to know us better over time,
and rather than resent the invasion of privacy I have come to feel a grudging
respect for, and even a growing sense of intimacy with, my own personal
algorithm. You have to admire, for example, the inventive audacity of a program
that would read an e-mail someone sent me about ''Holocaust deniers'' and think
that I might be shopping for a Holistic Dentist.

And when I conceded in an e-mail that something ''was cheeky of me ...'' I found
it rather endearing that the algorithm tried to sell me a New Razor from
Gillette (R). I had a similar reaction when a reference to the fine actor
Christopher Plummer produced: Get a Plumbing Quote Now. Find a local Plumber.

Of course, these slightly off-base pitches have a certain logic that is easy to
discern, revealing, more than anything else, the program's digital dyslexia.

The algorithm seemed more insightful when the board of a nonprofit foundation on
which I serve began discussing the possibilities for their first-ever
fund-raising event in an exchange of thoughtful and creative e-mails and, from
its depths of knowledge and experience, the program offered: ''Beverly Hills
Psychologist: Dr. Ryan specializes in types of self-destructive behavior.'' You
have to appreciate an algorithm that has your back.

I sometimes find myself wondering what the algorithm knows that I don't. This
was particularly true, and disconcerting, when a recent e-mail about earthquake
coverage for my home, several miles inland from the ocean in California,
prompted an ad for Clearance Swimwear.

Or what deep insights, it would be fascinating to learn, inspired an ad for
Maria Sharapova Photo -- Get Incredible Bargains on Maria Sharapova Photo from a
reference to former Secretary of State Warren Christopher? I know Mr.
Christopher negotiated with the Russians, but does the algorithm have inside
information about the diplomat's friskier side and a relationship to the
beautiful tennis player that was missed by ''Entertainment Tonight'' -- and by
everybody else who knows him?

An e-mail about a performance of Shakespeare's ''Much Ado About Nothing'' had
three ads for Cadillacs along the side. What's that about? I was also offered
Baseball Swing Trainers -- not a sport I play. I was pitched a chance for the
2010 CuteKid of the Year -- Do you have a CuteKid? Cutest Baby takes home
$25,000 -- although my daughter is in her 20s. And while they are not something
I wear, I could have gotten a good deal on Personalized Kippots, which are
yarmulkes, and it did occur to me that it might be cool to have one with the
Nike swoosh.

If this is a case of my algorithm, my cyber personal shopper, coach, guardian
angel and avatar, knowing me better than I know myself, I really do need to
figure out why I, a guy, get repeated offers -- tied to a e-mails on vastly
different subjects -- for mastectomy bras and for something called a vaginal
ring. Is the idea that these items make lovely gifts?

Since articles I have written have circulated through the Internet by e-mail, it
could easily turn out that my algorithm will soon get the opportunity to read
what I have had to say about it here. What, I wonder, will it think?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 23, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

I Resolve. World, Don't Fail Me Now.

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1098 words


GAZING into the camera, a smoky-eyed teenager known as glamourista16 confessed
to the YouTube masses: ''My friend got me addicted to chipotle and I cannot
stop.''

Glamourista16 hardly looks as if she ingests copious amounts of braised carnitas
and yet: ''I ate it three times last week,'' she said. So began a nearly
five-minute video about her New Year's resolution to stop indulging in fast food
-- which in recent weeks has been viewed more than 38,000 times.

Thousands of these New Year's resolution videos are being uploaded to YouTube.
At the same time, Facebook, Twitter and other social media sites like 43Things
are riddled with posts about promises to run marathons, learn Spanish and floss
teeth. And while announcing your goals to all the world may just seem like the
latest cyber-narcissism, it can be an effective achievement technique:
economists say people who make their resolutions public are far more likely to
fulfill them.

''It increases the price of failure,'' said Dean Karlan, an economics professor
at Yale. That price can refer to the psychic cost of failing (how badly you'll
feel about yourself), or the social-embarrassment cost of failing (how badly
everyone else will make you feel). But just in case that doesn't light a fire
under you, there's StickK.com which puts an actual price on failure.

StickK (the capital K is legal-writing shorthand for contract) was born of a
simple behavioral economic principle: people are more likely to achieve their
goals if they stake their reputations -- or their bank accounts -- on success.
To use the site, the resolute enter their goals, put money on the line (entering
credit card information up front, though it's charged only upon failure) and
designate where the money will go if they don't succeed. A user might select a
favorite charity or -- for perverse added incentive -- a charity they would
never support. They then pick a person to be a referee (to verify that they
actually shed those five pounds) and choose others as virtual cheerleaders.

There are more than 63,000 StickK contracts -- and more than $5.9 million at
stake (wagering is optional). Peruse the site and you'll find perennial
resolutions about exercise and money management, but also gems like ''no more
dating losers,'' ''quit Dr Pepper'' and ''speak more slowly to foreigners in New
York City.''

''There's a lot about pornography,'' added Professor Karlan, a founder of StickK
along with Ian Ayres, a law professor at Yale; and Jordan Goldberg, a student at
Yale School of Management. Professor Karlan's latest resolution? To edit his
slides after each university lecture. He stands to lose $3,250 if he fails.

While StickK applies to all kinds of goals, sites for specific resolutions
abound. For a would-be hard body, there's PEERtrainer.com. A procrastinating
writer can go to 750Words.com. Smokers have DeterminedToQuit.com. These are the
digital descendants of offline programs like Weight Watchers and Alcoholics
Anonymous, which successfully use the power of group support. PEERtrainer, for
example, has coaches who check in with people who join the site's various
specialized groups, like yoga devotees or people striving to whittle away their
muffin tops. The Web site goes so far as to point out that sometimes, strangers
are the ones who have your best interest in mind. It poses the question: ''Is
your friend secretly happier that she's the thinner one who gets more
attention?''

Certainly, you don't need cyberspace to share your resolutions. But the
potential humiliation of failure is more potent online. Social networking sites
also enable you to formalize and, in many cases, regularly track your goals,
which makes it harder to blow them off. Some sites reward you with a badge on
your Facebook page or a congratulatory message. Nearly every site makes it easy
to tell friends about your ambitions as well as to help find strangers who share
your goals. The latter is useful if you don't want to discuss your resolutions
with friends and family.

''Goals are such a personal thing,'' said Leezel Martin, 29, an office manager
in San Diego who uses 43Things.com, a goal-listing site. ''It makes people feel
vulnerable. A lot of my friends don't yet even know I'm on this site. You start
getting judged.''

More than 192,000 people have made public their resolutions for this year on
43Things, including Rick Steves, a travel writer and television personality, and
Tony Hsieh, chief executive of Zappos. While anyone browsing the site can see
Ms. Martin's goals, she said it's different from directly telling her friends
about her intentions. ''Here on 43Things I have a community of people who are
like-minded,'' she said. ''Everyone just cheers you on.'' This week she
completed her No. 1 goal: auditioning for the role of Audrey in a community
theater production of ''Little Shop of Horrors.'' ''This is something I could
never admit to my friends,'' Ms. Martin said.

Josh Petersen, chief executive of 43Things.com, said that this year he's aiming
to understand and reduce his utility bill, read at least a dozen books and visit
another continent. Running marathons, losing weight and saving money are some of
the most popular resolutions on the site, but you can search for resolutions
unique to your city. ''New Yorkers are just like everyone else,'' Mr. Petersen
said. ''They want to get a tattoo, write a book and fall in love.''

Of all the ways to make your goals public, the least anonymous is video.

''YouTube users are using it to reinforce the resolutions,'' said Kevin Allocca,
the site's trends manager. Lately he's observed the emergence of a resolutions
video subgenre: grocery-haul videos. Haul videos typically showcase what someone
accumulated at the mall: clothes, accessories, cosmetics, gadgets. Grocery haul
videos highlight what someone has acquired at Pathmark or Stop & Shop. It's one
way for people who have resolved to eat better or save money to document their
progress. Other YouTube users film New Year's ''weight diaries,'' Mr. Allocca
said, which takes nerve because on sites like Twitter and StickK, ''nobody has
to see you when you're doing it.''

Underscoring the age in which we live, many YouTube members said their
resolution is to post even more videos this year. ''Sometimes I'll go like six
days without a video,'' Blair Fowler, 17, said on her resolutions video, under
JuicyStar07, which has been viewed more than 981,000 times.

Whatever your New Year's resolution, revealing it on a networking site may give
you what you need to succeed.

Unless, of course, you've resolved to spend less time online.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY THOMAS FUCHS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 29, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Attack on BMW Seller Illustrates Hazards of Online Transactions, Police Say

BYLINE: By AL BAKER; Toby Lyles and Noah Rosenberg contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 971 words


Since its beginnings, the Internet has been praised as an easy way to bring
buyers and sellers together, for inexpensive household trinkets, high-end
diamonds or even $46,000 sports cars. But with this convenience have come
dangers -- as demonstrated when Akeem Ajimotokan was found Wednesday, stabbed
and stuffed in the trunk of his BMW M3 coupe.

Mr. Ajimotokan had put his car for sale online. But he also, in a sense, was
telling the world: Come and get it. Investigators say an ex-convict named Barion
A. Blake did just that.

''This is expected to happen more and more, because of the anonymity of the
Internet,'' said Michael A. L. Balboni, who was a top public safety aide to two
governors. ''When you think about it, it gives the bad guys the opportunity to
case the joint without having to do anything. They can sit home and basically do
surveillance on who's got what to sell. And there is no vetting that you can do,
or that is done.''

Put another way, by Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly: ''The Internet is just
a miraculous development in our lives, but it certainly has great potential to
be misused for crime.''

It was unclear if Mr. Ajimotokan, 33, had sold a car over the Internet before.

His sister-in-law, Alice Ajim, 40, reached by telephone at her home in Texas,
said that Mr. Ajimotokan, a lawyer working in the procurement office of Columbia
University, had been born in Nigeria, and that she and her husband, Ayo Ajim,
were preparing for a flight to New York.

''My husband saw him 10 days ago,'' Ms. Ajim said. ''He is a family-loving man,
very conscientious, loved everyone, happy-go-lucky, and very friendly.''

On Friday, Mr. Ajimotokan was in critical condition in the intensive care unit
at Harlem Hospital, Sylvia White, a spokeswoman, said. Mr. Kelly said that he
was on a ventilator and that detectives had yet to speak to him.

Investigators say they believe that Mr. Blake went to Mr. Ajimotokan's home in
New Jersey on Tuesday, after reaching him at the phone number listed with his
advertisement on Cars.com, possibly posing as a buyer. ''There were, at least,
discussions about a sale,'' Mr. Kelly said.

At some point, investigators suspect, Mr. Blake assaulted Mr. Ajimotokan and
stole the car, though in what order is unclear.

At 3 a.m. Wednesday, a Nassau County police officer saw the BMW on the side of
Jericho Turnpike with a man, believed to be Mr. Blake, outside, apparently
changing the license plate, and another, unidentified man inside. The BMW sped
away.

Investigators say they believe that Mr. Blake then went to his apartment on
Tenth Avenue in Manhattan and told his wife, '' 'I did something that could send
me back to prison,' '' said a law enforcement official, who insisted on
anonymity to discuss a continuing investigation.

At 9:10 a.m. Wednesday, the BMW crashed into a yellow cab in Inwood, in Upper
Manhattan, and the driver, who the police say they believe was Mr. Blake, fled.
Mr. Ajimotokan, badly wounded and with one ear nearly severed, was found in the
trunk, where he is believed to have been confined through much of the frigid
night.

Mr. Blake's image was later picked out in a photo array as that of the man at
the scene of the accident. His name was also on a bill of sale found in the BMW.
As of Friday night, he remained at large.

Of course, Mr. Ajimotokan is not the first seller of something expensive to come
to harm: Beginning long before the Internet, those using the want ads have
sometimes met with bad luck. But the Internet has increased the potential
hazards of such encounters.

As Vernon J. Geberth, a former Bronx homicide commander, wrote in his textbook
''Practical Homicide Investigation,'' which is used to train detectives in
hundreds of police departments: ''The Internet has provided criminals and those
with bad intentions a whole new arena to play in.'' And it is an arena, he
wrote, in which ''law enforcement has yet to gain an upper hand.''

The landscape of online offenders is broad. Among them, Mr. Balboni said, are
people sending nasty anonymous e-mails, hackers, terrorists and ''some guy on
Craigslist trying to rip you off.''

In the case of the attempted car bombing in Times Square in May, the sport
utility vehicle used as a delivery device had been bought over the Internet. Its
seller told investigators that she had sold the 1993 Nissan Pathfinder to a man
-- identified as Faisal Shahzad -- who had answered her online advertisements,
met her in a supermarket parking lot, bargained the price down and paid with
$100 bills.

''It's not 'black market' but rather a 'back-door-market,' '' said Mr. Balboni,
who introduced legislation on cyber-security more than five years ago when he
was a state senator. ''And that provides a lot less transparency as to who is
the buyer and who is the seller. This definitely creates the potential for
people who want to do bad things to people, to have access to people they might
otherwise not have any other idea exist.''

Mr. Kelly urged anyone using social networks or ''one of these trading
networks'' to use care, and common sense, particularly when making a deal
involving a ''significant amount of money.''

He said people should vet potential buyers, even if it slowed the process.

Mr. Geberth suggested having meetings with such strangers only ''in a public
place, with people around as witnesses.'' Also, he advised taking a friend
along.

Mr. Kelly said any Internet transaction called for ''a sort of special vetting,
an examination, to the best you can, of who you're dealing with.''

'There's an awful lot of hucksterism going on, on the Internet, as it grows and
expands, as social networks grow and expand,'' he added.

''There's a tremendous potential for misuse, so we all have to sort of take a
deep breath and step back from transactions that are going to significantly
impact on your life.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barion Blake is a suspect.
 A stolen BMW, impounded for evidence, in Manhattan. After a crash, the car's
owner was found, stabbed but alive, in its trunk. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 6, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wallflowers at the Revolution

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1513 words


A month ago most Americans could not have picked Hosni Mubarak out of a police
lineup. American foreign policy, even in Afghanistan, was all but invisible
throughout the 2010 election season. Foreign aid is the only federal budget line
that a clear-cut majority of Americans says should be cut. And so now -- as the
world's most unstable neighborhood explodes before our eyes -- does anyone
seriously believe that most Americans are up to speed? Our government may be
scrambling, but that's nothing compared to its constituents. After a near-decade
of fighting wars in the Arab world, we can still barely distinguish Sunni from
Shia.

The live feed from Egypt is riveting. We can't get enough of revolution video --
even if, some nights, Middle West blizzards take precedence over Middle East
battles on the networks' evening news. But more often than not we have little or
no context for what we're watching. That's the legacy of years of self-censored,
superficial, provincial and at times Islamophobic coverage of the Arab world in
a large swath of American news media. Even now we're more likely to hear
speculation about how many cents per gallon the day's events might cost at the
pump than to get an intimate look at the demonstrators' lives.

Perhaps the most revealing window into America's media-fed isolation from this
crisis -- small an example as it may seem -- is the default assumption that the
Egyptian uprising, like every other paroxysm in the region since the Green
Revolution in Iran 18 months ago, must be powered by the twin American-born
phenomena of Twitter and Facebook. Television news -- at once threatened by the
power of the Internet and fearful of appearing unhip -- can't get enough of this
cliche.

Three days after riot police first used tear gas and water hoses to chase away
crowds in Tahrir Square, CNN's new prime-time headliner, Piers Morgan, declared
that ''the use of social media'' was ''the most fascinating aspect of this whole
revolution.'' On MSNBC that same night, Lawrence O'Donnell interviewed a teacher
who had spent a year at the American school in Cairo. ''They are all on
Facebook,'' she said of her former fifth-grade students. The fact that a
sampling of fifth graders in the American school might be unrepresentative of,
and wholly irrelevant to, the events unfolding in the streets of Cairo never
entered the equation.

The social networking hype eventually had to subside for a simple reason: The
Egyptian government pulled the plug on its four main Internet providers and yet
the revolution only got stronger. ''Let's get a reality check here,'' said Jim
Clancy, a CNN International anchor, who broke through the bloviation on Jan. 29
by noting that the biggest demonstrations to date occurred on a day when the
Internet was down. ''There wasn't any Twitter. There wasn't any Facebook,'' he
said. No less exasperated was another knowledgeable on-the-scene journalist,
Richard Engel, who set the record straight on MSNBC in a satellite hook-up with
Rachel Maddow. ''This didn't have anything to do with Twitter and Facebook,'' he
said. ''This had to do with people's dignity, people's pride. People are not
able to feed their families.''

No one would deny that social media do play a role in organizing, publicizing
and empowering participants in political movements in the Middle East and
elsewhere. But as Malcolm Gladwell wrote on The New Yorker's Web site last week,
''surely the least interesting fact'' about the Egyptian protesters is that some
of them ''may (or may not) have at one point or another employed some of the
tools of the new media to communicate with one another.'' What's important is
''why they were driven to do it in the first place'' -- starting with the issues
of human dignity and crushing poverty that Engel was trying to shove back to
center stage.

Among cyber-intellectuals in America, a fascinating debate has broken out about
whether social media can do as much harm as good in totalitarian states like
Egypt. In his fiercely argued new book, ''The Net Delusion,'' Evgeny Morozov, a
young scholar who was born in Belarus, challenges the conventional wisdom of
what he calls ''cyber-utopianism.'' Among other mischievous facts, he reports
that there were only 19,235 registered Twitter accounts in Iran (0.027 percent
of the population) on the eve of what many American pundits rebranded its
''Twitter Revolution.'' More damning, Morozov also demonstrates how the digital
tools so useful to citizens in a free society can be co-opted by tech-savvy
dictators, police states and garden-variety autocrats to spread propaganda and
to track (and arrest) conveniently networked dissidents, from Iran to Venezuela.
Hugo Chavez first vilified Twitter as a ''conspiracy,'' but now has 1.2 million
followers imbibing his self-sanctifying Tweets.

This provocative debate isn't even being acknowledged in most American coverage
of the Internet's role in the current uprisings. The talking-head invocations of
Twitter and Facebook instead take the form of implicit, simplistic Western
chauvinism. How fabulous that two great American digital innovations can rescue
the downtrodden, unwashed masses. That is indeed impressive if no one points out
that, even in the case of the young and relatively wired populace of Egypt, only
some 20 percent of those masses have Internet access.

That we often don't know as much about the people in these countries as we do
about their Tweets is a testament to the cutbacks in foreign coverage at many
news organizations -- and perhaps also to our own desire to escape a war zone
that has for so long sapped American energy, resources and patience. We see the
Middle East on television only when it flares up and then generally in medium or
long shot. But there actually is an English-language cable channel -- Al Jazeera
English -- that blankets the region with bureaus and that could have been
illuminating Arab life and politics for American audiences since 2006, when it
was established as an editorially separate sister channel to its Qatar-based
namesake.

Al Jazeera English, run by a 35-year veteran of the Canadian Broadcasting
Company, is routinely available in Israel and Canada. It provided coverage of
the 2009 Gaza war and this year's Tunisian revolt when no other television
networks would or could. Yet in America, it can be found only in Washington,
D.C., and on small cable systems in Ohio and Vermont. None of the biggest
American cable and satellite companies -- Comcast, DirecTV and Time Warner --
offer it.

The noxious domestic political atmosphere fostering this near-blackout is
obvious to all. It was made vivid last week when Bill O'Reilly of Fox News went
on a tear about how Al Jazeera English is ''anti-American.'' This is the same
''We report, you decide'' Fox News that last week broke away from Cairo just as
the confrontations turned violent so that viewers could watch Rupert Murdoch
promote his new tablet news product at a publicity event at the Guggenheim
Museum in New York.

Unable to watch Al Jazeera English, and ravenous for comprehensive and
sophisticated 24/7 television coverage of the Middle East otherwise unavailable
on television, millions of Americans last week tracked down the network's
Internet stream on their computers. Such was the work-around required by the
censorship practiced by America's corporate gatekeepers. You'd almost think
these news-starved Americans were Iron Curtain citizens clandestinely trying to
pull in the jammed Voice of America signal in the 1950s -- or Egyptians
desperately seeking Al Jazeera after Mubarak disrupted its signal last week.

The consequence of a decade's worth of indiscriminate demonization of Arabs in
America -- and of the low quotient of comprehensive adult news coverage that
might have helped counter it -- is the steady rise in Islamophobia. The ''Ground
Zero'' mosque melee has given way to battles over mosques as far removed from
Lower Manhattan as California. Soon to come is a national witch hunt --
Congressional hearings called by Representative Peter King of New York -- into
the ''radicalization of the American Muslim community.'' Given the disconnect
between America and the Arab world, it's no wonder that Americans are invested
in the fights for freedom in Egypt and its neighboring dictatorships only up to
a point. We've been inculcated to assume that whoever comes out on top is ipso
facto a jihadist.

This week brings the release of Donald Rumsfeld's memoir. The eighth anniversary
of the invasion of Iraq is to follow. As we took in last week's fiery video from
Cairo -- mesmerizing and yet populated by mostly anonymous extras we don't
understand and don't know -- it was hard not to flash back to those glory days
of ''Shock and Awe.'' Those bombardments too were spectacular to watch from a
safe distance -- no Iraqi faces, voices or bodies cluttered up the shots. We
lulled ourselves into believing that democracy and other good things were soon
to come. It took months, even years, for us to learn the hard way that in truth
we really had no idea what was going on.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Well)

                            February 14, 2011 Monday

Web of Popularity, Achieved by Bullying

BYLINE: TARA PARKER-POPE

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1083 words



HIGHLIGHT: New research shows that forms of teenage aggression and victimization
occur throughout the social ranks as students jockey to improve their social
status.


For many teenagers navigating the social challenges of high school, the ultimate
goal is to become part of the "popular" crowd.

But new research suggests that the road to high school popularity can  be
treacherous, and that students near the top of the social hierarchy  are often
both perpetrators and victims of aggressive behavior involving  their peers.

The latest findings,  being published this month in The American Sociological
Review, offer a  fascinating glimpse into the social stratification of
teenagers. The  new study, along with related research from the University of
California, Davis, also challenges the stereotypes of both high school bully and
victim.

Highly publicized cases of bullying typically involve chronic  harassment of
socially isolated students, but the latest studies suggest  that various forms
of teenage aggression and victimization occur  throughout the social ranks as
students jockey to improve their status.

The findings contradict the notion of the school bully as maladjusted  or
aggressive by nature. Instead, the authors argue that when it comes  to mean
behavior, the role of individual traits is "overstated," and  much of it comes
down to concern about status.

"Most victimization is occurring in the middle to upper ranges of  status," said
the study's author, Robert Faris, an assistant professor  of sociology at U.C.
Davis. "What we think often is going on is that  this is part of the way kids
strive for status. Rather than going after  the kids on the margins, they might
be targeting kids who are rivals."

Educators and parents are  often unaware of the daily stress and  aggression
with which even socially well-adjusted students must cope.

"It may be somewhat invisible," Dr. Faris said. "The literature on  bullying has
so focused on this one dynamic of repeated chronic  antagonism of socially
isolated kids that it ignores these other forms  of aggression. It's entirely
possible that one act, one rumor spread on  the Internet could be devastating."

In a series of studies, some still awaiting publication, the U.C.  Davis
researchers asked 3,722 eighth to 10th graders  in three counties  in North
Carolina to name their five best friends. Then the students  were asked whether
they had ever been a target of aggressive behavior by  their peers -  including
physical violence, verbal abuse and  harassment, rumors and gossip, or ostracism
-  and whether they had  engaged in such behavior themselves.

The researchers used the data to construct complex social maps of the  schools,
tracking groups of friends and identifying the students who  were consistently
at the hub of social life. "It's not simply the number  of friends the kid has,
it's who their friends are," Dr. Faris said.  "The kids we're talking about are
right in the middle of things."

Using the maps, the researchers tracked the students most often  accused of
aggressive behavior. They found that increases in social  status were associated
with subsequent increases in aggression. But  notably, aggressive behavior
peaked at  the 98th percentile of  popularity and then dropped.

"At the very top you start to see a reversal - the kids in the top 2  percent
are less likely to be aggressive," Dr. Faris said. "The  interpretation I favor
is that they no longer need to be aggressive  because they're at the top, and
further aggression could be  counterproductive, signaling insecurity with their
social position.

"It's possible that they're incredibly friendly and everybody loves  them and
they were never mean, but I'm not so convinced by that, because  there are so
many kids right behind them in the hierarchy who are  highly aggressive."

Over all, the research shows that about a third  of students are  involved in
aggressive behavior. In another paper presented last year,  Dr. Faris reported
that most teenage aggression is directed at social  rivals  - "maybe one rung
ahead of you or right beneath you," as he put  it, "rather than the kid who is
completely unprotected and isolated."

"It's not to say those kids don't get picked on, because they do," he  said.
"But the overall rate of aggression seems to increase as status  goes up. What
it suggests is that a student thinks they get more benefit  to going after
somebody who is a rival."

The research offers a road map for educators struggling to curb  bullying and
aggression both inside and outside of school. One option  may be to enlist the
support of students who aren't engaged in bullying -  those at the very top of
the social ladder, and the two-thirds who  don't bully.

Richard Gallagher, director of the Parenting Institute at the New York
University Child Study Center,  said the research added to a growing body of
scientific literature  documenting the role that popularity plays in aggressive
teasing and  bullying behavior.

"It does highlight that it's a typical behavior that's used in  establishing
social networks and status," said Dr. Gallagher, an  associate professor of
child and adolescent psychiatry.  "Schools and parents need to be tuned into
this as a behavior that  occurs all the time. It means that school districts
need to have  policies that deal with this, and I think it means also that we
need to  turn to the adolescents for some of the solutions."

Dr. Gallagher said that although results had been mixed, some  research showed
that schools could reduce bullying and aggression by  enlisting the help of
students as well as administrators.

"It's not likely to eliminate it completely, but it's likely to  decrease its
occurrence," he said. "The programs that have been  successful are the ones that
get kids to stop being passive bystanders  who  go along with teasing or
bullying. Efforts have been made to get  the popular kids to say, 'This is not
cool.' "

Dr. Faris said he planned to conduct new research that would match  the social
maps with yearbooks to better document a school's social  hierarchy. A related
study,  he added, also suggests that it's not just  popularity that influences
aggressive behavior, but how much the student  cares about being popular.

"Historically, all the attention has been on the mental health deficiencies of
the bullies," he said. "We need to direct more  attention to how aggression is
interwoven into the social fabric of  these schools."


     ·    With Bullying, Suicide Risk for Victims and Tormentors
     ·    Sexual Harassment at School
     ·    More Teens Victimized by Cyber-Bullies
     ·    Tired of Feeling the Burn? Low-Acid Diet May Help
     ·    Soda Bans in Schools Have Limited Impact


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 16, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

30 Steps To Better Government

BYLINE: By GENE L. DODARO.

Gene L. Dodaro is the comptroller general of the United States and the head of
the Government Accountability Office.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1680 words


Washington

CALLS for greater government efficiency are nothing new in Washington. But with
President Obama and Congress now debating budgets for both the rest of this year
and the next, with the economy yet to fully recover from the recent recession
and with our government's finances still on an unsustainable long-term path, the
need to wring every dollar out of the federal budget and ensure that taxpayers
are getting their money's worth has never been greater. How, though, do you find
these savings?

Today, the Government Accountability Office is issuing its updated roadmap to
confronting waste, fraud, abuse and mismanagement. Since we started this list of
programs at high risk of such problems two decades ago, our office has come to
update it with each new Congress, and history shows that sustained, focused
oversight from lawmakers and administration officials can save billions of
dollars and improve services. But while over one-third of the programs we listed
previously have come off the list over the years, dozens of others have moved
onto it. The latest high-risk list presents 30 areas ripe for Congress and
President Obama to take action.

One new area on the list is the Interior Department's management of oil and gas
leases and royalties, which are among the largest sources of non-tax revenue to
the federal government. One reason this area is at risk is that the department
does not have reasonable assurance that all revenues are being collected.
Indeed, in 2008, the G.A.O. reported that the Interior Department had not
conducted a comprehensive evaluation of the federal oil and gas revenue system
in more than 25 years, despite significant changes in the oil and gas industry.

We have also pointed out that royalty collection relied too heavily on
company-reported oil and gas production figures. In fiscal years 2006 and 2007
we found that much of the data reported by oil and gas companies appeared
erroneous, resulting in millions in uncollected fees. And the proportion of
revenues that the government collected for oil and gas produced in the Gulf of
Mexico, according to a major study, was lower than for 93 of 104 other owners of
such resources.

In recent years, the G.A.O. has made more than 50 recommendations to the
interior secretary to improve the department's revenue collection and hiring,
training and retaining staff policies and modify its practices for managing oil
and gas resources. The Interior Department has been acting on some of these
recommendations -- but there were many more that still need to be put into
effect. As the G.A.O. and other institutions continue to examine these issues,
additional problems and recommendations will likely be identified as well.

We are also dropping two issues from the high-risk list: the Department of
Defense's personnel security clearance program, which processes hundreds of
thousands of security clearances annually for service members and civilians, and
the 2010 Census. Both dealt sufficiently with identified vulnerabilities to
warrant their removal. Three factors contributed to this success: high-level
support from agencies, clear measures with which to gauge progress and strong
Congressional oversight. Credit goes to the Senate Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs Committee and the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee for holding the agencies involved accountable.

Several other items remaining on the high-risk list illustrate the magnitude of
the potential savings that are possible. For example, the Medicare and Medicaid
programs need to add better detection and controls to curtail billions of
dollars in improper payments.

In fiscal year 2010 alone, Medicare had estimated improper payments of almost
$48 billion; this estimate did not include improper payments in its prescription
drug benefit program, for which the agency has not yet determined a total
amount. And because Medicare remains on a path that is fiscally unsustainable
over the long term, there is heightened pressure to improve its payment methods,
as well as its management and oversight of program operations and patient care.

As for Medicaid, it has taken steps to improve transparency and reduce improper
payments in recent years, but more can be done. Improper payments to providers
that submit inappropriate claims can result in substantial financial losses to
states and the federal government. The Department of Health and Human Services
has estimated a national improper payment rate for Medicaid of 9.4 percent (with
the federal share estimated at $22.5 billion) for fiscal year 2010.

Certain services may be more susceptible than others to improper payments. For
example, in 2009 the G.A.O. found that Medicaid beneficiaries and providers were
involved in potentially wasteful or abusive purchases of controlled substances
in five selected states. Specifically, we found that Medicaid paid over $2
million in controlled substance prescriptions during fiscal years 2006 and 2007
that were written or filled by 65 medical practitioners and pharmacies barred,
excluded or both from federal health care programs, including Medicaid.

As a result, the G.A.O. recommended that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services issue guidelines to states for processes that better prevent payment of
improper claims for controlled substances in Medicaid. The agency generally
agreed with our recommendations -- yet such guidance had not been issued by the
end of last year.

Billions more could flow to the Treasury through better enforcement of the tax
laws and closing the gap between taxes owed and paid. Typically, about 84
percent of owed taxes are paid voluntarily and on time; in its most recent
estimate, for 2001, the I.R.S. said the resulting net gap was $290 billion.
Congress and the I.R.S. have taken innovative actions aimed at further improving
tax compliance. The I.R.S. last year began putting in place regulations covering
paid tax return preparers, an important step given the critical role they play
in helping taxpayers meet their tax obligations. Congress also passed laws that
require financial institutions to report information on foreign bank accounts,
the cost basis of securities and merchants' credit card receipts.

Greater attention also needs to be paid to how the Pentagon acquires weapon
systems. Each year, investments totaling hundreds of billions of dollars too
often produce military equipment that is over budget, behind schedule or unable
to meet the needs of our troops. The Government Accountability Office has
previously reported that the growth in projected costs on the Defense
Department's fiscal year 2008 portfolio of 96 defense acquisition programs was
more than $303 billion (adjusted for inflation). In addition, the average delay
in delivering initial capability was 22 months.

For 42 programs the G.A.O. assessed in depth in 2010, there was continued
improvement in the amount of knowledge the department had on the technology,
design and manufacturing of these weapons programs at key points in the
acquisition process. Most programs, however, were still proceeding with less
knowledge than best practices suggest, putting them at higher risk for cost
growth and schedule delays.

Congress and top officials responsible for programs on the high-risk list have
been willing to address these issues. For example, in 2009, Congress required
that the Defense Department's weapons acquisition programs now reflect the basic
elements of a knowledge-based acquisition approach and that programs with
excessive cost growth be terminated. In addition, Secretary of Defense Robert
Gates has proposed canceling major defense acquisition programs that have been
plagued with cost and schedule problems.

OUR list also includes programs that are at risk not for financial reasons but
because they need better management or broad transformation. Take information
security, which the G.A.O. first identified as a government-wide problem in
1997. Our office in 2003 expanded this high-risk area to include critical
elements -- like power distribution, water supply, telecommunications and
emergency services -- that rely extensively on computerized information systems
and electronic data to carry out their operations.

The security of these systems and data is essential to protecting national and
economic security, and public health and safety; and at the Department of
Defense, the Department of Homeland Security and numerous other federal
agencies, progress is being made. But cyber threats are growing and evolving,
reported security incidents are rising and significant security deficiencies
pervade federal systems that jeopardize the confidentiality, integrity and
availability of the federal government's security and the information they
process.

In addition, the administration and executive branch agencies have not yet fully
carried out key actions that are intended to improve the current United States
approach to cybersecurity: developing a comprehensive national strategy for
addressing global cybersecurity and governance; creating a national and federal
research and development agenda for improving cybersecurity; carrying out the
near- and mid-term actions recommended by the 2009 cybersecurity policy review
directed by the president and updating the national strategy for securing the
information and communications infrastructure.

Top agency officials and the Office of Management and Budget have been working
with the Government Accountability Office to make greater progress on the
high-risk list, and continued Congressional oversight has been essential to this
progress. By focusing on oversight and acting to reform these programs on the
high-risk list, Congress and the White House send an important message: the
public must receive the best possible return on every tax dollar spent. Closing
our nation's fiscal gap will require broader budgetary changes and shared
contributions. Greater efficiency and effectiveness in government can help ease
that burden on the American people while preserving vital programs of importance
to us all.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FOGELSON-LUBLINER)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 17, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Staying in Touch With Home, for Better or Worse

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; A YEAR AT WAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1445 words


KUNDUZ, Afghanistan -- Forget the drones, laser-guided bombs and eye-popping
satellite imagery. For the average soldier, the most significant change to
modern warfare might just boil down to instant chatting.

Consider these scenes from northern Afghanistan:

A gunner inside an armored vehicle types furiously on a BlackBerry, so engrossed
in text-messaging his girlfriend in the United States that he has forgotten to
watch for enemy movement.

A medic watches her computer screen with something approaching rapture as her
2-year-old son in Florida scrambles in and out of view before planting wet
kisses on the camera lens, 7,500 miles away.

A squad leader who has just finished directing gunfire against insurgents finds
a quiet place inside his combat outpost, whips out his iPhone and dashes off an
instant message to his wife back home. ''All is well,'' he tells her, adding,
''It's been busy.''

The communication gap that once kept troops from staying looped into the joyful,
depressing, prosaic or sordid details of home life has all but disappeared. With
advances in cellular technology, wider Internet access and the infectious use of
social networking sites like Facebook, troops in combat zones can now
communicate with home nearly around the clock.

They can partake in births and birthdays in real time. They can check sports
scores, take online college courses and even manage businesses and stock
portfolios.

But there is a drawback: they can no longer tune out problems like faulty
dishwashers and unpaid electric bills, wayward children and failing
relationships, as they once could.

The Pentagon, which for years resisted allowing unfettered Internet access on
military computers because of cyber-security concerns, has now embraced the
revolution, saying instant communication is a huge morale boost for troops and
their families. But military officials quietly acknowledge a downside to the
connectivity.

Some commanders worry that troops are playing with iPhones and BlackBerrys (as
well as Game Boys and MP3 players) when they should be working, though such
devices are strictly forbidden on foot patrols.

More common are concerns that the problems of home are seeping inexorably into
frontline life, creating distractions for people who should be focusing on
staying safe.

''It's powerful for good, but it can also be powerful for bad when you're
hearing near real time about problems at home,'' said Col. Chris Philbrick,
director of the Army's suicide prevention task force. ''It forces you to
literally keep your head in two games at one time when your head should be in
just one game, in Iraq or Afghanistan.''

It took the military several years to come to terms with both the cyber-security
and safety issues. Initially, the Pentagon banned access to social networking
sites. But when officials realized that they were falling behind the times and
angering young Web-savvy troops, they conducted a study and determined there was
more to be gained by allowing access. Classified-network computers still have no
access to social networking sites.

To see the upside of a well-connected force, one need look no further than the
Morale, Welfare and Recreation building, fondly known as the M.W.R., at Forward
Operating Base Kunduz, home to the First Battalion, 87th Infantry for the past
year.

In more than 40 plywood cubicles that are available all day, soldiers sit in
front of computer terminals or talk on telephones, all of them connected to
home. There is virtually no privacy, so the arguments over money and children,
the love talk and baby talk, are clearly audible in one cacophonous symphony of
chat.

Pfc. Briana Smith, 23, medic and bubbly single mother, is regularly in the
M.W.R. checking up on her 2-year-old son, Daniel, who is living with her parents
in Tampa. She tries to call home daily and routinely logs onto Facebook to check
in with family and friends. And at least once a week, she uses video
conferencing on Skype to visit with Daniel.

The close communication thrills her, but can leave a pang, too. ''I can't be
involved in the everyday things,'' she said. ''I only get to see the little
tidbits of his life. It's good to see, but it's a little heartbreaking at
times.''

The Internet connections and phones are not all free. Though troops do not pay
to use computers in the M.W.R., they do pay for the phone calls. And those
soldiers who bring their own cellphones pay fees that typically start at $70 and
frequently run as high as $300 a month. A few chatty soldiers have received
bills for more than $10,000 when their texting spun out of control.

To veterans from previous generations, it all seems like something out of
science fiction.

George Moody, whose son, Billy, is a gunner with the battalion in Kunduz, spent
25 years in the Navy, deploying on ships that were at sea for months at a time.
Letters home to his girlfriend and now wife, Mary Jo, sometimes took six weeks
to arrive.

Now Mr. Moody, 49, has the family computer programmed to play reveille as loudly
as possible whenever Billy logs onto Skype in Kunduz. With an
eight-and-a-half-hour difference between Afghanistan and their home in Ashville,
N.C., he and his wife are waking after midnight almost every day.

''It's like having a baby again, because we're back to getting up at 1:30, 2 in
the morning to talk to him,'' Mr. Moody said. ''But we could not live with
ourselves if we could not talk to him when he wanted to talk.''

The easy communication can relieve fears -- but also stoke them. Once families
become used to hearing from troops daily, lapses in communication can send
imaginations racing.

Christina Narewski communicates daily with her husband, Staff Sgt. Francisco
Narewski, by Skype or instant messaging on their BlackBerrys. But when he does
not call back quickly, she frets. ''It's an anxiety just waiting to hear from
him again, just waiting to hear when he gets back,'' she said.

Barbara Van Dahlen Romberg, a psychologist and founder of a group, Give an Hour,
that provides counseling to troops and their families, called the connectivity
''a mixed blessing'' when couples spend too much time waiting for calls or
excessively discussing problems that cannot be repaired long distance.

''It's just stress, stress, stress,'' she said. ''I talked to a mom who was
counting the minutes between calls from her son. I gently told her that may not
be good for either one of them. It is a burden.''

The ability to keep tabs on people at almost any hour can also be dangerous for
soldiers suspicious of their lovers or spouses. ''It's nothing to go ask your
friend: 'What was she doing last night?' '' Pfc. Billy Moody said. ''They might
tell you one thing, she tells you another, and the next thing you know, there's
drama.''

Specialist Kyle Schulz, for instance, learned via cellphone that his girlfriend
was taking up with another man. The news sent him into an emotional tailspin --
until he rekindled his relationship with an old girlfriend, by cellphone and
Facebook. They later discussed marriage, also on Facebook, until that
relationship, too, flickered out.

''In a way I kind of think I had too much communication,'' Specialist Schulz,
22, said, ''because the more I know back home about what's going on, the less
that I am concentrating out here. And it could potentially hurt me or other
people.''

In extreme cases, breakups over cellphones or Facebook have sent soldiers to
suicide counseling, or worse. In one case involving a different battalion, a
soldier in Iraq killed himself in 2009 after spending hours tracking his
girlfriend's movements and then arguing with her and her sister via cellphone
and MySpace.

Half an hour after the soldier, Chancellor Keesling, shot himself, his
girlfriend sent him an e-mail asking to make up.

''Chance knew exactly who his girlfriend had gone out with and where she was,''
said his father, Gregg Keesling. ''She stopped taking his calls, and that is
what really sent him into the spiral.''

In Kunduz, the battalion chaplain, Capt. Tony Hampton, said he often advises
soldiers to shut off the phone and stay away from the computers when tensions
are brewing with loved ones back home. Take some time to think, he counsels.
Write a letter.

He doubts anyone listens.

''The access is too easy for them and they just can't rest,'' he said. ''This is
the microwave generation. They need it, and they need it fast.''

A Year at War: Articles in this series are chronicling the yearlong deployment
of the First Battalion, 87th Infantry Regiment, based in Kunduz Province,
Afghanistan, following the battalion's part in the surge in northern Afghanistan
and the impact of war on individual soldiers and their families back home.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Troops in combat now take advantage of advances in cellular
technology, wider Internet access and social networking sites. (A1)
 Above, soldiers use the Morale, Welfare and Recreation building at their base
in Kunduz, Afghanistan. Right, Staff Sgt. Francisco Narewski, inset, in a video
chat with his daughter. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 20, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

BEST SELLERS: FICTION: Sunday, February 20th 2011

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 865 words


<p>About the Best Sellers</p><p>These lists are an expanded version of those
appearing in the February 20, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting
sales for the week ending February 5, 2011.</p><p>Rankings reflect weekly sales
for books sold in both print and electronic formats as reported by vendors
offering a wide range of general interest titles. The sales venues for print
books include independent book retailers; national, regional and local chains;
online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket and
discount department stores; and newsstands. E-book rankings reflect sales from
leading online vendors of e-books in a variety of popular e-reader
formats.</p><p>E-book sales are tracked for fiction and general nonfiction
titles. E-book sales for advice & how-to books, children.s books and graphic
books will be tracked at a future date.

Titles are included regardless of whether they are published in both print and
electronic formats or just one format. E-books available exclusively from a
single vendor will be tracked at a future date.</p><p>The universe of print book
dealers is well established, and sales of print titles are statistically
weighted to represent all outlets nationwide. The universe of e-book publishers
and vendors is rapidly emerging, and until the industry is settled sales of
e-books will not be weighted.</p><p>Among the categories not actively tracked at
this time are: perennial sellers, required classroom reading, textbooks,
reference and test preparation guides, journals, workbooks, calorie counters,
shopping guides, comics, crossword puzzles and self-published books.</p><p>The
appearance of a ranked title reflects the fact that sales data from reporting
vendors has been provided to The Times and has satisfied commonly accepted
industry standards of universal identification (such as ISBN13 and EISBN13
codes). Publishers and vendors of all ranked titles conformed in timely fashion
to The New York Times Best Seller Lists requirement to allow for independent
corroboration of sales for that week.</p><p>Publisher credits for e-books are
listed under the corporate publishing name instead of by publisher.s
division.</p><p>Weekly sales of both print books and e-books are reported
confidentially to The New York Times. The Best Seller Lists are prepared by the
News Surveys and Election Analysis Department of The New York Times. Royalty
Share, a firm that provides accounting services to publishers, is assisting The
Times in its corroboration of e-book sales.</p><p>An asterisk (*) indicates that
a book.s sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A
dagger (.) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders.</p>

WeeksThisOnWeekListBEST SELLERS: FICTION112TICK TOCK, by James Patterson and
Michael Ledwidge. ($27.99 Little, Brown) The New York detective Michael Bennett
enlists the help of a former colleague to solve a rash of horrifying crimes that
are throwing the city into chaos.2237THE GIRL WHO KICKED THE HORNET'S NEST, by
Stieg Larsson. ($27.95 Knopf) The third volume of the Millennium trilogy, about
a Swedish hacker and a journalist.3597THE HELP, by Kathryn Stockett. ($24.95 Amy
Einhorn/Putnam) A young white woman and two black maids in 1960s
&#173;Mississippi.4*34THE INNER CIRCLE, by Brad Meltzer. ($26.99 Grand Central)
An archivist discovers a book that once belonged to George Washington and
conceals a deadly secret.579DEAD OR ALIVE, by Tom Clancy with Grant Blackwood.
($28.95 Putnam) Familiar Clancy characters appear as an intelligence group
tracks a vicious terrorist called the Emir.601FATAL ERROR, by J. A. Jance.
($25.99 Touchstone/Simon &#38; Schuster) After the murder of a cyber-sociopath,
Ali Reynolds is drawn into a web of online intrigue.743STRATEGIC MOVES, by
Stuart Woods. ($25.95 Putnam) In the 19th Stone Barrington novel, the New York
lawyer works with the C.I.A. to transport a fugitive.863SHADOWFEVER, by Karen
Marie Moning. ($26 Delacorte) Hunting for her sister's murderer, MacKayla Lane
is caught up in the struggle between humans and the Fae.9*915THE CONFESSION, by
John Grisham. ($28.95 Doubleday) A criminal wants to save an innocent man on
death row, but he must convince the authorities he's telling the
truth..101013ROOM, by Emma Donoghue. ($24.99 Little, Brown) A mother's prison is
her young son's entire world.1184THE SENTRY, by Robert Crais. ($26.95 Putnam)
The former cop Joe Pike finds that a pair of Katrina refugees he helps aren't
all they seem.1201BLACKVEIL, by Kristen Britain. ($25.95 Daw) A contingent of
Arcosian descendants plan to bring Sacoridia to its knees. The fourth book of
the Green Rider series.13*116WHAT THE NIGHT KNOWS, by Dean Koontz. ($28 Bantam)
Someone is murdering entire families, recreating in detail a crime spree that
took place two decades earlier.14132THE RED GARDEN, by Alice Hoffman. ($25
Crown) A mysterious garden offers the key to understanding a small Massachusetts
town through 300 years of passionate history.1501THE WEIRD SISTERS, by Eleanor
Brown. ($24.95 Amy Einhorn/Putnam) Three sisters from a highbrow family return
home, each with a secret she's unwilling to share.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 20, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

: Sunday, February 20th 2011

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 884 words


<p>About the Best Sellers</p><p>These lists are an expanded version of those
appearing in the February 20, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting
sales for the week ending February 5, 2011.</p><p>Rankings reflect weekly sales
for books sold in both print and electronic formats as reported by vendors
offering a wide range of general interest titles. The sales venues for print
books include independent book retailers; national, regional and local chains;
online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket and
discount department stores; and newsstands. E-book rankings reflect sales from
leading online vendors of e-books in a variety of popular e-reader
formats.</p><p>E-book sales are tracked for fiction and general nonfiction
titles. E-book sales for advice & how-to books, children.s books and graphic
books will be tracked at a future date.

Titles are included regardless of whether they are published in both print and
electronic formats or just one format. E-books available exclusively from a
single vendor will be tracked at a future date.</p><p>The universe of print book
dealers is well established, and sales of print titles are statistically
weighted to represent all outlets nationwide. The universe of e-book publishers
and vendors is rapidly emerging, and until the industry is settled sales of
e-books will not be weighted.</p><p>Among the categories not actively tracked at
this time are: perennial sellers, required classroom reading, textbooks,
reference and test preparation guides, journals, workbooks, calorie counters,
shopping guides, comics, crossword puzzles and self-published books.</p><p>The
appearance of a ranked title reflects the fact that sales data from reporting
vendors has been provided to The Times and has satisfied commonly accepted
industry standards of universal identification (such as ISBN13 and EISBN13
codes). Publishers and vendors of all ranked titles conformed in timely fashion
to The New York Times Best Seller Lists requirement to allow for independent
corroboration of sales for that week.</p><p>Publisher credits for e-books are
listed under the corporate publishing name instead of by publisher.s
division.</p><p>Weekly sales of both print books and e-books are reported
confidentially to The New York Times. The Best Seller Lists are prepared by the
News Surveys and Election Analysis Department of The New York Times. Royalty
Share, a firm that provides accounting services to publishers, is assisting The
Times in its corroboration of e-book sales.</p><p>An asterisk (*) indicates that
a book.s sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A
dagger (.) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders.</p>

          Weeks
This Last  On
Week Week List

1       2 TICK
          TOCK,
           by
          James
          Patte
          rson
           and
          Micha
           el
          Ledwi
          dge.
            (
          Littl
           e,
          Brown
          ) The
           New
          York
          detec
          tive
          Micha
           el
          Benne
           tt
          enlis
           ts
           the
          help
          of a
          forme
            r
          colle
          ague
           to
          solve
            a
          rash
           of
          horri
          fying
          crime
            s
          that
           are
          throw
           ing
           the
          city
          into
          chaos
            .

2       2  THE
          GIRL
          WITH
           THE
          DRAGO
            N
          TATTO
           O,
           by
          Stieg
          Larss
          on. (
          Knopf
          Doubl
          eday)
            A
          hacke
          r and
            a
          journ
          alist
          inves
          tigat
          e the
          disap
          peara
           nce
          of a
          Swedi
           sh
          heire
          ss 40
          years
          earli
           er;
           the
          first
          volum
          e in
           the
          Mille
          nnium
          trilo
           gy.

3       2  THE
          GIRL
           WHO
          PLAYE
            D
          WITH
          FIRE,
           by
          Stieg
          Larss
          on. (
          Knopf
          Doubl
          eday)
           In
           the
          secon
            d
          volum
          e of
           the
          Mille
          nnium
          trilo
          gy, a
          Swedi
           sh
          hacke
            r
          becom
          es a
          murde
            r
          suspe
           ct.

4       2  THE
          GIRL
           WHO
          KICKE
          D THE
          HORNE
           T?S
          NEST,
           by
          Stieg
          Larss
          on. (
          Knopf
          Doubl
          eday)
           The
          third
          volum
          e of
           the
          Mille
          nnium
          trilo
           gy,
          about
            a
          Swedi
           sh
          hacke
          r and
            a
          journ
          alist
            .

5       2 WATER
           FOR
          ELEPH
          ANTS,
           by
          Sara
          Gruen
           . (
          Algon
          quin)
          After
           his
          paren
           ts
           die
          in a
           car
          accid
          ent,
          young
          veter
          inary
          stude
          nt ?
           and
           an
          eleph
          ant ?
          save
            a
          Depre
          ssion
          -era
          circu
           s.

6       2 CUTTI
           NG
           FOR
          STONE
          ,  by
          Abrah
           am
          Vergh
          ese.
            (
          Knopf
          Doubl
          eday)
          Twin
          broth
          ers,
          conjo
          ined
           at
          birth
           and
          then
          separ
          ated,
          grow
           up
          amid
           the
          polit
          ical
          turmo
          il of
          Ethio
          pia.

7       2  THE
          HELP,
           by
          Kathr
           yn
          Stock
          ett.
            (
          Pengu
           in
          Group
           ) A
          young
          white
          woman
           and
           two
          black
          maids
           in
          1960s
          Missi
          ssipp
           i.

8       2  THE
          CONFE
          SSION
          ,  by
          John
          Grish
          am. (
          Knopf
          Doubl
          eday)
            A
          crimi
           nal
          wants
           to
          save
           an
          innoc
           ent
           man
           on
          death
          row,
           but
           he
          must
          convi
           nce
           the
          autho
          ritie
            s
          he?s
          telli
           ng
           the
          truth
            .

9       2 MARRY
           ING
          DAISY
          BELLA
           MY,
           by
          Susan
          Wiggs
            .
          ($7.9
            9
          Harle
          quin)
            A
          woman
          strug
          gles
           for
          years
           to
          choos
            e
          betwe
           en
           two
          men.
           And
          then,
           one
          fatef
           ul
          day,
           the
          decis
           ion
           is
          made
           for
          her.

10      2  THE
          INNER
          CIRCL
           E,
           by
          Brad
          Meltz
          er. (
          Grand
          Centr
           al)
           An
          archi
          vist
          disco
          vers
            a
          book
          that
          once
          belon
           ged
           to
          Georg
            e
          Washi
          ngton
           and
          conce
          als a
          deadl
            y
          secre
           t.

11      2 DEAD
           OR
          ALIVE
          ,  by
           Tom
          Clanc
          y and
          Grant
          Black
          wood.
            (
          Pengu
           in
          Group
            )
          Famil
           iar
          Clanc
            y
          chara
          cters
          appea
          r as
           an
          intel
          ligen
           ce
          group
          track
           s a
          vicio
           us
          terro
          rist
          calle
          d the
          Emir.

12      2 STRAT
          EGIC
          MOVES
          ,  by
          Stuar
            t
          Woods
           . (
          Pengu
           in
          Group
          ) In
           the
          19th
          Stone
          Barri
          ngton
          novel
          , the
           New
          York
          lawye
            r
          works
          with
           the
          C.I.A
          . to
          trans
          port
            a
          fugit
          ive.

13      2 ROOM,
           by
          Emma
          Donog
          hue.
            (
          Littl
           e,
          Brown
          ) The
          entir
            e
          world
           of
           the
          5-yea
          r-old
           boy
           who
          narra
           tes
          this
          novel
           is
           the
          11-by
          -11-f
           oot
          room
           in
          which
           his
          mothe
          r is
          being
          held
          priso
          ner.

14      1 FATAL
          ERROR
          ,  by
          J.A.
          Jance
           . (
          Simon
            &
          Schus
          ter)
          After
           the
          murde
          r of
            a
          cyber
          -soci
          opath
          , Ali
          Reyno
           lds
           is
          drawn
          into
          a web
           of
          onlin
            e
          intri
          gue.

15      2 WILD
           MAN
          CREEK
          ,  by
          Robyn
          Carr.
          ($7.9
            9
          Harle
          quin)
           In
          Virgi
            n
          River
           , a
          forme
            r
          Army
          pilot
          recup
          erati
           ng
          from
            a
          helic
          opter
          crash
           is
          drawn
          to a
          corpo
          rate
          execu
          tive
          searc
          hing
          for a
          simpl
           er
          life.


URL:

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 20, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

: Sunday, February 20th 2011

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1197 words


<p>About the Best Sellers</p><p>These lists are an expanded version of those
appearing in the February 20, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting
sales for the week ending February 5, 2011.</p><p>Rankings reflect weekly sales
for books sold in both print and electronic formats as reported by vendors
offering a wide range of general interest titles. The sales venues for print
books include independent book retailers; national, regional and local chains;
online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket and
discount department stores; and newsstands. E-book rankings reflect sales from
leading online vendors of e-books in a variety of popular e-reader
formats.</p><p>E-book sales are tracked for fiction and general nonfiction
titles. E-book sales for advice & how-to books, children.s books and graphic
books will be tracked at a future date. Titles are included regardless of
whether they are published in both print and electronic formats or just one
format.

E-books available exclusively from a single vendor will be tracked at a future
date.</p><p>The universe of print book dealers is well established, and sales of
print titles are statistically weighted to represent all outlets nationwide. The
universe of e-book publishers and vendors is rapidly emerging, and until the
industry is settled sales of e-books will not be weighted.</p><p>Among the
categories not actively tracked at this time are: perennial sellers, required
classroom reading, textbooks, reference and test preparation guides, journals,
workbooks, calorie counters, shopping guides, comics, crossword puzzles and
self-published books.</p><p>The appearance of a ranked title reflects the fact
that sales data from reporting vendors has been provided to The Times and has
satisfied commonly accepted industry standards of universal identification (such
as ISBN13 and EISBN13 codes). Publishers and vendors of all ranked titles
conformed in timely fashion to The New York Times Best Seller Lists requirement
to allow for independent corroboration of sales for that week.</p><p>Publisher
credits for e-books are listed under the corporate publishing name instead of by
publisher.s division.</p><p>Weekly sales of both print books and e-books are
reported confidentially to The New York Times. The Best Seller Lists are
prepared by the News Surveys and Election Analysis Department of The New York
Times. Royalty Share, a firm that provides accounting services to publishers, is
assisting The Times in its corroboration of e-book sales.</p><p>An asterisk (*)
indicates that a book.s sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book
above it. A dagger (.) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk
orders.</p>

          Weeks
This Last  On
Week Week List

1       2 TICK
          TOCK,
           by
          James
          Patte
          rson
           and
          Micha
           el
          Ledwi
          dge.
            (
          Littl
           e,
          Brown
          ) The
           New
          York
          detec
          tive
          Micha
           el
          Benne
           tt
          enlis
           ts
           the
          help
          of a
          forme
            r
          colle
          ague,
           the
          F.B.I
            .
          agent
          Emily
          Parke
          r, to
          solve
            a
          rash
           of
          horri
          fying
          crime
            s
          that
           are
          throw
           ing
           the
          city
          into
          chaos
           and
          terro
          rizin
          g its
          inhab
          itant
           s.

2       2  THE
          GIRL
          WITH
           THE
          DRAGO
            N
          TATTO
           O,
           by
          Stieg
          Larss
          on. (
          Knopf
          Doubl
          eday)
            A
          hacke
          r and
            a
          journ
          alist
          inves
          tigat
          e the
          disap
          peara
           nce
          of a
          Swedi
           sh
          heire
           ss;
           the
          first
          volum
          e in
           the
          Mille
          nnium
          trilo
           gy.

3       2  THE
          GIRL
           WHO
          KICKE
          D THE
          HORNE
           T?S
          NEST,
           by
          Stieg
          Larss
          on. (
          Knopf
          Doubl
          eday)
           The
          third
          volum
          e of
           the
          Mille
          nnium
          trilo
           gy,
          about
            a
          Swedi
           sh
          hacke
          r and
            a
          journ
          alist
            .

4       2  THE
          GIRL
           WHO
          PLAYE
            D
          WITH
          FIRE,
           by
          Stieg
          Larss
          on. (
          Knopf
          Doubl
          eday)
           In
           the
          secon
            d
          volum
          e of
           the
          Mille
          nnium
          trilo
          gy, a
          Swedi
           sh
          hacke
            r
          becom
          es a
          murde
            r
          suspe
           ct.

5       2 WATER
           FOR
          ELEPH
          ANTS,
           by
          Sara
          Gruen
           . (
          Algon
          quin)
          After
           his
          paren
           ts
           die
          in a
           car
          accid
          ent,
            a
          young
          veter
          inary
          stude
          nt ?
           and
           an
          eleph
          ant ?
          save
            a
          Depre
          ssion
          -era
          circu
           s.

6       2  THE
          CONFE
          SSION
          ,  by
          John
          Grish
          am. (
          Knopf
          Doubl
          eday)
          A man
           who
          commi
          tted
            a
          despi
          cable
          crime
           but
          allow
           ed
          anoth
          er to
           be
          sent
           to
          death
           row
           in
           his
          place
           now
          wants
           to
          admit
           his
          guilt
          , but
          must
          convi
           nce
           the
          autho
          ritie
            s
          he?s
          telli
           ng
           the
          truth
            .

7       2 CUTTI
           NG
           FOR
          STONE
          ,  by
          Abrah
           am
          Vergh
          ese.
            (
          Knopf
          Doubl
          eday)
          Twin
          broth
          ers,
          conjo
          ined
           at
          birth
           and
          then
          separ
          ated,
          grow
           up
          amid
           the
          polit
          ical
          turmo
          il of
          Ethio
          pia.
          Both
           go
          into
          medic
          ine,
          like
          their
          adopt
           ive
          paren
           ts
           and
          like
          their
          fathe
           r,
           who
          aband
          oned
          them.

8       1 BALTI
          MORE
          BLUES
          ,  by
          Laura
          Lippm
          an. (
          Harpe
          rColl
          ins)
            A
          frien
          d of
           the
          priva
           te
          inves
          tigat
           or
          Tess
          Monag
           han
           is
          suspe
          cted
           in
           the
          death
           of
           his
          fianc
           ee,
          whom
          Tess
           was
          assig
           ned
           to
          follo
           w.

9       1 SUMME
          R AT
          WILLO
            W
          LAKE,
           by
          Susan
          Wiggs
           . (
          Harle
          quin)
            A
          woman
          leave
            s
          Manha
          ttan
           to
          renov
           ate
           her
          famil
           y's
           old
          resor
            t
          camp
           in
           the
          Catsk
          ills,
          where
           she
          encou
          nters
           an
           old
          flame
            .

10      2  THE
          HELP,
           by
          Kathr
           yn
          Stock
          ett.
            (
          Pengu
           in
          Group
           ) A
          young
          white
          woman
           and
           two
          black
          maids
           in
          1960s
          Missi
          ssipp
           i.

11      1 TOWER
          S OF
          MIDNI
          GHT,
           by
          Rober
            t
          Jorda
          n and
          Brand
           on
          Sande
          rson.
            (
          Doher
           ty)
          Book
          13 of
           the
          Wheel
           of
          Time
          fanta
           sy
          serie
           s.

12      2 ROOM,
           by
          Emma
          Donog
          hue.
            (
          Littl
           e,
          Brown
          ) The
          entir
            e
          world
           of
           the
          5-yea
          r-old
           boy
           who
          narra
           tes
          this
          novel
           is
           the
          11-by
          -11-f
           oot
          room
           in
          which
           his
          mothe
          r is
          being
          held
          again
           st
           her
          will.

13      2 STRAT
          EGIC
          MOVES
          ,  by
          Stuar
            t
          Woods
           . (
          Pengu
           in
          Group
          ) In
           the
          19th
          Stone
          Barri
          ngton
          novel
          , the
           New
          York
          lawye
            r
          works
          with
           the
          C.I.A
          . to
          trans
          port
            a
          fugit
          ive.

14      2 MARRY
           ING
          DAISY
          BELLA
           MY,
           by
          Susan
          Wiggs
           . (
          Harle
          quin)
            A
          woman
          strug
          gles
           for
          years
           to
          choos
            e
          betwe
           en
           two
          men,
           one
          honor
          able
           and
          stead
           y,
           one
          wild
           and
          untet
          hered
          . And
          then,
           one
          fatef
           ul
          day,
           the
          decis
           ion
           is
          made
           for
          her.

15      2 CROSS
          FIRE,
           by
          James
          Patte
          rson.
            (
          Littl
           e,
          Brown
            )
          Alex
          Cross
          inves
          tigat
          es a
          profe
          ssion
           al
          assas
          sinat
           ion
           in
          Washi
          ngton
          , and
          recei
          ves a
          chill
           ing
          telep
          hone
          call
          from
           his
          deadl
          iest
          adver
          sary.

16      2 DEAD
           OR
          ALIVE
          ,  by
           Tom
          Clanc
          y and
          Grant
          Black
          wood.
            (
          Pengu
           in
          Group
            )
          Famil
           iar
          Clanc
            y
          chara
          cters
          appea
          r as
           an
          intel
          ligen
           ce
          group
          track
           s a
          vicio
           us
          terro
          rist
          calle
          d the
          Emir.

17      2  THE
          INNER
          CIRCL
           E,
           by
          Brad
          Meltz
          er. (
          Grand
          Centr
           al)
           An
          archi
          vist
          disco
          vers
            a
          book
          that
          once
          belon
           ged
           to
          Georg
            e
          Washi
          ngton
           and
          conce
          als a
          deadl
            y
          secre
           t.

18      2 WHAT
           THE
          NIGHT
          KNOWS
          ,  by
          Dean
          Koont
          z. (
          Rando
            m
          House
            )
          Someo
          ne is
          murde
          ring
          entir
            e
          famil
          ies,
          recre
          ating
           in
          eerie
          detai
           l a
          notor
          ious
          crime
          spree
          that
          took
          place
           two
          decad
           es
          earli
           er.

19      1 FATAL
          ERROR
          ,  by
          J.A.
          Jance
           . (
          Simon
            &
          Schus
          ter)
          After
           the
          murde
          r of
            a
          cyber
          -soci
          opath
          , Ali
          Reyno
           lds
           is
          drawn
          into
          a web
           of
          onlin
            e
          intri
          gue.

20      2 SECRE
          TS TO
           THE
          GRAVE
          ,  by
          Tami
          Hoag.
            (
          Pengu
           in
          Group
          ) The
          cast
           of
          ?Deep
           er
          Than
           the
          Dead?
          becom
            e
          invol
           ved
          in a
           new
          case
           of
          viole
           nce
          that
          distu
           rbs
          their
          commu
          nity.

21      1 COLTE
           RS'
          DAUGH
          TER,
           by
          Maya
          Banks
           . (
          Samha
           in)
          After
          disap
          peari
           ng
          witho
          ut a
          word,
           Max
          Wilde
          r is
          back
           in
          Calli
            e
          Colte
           r?s
          life.
          Book
          3 of
          Colte
           rs?
          Legac
           y.

22      1  THE
          PERFE
           CT
          HUSBA
           ND,
           by
          Lisa
          Gardn
          er. (
          Rando
            m
          House
           ) A
          woman
           is
          deter
          mined
           to
          prote
           ct
           her
          daugh
           ter
          again
           st
           the
          murde
           rer
           she
          marri
           ed.

23      2 HELL?
            S
          CORNE
           R,
           by
          David
          Balda
          cci.
            (
          Grand
          Centr
           al)
          Recal
           led
           to
          duty,
          Olive
            r
          Stone
          hunts
           for
          those
          respo
          nsibl
          e for
            a
          bomb
          deton
          ated
          near
           the
          White
          House
            .

24      1 ALONE
          ,  by
          Lisa
          Gardn
          er. (
          Rando
            m
          House
           ) A
          woman
           who
          survi
          ved a
          horri
           ble
          child
          hood
          abduc
          tion
           may
          have
          trick
           ed
           the
          Massa
          chuse
           tts
          polic
            e
          snipe
            r
          Bobby
          Dodge
          into
          killi
           ng
           her
          husba
           nd.

25      2 SHADO
          WFEVE
           R,
           by
          Karen
          Marie
          Monin
          g. (
          Rando
            m
          House
            )
          Hunti
           ng
           for
           her
          siste
           r?s
          murde
          rer,
          MacKa
           yla
          Lane
           is
          caugh
          t up
           in
           the
          strug
           gle
          betwe
           en
          human
          s and
           the
          Fae.


URL:

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 27, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Yearning After Prada

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; ON THE RUNWAY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 512 words


Milan

''AGAIN ... again?'' Miuccia, please. ...

One thing about this blog is that it has very loyal followers who count on
having a few meaty shows to discuss. A year ago, the Prada collection set off a
memorable volley about postsocialist feminism -- one of my favorite discussions
since the blog started in 2007. We've had a handful of well-informed regulars
from the beginning, among them Marko,

E. Frantz and Alex A. Other opinionated and knowledgeable contributors include
Augustuzs Neto, Barbara and Lola.

But I sense some disappointment, some unfilled bellies, at the table of Miuccia
Prada. People expected more to chew on, and they got, I sense from the comments,
leftover scraps of Prada theory. Versace was on Friday night, but the next big
course people were waiting for was Raf Simons's Jil Sander show on Saturday
afternoon.

From the Readers

I'm deeply impressed by the Prada show. Highly emotional and evocative,
nostalgic but sharp and nearly nihilistic. A sense of long-lost elegance, of a
sparkling and extinct glam. The first image that came to me was Vanessa Redgrave
in Antonioni's ''Blow-Up.''

High boots that looked like tights, ladylike innocent/fatale, a noir muse
swooning and shining through textured pythons, retro-chic built with false
sequins/chenille-like fur/''cellophane,'' buttons and belts that reminded me of
Sunday outfits worn by my grandmothers, but with an edge.

A sort of belle epoque dislocated to the middle of the 20th century but made out
of cyber materials.

Augustuzs Neto, SP, Brazil

I don't think she was at her best at all. We all have a strong memory, even if
this is a short-attention-span business. It seemed like an endless variation of
coats, dresses and dress coats -- basically one coat and one dress. I liked some
of the fur-collar coats, colors, sure -- pretty, desirable, wearable -- but it
wasn't much of a stretch. Again, as with many designers this time around, I feel
like they have stepped outside themselves and started to mimic their own work.
(How disturbingly cliche was Ralph Lauren, despite some wonderful dresses?)
Prada doing Prada, Gucci exemplifying nouveau riche bad taste once again, etc.
Plus, it's nothing she hasn't explored before. A trompe l'oeil boot? Mary Janes
... again? It feels like I'm stuck in a waiting room.

Marko, EU

It reminded me very much of what she was doing in the '90s: the girlish,
drop-waisted, pleated shapes; the '60s/'70s ''ironic/ugly'' graphic prints and
colors, but softened and lightened somewhat since then. And all those boots will
make another fortune for them. (Ka-ching! Make that money!)

I loved those fuzzy furs that looked like they were skinned off a ''Sesame
Street'' character rather than from any living animal. (PETA, where are you?
Save Oscar the Grouch! Save Cookie Monster!) That was a sharp, witty little wink
to all the hyper-luxe, hyper-''sophisticated'' furs out there.

But was it a forward march or just another canny branding exercise? There's a
heck of a lot of live-streaming, blogging and tweeting out there, don't ya
know?! E. Frantz, Sydney, Australia

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LOOKS: Dresses for fall by Prada. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUCA
BRUNO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Radical Cleric Still Has Voice Over YouTube

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1252 words


WASHINGTON -- From the shootings at Fort Hood, Tex., to the stabbing of a
British member of Parliament, investigators have identified Anwar al-Awlaki's
stirring online calls to jihad as an important instigator of terrorism.

So members of Congress last year appealed to YouTube to remove calls for
violence by Mr. Awlaki, the militant American-born cleric now hiding in Yemen,
and in an announcement reported around the world last November, YouTube agreed.

End of story?

Not at all. A quick search of YouTube today for ''Anwar al-Awlaki'' finds
hundreds of his videos, most of them scriptural commentary or clerical advice,
but dozens that include calls for jihad or attacks on the United States.

The story of You Tube and Mr. Awlaki is a revealing case study in the complexity
of limiting controversial speech in the age of do-it-yourself media, as the
House prepares for hearings next week on the radicalization of American Muslims.

In eloquent American English or Arabic with English subtitles, Mr. Awlaki can be
seen in videos decrying America's ''war on Islam''; warning Muslims why they
should ''never, ever trust a kuffar,'' or non-Muslim; praising the attempt by
his ''student'' to blow up a Detroit-bound airliner; and patiently explaining
why American civilians are legitimate targets for killings. Such videos have
been posted in multiple copies and viewed hundreds or thousands of times.

Since YouTube relies on viewers to flag objectionable material, and only a
fraction of Mr. Awlaki's videos violates its rules, it was never likely that his
pronouncements would disappear from the site. Even if they did, scores of other
sites without YouTube's rules also host the declarations -- written, audio or
video -- of Mr. Awlaki, the man some have called the Osama bin Laden of the
Internet.

''There's no way as a practical matter to wipe this material off the face of the
Internet,'' said John B. Morris Jr., general counsel at the Center for Democracy
and Technology, a nonprofit group in Washington. ''It's very unrealistic to
believe that any action of any American company or American politician can keep
this material off the Web.''

But Evan F. Kohlmann, a terrorism analyst with the consulting company Flashpoint
Global Partners, who has followed Mr. Awlaki for years, acknowledged the
difficulties but said that YouTube should make a greater effort to curtail his
pro-terrorism message.

''YouTube has become a major alternative distribution point for jihadi
propaganda, especially for homegrown militants who may not have the pedigree to
gain access to the classic password-protected jihadi chat forums,'' Mr. Kohlmann
said, referring to militant sites that restrict access. ''If you don't have
online friends who can sneak you in, and if you don't speak Arabic, then YouTube
may be the best available option.''

Mr. Kohlmann said that while it might not be easy or cheap, ''there are ways of
removing this material in a relatively expeditious manner.''

YouTube, the six-year-old California-based powerhouse of Web video which is
owned by Google, says that every minute, day and night, it receives an average
of 35 hours of video from millions of contributors. That ratio makes
prescreening impractical, said Victoria Grand, YouTube's head of communications
and policy.

Instead, just as YouTube relies on its users to provide content, it relies on
them to police the content. The site posts its ''community guidelines,'' which
prohibit incitements to violence, hate speech, bomb-making instructions and
postings by a member of a designated terrorist organization. A signed-in YouTube
user who objects to a video clicks on the ''flag'' beneath it and indicates the
reasons for a complaint by clicking on a label: for instance, ''nudity,''
''child abuse,'' ''animal abuse'' or ''mass advertising.''

In the case of terrorism-related material, objections could fall in the
categories ''violent or repulsive conduct,'' including subcategories for
''physical attack'' or -- in a label added last November after complaints about
Mr. Awlaki -- ''promotes terrorism.'' Militant messages could be ''hateful or
abusive content,'' with a subcategory for ''promotes hatred or violence.''

Then YouTube reviewers look at the flagged videos with the assistance of
sophisticated software. Any video that violates the company's guidelines is
removed, Ms. Grand said.

''We encourage our users to continue to bring this material to our attention,''
she said. ''We review flagged videos around the clock.''

The system has prevented YouTube from succumbing to the otherwise inevitable
flood of pornography, which is directed to reviewers by software that scans
uploaded videos for flesh tones. Computers also give priority to the review of
videos with a high ''flag-to-view ratio,'' suggesting that many viewers are
upset about it. Software bumps to a low priority videos that have previously
been reviewed, as well as those flagged by users who have a record of, say,
objecting to every Justin Bieber video.

YouTube explained this system, but declined to say how many employees review
videos, what percentage are reviewed, and how many are removed, either over all
or specifically relating to Mr. Awlaki.

But Ms. Grand, the company official, explained the importance of context. A
video that shows bullying (one banned category) might be permitted if it is
intended to educate the public about the hazards of such behavior.

The variety and volume of Mr. Awlaki's YouTube material makes it more difficult
than might be supposed to decide its fate. Should his sermon on what makes a
good marriage come down? His account of the final moments of the Prophet
Muhammad? His counsel on the proper diet for a good Muslim?

Such material does not violate any YouTube standard. But there is evidence that
those inspired by Mr. Awlaki to plot violence usually were first drawn by his
engaging lectures, including Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan, the Army psychiatrist
charged in the Fort Hood shootings; the young men who planned to attack Fort
Dix, N.J.; and the 21-year-old British student who told the police she stabbed a
member of Parliament last May after watching 100 hours of Awlaki videos.

Even Mr. Awlaki's most incendiary material appears in widely varying contexts on
YouTube. A long interview he gave last year justifying violence against
Americans, for instance, appears in some videos with the logo of Al Qaeda's
media wing, but in others as excerpted in newscasts by CNN and Al Jazeera.

Representative Anthony Weiner, Democrat of New York, a prominent Congressional
voice in calling for YouTube to remove Mr. Awlaki's material (he can be seen
doing so on YouTube), said he recognized that the company is ''wrestling with a
difficult issue'' and opposed any government ban, which would be likely to
violate constitutional protections for free speech.

Still, Mr. Weiner said, he thinks YouTube ''could do a better job,'' adding,
''I'd give them a C with an opportunity to improve.''

It may be that the crowdsourcing that drives YouTube, its reliance on the
masses, becomes the ultimate answer to violent messages on the site, more than
company censors. Anti-jihad activists with names like the YouTube Smackdown
Corps patrol the site constantly, flagging what they consider to be offensive
material.

At a site called Jihadi Smackdown of the Day (''Countering the cyber-jihad one
video at a time''), the links for past YouTube videos of Mr. Awlaki now usually
lead to a standard message: ''This video has been removed as a violation of
YouTube's policy.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An interview with Anwar al-Awlaki, the radical American-born
cleric now in hiding in Yemen, as it appeared on YouTube.
 Some of the YouTube clips on which Mr. Awlaki appears deal with general Muslim
teachings, and some focus on violence. (A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 6, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Hardcover Fiction: Sunday, March 6th 2011

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 692 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the March 6, 2011
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending February
19, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Hardcover Fiction
This Last  On
Week Week List
1       1   4   TICK TOCK,  by James Patterson and Michael Ledwidge. (Little,
                Brown, $27.99.) The New York detective Michael Bennett enlists
                the help of a former colleague to solve a rash of horrifying
                crimes that are throwing the city into chaos.
2       2   2   A DISCOVERY OF WITCHES,  by Deborah Harkness. (Viking, $28.95.)
                The recovery of a lost ancient manuscript in a library at
                Oxford sets a fantastical underworld stirring.
3       3  39   THE GIRL WHO KICKED THE HORNET?S NEST,  by Stieg Larsson.
                (Knopf, $27.95.) The third volume of the Millennium trilogy,
                about a Swedish hacker and a journalist.
4       4  99   THE HELP,  by Kathryn Stockett. (Amy Einhorn/Putnam, $24.95.) A
                young white woman and two black maids in 1960?s Mississippi.
5       5  11   DEAD OR ALIVE,  by Tom Clancy with Grant Blackwood. (Putnam,
                $28.95.) Familiar Clancy characters appear as an intelligence
                group tracks a vicious terrorist called the Emir.
6       8  17   THE CONFESSION,  by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $28.95.) A
                criminal wants to save an innocent man on death row,  but he
                must convince the authorities he?s telling the truth..
7       7   6   THE INNER CIRCLE,  by Brad Meltzer. (Grand Central, $26.99.) An
                archivist discovers a book that once belonged to George
                Washington and conceals a deadly secret.
8      10  15   ROOM,  by Emma Donoghue. (Little, Brown, $24.99.) A mother?s
                prison is her young son?s entire world.
9       6   2   THE SECRET SOLDIER,  by Alex Berenson. (Putnam, $25.95.) When
                the king of Saudi Arabia is threatened, the former C.I.A.
                operative John Wells goes undercover to help.
10          1   A HEARTBEAT AWAY,  by Michael Palmer. (St. Martin?s, $27.99.) A
                terrorist group unleashes a deadly virus in the Capitol on the
                night of the State of the Union address.
11*    12   2   SWAMPLANDIA!,  by Karen Russell. (Knopf, $24.95.) The pleasures
                and miseries of life at a failing alligator theme park in the
                Everglades.
12     13   8   WHAT THE NIGHT KNOWS,  by Dean Koontz. (Bantam, $28.) Someone
                is murdering entire families, recreating in detail a crime
                spree that took place two decades earlier.
13     11   5   STRATEGIC MOVES,  by Stuart Woods. (Putnam, $25.95.) In the
                19th Stone Barrington novel, the New York lawyer works with the
                C.I.A. to transport a fugitive.
14     15   3   THE WEIRD SISTERS,  by Eleanor Brown. (Amy Einhorn/Putnam,
                $24.95.) Three sisters from a highbrow family return home, each
                with a secret she?s unwilling to share.
15     16   3   FATAL ERROR,  by J. A. Jance. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster,
                $25.99.) After the murder of a cyber-sociopath, Ali Reynolds is
                drawn into a web of online intrigue.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

16. SHADOWFEVER,  by Karen Marie Moning. (Delacorte)

17. THE SENTRY,  by Robert Crais. (Putnam)

18. THE TWELFTH INSIGHT,  by James Redfield. (Grand Central)

19. TOWERS OF MIDNIGHT,  by Robert Jordan and Brandon Sanderson. (Tor)

20. SAFE HAVEN,  by Nicholas Sparks. (Grand Central)

21. FALL OF GIANTS,  by Ken Follett. (Dutton)

22. LEFT NEGLECTED,  by Lisa Genova. (Gallery)

23. THE LAKE OF DREAMS,  by Kim Edwards. (Viking)

24. DEATH OF A CHIMNEY SWEEP,  by M. C. Beaton. (Grand Central)

25. FULL DARK, NO STARS,  by Stephen King. (Scribner)

26. FREEDOM,  by Jonathan Franzen. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux)

27. HELL'S CORNER,  by David Baldacci. (Grand Central)

28. HALO: CRYPTUM,  by Greg Bear. (Tor)

29. CALL ME IRRESISTIBLE,  by Susan Elizabeth Phillips. (William
Morrow/HarperCollins)

30. HEARTWOOD,  by Belva Plain. (Delacorte)

31. A RED HERRING WITHOUT MUSTARD,  by Alan Bradley. (Delacorte)

32. AUNT DIMITY AND THE FAMILY TREE,  by Nancy Atherton. (Viking)

33. CROSS FIRE,  by James Patterson. (Little, Brown)

34. WEST OF HERE,  by Jonathan Evison. (Algonquin)

35. THE RED GARDEN,  by Alice Hoffman. (Crown)


URL:

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 7, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Drumbeat to E-Mail: The Medium and the Message

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1071 words


THE INFORMATION

A History, a Theory, a Flood

By James Gleick

Illustrated. 526 pages. Pantheon Books. $29.95.

''The Information'' offers this point-blank characterization of its author:
''James Gleick is our leading chronicler of science and modern technology.''
This new book goes far beyond the earlier Gleick milestones, ''Chaos'' and
''Genius,'' to validate that claim.

''The Information'' is so ambitious, illuminating and sexily theoretical that it
will amount to aspirational reading for many of those who have the mettle to
tackle it. Don't make the mistake of reading it quickly. Imagine luxuriating on
a Wi-Fi-equipped desert island with Mr. Gleick's book, a search engine and no
distractions. ''The Information'' is to the nature, history and significance of
data what the beach is to sand.

In this relaxed setting, take the time to differentiate among the Brownian
(motion), Bodleian (library) and Boolean (logic) while following Mr. Gleick's
version of what Einstein called ''spukhafte Fernwirkung,'' or ''spooky action at
a distance.'' Einstein wasn't precise about what this meant, and Mr. Gleick
isn't always precise either. His ambitions for this book are diffuse and far
flung, to the point where providing a thumbnail description of ''The
Information'' is impossible.

So this book's prologue is its most slippery section. It does not exactly
outline a unifying thesis. Instead it hints at the amalgam of logic, philosophy,
linguistics, research, appraisal and anecdotal wisdom that will follow. If Mr.
Gleick has one overriding goal it is to provide an animated history of
scientific progress, specifically the progress of the technology that allows
information to be recorded, transmitted and analyzed. This study's range extends
from communication by drumbeat to cognitive assault by e-mail.

As an illustration of Mr. Gleick's versatility, consider what he has to say
about the telegraph. He describes the mechanical key that made telegraphic
transmission possible; the compression of language that this new medium
encouraged; that it literally was a medium, a midway point between fully verbal
messages and coded ones; the damaging effect its forced brevity had on civility;
the confusion it created as to what a message actually was (could a mother send
her son a dish of sauerkraut?) and the new conceptual thinking that it helped
implement. The weather, which had been understood on a place-by-place basis, was
suddenly much more than a collection of local events.

Beyond all this Mr. Gleick's telegraph chapter, titled ''A Nervous System for
the Earth,'' finds time to consider the kind of binary code that began to make
sense in the telegraph era. It examines the way letters came to treated like
numbers, the way systems of ciphers emerged. It cites the various uses to which
ciphers might be put by businessmen, governments or fiction writers (Lewis
Carroll, Jules Verne and Edgar Allan Poe). Most of all it shows how this phase
of communication anticipated the immense complexities of our own information
age.

Although ''The Information'' unfolds in a roughly chronological way, Mr. Gleick
is no slave to linearity. He freely embarks on colorful digressions. Some are
included just for the sake of introducing the great eccentrics whose seemingly
marginal inventions would prove to be prophetic. Like Richard Holmes's ''Age of
Wonder'' this book invests scientists with big, eccentric personalities. Augusta
Ada Lovelace, the daughter of Lord Byron, may have been spectacularly arrogant
about what she called ''my immense reasoning faculties,'' claiming that her
brain was ''something more than merely mortal.'' But her contribution to the
writing of algorithms can, in the right geeky circles, be mentioned in the same
breath as her father's contribution to poetry.

The segments of ''The Information'' vary in levels of difficulty. Grappling with
entropy, randomness and quantum teleportation is the price of enjoying Mr.
Gleick's simple, entertaining riffs on the Oxford English Dictionary's
methodology, which has yielded 30-odd spellings of ''mackerel'' and an
enchantingly tongue-tied definition of ''bada-bing'' and on the cyber-battles
waged via Wikipedia. (As he notes, there are people who have bothered to fight
over Wikipedia's use of the word ''cute'' to accompany a picture of a young
polar bear.) That Amazon boasts of being able to download a book called ''Data
Smog'' in less than a minute does not escape his keen sense of the absurd.

As it traces our route to information overload, ''The Information'' pays tribute
to the places that made it possible. He cites and honors the great cogitation
hives of yore. In addition to the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton,
N.J., the Mount Rushmore of theoretical science, he acknowledges the
achievements of corporate facilities like Bell Labs and I.B.M.'s Watson Research
Center in the halcyon days when many innovations had not found practical
applications and progress was its own reward.

''The Information'' also lauds the heroics of mathematicians, physicists and
computer pioneers like Claude Shannon, who is revered in the computer-science
realm for his information theory but not yet treated as a subject for
full-length, mainstream biography. Mr. Shannon's interest in circuitry using
''if ... then'' choices conducting arithmetic in a binary system had novelty
when he began formulating his thoughts in 1937. ''Here in a master's thesis by a
research assistant,'' Mr. Gleick writes, ''was the essence of the computer
revolution yet to come.''

Among its many other virtues ''The Information'' has the rare capacity to work
as a time machine. It goes back much further than Shannon's breakthroughs. And
with each step backward Mr. Gleick must erase what his readers already know. He
casts new light on the verbal flourishes of the Greek poetry that preceded the
written word: these turns of phrase could be as useful for their mnemonic power
as for their art. He explains why the Greeks arranged things in terms of events,
not categories; how one Babylonian text that ends with ''this is the procedure''
is essentially an algorithm; and why the telephone and the skyscraper go hand in
hand. Once the telephone eliminated the need for hand-delivered messages, the
sky was the limit.

In the opinion of ''The Information'' the world of information still has room
for expansion. We may be drowning in spam, but the sky's still the limit today.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 James Gleick (C4)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 13, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Paperback Mass-Market Fiction: Sunday, March 13th 2011

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 889 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the March 13, 2011
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending February
26, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely
distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that
some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our
methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Paperback
           Mass-Market Fiction
This    On
Week  List
1        1 A CREED IN STONE CREEK,  by Linda Lael Miller. (HQN, $7.99.)
           Steven Creed becomes the guardian of a 5-year-old boy, trading
           his law firm for a ranch near his McKettrick family in Stone
           Creek, Ariz.
2        1 THIS SIDE OF THE GRAVE,  by Jeaniene Frost.
           (Avon/HarperCollins, $7.99.) With tensions rising between
           vampires and ghouls, the half-vampire Cat Crawfield and her
           vampire husband, Bones, are forced to seek help from a
           dangerous ?ally.?
3        1 HARVEST MOON,  by Robyn Carr. (Mira, $7.99.) Disillusioned and
           burned out as a chef, Kelly Matlock retreats to her sister?s
           house in Virgin River, where she encounters a handsome widower
           and his rebellious stepdaughter.
4        2 DREAMS OF A DARK WARRIOR,  by Kresley Cole. (Pocket, $7.99.)
           Murdered before he could wed, the warlord Aidan the Fierce
           seeks his beloved through eternity, reborn into new identities
           yet with no memory of his past lives; part of the Immortals
           After Dark series.
5        1 THE SILENT SEA,  by Clive Cussler and Jack Du Brul. (Berkley,
           $9.99.) Juan Cabrillo and the crew of the Oregon, chasing the
           remnants of a crashed satellite in the Argentine jungle, make
           discoveries that lead back to an ancient Chinese expedition.
6        1 AN ENGAGEMENT IN SEATTLE,  by Debbie Macomber. (Mira, $7.99.) A
           reissue of two 1993 books, "Groom Wanted" and "Bride Wanted."
7       50 THE GIRL WITH THE DRAGON TATTOO,  by Stieg Larsson. (Vintage
           Crime/Black Lizard, $7.99.) A hacker and a journalist
           investigate the disappearance of a Swedish heiress; the first
           volume in the Millennium trilogy.
8        1 WITHOUT MERCY,  by Lisa Jackson. (Zebra/Kensington, $7.99.)
           Students are dying at an Oregon boarding school for wayward
           kids, and the concerned new teacher may be the next target.
9*       1 DECEPTION,  by Jonathan Kellerman. (Ballantine, $9.99.) The
           psychologist-detective Alex Delaware and the detective Milo
           Sturgis work on a murder case at a prestigious prep school in
           Los Angeles.
10       5 SWIMSUIT,  by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro. (Grand
           Central, $9.99.) The former cop Ben Hawkins, now a reporter,
           investigates the disappearance of a supermodel.
11       4 THE LINCOLN LAWYER,  by Michael Connelly. (Grand Central,
           $7.99.) Routinely doing business from his Lincoln Town Cars,
           the bottom-feeding attorney Mickey Haller is asked to defend
           the scion of a wealthy family who might not be guilty of a
           murderous crime.
12*     49 THE GIRL WHO PLAYED WITH FIRE,  by Stieg Larsson. (Vintage
           Crime/Black Lizard, $7.99.) In the second volume in the
           Millennium trilogy, the Swedish hacker Lisbeth Salander becomes
           a murder suspect.
13       1 AGAINST THE LAW,  by Kat Martin. (Mira, $7.99.) Devlin Raines,
           the former Army Ranger from Wind Canyon, is ?mostly retired? as
           a P.I., but a beautiful woman lures him back into the game.
14       9 DELIVER US FROM EVIL,  by David Baldacci. (Vision, $9.99.) Two
           agents are tracking the same man, a human trafficker who is now
           dealing in nuclear arms.
15      19 THE LOST SYMBOL,  by Dan Brown. (Anchor, $9.99.) The Harvard
           symbologist Robert Langdon among the Masons.
16*      1 KISS ME, KILL ME,  by Allison Brennan. (Ballantine, $7.99.)
           Using her well-honed cyber-hunting skills, Lucy Kincaid helps
           the F.B.I. in the search for a missing teenage girl with a
           shocking secret life.
17       4 TOM CLANCY?S ENDWAR: THE HUNTED,  by David Michaels. (Berkley,
           $9.99.) Special Forces Capt. Alexander Brent and his Ghost
           Recon team are dispatched to capture a former Russian
           intelligence officer who has been marked for death by a
           terrorist faction.
18       1 TO DESIRE A WICKED DUKE,  by Nicole Jordan. (Ballantine,
           $7.99.) Two years after losing her fiancé, Tess Blanchard is
           ready to risk love again. But a scandal forces her to marry her
           longtime nemesis.
19       1 THE HEIRESS,  by Lynsay Sands. (Avon/HarperCollins, $7.99.) An
           alluring beauty needs her dowry to settle her father?s gambling
           debt.
20       4 SPLIT IMAGE,  by Robert B. Parker. (Berkley, $9.99.) In this
           posthumously published novel, Jesse Stone, the police chief of
           Paradise, Mass., copes with divorce, the bottle and the murder
           of a high-ranking mobster.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

21. HUNGER UNTAMED,  by Pamela Palmer. (Avon)

22. CENTER OF GRAVITY,  by Ian Douglas. (Harper Voyager)

23. MARRYING DAISY BELLAMY,  by Susan Wiggs. (Mira)

24. WILD MAN CREEK,  by Robyn Carr. (Mira)

25. FLIRT,  by Laurell K. Hamilton. (Jove)

26. THIS BODY OF DEATH,  by Elizabeth George. (Harper/HarperCollins)

27. IRON CROWNED,  by Richelle Mead. (Zebra)

28. FRANKENSTEIN: LOST SOULS,  by Dean Koontz. (Bantam)

29. BACKLASH,  by Aaron Allston. (LucasBooks)

30. THE MIDNIGHT HOUSE,  by Alex Berenson. (Jove)

31. THE BLACK CAT,  by Martha Grimes. (Signet)

32. I, ALEX CROSS,  by James Patterson. (Vision)

33. LIVE TO TELL,  by Lisa Gardner. (Bantam)

34. THE MACGREGORS ? ALAN & GRANT,  by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette)

35. THE WOLF AT THE DOOR,  by Jack Higgins. (Berkley)


URL:

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nuances Attached

BYLINE: By PHILIP GALANES

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; SOCIAL Q'S; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 733 words


I sent the following message, via Facebook, to three family members: ''I would
like you to delete the photos of me and my young kids from your Facebook pages.
I know you guys will understand. Thanks.'' In reply, I received a text message
and voice mail, telling me that my message was cold and rude. But I wanted to be
short and to the point. Could I have done a better job?

Asha

Facebook is terrific for seeing how boyfriends from high school have aged. It's
also great for sharing links -- and is the sine qua non of time-wasting. (Aside
from pokes and cyber-cupcakes, I remember nothing of 2009.)

But electronic messages are not optimal for communicating more delicate ideas.
They don't have our friendly tone of voice or warm facial expression. And they
really don't notice when people are misunderstanding us.

As a mom, it is your right -- 100 percent -- to decide where photos of your rug
rats appear. (Note to Dina Lohan and Billy Ray Cyrus: you missed the boat on
this one.) And I know plenty of parents who think that Facebook albums of little
Joey and Sue, complete with names and other identifying information, are more
perilous to their children than adorable.

But you didn't communicate any of that. Your note was so terse that guilt-prone
recipients might have thought they had done something wrong, and that you were
chastising them -- and neither was true. So next time a little explanation is in
order, try the telephone. Remember that? With numbers for pressing and those
old-fashioned mouthpieces for speaking into?

Growling Guests

We've invited family and a few good friends to our wedding -- 35 in all. The
ceremony and reception will take place at a small inn on Saturday night, with a
dinner to follow. But most of the out-of-town guests are arriving on Friday and
staying at the inn. We'd like to go to a popular local restaurant that night.
How do we invite people to join us without getting stuck with the check? I'm not
cheap, but I don't feel this is my responsibility.

Hank

Oh, Hank, don't be a groomzilla!

How much do you suppose these out-of-towners really want to board planes, trains
and automobiles to travel (and pay) for a wedding weekend at Ye Olde Country
Inn? (Hint: probably not much.) But they're doing it anyway, for you and Bridey.
The least you can do is feed them on Friday night.

Don't get me wrong: This needn't be a 17-course Thomas Keller affair. A pizza
party or backyard barbecue sounds like fun to me, especially with the more
formal wedding reception coming down the pike.

Remember, these folks are making a big effort to watch you get hitched. And
while some people live to toss rice, most of us would rather stay home with a
pint of Ben & Jerry's and a DVR-full of TV. So make sure your guests know that
you appreciate their travels.

A Big Basket of Wrong

What should I do when people load the washer or dryer in the basement of my
apartment building, then leave? When their machines finish, I usually wait about
10 minutes to take their laundry out so I can start mine. But the other day, I
removed clothes from a dryer and put them into a laundry basket, and the
returning tenant gave me the stink eye the whole time she was folding her
things. Advice?

Chris Carhart

Assuming the other machines are occupied, your behavior seems blameless, Chris.
In fact, 10 minutes sounds like a generous grace period to me (though I am known
as the Quick-Draw McGraw of spin cycles). As for the stink eye, a pleasant smile
and greeting (maybe about our glamorous lives as launderers?) should do the
trick.

Smack From the Boss

Our supervisor, who sits near us, smacks his lips when he eats, and chews gum
practically nonstop. My colleague wears headphones to block out the noise. May I
ask my supervisor to quiet down?

Anonymous

Criticism is not easy to take -- or give, which may explain why the worst that
the ''American Idol'' judges can muster is: ''You were a little pitch-y in the
middle.'' And it's even harder to criticize the folks in charge (assuming we
like our jobs, anyway). So you tell me: Can this guy take constructive
criticism? If so, ask him politely to dial down the chomping. But if you're not
sure, I see a pair of headphones in your future.

For help with an awkward social situation, send queries to socialq@nytimes.com
or to Social Q's, The New York Times Style Department, 620 Eighth Avenue, New
York, N.Y., 10018. Please include a daytime phone number.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 27, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Big Brother, Online

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 187 words


To the Editor:

''China Tightens Censorship of Electronic Communications'' (news article, March
22) is a reminder of how invasive Big Brother has become and how much privacy we
give up to be active citizens of cyber-world.

While in China, I have sometimes had the experience of typing in a certain word
and seeing my screen go blank or having my call dropped.

I recently got a reminder of how far things have come in the United States. I
sent an e-mail message to someone to let him know when I would be arriving at
Greenville-Spartanburg (South Carolina) International Airport. I checked my
e-mail during an intermediate transfer at an American airport. I could not help
but notice a pop-up ad for a restaurant in Spartanburg.

Roland Nicholson Jr. Washington, March 22, 2011

To the Editor:

As China tightens its grip on the Internet, one should be reminded of just how
wrong were those who predicted that opening trade would open China. With our
trade deficit with China now running at $273 billion a year, China has the
tightest censorship ever seen. So much for trade as a great liberalizer.

Seth Bodner Summit, N.J., March 22, 2011

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 2, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Providence Equity Acquires Security Consultant

BYLINE: By DEALBOOK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING
ACQUISITIONS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 445 words


1:54 p.m. Updated

SRA International, a national security and information technology consulting
firm, said on Friday it would be bought by a private equity firm, Providence
Equity Partners, for $1.88 billion in cash.

SRA, based in Fairfax, Va., says it has expertise in areas including air
surveillance and air traffic management, cyber security, disaster response
planning, strategic management consulting and wireless integration, among
others. It has commercial clients in addition to government agencies.

Under the terms of the deal, Providence will pay $31.25 in cash for each share
of SRA -- a 10.2 percent premium to SRA's closing price of $28.36 on March 31,
2011, and a premium of 52.8 percent over the closing price of $20.45 on Dec. 31,
2010. There is a 30-day ''go shop,'' during which SRA can entertain rival
offers. Providence has the right to match.

In January, The Telegraph of London reported that Serco, a British government
services contractor, had made a $2 billion bid for SRA.

Reuters reported in February that SRA was running an auction among a limited
group of private equity suitors. The report said that Ernst Volgenau, the
founder and chairman of SRA, was reluctant to sell to a strategic buyer.

In the end, the bidding came down between Ventas Capital and Providence, a
person briefed on the matter told DealBook

In announcing the deal on Friday, SRA denied that it had ever received a $2
billion offer. ''The only figure ever communicated to SRA from that third party
was a Dec. 1, 2010, highly conditioned expression of interest in the range of
$30-$31 per share, which did not materialize,'' the company said in its
statement.

Providence has long had an eye on SRA. Last year, Renato A. DiPentima, a former
chief executive of SRA, joined Providence as a senior adviser. Mr. DiPentima had
previously held management positions in the federal government, including deputy
commissioner of the Social Security Administration.

The founder of SRA, Dr. Voleganu, who has a 71 percent voting stake, is an Air
Force veteran and former member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. He started
the company in 1978.

As part of the deal, Dr. Volgenau will roll over part of his equity stake and
continue to be a significant shareholder in the now private company.

Debt financing for the deal is being provided by Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch
and Citigroup.

Houlihan Lokey and the law firm of Kirkland & Ellis advised a special committee
of SRA's board. Citigroup and Bank of America Merrill Lynch acted as financial
advisers and Debevoise & Plimpton served as legal counsel to Providence.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 3, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Standards That Everyone Can See

BYLINE: By ARTHUR S. BRISBANE.

The public editor serves as the readers' representative. His conclusions are his
own. E-mail: public@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1084 words


LAST week The Times reached a strategic frontier with the full introduction of
paid subscriptions for digital access to its content. Perhaps less visibly, but
also importantly, the newsroom has moved toward a remarkable integration of its
print and electronic operations. The organization has evolved to a new state,
one that lives online and expects to be paid for it.

This suggests to me a companion move The Times should make, one that would help
secure a tighter bond with its audience: publishing The Times's journalism
policies in a searchable format and in a visible location on NYTimes.com. That
would enable readers to see more clearly into the news operation.

People use the Internet to satisfy their information needs, and information
about The Times is no different. The Times should step out ahead of its industry
peers by creating a reader-friendly portal to its policies on ethics, style and
usage, blogging, anonymous sources, social networking and other subjects that
readers and journalists care about. I envision a link on the left side of the
NYTimes.com home page that would take you to a Journalism Policies page where
you could locate topics using a search tool.

Right now, finding Times policies is a bit of a treasure hunt. Some are
available on the Public Editor's page. A slightly different group of policies is
available on the site of the American Society of News Editors, an industry group
that posts the policies of many newspapers. Yet another version of some policies
-- covering The New York Times Company's broader group of news organizations --
is available on the corporate Web site. Nowhere online can you find rules on
style and usage -- though they already exist on the newsroom's internal site --
or the policy on social networking. And none of the material is truly
searchable.

I'm not faulting the substance of The Times's policies. The Jayson Blair scandal
of 2003 spawned an intensive effort to strengthen standards and codify them.
Taken together, the entire corpus of rules and policy is substantial. One could
argue over some of the specifics, but as a demonstration of intent and
commitment, it is an impressive statement.

I broached the idea of a searchable policies portal with The Times's associate
managing editor for standards, Philip B. Corbett, and he duly reminded me of the
organization's efforts to date to be ''much more open and transparent in telling
our readers what our standards are.'' Then he added a note of caution. Such a
project, he said, would take a lot of time and effort. Some Times policies
address issues that are ''very new and fast-changing'' and would need periodic
updating. Other policies, like the one governing social media, are not so much a
set of rules as a broad governing statement.

Indeed, building the portal would require considerable programming time and
might also lead to revisiting some of the policies themselves. Once in
existence, it would need to be monitored and updated. The costs could be
substantial, though nothing compared with the millions that The Times spent to
build and launch its pay model. And, to be honest, there are other reasons
besides cost not to do this.

Bob Steele, an expert in journalism ethics who advocates for strong standards
and accountability, pointed out one of them. ''The risk,'' he said, ''is that
when you put your ethics standards and practices on the cyber-table, if you
will, the heightened accessibility and the growing tendency of the public to
throw brickbats will lead to a lot of headaches.''

As The Times's fourth public editor, I can understand what Mr. Steele is saying
and what The Times potentially has to fear. The Times is on the receiving end of
an extraordinary volume of feedback, some of it very negative, from bloggers,
television pundits and readers at large. The Times spends considerable resources
to receive and respond to this input. At times, the feedback overwhelms the
system, as happened recently when complaints about a March 8 article on an East
Texas rape case went viral and buried my e-mail inbox under tens of thousands of
messages.

Mr. Steele, head of the Prindle Institute for Ethics at DePauw University,
argues that this is not a reason to shrink from the task. ''We have to accept
that reality and the risk,'' he said. ''Journalism shines the light of scrutiny
on the powerful. We look at the power company, oil companies, hospitals,
universities, government institutions and other corporations. It is hypocritical
if we are not willing to be scrutinized by the public for the way we carry out
our work. Part of that is being clear about what our standards and ethical
principles are.''

If The Times were to take the step I advocate, it would be out ahead of the
pack. I visited the Web sites of a number of leading news organizations and
struggled to find their policies. This reflects a deep ambivalence on the part
of news organizations, I think. Since the 1990s, many have adopted ethics
policies to build trust with readers during a time when polls show erosion of
public confidence in journalists. But formulating such policies and publicizing
them are two different things, as Mr. Steele attests.

The ambivalence isn't doing journalists any good. Gallup polling last year
showed that public faith had declined for the fourth year in a row, with 57
percent of Americans saying they had little or no trust in the mass media to
''report the news fully, accurately and fairly.''

The simple truth is that more needs to be done to repair the damage. As Pam
Fine, a Kansas University journalism professor, told me, ''The industry looks to
The Times to set standards.'' The Times can play this leadership role and also
build a stronger compact with its readers by inviting them inside.

''It's not a panacea to put these policies online,'' said Ms. Fine, who is also
co-chairwoman of the ethics committee of the American Society of News Editors.
''It is still not going to explain why stories were held, why some people were
included in stories and some weren't. But it will help increase trust,
understanding and accountability.''

The Times has a good set of policies. It should double down on its commitment to
high standards by organizing them into a reader-friendly format and then trust
its audience -- which is now a paying audience both online and in print -- to
readily access these important principles and rules. Will some abuse the
privilege? Inevitably so. But elevating the dialogue with committed readers is
worth the price to be paid.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 3, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

When DeMille Parted the Red Sea

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; VIDEO; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1477 words


CECIL B. DeMILLE would probably have approved of the concept behind Paramount
Home Entertainment's 55th anniversary gift set edition of ''The Ten
Commandments,'' an appropriately colossal undertaking that includes three
Blu-ray discs and three standard DVDs, a commemorative book, reproductions of
the original program and assorted documents and costume sketches. It's all
packaged inside a dictionary-size box with a lenticular 3-D image of the Red Sea
on the front; when the sea is ''parted'' on a built-in hinge, a plastic
reproduction of DeMille's sacred tablets rises majestically into view.

The tablets themselves split open to reveal the six discs, which contain both
DeMille's famous 1956 version of the story starring Charlton Heston and his 1923
silent feature with Richard Dix that was his first pass at the material. The
discs are loaded with commentaries, newsreels, trailers and a new 75-minute
documentary, ''Making Miracles.''

But it's doubtful that DeMille, a fanatical stickler for detail, would have
signed off on the set's tacky execution. Plastic tablets? Nothing but real
granite would do for him. (Although he did make a pair in fiberglass, light
enough for Heston to carry down the mountainside without assistance from a
crane.) And what's worse, the tablets don't work: the clasps holding the discs
in place easily come loose, allowing the discs slip and slide against each
other.

And DeMille, no matter what his loftier ambitions, was always first and foremost
concerned with what worked. He concentrated his skills on how to construct his
films so that (at their best) they roared along with the speed and efficiency of
an express train, provided rip-roaring interpersonal drama to go along with the
larger narrative, gave the audience their money's worth by filling the frame
with opulent decors, dazzling costumes and armies of extras in meticulously
composed tableaus.

The 1956 ''Ten Commandments,'' which proved to be DeMille's final film, remains
the best known of the 80 he directed, and by far his most financially
successful. The Web site Box Office Mojo places it at No. 5 on its list of
top-grossing movies adjusted for inflation; its $1,049,310,000 puts it after
''E.T.'' but before ''Titanic.''

Still, this final testament probably isn't the best place to begin with this
gifted director, who has been too frequently overwhelmed by the image he created
for himself. As Scott Eyman writes in ''Empire of Dreams'' (Simon & Schuster), a
fascinating new biography of DeMille, he was a major form giver of the silent
era who worked long enough to see his style eclipsed by later developments.

Despite the 44 days that he and his company spent in the deserts of Egypt ''The
Ten Commandments'' remains largely a studio-bound film at a time when Hollywood
was moving toward location shooting as a way of achieving greater realism (and
as a way of appeasing the gods of widescreen and color, which could make the
studio sets, no matter how beautifully designed and lighted, look fake).

A new kind of performance style was afoot in the land as well. In the context of
the work that Method acolytes like James Dean and Marlon Brando were doing at
the time, ''The Ten Commandments'' can look like a Museum of Jurassic Acting,
with performers locked into wooden poses declaiming their lines to the last row
of the balcony. Instinctively DeMille was preserving the turn-of-the-century
acting style in which he had literally been raised. (His father was a playwright
who frequently worked with David Belasco, the leading theatrical impresario of
his day.) Heston's Moses may seem stiff and bombastic today, but to DeMille
those qualities represented stature and authority, a man who was not like other
men.

Except, of course, when he was. At its dramatic heart ''The Ten Commandments''
is less a story of religious belief or national awakening than a barn-burning
melodrama, constructed along the same lines as DeMille's secular films of the
'20s. It is the timeless story of two men in love with the same woman.

In the silent ''Ten Commandments,'' the biblical scenes serve as a 50-minute
prologue to a modern story, in which two brothers, one righteous and pious
(Richard Dix), the other venal and charming (Rod La Rocque) compete for the
affections of a poor young woman (Leatrice Joy) whom their religious mother has
rescued from the streets.

The 1956 film essentially incorporates this plot -- with further complications
-- into the biblical tale. As much as DeMille and his screenwriters claimed
authority for their extra-scriptural interpolations in the Midrash (rabbinical
commentaries on Scripture) and the histories of Josephus and Eusebius, their
inspiration undoubtedly lies in DeMille's impeccable audience-pleasing
instincts: the righteous brother becomes Heston's Moses, the slippery one
Rameses II (Yul Brynner) and the woman in dispute Nefretiri, the Throne Princess
(Anne Baxter).

DeMille, for whom the complications of modern marriage were always Topic A, uses
the sexually charged conflict of these scenes to link the movie's major set
pieces, which regain a measure of their original VistaVision grandeur in the new
Blu-ray edition. The parting of the Red Sea is justly famous as the costliest,
most complex special-effects sequence attempted up to its time; more impressive
artistically, perhaps, is the 10th plague, in which the Angel of Death is
imagined as a thick, green mist that creeps through the streets of the royal
city, claiming the lives of Egypt's firstborn sons.

If DeMille's direction of individual actors often seems quaint in ''The Ten
Commandments,'' his epic choreography of his fabled thousands of extras remains
dazzling. In the Exodus sequence each tiny figure seems to have been
individually positioned, to maximize effects of color and contrast. And these
are not static images, but whirlpools of movement, every square inch of the
screen filled with a constant buzz of coordinated activity.

Digital processes have made it cheaper and easier to assemble such multitudes in
films like ''Gladiator'' and ''300,'' but pixels are pixels, no matter how
artfully deployed. Only DeMille and his army of assistants could have captured
the spectacle of ''The Ten Commandments,'' a human spectacle, with weight,
warmth and life. (Paramount Home Entertainment, Blu-ray/DVD gift set $59.99,
two-disc Blu-ray $24.99, two-disc DVD $14.99, G)

ALSO OUT THIS WEEK

TRON: LEGACY A disaffected 27-year-old (Garrett Hedlund) goes looking for his
father (Jeff Bridges), a famous video-game developer who disappeared inside a
cyber-universe of his own creation 20 years earlier. Joseph Kosinski directed;
with Olivia Wilde, Bruce Boxleitner and Michael Sheen. Mr. Bridges ''wears a
beatific Zen gaze and the look of a man having a pretty good time,'' Manohla
Dargis wrote in The New York Times in December.(Disney, 3-D Blu-ray/DVD combo
edition $49.99, Blu-ray/DVD combo $39.99, DVD $29.99, PG)

LITTLE FOCKERS After ''Meet the Parents'' (2000) and ''Meet the Fockers''
(2004), more comic tension between the agitated, insecure Greg Focker (Ben
Stiller) and his disapproving father-in-law, a former C.I.A. officer (Robert De
Niro). Paul Weitz directed; with Owen Wilson, Dustin Hoffman, Barbra Streisand,
Blythe Danner and Teri Polo. ''How do you top Ms. Streisand and Mr. Hoffman
playing at being the happy, sexy hippie couple for easy jokes? You don't,'' Ms.
Dargis wrote in The Times in December.(Universal, Blu-ray/DVD combo edition
$39.98, DVD $29.98, PG-13)

THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA: VOYAGE OF THE DAWN TREADERMichael Apted (''Coal
Miner's Daughter'') directed this third installment in the Narnia cycle, which
finds the Pevensie siblings (Georgie Henley and Skandar Keynes) aboard a sailing
ship for an eventful journey across C. S. Lewis's metaphorical fantasy land. The
movie is ''largely dreary,'' Ms. Dargis wrote in The Times in December.(Fox,
Blu-ray/DVD combo edition $39.99, two-disc DVD $34.98, single disc DVD $29.98,
PG)

I LOVE YOU, PHILLIP MORRISJim Carrey as a gay con man who turns to ever more
outrageous schemes as he tries to free the love of his life (Ewan McGregor) from
state prison. With Leslie Mann; Glenn Ficarra and John Requa directed. The film
''takes for granted the grifter's faith in the lawlessness, disorder and
potential for larcenous self-invention in an easy-money society that allows
brilliant sociopaths to fly high,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The Times in
December. (Roadside Attractions, Blu-ray 39.99, DVD $27.98, R)

CASINO JACKKevin Spacey plays the Washington lobbyist Jack Abramoff in a
docudrama directed by George Hickenlooper. With Barry Pepper, Kelly Preston and
Jon Lovitz. ''A steadier narrative hand and a clearer satirical eye might have
made the intrigue more intriguing and the humor more pointed,'' A. O. Scott
wrote in The Times in December.(Fox, Blu-ray $29.99, DVD $22.98, R)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, a crowd scene from Cecil B. DeMille's 1956 ''Ten
Commandments,'' one of Hollywood's biggest box office draws. Above, Charlton
Heston and Anne Baxter. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM PARAMOUNT PICTURES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2011 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Dressing the Part of an Action Hero

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1051 words



PRODUCT placement within video games is common enough these days that gamers
barely notice it, but when Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker was introduced last
year, some players snickered when they saw its protagonist, Naked Snake,
occasionally wearing a T-shirt with the a logo for Axe, the men's grooming
brand. The game, after all, is set in 1974 -- nine years before Axe was
introduced, in France, and 28 years before it gained prominence with its
introduction in the United States.

Now the company that makes the game, Konami Digital Entertainment, has a new
sartorial twist: it is introducing a line of clothing based on the game. The
line, the Peace Walker collection, which is scheduled to go on sale on the
Konami Web site Monday, takes design cues from characters in the game without
replicating their clothes.

''This is for Metal Gear Solid fans to be able to incorporate the brand they
love so much into their lifestyles,'' said Careen Yapp, vice president for
acquisitions and franchise development at Konami, whose other games include
Silent Hill, DanceDanceRevolution and Castlevania.

Typical of the collection, which borrows from the game a military-chic
aesthetic, is the MGS Field Coat ($189), which on the Web site promises to
''successfully support your mission in any terrain under any conditions.'' While
the coat has specific references to the game, like buttons and a detachable
badge on one sleeve that feature its logo, such identifiers are no more
prominent than labels and buttons on a pair of Levi's.

''The challenge is to not create costumes, but rather lifestyle collections,''
said Knut Bergel, the president of Musterbrand, which designed and manufactured
the line under a licensing partnership with the game maker.

--

Based in New York and owned by the Otto Group, a German company whose United
States holdings include Crate & Barrel, Musterbrand was established last year
for the purpose of developing merchandise inspired by the virtual world.

Along with the Peace Walker collection, Musterbrand has designed clothing lines
based on Gran Turismo, the series of racing games by Sony (available at
bit.ly/dRJ7G1), and the forthcoming installment of the Deus Ex series, Human
Revolution, by Eidos Montreal, which will be released at the same time as the
game, in August.

Clothing from all the lines will be sold only online, which to Mr. Bergel is as
fitting as selling Jets hats at New Meadowlands Stadium.

''When you go to sporting events you very often buy your gear at the stadium,
and when you play a video game'' on a computer, ''you should buy these
collections where you play,'' Mr. Bergel said.

Consumers spent an estimated $15.4 billion to $15.6 billion on video games in
2010, according to the NPD Group, a market research firm.

While video games are most popular with children and teenagers, with more than
90 percent playing, about one-third of adults play, too, according to Mintel,
another market research firm. Among the most dedicated segment of adult gamers,
those 18 to 24, 42 percent say they find video games to be more entertaining
than television, and 37 percent say that games are their main source of
entertainment.

One company that recognizes that adults are playing, Chrysler, recently signed a
licensing deal with the video game publisher Activision that encompasses both
the virtual and real worlds.

In Call of Duty: Black Ops, a shooter game released last November, the
protagonist, in accordance with the deal, drives a Jeep Wrangler. Additionally,
as the game was being released, the limited edition 2011 Wrangler Call of Duty:
Black Ops Edition, was rolling into Chrysler dealerships. With a price tag of
$33,500 for the four-door model, the vehicle, available only in black, features
the game's logo on its front quarter panels and roof.

--

Mr. Bergel, of Musterbrand, said the company hoped to expand in virtual worlds.

''We would love to design clothing for upcoming versions of the games,'' Mr.
Bergel said.

Jonathan Jacques-Belletete, the art director of Deus Ex: Human Revolution, which
is scheduled to be released in the United States on Aug. 23, said game designers
generally had given little thought to clothing.

''In the video game industry we usually talk about the design of the characters
themselves, and that's usually where the discussion ends,'' said Mr.
Jacques-Belletete. ''The word 'fashion' in video game design is something that's
almost never heard. They're just thinking of big armor and big weapons.''

But at one point when he was designing the game, Mr. Jacques-Belletete could
think of little else.

''I was thinking of the aesthetics of the Renaissance era, and also sort of
Baroque, yet fashionable and kind of cyber-punkie,'' Mr. Jacques-Belletete said.

He sought inspiration from collections by designers including the late Alexander
McQueen before designing the clothes himself.

''If I had to redo this I would probably hire a fashion designer for the
preproduction,'' said Mr. Jacques-Belletete, adding that he would welcome input
from designers like those at Musterbrand for future projects.

In the forthcoming Human Revolution collection by Musterbrand, the article of
clothing that is the most faithful to the game is a sleek double-breasted coat
worn by the main protagonist, Adam Jensen, and Mr. Jacques-Belletete said there
is nothing costume-like or overstated about it.

''If you walked into something like a Diesel or G-Star it would totally fit in,
and then as you tried it on you'd see that there are things that are a little
more out there,'' said Mr. Jacques-Belletete, referring to the clothing stores.

When he saw a prototype of the jacket in his Montreal office recently, he said
he had the odd sensation of slipping on something that he never imagined
existing beyond pixels.

''I tried the jacket on and I wanted to keep it,'' Mr. Jacques-Belletete said.
''I was walking around the office showing it to people -- and they were totally
stoked.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 2011



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
The Advertising column on Monday, about a line of clothing based on the video
game Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker, misstated, in some editions, the surname of
the president of Musterbrand, which designed and manufactures the line. He is
Knut Bergel, not Berger.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A new line of clothing takes design cues from characters in
Metal Gear Solid.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 22, 2011 Friday
                                National Edition

How Not to Say Sorry After a Blunder Affecting Millions

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY.

rramsey@texastribune.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 700 words


Eating crow is a fine art. Susan Combs hasn't mastered it.

The state comptroller of public accounts has been ducking responsibility ever
since revealing that her agency had put the names and Social Security numbers of
3.5 million people in a publicly available spot on the comptroller's state Web
site.

For a year.

Think anyone noticed what was lying around? Nobody knows, to tell you the truth.
The comptroller flailed in the week after the announcement, firing some
subordinates, and when sought by the news media, sending her P.R. people to
answer the sharp questions. Before lawmakers, she tried to blame the agencies
that sent her the information in the first place. Those agencies put it right
back on her desk, saying the info from their shops -- the Teacher Retirement
System, the Employees Retirement System and the Texas Workforce Commission --
had been sent over in properly encrypted form. It was the comptroller's office
that left it, unencrypted, on a public server. For a year.

Ms. Combs responded to this self-inflicted challenge with a letter to each
person whose name and Social Security number were left out for the thieves. The
letter is a masterpiece of equivocation and prevarication, leaving a false
impression without telling an outright lie.

''Please be aware that we have no indication that your personal information has
been misused in any way.''

They also don't have any indication that it hasn't. All they know is that this
particular pie was on the shelf for a year and that they don't know whether
anyone took a slice of it.

''The data files were immediately taken offline and secured.''

The letter doesn't say anything about the year that lapsed before they were
''immediately'' secured.

It says the agency created a Web site and some FAQs and an e-mail address where
the current and former state employees and others who were affected can get more
information on the mess.

But let's say you're not one of those folks affected or don't care about them.
Let's say you're in a forgiving mood or you're a Combs chum, or a legislative
budget-writer so dependent on the comptroller for good news that you're willing
to let this one go.

This is the agency that collects taxes for the State of Texas. It doesn't have a
lot of tax information about individuals, since Texas doesn't have a personal
income tax. But it's got a lot of sensitive and proprietary information about
the businesses in the state. The agency's officials have made an explicit deal
with those taxpayers: send us the information we need to make sure you're paying
the taxes you owe and we'll never share it with anyone unless they're either a
tax collector or in law enforcement or in the Legislature (that's right, kids --
Texas legislators have the legal authority to peek at your books).

That's a setup to put this line from the letter in proper context: ''As an added
precaution, we are actively working with law enforcement and have contacted all
major credit reporting agencies to notify them of this issue.''

Sure they have. What are they going to do? Throw the F.B.I. and the Texas
attorney general out of the building? Those two agencies have begun a criminal
investigation.

The letter ends with the only thing approaching an apology: ''We sincerely
regret that this incident occurred. Thank you for your shared vigilance at a
time when the potential for cyber crime remains a great threat.''

A threat aided and abetted by a state agency that's supposed to be expert at
locking up sensitive information.

The comptroller's name isn't on the letterhead, mentioned in the text or at the
bottom of the letter. Before all of this came to light, Ms. Combs was busy
planning a run for lieutenant governor, if that job comes open in 2014, and has
been telling political people and potential supporters that she'll announce soon
after the current legislative session.

Her signature isn't on the 3.5 million form letters that went out. Holy identity
theft, Batman, that's a lot of voters -- equivalent to about one of every five
adults in Texas. The letters are signed instead by Victor Gonzalez, chief
technology officer for the comptroller's office.

He resigned last Friday, before all of the letters had even been delivered.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Comptroller Susan Combs (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB DAEMMRICH/THE TEXAS
TRIBUNE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 30, 2011 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Making the Holocaust The Lesson on All Evils

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1698 words



LOS ANGELES -- Before you are submerged within the museum's theatrically
darkened central galleries, before you learn how the cafes and intellectual life
of the Weimar Republic gradually gave way to the annihilationist racial
fantasies Hitler outlined in ''Mein Kampf'' -- before, that is, you experience a
variation of the Holocaust narrative with its wrenching genocidal climax --
there are other trials a visitor to the Museum of Tolerance here must pass
through.

You must first choose a door. One is invitingly labeled ''Unprejudiced''; the
other, illuminated in red, screams ''Prejudiced.'' No contest. But one door
doesn't open; the other does. Here, evidently, we must admit we are all
prejudiced, not just the guards at Auschwitz.

As proof, below a streaming news ticker (''Gay Basher Gets 12 Years'') are
panels about ''Confronting Hate in America'': Two Latinos are beaten on Long
Island; a white supremacist shoots Jews in Los Angeles; a Sikh is murdered in a
post-9/11 ''hate crime''; a homosexual student is brutally murdered in Wyoming.
On one panel is a description of the Oklahoma City bombing; on another, the
attacks of 9/11.

Walk a little farther and you come to a mock 1950s-style diner, where a
television monitor broadcasts a staged news video about a drunken driver
injuring his date on prom night. We are asked to record our votes about who is
most responsible: the liquor store owner who illegally sold the booze, the
parents of the drunk driver, the teenager himself?

A case of cyber-bullying also solicits our careful assessments. ''Think,'' we
are urged by the signs: ''Assume responsibility,'' ''Ask questions,'' ''Speak
up.''

Similar prescriptions are implied throughout this 80,000-square-foot museum,
which opened in 1993 as ''the educational arm of the Simon Wiesenthal Center,''
the international organization associated with that famed Holocaust survivor and
''Nazi hunter'' who died in 2005. The museum's central exhibition about the
Holocaust and the murder of six million Jews is preceded by this
''Tolerancenter,'' as it is called, which strains to tie together slavery,
genocides, prejudice, discrimination and hate crimes, while showing even
elementary school students (as the museum literature says) ''the connection
between these large-scale events and the epidemic of bullying in today's
schools.''

But as the annual Holocaust Remembrance Day is commemorated on Sunday -- known
in Hebrew as Yom HaShoah -- it is worth taking a closer look at this approach to
mass murder. The Museum of Tolerance is not alone. Even a modest museum devoted
to the Holocaust, like the one that opened in 2009 at Queensborough Community
College, offers testimonials by students about how the Holocaust has taught them
about tolerance and the evils of discrimination. And no Holocaust museum, it
seems, can be complete without invoking other 20th-century genocides in Rwanda,
Darfur or Cambodia as proof that the lessons of the Holocaust must be taught
even more fervently. In the recently opened Holocaust museum in Skokie, Ill.,
bullying also plays a cautionary role.

Several years ago, too, the Anne Frank Huis in Amsterdam ended its sober tour
through the famed annex where that young diarist and her family hid from the
Nazis with a video-laden hortatory show about nearly every social injustice that
could be enumerated. The passion may now be cooler, but the impulse remains. We
learn from the Amsterdam museum's Web site that an Anne Frank School -- like
those being established all over the world -- ''obliges itself to stand up for
freedom, justice, tolerance and human dignity and to resolutely turn against any
form of aggression, discrimination, racism, political extremism and excessive
nationalism.''

Though Yad Vashem in Israel and the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in
Washington have remained relatively immune to such sweeping moralizing, in most
institutions and curriculums, the Holocaust's lessons are clear: We should all
get along, become politically active and be very considerate of our neighbors.
If not, well, the differences between hate crimes and the Holocaust -- between
bullying and Buchenwald -- are just a matter of degree.

Perhaps, though, we should take the lesson even further. What if this were the
approach of every historical museum? The Imperial War Museum in London might
look at World War I as a result of intolerance and hold out the promise of
ending all wars if only its lessons were properly learned; after all, didn't the
French and Germans enjoy a sociable Christmas holiday cease-fire in the trenches
of the Western Front?

The history of American slavery might explore the many ways people have enslaved
others or forced them to do things against their will. An examination of the
Soviet Gulag might emphasize the need to permit greater diversity of opinion in
society, or more adventurously, it might attack the notion of imprisonment
itself for being so Gulag-like.

As history, this is laughable. Yet we seem willing to accept that in the case of
the Holocaust, an exhibition must allude to all forms of genocide, and must
offer broad lessons about tolerance.

In part, this is because of the ways many of these museums began, spurred into
creation by survivors who were horrified by their own experience, unable to make
sense of it or of the hatred behind it. Couldn't it all have been prevented had
others been more tolerant?

That approach is reflected in the Museum of Tolerance, whose founder, Rabbi
Marvin Hier, understood Wiesenthal's own desire to generalize the Holocaust to
bring more attention to it. As Tom Segev suggests in his new biography, ''Simon
Wiesenthal: The Life and Legends'' (Doubleday), the museum was even conceived of
as a West Coast rival to the more sober Holocaust museum then being built in
Washington.

The spirit of generalization has also been applied to the nature of the
Holocaust itself. In a 2005 lecture on ''The Use and Abuse of Holocaust
Memory,'' Walter Reich, a former director of the United States Holocaust
Memorial Museum, points out that in 1979, after a commission headed by Elie
Wiesel was established to create a Holocaust museum in Washington, President
Jimmy Carter referred to ''11 million innocent victims exterminated -- 6 million
of them Jews.'' The 11 million figure has since become an international
touchstone. In some cases it has expanded to 12, in effect diminishing Jewish
centrality.

But, as Mr. Reich points out, the 11 million figure was pulled out of thin air
by Wiesenthal. The historian Yehuda Bauer wrote: ''Wiesenthal, as he admitted to
me in private, invented the figure in order to create sympathy for the Jews --
in order to make the non-Jews feel like they are part of us.'' In fact,
historians suggest that there were perhaps a half million non-Jews who died in
concentration camps.

The impulse to tell the Holocaust story only in the context of elaborate
generalizations has also helped justify its inclusion in school curriculums and
helped obtain public financing for museums: The goal was not particular but
general, not Judeocentric but humanitarian. The Museum of Tolerance, for
example, runs an extensive series of education programs, including ''Tools for
Tolerance for Professionals Programs'': sensitivity training for educators, law
enforcement officers and corporate leaders.

But what kind of history emerges as a result of these generalizations? History
stripped of distinctions. To understand the Armenian genocide, for example, it
is insufficient to treat it simply in passing, as if it resembled what happened
to the Jews in Europe. Understanding it would mean examining the Ottoman Empire
in the early decades of the 20th century, chronicling the relationship between
Muslims and Christians on the borders of Europe, comprehending connections
between the fates of Greeks and Armenians, and analyzing the imminent
dissolution of that empire.

And the deeper one looks at the Holocaust itself, the more unusual its
historical circumstances become. The cause of these mass killings was not
''intolerance,'' but something else, still scarcely understood. Making sense of
the Holocaust would mean first comprehending the nature of hatred for Jews,
surveying the place of Jews in European societies and dissecting the blindness
of many Germans and most Europeans to the ambitions Hitler made so explicit.

These killings were not in the context of war over contested terrain; they often
took precedence over the very waging of war. And they were accomplished not
primarily through individual murders by sword or rifle, as so many other ethnic
massacres before and since have been, but rather by harnessing the machinery of
the era's most advanced industrial society.

Intolerance is almost too easy an explanation, implying a comforting moral
message. Instead, why not look at how Hitler's powers might have been undercut
before he began to wage the war in Europe and the war against the Jews? Wouldn't
an examination of those possibilities offer a more profound lesson about how to
prevent genocide?

And how central is intolerance to genocide anyway? Many intolerant societies
don't set up bureaucratic offices to supervise efficient mass murder. Many
people who consider themselves very tolerant are nonetheless blind to their own
hatreds. There are even intolerant people who would still find genocide
unthinkable.

Finally, the homiletic approach to the Holocaust has broken down almost all
inhibitions in using the Holocaust as an analogy, even though the eagerness to
do so is a sure sign of misuse. And judging from recent history, the analogies
that have already been established, far from making genocide unthinkable, have
helped make it seem as commonplace a possibility as schoolyard bullying.

The Museum of Tolerance is at 9786 West Pico Boulevard, Los Angeles; (310)
553-8403; museumoftolerance.com.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 3, 2011



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A
Critic's Notebook article on Saturday, about the Museum of Tolerance in Los
Angeles and other Holocaust museums, misstated part of the name of the Anne
Frank museum in Amsterdam. It is the Anne Frank Huis, not Haus.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Holocaust material at the Museum of Tolerance in Los
Angeles.(C1)
Holocaust exhibitions at the Museum of Tolerance: Anne Frank, left
the Hall of Testimony, top
 and photos of survivors. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 1, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quality Time, Redefined

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2537 words



IT was a vision of family togetherness out of a Norman Rockwell painting, if
Rockwell had worked in the era of WiFi. After a taco dinner one Wednesday in
March, Dianne Vavra and her family retreated to the living room of their Cape
Cod-style house in Huntington, N.Y., where they curled up on the spacious beige
sofa amid hand-stitched quilts as an icy rain pelted the windows.

Ms. Vavra, a cosmetics industry executive in Manhattan, looked up from her iPad,
where she was catching up on the latest spring looks at Refinery29.com, and
noticed that her husband, Michael Combs, was transfixed, streaming the N.C.A.A.
men's basketball tournament on his laptop. Their son, Tom, 8, was absorbed by
the Wii game Mario Kart on the widescreen television. Their daughter, Eve, 10,
was fiddling with a game app called the Love Calculator on an iPod Touch. ''The
family was in the same room, but not together,'' Ms. Vavra recalled.

One family. One room. Four screens. Four realities, basically. While it may look
like some domestic version of ''The Matrix'' -- families sharing a common space,
but plugged into entirely separate planes of existence through technology -- a
scene like this has become an increasingly familiar evening ritual. As a result,
the American living room in 2011 can often seem less like an oasis for shared
activity, even if that just means watching television together, than an
entangled intersection of data traffic -- everyone huddled in a cyber-cocoon.

Call it what you will, it is a wholly different form of quality time.

The culture of home-based iDistraction has already become a pop-culture trope,
and no wonder: Never has there been so much to consume, on so many devices. On a
recent episode of ABC's ''Modern Family,'' the character Claire Dunphy explodes
when she tries to serve the family breakfast, only to be ignored by a husband
adjusting his fantasy football roster on his iPad, a son playing video games on
his Nintendo DS and two daughters e-mailing each other from across the table.
''O.K., now that's it, everybody, gadgets down, now!'' she declares. ''You're
all so involved in your little gizmos, nobody is even talking. Families are
supposed to talk!''

Haley, the eldest daughter, writes to her sister, Alex, ''Mom's insane,'' as
everyone returns to their screens.

Billy Crystal, in an interview with Jon Stewart on ''The Daily Show,'' joked
that couples these days have no qualms about texting someone else during sex --
''Oh, is that you!'' ''Yes!'' ''LOL!''

CERTAINLY, people have been hyper-wired as long as there have been laptops, and
the tendency became more pronounced with the advent of wireless Internet. Nearly
60 percent of American families with children own two or more computers, and
more than 60 percent of those have either a wired or wireless network to connect
to the Internet, according to studies by the Pew Research Center's Internet and
American Life Project. A third of all Americans log on from home multiple times
a day, nearly twice the number that did so in 2004.

On top of that, iPads have inundated homes since they were introduced a year
ago, as have fast-downloading smartphones. Media companies are jumping on board
to make sure their content is available at any time, on any device. In the last
six months, Netflix has added thousands of movies available for instant
streaming, via its Watch Instantly option. In March, Time Warner Cable made
selected channels available on an iPad app. Subscribers to MLB.TV can stream
major league baseball games any day of the week through a $14.99 iPhone app. And
Amazon recently announced a plan to make e-books from 11,000 public libraries
available on its Kindle this year.

That amounts to more screen time in homes where everyone already seems glued to
their BlackBerrys or sucked in by Facebook, Twitter, blogs -- or work.

It's a profound shift, and one that is not lost on cultural theorists who study
the online habits of Americans.

''The transformation of the American living room into a multiscreen
communication and entertainment hub'' promises to ''change our domestic
sphere,'' said Lutz Koepnick, a media professor at Washington University in St.
Louis who studies digital culture. ''Individual family members might find
themselves contently connected to parallel worlds almost all the time.''

Indeed, Brad Kahn, an environmental consultant in Seattle, said he often
communicates with his wife, Erin, by e-mail even when they are seated a few feet
apart on the sofa with their laptops. He will cut her off if she starts
instructing him orally about what he calls his ''honey-do'' list of weekend
chores, he said, and ask her to send it electronically.

To Mr. Kahn, 40, it's simply more efficient. ''If I misunderstood any
directions, having a written record can be very useful in maintaining marital
bliss,'' he said.

Such behavior is not limited to the sofa. Evan Gotlib, who runs advertising
sales at blip.tv, an Internet company in Manhattan, recalled sitting in bed
recently with his wife, Lindsey Pollak, as both were using iPads. He was playing
an online version of Scrabble against his sister, Val, remotely, and at one
point said, ''Val just got a 46-point word!''

''Ugh,'' his wife said, ''she just hit a 32-pointer against me.'' At that
moment, Mr. Gotlib realized his wife was also playing her own game against his
sister.

Typically, at their home in Manhattan, Polly Blitzer Wolkstein and her husband,
Mark Wolkstein, settle into the sofa around 7 p.m., perch their respective
laptops on opposite armrests, place their BlackBerrys between them and surrender
to their multiplicity of screens, often until midnight.

If they're not catching up on work -- he is a partner at financial research
firm, she runs the Beauty Blitz Web site -- Mr. Wolkstein, 38, might be
half-watching one show on Hulu on his laptop, another movie on Netflix on his
iPad and carrying on a game of Angry Birds. Ms. Blitzer Wolkstein, 35, will be
right there beside him, tapping out texts on her BlackBerry while she chases
down bonus footage of reality shows on the network Web sites.

Even efforts to have a date night, when they watch the same movie at the same
time, go nowhere.

''We gradually migrate to polar ends of the couch, where we balance our laptops
and iPads on the arm of the couch, then cyber-indulge during the entire movie,
and have to rinse-and-repeat the next night because we missed the entire
thing,'' Ms. Blitzer Wolkstein said in an e-mail. ''We've been meaning to watch
a documentary about ventriloquists called 'Dumbstruck,' and tonight is supposed
to be our 4th attempt.''

Sometimes they hold hands while looking at their screens. But failing that, the
couple has developed a form of physical shorthand, an '' 'I'm still here'
signal'' in which ''one of us will tap the other one a couple of times with an
index finger.''

It's not hard to interpret such moments as evidence that technology has become
an alien, and alienating, force in the contemporary home. That view has no
shortage of proponents.

Prominent among them is Sherry Turkle, a professor of social studies of science
and technology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and the author of
''Alone Together: Why We Expect More From Technology and Less From Each Other.''
The book argues that people's reliance on technology to establish emotional
intimacy -- whether by ''friending'' strangers on Facebook or nuzzling robotic
Furby pets -- can actually increase our sense of feeling inundated and empty.
''The new technologies allow us to 'dial down' human contact, to titrate its
nature and extent,'' she writes.

It's a concern shared by Ben Schippers, who runs a software development company
in Brooklyn and spends many evenings with his wife, immersed in virtual worlds
of their own.

Such evenings, he admits, are rare these days. His wife, Hedda Burnett, is
attending veterinary school at Iowa State University, so they manage to see each
other in person only every few weeks and otherwise keep in touch over Skype. Mr.
Schippers finds evenings oddly similar, whether his wife is in Ames, Iowa, or in
New York beside him. Either way, ''She's on her LCD, I'm on my LCD,'' he said.

He wondered about a cost in emotional intimacy in American homes, as more
households adopt a similar evening ritual. ''What does a television in the
bedroom do to someone's sex life?'' he asked. Now screens are popping up between
people throughout the house.

James Gleick, the author of the new book ''The Information: A History, a Theory,
a Flood,'' said he has been known to spend evenings at home with his wife, each
tapped into their own iPad, white cords dangling from their ears. In the near
future, he said jokingly, ''A new skill that will be taught by relationship
counselors will be knowing when and how to interrupt one's loved ones: Is a
particular joke you've just read on Twitter worth her yanking out her earbuds?''

Joanne Cantor, a professor emerita and a director of the Center for
Communication Research at the University of Wisconsin, suggests it's almost as
if adults and older children are reverting to a form of ''parallel play,'' the
developmental stage when toddlers sit beside each other in silence, playing with
toys of their own. Even in the very recent past, when family members would be
watching TV together, she said, ''We all had conversations during the
commercials, even if it was just to say, 'Wasn't that stupid?' ''

THEN again, this is not the first time that the appearance of home media has
caused an outcry -- perhaps needlessly, in hindsight.

''If you go back 200 years, there were similar complaints about technological
devices, but it was books at that time,'' Dr. Koepnick said. ''The family room
filled with different people reading books created a lot of concerns and
anxiety, particularly regarding women, because all of a sudden they were on
their own, their minds were drifting into areas that could no longer be
controlled.''

Likewise, the emergence of television led to decades of hand-wringing over the
specter of American families transformed into sitcom-addicted zombies. Dr.
Koepnick also points out that those evenings of family television usually
involved a struggle over the channel knob, or later, the remote.

In that light, iPads and laptops can be a tool of democratization, if not
detente. Now, he said, ''everyone has their own device, streams their own films,
their own media, so there's no longer a struggle or challenge within the family
over what is it we want to see.''

Even before iPads, there was evidence that Web-centric home life might not, in
fact, be eating away at family unity. Barry Wellman, a professor of sociology at
the University of Toronto who studies the effect of technology on social
communities, said that his research supports the findings of studies like a 2009
survey of 4,000 people by a Canadian market research company indicating that
people believe technology is bringing the family together, not pulling it apart,
by a substantial margin.

This might be even truer in households nowadays, when the proliferation of
devices and media options makes it easier for family members to pursue their
interests online while seated in the same room, Dr. Wellman said.

Behavior inside a cyber-cocoon can be surprisingly interactive. ''There's a lot
of, 'Hey, look at this!' 'Let's plan our trip to Vegas!' '' he said. ''People
get up from their laptops, come together on one screen: 'Hey, look what I just
found, isn't this weird?' It isn't the image of one person huddled in isolation
with their screen.''

Robert Rosenthal, who runs a marketing company in Manhattan, also recalls his
youth, when his mother had to call around to friends' houses in the evening to
find him. ''When everyone is doing their digital thing out in the open,'' he
said, ''the total death of privacy is a parental advantage.'' Now, he usually
just needs to check the far corners of his living room. There's Ariana, 15,
doing her homework online or poking friends on Facebook. There's Veronica, 11,
iChatting with friends, next to his wife, Carolyn Kremins, who might be shoe
shopping on Gilt.com on her MacBook, while Mr. Rosenthal, himself, catches up on
work e-mail.

Mr. Gotlib, of Manhattan, said that new online hardware and media options allow
him and his wife to ''to experience new levels of closeness.'' In recent weeks,
they sat next to each other in the evening; he was wearing headphones and
watching an entire season of ''The Wire'' that he'd downloaded off iTunes on his
iPad, while she read ''The Art of Immersion'' by Frank Rose on hers.

''Three or four years ago, I would have been downstairs watching TV, and she
would have been upstairs reading,'' Mr. Gotlib said. ''I guarantee that we spend
80 percent more time together because of the iPad.''

Rather than a sign of a dysfunctional relationship, such behavior can actually
be interpreted as the sign of health, said Ronald Levant, a professor of
psychology at the University of Akron. ''People who think every minute we're
together we have to connect are going to drive each other crazy, because we all
need some alone time, no matter how compatible a couple might be,'' Dr. Levant
said. ''At a certain point in your relationship,'' he added, ''your task to
keeping the relationship vital and refreshed is managed togetherness and
separateness. Technology could be used as a tool to assist that.''

In the end, that was the conclusion that Ms. Vavra, the cosmetics executive,
reached after a series of nights like the one after taco night. Even though she
and her husband were moved to declare ''tech-free Sundays'' so they could pursue
outdoor activities, far from the clutter of devices, she has learned to
appreciate the interchange that comes from nights when everyone is peering up
from screens of their own.

''There's a lot of crossover,'' she said. ''My daughter will be doing something
on the iTouch, and say 'Mommy, look at this!' I'll be doing something on my
iPad, and she's interested in what I'm doing. And my son is excited because he
'un-locked' something on Mario Kart. I don't know exactly what that means, but
we're all there to witness the unlocking.''

Arguably, she said, an evening like that can bring more closeness than a night
spent huddling over a board game back in the days of analog.

'' 'Together time' in the past was sometimes an effort, and a forced moment,
where we would schedule it -- 'O.K., after dinner every night at 7 we're going
to watch this or play this,' and the kids would say, 'But Mom, I wanted to do
this,' '' Ms. Vavra recalled. ''Now, it's not forced at all. It just organically
happens. Everyone gets to do their own thing, rather than, 'Do we have to play
Clue again?' ''

Correction: May 15, 2011, Sunday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on
May 1 about the effects of electronic devices on family life at home
misidentified the video-game player used by a child on an episode of ABC's
''Modern Family'' as he ignored his mother at breakfast. It was a Nintendo DS,
not a Sony PSP.

Because of an editing error, the article also misstated the fantasy sport played
by the father on his iPad during the same scene. It was football, not baseball.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FAMILY MOMENT: Michael Combs, second from left, and Dianne
Vavra, with their children, Tom and Eve Combs, in their living room in
Huntington, N.Y. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST1)
 SOLOISTS: Brad Kahn, center, his wife, Erin, on laptops while their son, Ezra,
plays with a discarded iPhone 3. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (ST12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                               May 6, 2011 Friday

Palantir Valued at $2.5 Billion or More

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 277 words



HIGHLIGHT: Palantir, the analytics company, has raised $50 million, at a
multibillion-dollar valuation.


Palantir doesn't attract the same attention as its social media peers in Silicon
Valley.

Nestled in the heart of downtown Palo Alto, Calif. the analytics technology
company employs hundreds of engineers, but it maintains a low profile, relative
to other residents like Facebook. Still, investors are paying attention.

The company recently raised $50 million, according to a filing submitted on
Thursday. The latest round values the company at $2.5 billion to $3 billion,
according to a person close to company who was not authorized to speak publicly.
The investors include Tiger Global Management, the venture capital firm
Founder's Fund and others, the person said.

Palantir -- started by its chief executive, Alexander C. Karp, and Peter Thiel,
a co-founder of PayPal -- helps clients, like the government and financial
institutions, analyze complex data sets with its technology. The bulk of its
business, about 70 percent, comes from the government, which has has used
Palantir's analytics platform to track stimulus spending and fight terrorism and
cyber espionage. Mr. Thiel is also a partner in the Founder's Fund, one of
Palantir's investors.

The company's value is climbing fast. Last June, Palantir raised $90 million at
a $735 million valuation. The round was led by Mr. Thiel; Youniversity Ventures;
Glynn Capital; Jeremy Stoppelman, the chief executive of Yelp; and other New
York-based investors.

Fortune earlier reporteddetails of the round.

An earlier version of this post misspelled the name of the chief executive of
Yelp. It is Jeremy Stoppelman, not Stoppleman.


     ·    50 Cent: Facebook Is Worth $50 Billion, Maybe More
     ·    Even Under New Chief, Yahoo Seems Adrift


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                               May 9, 2011 Monday

This Week in Small Business: Profiting From Osama, Dealing With the Dollar

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1532 words



HIGHLIGHT: Plus, how do you tackle big problems?


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.

PROFITING FROM OSAMA Entrepreneurs are (of course) offering bin Laden specials.
One example is a T-shirt inspired by Facebook: "Osama bin Laden Is Dead.
311,275,382 People Like This." President Bush (or someone who looks a lot like
him) makes a statement. Ever wonder what our president was really doing in the
situation room that night? (Oh, and the janitor was right after all.)

THE DOLLAR HITS A NEW LOW The dollar continues to slide and Scott Grannis says
"with the Fed's latest data release, it's official: in inflation-adjusted and
trade-weighted terms (arguably the best way to measure the dollar's true
purchasing power overseas), the dollar is now weaker than it has ever been."
Felix Salmon reports on the real reason for the dollar's decline: "Over the past
10 years or so, however, the need and desire for global savers to hold their
wealth in dollars has been evaporating, and citizens around the world - not to
mention their central banks - have been much more comfortable holding assets in
their own domestic currencies, as well as the euro." In the Telegraph, Liam
Halligan says America's reckless money printing could put the world back into
crisis.

HOW MUCH FOR A GALLON OF GAS? Stuart Staniford thinks high energy prices could
mean another recession in the near future. Some rental car companies are
charging those that don't return their cars with a full tank as much as $9.29 a
gallon. In Philly, more people are running out of gas.

SALES ARE UP, STRESS IS DOWN, MISERY IS UP General Motors and Ford sales are up.
Retailers have a strong April. March factory orders climb. ISM's manufacturing
index is better than expected. The Restaurant Performance Index is back to 2007
levels. The Associated Press's monthly analysis of economic stress is at a
three-month low. The service sector weakens a little. ADP reports an increase in
private employment, but overall jobless claims jump to an eight-month high. The
Misery Index under President Obama is at its highest since the early 1980's (but
Michelle Obama is still dancing). Even so, a new Fedex survey says small
businesses are more confident about their long-term success. But a Chamber of
Commerce survey finds that nearly three quarters of American small-business
owners believe that uncertainty in Washington is creating the largest impediment
for growth in their businesses.

FREEBIES RULE Duncan Connor thinks we expect too much for free: "With the
exception of very few things, we expect to be able to have access to the
downloadable fruits of someone else's labor and not have to pay for it." David
Murray explains how he gets a free Apple laptop every year. Bschool.com offers
its 50 best tips for small businesses on Facebook. And here's what to do if
you've stopped getting traffic from Google.

PLACES TO PROSPER Bill Gates advises that new solutions to fight global warming
should be big, not cute. In Australia, local bike paths result in higher house
prices. Small businesses are doing "mighty fine" on Staten Island. A study
suggests that Wal-Mart kills off small businesses. The number of Asian-owned
businesses increases 40 percent. Americans prefer domestic beer. According to
Business Insider, these are the five industries driving American growth.
TripAdvisor's No.1  destination in the United States is ...? Floods in Tennessee
test the resolve of small (and large) business owners. How about a social media
massage? Futurallia will be in Kansas City this year.

FOR THOSE DOING BUSINESS UP NORTH Quiz question of the week: can you name
Canada's prime minister? Me neither.

WAITER, CAN I HAVE SOME MORE FLY IN MY SOUP? Tech Crunch's Michael Arrington
reports that Internet entrepreneurs are likely to peak at age 25: "Why? Because
young entrepreneurs are more creative and imaginative, and are willing to put
100 percent of their lives into their start-ups." Cortera's upgraded app helps
customers identify growth opportunities. Web site Tech Cocktail ranks the top 15
American start-up accelerators and incubators. A six-month old start-up raises
$10 million. A little company has big plans for tiny chip technology. The
University of Chicago awards $10,000 to a start-up that plans to market and
produce insect meat as food. Harvard's new innovation lab has an inaugural
director. Startup 2011 has an "awesome" lineup.

I'M JUST NOT PAYING ENOUGH TAXES The New York Times reports that American
businesses have higher tax rates than businesses in other countries -- but pay
less. Some small-business owners are demanding that the Bush tax cuts be
repealed! A couple of hundred-year-olds decide to file jointly.

IS WARREN BUFFETT AN IDIOT? JP Morgan promotes 132 to managing director. Bank of
America is the most small-business-friendly credit card company in the United
States, according to a recent study. TD Bank opens its arms to small business. A
study by Paynet says that small-business borrowing has cooled. Wait, wait, I
mean it's actually increasing. Through grants, small tech firms put government
tax dollars to work. James Altucher thinks Warren Buffett is the smartest idiot
he knows, but he never bets "against a guy who has consistently made money for
about 60 years in a row and has survived every crisis thrown at him." Stanford
start-up mOasis wins $75,000 for water tech innovation. The fastest-growing
start-up fund firm ever launched has already raised $6 billion.

FEMALE ENTREPRENEURS ARE UP, SERVICE IS DOWN Jim Tompkins, supply chain expert,
says that rising food prices call for a thorough supply chain checkup: "Passing
price hikes on to consumers and shrinking package sizes are limited tactics in
today's marketplace. For long-term success, supply chain strategy is the best
place to look." Jefferson Graham reports that many small businesses are finding
office alternatives: In most U.S. workplaces only 45 percent of the staff come
to the office on any given day, according to a director of workplace strategy
with a design firm, and companies are looking for ways to adapt. Sabrina Parsons
says that women are better than men at entrepreneurship. According to a new
American Express survey, good customer service is still hard to find: "60
percent of Americans believe businesses haven't improved on providing good
customer service, according to the survey, up from 55 percent in 2010. Among
this group, 26 percent think companies are actually paying less attention to
service." Thirty entrepreneurs list their favorite business books.

BEN AND JERRY ARE COVERED Vermont passes universal health care. An Oregon woman
goes in for oral surgery -- and comes out Irish.

PAINFUL EXTRACTIONS Sony apologizes for its recent data breach and gives away
freebies. Craft retailer Michael's warns of a customer data breach. Peter Suciu
warns that Internet criminals are targeting smaller companies: "Attacks against
small business have been on the rise since 2008, and according to a recent
report from KnowBe4, in 2009 cyber criminals extracted nearly $400,000 from a
Florida dentist's account!"

METRICS TO WATCH THIS WEEK Consumer (Friday) and Producer (Thursday) Price
Indexes may show higher inflation. Weekly jobless claims on Thursday. Monthly
budget and trade balances are released Wednesday.

THIS WEEK'S AWARDS

BEST REASON NOT TO TRUST ECONOMISTS John Tamney says  we can't trust 99 percent
of economists: "With its Ph.D.s having been late on, wrong about, or authors of
nearly every unfortunate economic malady to hit the globe in recent years, it's
fair to say that economists rival the only class of people who actually listen
to them anymore -- politicians -- when it comes to public scorn."

COURAGEOUS BLOGGER OF THE WEEK Steve Tobak lists 10 careers that he thinks
benefit nobody. For example, environmentalist: "It's not just global warming --
one of the biggest scams in history. Environmentalists destroy entire ecosystems
to protect one endangered species. Every time they make a move to save one
thing, they destroy far more. They muck with dozens of species to save a tiny
flower or insect and create runaway forest fires that destroy millions of
creatures."

BEST MANAGEMENT ADVICE Pamela Slim offers five steps to break a huge goal into
testable bits. Example No. 3: "Choose a specific small test related to the big
goal, and define the desired outcome. Time and time again, I see new
entrepreneurs get stuck in the planning stage and think things have to be
perfect in order to bring them to market. This will kill both your momentum and
your spirit. To nip this momentum killer in the bud, choose a small thing to do
that will get you moving in the real world."

THIS WEEK'S QUESTION: How do you tackle big problems? I usually take Ms. Slim's
approach.

Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps
clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.


     ·    This Week in Small Business: The Shutdown and the Showdown
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Democrats and Republicans Talk
     ·    This Week in Small Business: We're Watching Japan, Libya and Hugo
          Chavez
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Radiation, Inflation and Regulation
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Start-Ups Surge


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                               May 9, 2011 Monday

Charges Are Resolved in Bieber Mall Stampede Case

BYLINE: DAVE ITZKOFF

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 274 words



HIGHLIGHT: The tale of a 2009 mall appearance by the floppy-haired pop star
Justin Bieber that resulted in minor injuries to five fans is now at an end.


From the department of long national nightmares that are now over: criminal
charges against two key members of Justin Bieber's team, stemming from a 2009
mall appearance by that then-ascendant floppy-hair pop singer that turned
unruly, have been resolved, The Associated Press reported.

Mr. Bieber, now 17, got one of his earliest tastes of national exposure in
November 2009 when some 3,000 people turned out for a public appearance he
planned to make at the Roosevelt Field Mall in Garden City, N.Y. But within that
throng of tween- and teenage girls, excitement turned to screaming, screaming
turned to shoving, and by the time it was over, five fans were sent to a
hospital with minor injuries.

James Roppo, an executive at Island Def Jam Records, Mr. Bieber's record label,
was charged at the time with endangering the welfare of children and obstructing
governmental administration, and Scooter Braun, Mr. Bieber's manager, was
charged in March 2010 reckless endangerment and criminal nuisance because
prosecutors said he was not quick enough in sending out Twitter messages
alerting fans that the event was canceled.

The A.P. reported that prosecutors are dropping charges against both men, and
Mr. Bieber's record label and management have pleaded guilty to fire code
violations. The singer himself has agreed to film a public service announcement
on cyber-bullying before he returns to driving his fans into a frenzy from afar.


     ·    Adele Is No. 1
     ·    Director's Cut of 'Never Say Never' Will 'Get Deeper in the Bieber
          Subculture'
     ·    Mumford & Sons Get Big 'Grammy Lift'
     ·    Pop Quiz: The American Music Awards
     ·    Jack Johnson Takes 'To the Sea' to Top of Charts


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Charges Are Resolved In Bieber Mall Case

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 249 words


From the department of long national nightmares that are now over: criminal
charges against two key members of Justin Bieber's team, stemming from a 2009
mall appearance that turned unruly, have been resolved, The Associated Press
reported.

Mr. Bieber, now 17, got one of his earliest tastes of national exposure in
November 2009 when some 3,000 people turned out for a public appearance the
then-ascendant floppy-hair pop singer planned to make at the Roosevelt Field
Mall in Garden City, N.Y. But within that throng of tween- and teenage girls,
excitement turned to screaming, screaming turned to shoving, and by the time it
was over, five fans were sent to a hospital with minor injuries.

James Roppo, an executive at Island Def Jam Records, Mr. Bieber's record label,
was charged at the time with endangering the welfare of children and obstructing
governmental administration. Scooter Braun, Mr. Bieber's manager, was charged in
March 2010 reckless endangerment and criminal nuisance because prosecutors said
he was not quick enough in sending out Twitter messages alerting fans that the
event was canceled.

The A.P. reported that prosecutors are dropping charges against both men, and
Mr. Bieber's record label and management have pleaded guilty to fire code
violations. Mr. Bieber has agreed to film a public service announcement on cyber
-bullying before he returns to driving his fans into a frenzy from afar.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Schott's Vocab)

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday

Bleep Tweets & Foul Facebook Filter

BYLINE: BEN SCHOTT

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 115 words



HIGHLIGHT: Software that deletes swear words from online posts.


Software that deletes swear words from online posts.

Writing for Gawker, Ryan Tate revealed that it is now possible to filter out the
salty language of one's cyber friends:

Meet "Bleep Tweets" and its cousin the "Foul Facebook Filter," both great if
your social networking has gotten far too exciting.

As blogger Louis Gray puts it, Bleep Tweets turn status updates "from a
potential R-rating to a more serene PG environment." You do have to install
Bleep Tweets in your browser, along with its parent "Kyntex" extension. But then
it runs quickly and transparently; for Gray, it quickly deleted 7,150 swears
from more than 381,000 tweets.


     ·    #Shakespalin
     ·    Edanoru
     ·    Sofalising
     ·    Galapagos
     ·    Cala Boca Galvao


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday

Who Could Become the Data Sheriff?

BYLINE: NICK BILTON

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 644 words



HIGHLIGHT: A number of lawmakers have promised that new federal online privacy
legislation is on the way, but privacy experts believe politics and a lack of
understanding in government will curb new laws.


In an article I wrote for the Week in Review section last Sunday, I noted that
no federal laws existed to punish companies when customers' personal information
and data were stolen in cyber-attacks, or mishandled by companies. And so
punishment in these cases is left up to the states. Yet in many instances, state
officials don't have the resources to tackle this problem, and even acknowledge
that they don't always understand the technical aspects of breaches.

Some government officials, though, are pressing for new federal legislation on
this subject.

Senator Al Franken, the former comedian and a Democrat from Minnesota, is one of
them. As chairman of a new Senate Judiciary subcommittee on privacy and
technology, he held a hearing on Tuesday and questioned Google and Apple
executivesabout storing customers' locations without their knowledge on mobile
devices.

Representatives from Apple and Google defended their data collection practices,
noting that location information was anonymous. But Mr. Franken said the problem
was that "these breaches of privacy can have real consequences for real people."

Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Democrat from Connecticut and the former attorney
general of that state, has also been pressing Congress to adopt new laws that
would hold companies accountable for data breaches. Mr. Blumenthal has publicly
chided Sony for its slow response to a cyber-attack last month that could have
resulted in the theft of private information of 77 million customers.

A House subcommittee has also been holding hearings over the past month to
question Sony as well as Epsilon, an e-mail marketing company that also suffered
a hacking attack resulting in the loss of millions of e-mail addresses.

The Securities and Exchange Commission is  being urged by senators to create new

 rules that would require companies to immediately disclose when they have been
the victim of a cyber-attack, specifically when personal information has been
compromised. To date, some states require that companies notify customers within
seven days of an attack, but these laws are loose and vary per state.

But many privacy experts I spoke with said that privacy legislation had been
presented to Congress in the past, but never seemed to become law. Some argued
that the current discussion in Congress would not result in strict enough rules
anyway.

"The government clearly needs better security and data protection rules," said
Eugene Spafford, a security expert and professor at Purdue University. He
suggested that the Federal Trade Commission should set up data protection
standards and have the ability to discipline companies that did not comply with
those rules.

"The government should be looking at financial institutions who are doing a very
good job protecting information online as these companies have a tradition of
understanding risk," Mr. Spafford suggested.

Ken Johnson, senior adviser and spokesman for Representative Mary Bono Mack, a
California Republican who is chairwoman of a Congressional privacy subcommittee,
said one of the legislative roadblocks in the past had been "jurisdictional
squabbling." Mr. Johnson said the string of data breaches in recent months would
hopefully lead regulators to "put aside political squabbles, and do what's best
for consumers."

One piece of legislation that seems to have bipartisan support was introduced in
April by Senators John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, and John McCain,
Republican of Arizona. The bill, the Commercial Privacy Bill of Rights Act of
2011, would require companies to adopt specific security rules if they decided
to store people's private information.


     ·    New York Attorney General Subpoenas Sony
     ·    Sony Explains PlayStation Attack to Congress
     ·    Sony Finds More Cases of Hacking of Its Servers
     ·    Sony Declines to Testify at Congressional Hearing
     ·    Hackers Claim to Have PlayStation Users' Card Data


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 749 words


11 P.M. (VH1) STORYTELLERS: CEE LO GREEN The Grammy-winning and dazzlingly
costumed Mr. Green (above) performs 10 songs before an audience of 150, and
waxes poetic on some of the events that have inspired his work, in this concert
taped on April 19 in Culver City, Calif. Kicking off the set with ''Crazy,'' Mr.
Green says, ''I started this journey not for glory, not for fame, not for
fortune, but for'' -- big pause -- ''fun!'' From there, he reunites onstage with
his former hip-hop group, Goodie Mob, and announces that it will be recording a
new album. The playlist also includes the chart-topping ''Forget You''; the
premiere of ''She Knows,'' which Mr. Green dedicates to his mother, who died
when he was a teenager; and ''Bright Lights Bigger City,'' for the ''regular
people working for the weekend, living for Friday and Saturday night.''

8 P.M. (Fox Movie Channel) FOX LEGACY WITH TOM ROTHMAN Mr. Rothman, a chairman
of Fox Filmed Entertainment, analyzes the making of ''Butch Cassidy and the
Sundance Kid'' (1969), starring (at left) Robert Redford and Paul Newman as the
legendary outlaws on the lam -- destination: Bolivia -- and Katharine Ross as
the woman involved in their lives. The film will be shown at 8:22.

8 P.M. (Investigation Discovery) CHILDREN OF PROMISE: THE LEGACY OF ROBERT F.
KENNEDY Mandy Patinkin narrates this special, which uses archival film footage,
interviews with members of the Kennedy family and stories of young people whose
lives have been turned around. The focus is on the mission of the Robert F.
Kennedy Children's Action Corps, a Massachusetts-based agency founded in honor
of Kennedy to work with children and parents mired in crime, violence and
neglect.

8 P.M. (Encore) 2012 (2009) Screened just in time for the latest doomsday
predictions (for Saturday) is this movie from the director Roland Emmerich, who
''cracks the planet like a nut, splitting its crust, toppling its mountains and
cities, and laying its every creeping thing to inevitable tedious waste,'' as
Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York Times. Woody Harrelson plays the fellow who
has predicted it all, taking his cue from a Mayan prophecy. The cast is rounded
out by John Cusack as a divorced dad and Amanda Peet as his eye-rolling ex;
Danny Glover as the American president; Chiwetel Ejiofor as a kind of
mad-scientist type; Oliver Platt as a sleazy White House aide; and Thandie
Newton as the president's daughter. ''Mr. Harrelson looks like he's actually
having the kind of good time stupid movies should provide but that this one
roundly fails to deliver,'' Ms. Dargis said. ''Despite the frenetic action
scenes, the movie sags, done in by multiple story lines that undercut one
another and by the heaviness of its conceit.''

8 P.M. (TBS) CONFESSIONS OF A SHOPAHOLIC (2009) An advice columnist (Isla
Fisher) at a financial magazine is, unbeknown to her dishy editor (Hugh Dancy),
drowning in debt -- and about to have her cover blown by a pesky collector
(Robert Stanton). Writing in The Times, Manohla Dargis said the film has
''rather less contempt for its female characters than most recent so-called
chick flicks,'' which is understandable because Ms. Fisher is ''professionally
adorable.''

8:30 P.M. (13) NEED TO KNOW As the White House unveils a new international cyber
-security strategy, the newsmagazine investigates Stuxnet, the computer virus
that some believe could initiate a global arms race. In other segments, Dr.
Emily Senay examines how a warming climate is making allergies worse, affecting
the spread of infectious diseases and inciting killer weather; Alison Stewart
interviews John L. Esposito, a professor of religion and international studies
at Georgetown University, about President Obama's efforts to redefine the
country's policy toward the Middle East and North Africa in light of the Arab
Spring; and John Larson reports on an investigation into what caused the 2010
explosion at the Massey Energy Company's Upper Big Branch Mine in Raleigh
County, W. Va., that killed 29 miners.

9 P.M. (CW) SUPERNATURAL Season 6 ends as the memory-block that separates Sam
(Jared Padalecki) from his darkest recollections dissolves, leaving him to face
the consequences.

9 P.M. (NBC) DATELINE NBC In ''Daughter's Quest'' Chris Hansen explores the
story of Theresa Ramirez, who was 7 at the time of her mother's murder and who,
in her 20s, began working to solve the 18-year-old cold case with the help of a
deputy United States marshal, Aaron Garcia. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 26, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Reassessment, Swiss Drop Plans to Build 3 Reactors

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1028 words


BRUSSELS -- The Swiss government decided Wednesday to abandon plans to build new
nuclear reactors, while European Union regulators agreed on a framework for
stress-testing theirs, as repercussions from the disaster in Japan continue to
ripple across Europe.

The Swiss Energy Minister Doris Leuthard had suspended the approvals process for
three new reactors, pending a safety review, after the accident that struck the
reactors at the Fukushima Daiichi plant in Japan after the earthquake and
tsunami of March 11.

On Wednesday -- days after an anti-nuclear rally in Switzerland drew a large
crowd of 20,000 people -- the Cabinet said it had decided to make the ban
permanent.

The country's five existing reactors -- which supply about 40 percent of the
country's power -- would be allowed to continue operating, but would not be
replaced at the end of their life span, it said. The last would go offline in
2034.

In a statement, the Cabinet said it was responding to the desires of the Swiss
people to reduce risks ''in the face of the severe damage that the earthquake
and tsunami in Fukushima caused.''

However, it said that there was no need to shut down plants ahead of schedule,
insisting that their safe operation was assured.

The lengthy phase-out will also allow time for Switzerland to develop new energy
sources and improve energy efficiency, it said, adding that long-term, nuclear
energy was expected to lose its competitive advantage over renewable sources of
energy because the costs associated with nuclear power, such as for new safety
standards and equipment, are expected to climb.

The nuclear fuel meltdowns in Japan have prompted different reactions in other
parts of Europe. France, which relies on nuclear power for about 80 percent of
its electricity and is a major exporter of nuclear technology, has reaffirmed
its commitment to the technology. Just across the border, however, the German
government reversed a previous decision to extend the life of its nuclear plants
and is working on a plan to accelerate the phase out there.

Meanwhile, national regulators from across the 27-nation European Union are
planning new safety tests for the 143 operating nuclear reactors in their
territories.

On Wednesday, they agreed that the tests would include some man-made disasters
as well as natural ones. But the European Commission said that there would be a
separate process to check whether nuclear operators could adequately thwart acts
of terrorism, because of sharp differences among governments about encroaching
on sensitive areas of defense and security.

The E.U. energy commissioner, Gunther Oettinger, said at a news conference in
Brussels that the tests would be robust.

''The quality and the depth of this stress test is such as to fulfill the
requirements of the European citizen to live in a safe environment,'' Mr.
Oettinger said. ''All of this will be done in as transparent way as possible.''

Greenpeace, an environmental group that opposes nuclear power, strongly
disagreed.

The tests ''won't be independent, won't cover plans for emergencies and won't
always tell us whether some of Europe's most obvious terrorist targets are
protected or not,'' said Jan Haverkamp, a nuclear policy adviser at Greenpeace.

Britain, France and the Czech Republic were among countries that had fought
hardest to water down the tests, Mr. Haverkamp said.

Britain generates only around 18 percent of its electricity from nuclear power
but faces the prospect of a worsening energy shortfall if it is required to shut
its reactors. The Czech Republic still mines uranium for sale to nuclear power
generators.

Still, atomic power remains a hugely sensitive matter after the Ukrainian
nuclear disaster in Chernobyl in 1986 spread fallout across the Continent.

Although the tests remain voluntary, the European Commission recommended that
the 14 member states with reactors producing electricity begin testing for
so-called man-made events by June 1.

Those tests would in some cases be more rigorous than routine safety checks. For
example, power plants built to withstand earthquakes of a magnitude of 6.0 would
be tested for earthquakes of a higher magnitude, although it would be up to the
authorities in each country to define how much tougher to make the criteria.

The tests also would include peer-review teams composed of seven people, drawing
from regulators from all 27 E.U. countries and the European Commission. Those
teams would have leeway to conduct inspections inside nuclear plants.

According to the commission, the key goal of the tests is to prevent the kind of
accident in Europe that struck the reactors at the Fukushima Daiichi plant.

The commission said nuclear operators would need to describe what would happen
if their reactors lost power for ''several days'' and what measures were in
place if primary backup systems powered by batteries also failed.

The tests would include a review of containment systems to ensure they could
withstand an air crash or the explosion of a nearby oil tanker, whether as a
result of an accident or a terror attack. The tests would also seek to ascertain
whether there were adequate systems to put out any resulting fire from
explosions occurring near nuclear power plants.

The E.U. authorities still need to set a schedule for checking whether reactors
could withstand a wider range of terror attacks, possibly including cyber
attacks. Those tests are far more sensitive because governments want to avoid
revealing any vulnerabilities of their reactors.

The commission, the executive arm of the European Union, said that reactors
failing the tests should be shut down and decommissioned if safety upgrades were
too difficult or too expensive. But it acknowledged that it had no authority to
order such shutdowns.

The European Commission said national operators and regulators had agreed to
make their findings public, despite initial concerns in Paris and London that
publishing certain information might encourage attacks. Governments would
present a final report on the tests at the end of year.

Paul Geitner contributed reporting from Paris.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:  A nuclear plant in Leibstadt, Switzerland. The country will
phase out nuclear energy slowly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARND WIEGMANN/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Slap Shot)

                              May 31, 2011 Tuesday

Video Game Decides Canucks Will Win Stanley Cup

BYLINE: JOANNE C. GERSTNER

SECTION: SPORTS; hockey

LENGTH: 235 words



HIGHLIGHT: The EA Sports simulation engine has been on a roll, predicting Boston
would meet Vancouver for the Stanley Cup -- back in October 2010.


Don't mess with the video game simulation, as it appears to know all, at least
when it comes to hockey.

The EA Sports simulations of the 2011 Stanley Cup playoffs have been eerily
correct, nailing the results of 13 of 14 series so far.

And what about the last series, the Stanley Cup final?

The simulator is going with the Vancouver Canucks, in seven games, over the
Boston Bruins. The engine plays the contests out, using its N.H.L. '11 game,
making things as realistic as possible.

If the EA simulation engine is right about the Canucks, it probably deserves its
own little trophy for being quite the forecaster. The 2010-11 season
predictions, released on Oct. 6, 2010, had the EA simulation engine picking the
Canucks to win it all.And to make things more cyber-spooky, the EA engine picked
the Bruins to make the Stanley Cup finals.

The peek into the future promises quite the barn-burner of a Stanley Cup. Two of
the games will go into overtime, with the Bruins winning both.

But the Canucks will take the decisive Game 7, according to the simulation
engine, 3-1 on their home ice in Vancouver. For the record, the EA simulation
engine was right last year too, picking the Chicago Blackhawks to win the
Stanley Cup.


     ·    The Morning Skate: 30 Teams Worth of Questions
     ·    The Morning Skate: Who's Where for 2010-2011
     ·    More Morning Skate: Who's Where for 2009-10?
     ·    The N.H.L. Entry Draft: Round 1 Is Over
     ·    A Nontraditional Bunker


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 1, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pentagon To Consider Cyberattacks Acts of War

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 722 words


WASHINGTON -- The Pentagon, trying to create a formal strategy to deter
cyberattacks on the United States, plans to issue a new strategy soon declaring
that a computer attack from a foreign nation can be considered an act of war
that may result in a military response.

Several administration officials, in comments over the past two years, have
suggested publicly that any American president could consider a variety of
responses -- economic sanctions, retaliatory cyberattacks or a military strike
-- if critical American computer systems were ever attacked.

The new military strategy, which emerged from several years of debate modeled on
the 1950s effort in Washington to come up with a plan for deterring nuclear
attacks, makes explicit that a cyberattack could be considered equivalent to a
more traditional act of war. The Pentagon is declaring that any computer attack
that threatens widespread civilian casualties -- for example, by cutting off
power supplies or bringing down hospitals and emergency-responder networks --
could be treated as an act of aggression.

In response to questions about the policy, first reported Tuesday in The Wall
Street Journal, administration and military officials acknowledged that the new
strategy was so deliberately ambiguous that it was not clear how much deterrent
effect it might have. One administration official described it as ''an element
of a strategy,'' and added, ''It will only work if we have many more credible
elements.''

The policy also says nothing about how the United States might respond to a
cyberattack from a terrorist group or other nonstate actor. Nor does it
establish a threshold for what level of cyberattack merits a military response,
according to a military official.

In May 2009, four months after President Obama took office, the head of the
United States Strategic Command, Gen. Kevin P. Chilton, told reporters that in
the event of a cyberattack ''the law of armed conflict will apply,'' and warned
that ''I don't think you take anything off the table'' in considering a
response. ''Why would we constrain ourselves?'' he asked, according to an
article about his comments that appeared in Stars and Stripes.

During the cold war, deterrence worked because there was little doubt the
Pentagon could quickly determine where an attack was coming from -- and could
counterattack a specific missile site or city. In the case of a cyberattack, the
origin of the attack is almost always unclear, as it was in 2010 when a
sophisticated attack was made on Google and its computer servers. Eventually
Google concluded that the attack came from China. But American officials never
publicly identified the country where it originated, much less whether it was
state sanctioned or the action of a group of hackers.

''One of the questions we have to ask is, How do we know we're at war?'' one
former Pentagon official said. ''How do we know when it's a hacker and when it's
the People's Liberation Army?''

A participant in the debate over the administration's broader cyberstrategy
added, ''Almost everything we learned about deterrence during the nuclear
standoffs with the Soviets in the '60s, '70s and '80s doesn't apply.''

White House officials, responding to the article that appeared in The Journal,
argued that any consideration of using the military to respond to a cyberattack
would constitute a ''last resort,'' after other efforts to deter an attack
failed.

They pointed to a new international cyberstrategy, released by the White House
two weeks ago, that called for international cooperation on halting potential
attacks, improving computer security and, if necessary, neutralizing
cyberattacks in the making. General Chilton and the vice chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, Gen. James E. Cartwright, have long urged that the United
States think broadly about other forms of deterrence, including threatening a
country's economic well-being, or its reputation.

The Pentagon strategy is coming out at a moment when billions of dollars are up
for grabs among federal agencies working on cyber-related issues, including the
National Security Agency, the Central Intelligence Agency and the Department of
Homeland Security. Each has been told by the White House to come up with
approaches that fit the international cyberstrategy that the White House
published in May.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 4, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Won't Become Isolationist, Gates Tells Worried Asian Leaders

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 818 words


SINGAPORE -- Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates pledged Saturday that the United
States would sustain its military presence and diplomatic involvement in Asia,
as he sought to calm regional worries about the potential for a new isolationism
brought on by fiscal difficulties at home.

In a speech before an audience of Asian defense ministers and military
commanders, which included a high-ranking delegation from China, Mr. Gates
declared that Washington would not step back from its responsibilities to defend
allies, counterbalance regional threats and assist in humanitarian disasters.

He acknowledged the grim economic and political realities facing the American
government, saying that ''fighting two protracted and costly wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan has strained the U.S. military's ground forces, and worn out the
patience and appetite of the American public for similar interventions in the
future.''

Even so, he said, ''We recognize that the American defense engagement -- from
our forward deployed forces to exercises with regional partners -- will continue
to play an indispensable role in the stability of the region.''

Even as it sustains overseas military bases and continues exercises with allies,
the Pentagon also has plans for ''establishing a defense posture across the
Asia-Pacific that is more geographically distributed, operationally resilient
and politically sustainable,'' Mr. Gates said.

He stressed the unwavering commitment to allies like Japan and South Korea,
which are closest to the North Korean threat, and he promised that the Defense
Department was enhancing the American presence in Southeast Asia and the Indian
Ocean.

The defense secretary's speech, to the annual Shangri-La Dialogue sponsored by
the International Institute for Strategic Studies, was cast in the expected
diplomatic language and did not specifically cite the risks posed by China's
expanding military capabilities. That was, in part, because of the presence of
China's minister of defense, Gen. Liang Guanglie.

Mr. Gates made certain to strike a conciliatory tone with China, praising
Washington and Beijing for working together ''to build a positive, cooperative
and comprehensive relationship.''

But even as the Pentagon complies with an order by President Obama to cut $400
billion in military spending by 2023, Mr. Gates said that the Defense Department
would find money for ''air superiority and mobility, long-range strike, nuclear
deterrence, maritime access, space and cyber, and intelligence, surveillance and
reconnaissance.''

''Many of those key modernization programs would address one of the principal
security challenges we see growing over the horizon: The prospect that new and
disruptive technologies and weapons could be employed to deny U.S. forces access
to key sea routes and lines of communications,'' he said.

China is the lone Asian power with an extensive program to develop exactly those
kinds of antiaccess weapons.

During a closed-door session late Friday, Mr. Gates and General Liang both cited
the progress in enhancing relations between the two nations' militaries,
according to a senior Defense Department official, who described the
conversation as cordial.

The official said the Chinese delegation had raised the expected complaints
about American arms sales to Taiwan, which Beijing considers a rogue province,
and had objected to missions by American reconnaissance ships and aircraft in
international space off China's coast.

Mr. Gates said in his speech that the Navy and Air Force were preparing over the
coming weeks to release a new ''air-sea battle'' strategy, an effort intended
''to ensure that America's military will continue to be able to deploy, move and
strike over great distances in defense of our allies and vital interests.''

He also said the United States and Australia were discussing increased naval
cooperation, along with the potential for expanded American access to improved
Australian bases within reach of the Indian Ocean.

And the United States and Singapore, he said, were examining programs to store
supplies in Singapore, in particular in response to natural disasters; to expand
the number of American warships making stops here; and to increase joint
training programs.

''In the coming years, the United States military is also going to be increasing
its port calls, naval engagements and multilateral training efforts with
multiple countries throughout the region,'' Mr. Gates said. ''These types of
activities not only broaden and deepen our relationship with friends and allies,
but help build partner capacity to address regional challenges.''

When taken together, Mr. Gates concluded, ''all of these developments
demonstrate the commitment of the United States to sustaining a robust military
presence in Asia -- one that underwrites stability by supporting and reassuring
allies while deterring, and if necessary defeating, potential adversaries.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, left, met his Chinese
counterpart, Gen. Liang Guanglie, right, on Friday in Singapore. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JASON REED/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                             June 8, 2011 Wednesday

Their Warhol Moment

BYLINE: CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 897 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Day: Some of the women who exchanged messages with Representative
Weiner will no doubt be offered their 15 minutes of fame. Also, what City Room
is reading in other papers and blogs.


As the squalid details spill forth about Representative Anthony D. Weiner and
his lustful voyages through cyberspace, we may have reached an Andy Warhol
moment.

Not for Mr. Weiner. He has more than enough to deal with trying to salvage his
political career and, for all anyone knows, perhaps his 11-month-old marriage as
well. The congressman scrambled on Tuesday to control the damage caused by his
recklessness and his many lies, but bumped into Republicans demanding his
resignation and fellow Democrats giving him the coldest shoulder south of the
Arctic.

No, any Warhol moment may belong to women with whom Mr. Weiner exchanged
sexually explicit messages over many months. Some were a couple of decades
younger than he.

But others had been around the block more than a few times, including a
blackjack dealer in Las Vegas and a woman described as a porn star. "Sexually
explicit" doesn't quite capture the raunchiness of cyber-flirtations (pdf) that
were published by the gossip Web site RadarOnline, with no cries from the
congressman's office that these were fakes.

Understandably, and correctly, the fallout has landed fully on Mr. Weiner. But
the online conversations made public thus far leave scant doubt that his
correspondents, in the main, were willing participants in cyber-hookups with a
well-known politician. There may have been no actual sex, but the messages
amounted to a virtual equivalent.

Now, perhaps, comes that moment: the 15 minutes of fame that Andy Warhol said
everyone would have. It is standard in such scandals, and there is no reason to
assume this one should be different.

Don't be surprised if book deals or contracts for so-called reality television
shows are waved before some of the women. This has happened so many times in the
past that one would need a calculator to keep accurate count. Let's mention just
a few examples.

Those of us old enough to remember the first months of the Ford administration
will also recall Fanne Foxe, a k a "The Argentine Firecracker," a stripper in a
Washington night club.

One October night in 1974, she was out on the town with a very powerful and very
married (and very drunk) congressman, Wilbur Mills of Arkansas. When the police
pulled their car over, Ms. Foxe tried to run away, and jumped into the Tidal
Basin. Mr. Mills's political career fell apart soon enough. But Ms. Foxe, newly
dubbed "The Tidal Basin Bombshell," went on to command big fees for her club
performances and to crank out the inevitable book, "The Stripper and the
Congressman."

Fast-forwarding, former President Bill Clinton's sexual preying put a bunch of
women in the spotlight. This is in no way a suggestion that they sought fame on
that order. Nonetheless, Gennifer Flowers - remember her? - got to publish a
memoir. Paula Jones earned needed money by posing nude for Penthouse magazine.
And Monica Lewinsky was paid handsomely for helping with someone else's book
about her fling with the president, though in other respects she has not had an
easy time of it over the years.

More recently, we've had Ashley Dupre, the call girl who was central to the
scandal that sent Gov. Eliot Spitzer packing. She writes a sex column for The
New York Post.

So for the women in Mr. Weiner's cyber-life, there may yet be opportunities.
Anything is possible, even if it may only be a couple of television appearances
or speaking engagements. They just need to keep in mind that 15 minutes go by
awfully fast.

Additional Weiner coverage in The Times includes the columnist Jim Dwyer's
armchair psychoanalysis, the columnist Maureen Dowd's take on  virtual
infidelity, a Room for Debate forum on whether the Democrats can hang on to Mr.
Weiner's Congressional seat (which might be wiped out altogether in
redistricting) and an op-ed column by another guy cursed with the surname
Weiner.

For coverage of non-Weiner news, including cuts to a program that helps rape
victims and a look at the increasingly pushed-back-against proliferation of
tutors for private-school students, see the N.Y./Region section.

Here's what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs this morning.

Friends of Mr. Weiner's wife tell  The Post and The Wall Street Journal that she
is standing by her man. ...

... And a poll of city voters finds that 51 percent say Mr. Weiner should not be
forced to resign. [Political Wire] (A less scientific street poll  by City Room
in Mr. Weiner's district found overwhelming support for him to continue.)

And in non-Weiner news:

Wall Street bankers and traders brace for a round of layoffs. [New York Post]

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is leaning toward endorsing Christine C. Quinn to
succeed him, former Mayor Edward I. Koch tells The Wall Street Journal. [paid
subscription required]

A man was charged with four recent Brooklyn sexual assaults in a case that the
police  may have fumbled in its early days. [New York Post]

Department of Plowshares: a sculpture made from the melted-down remains of 946
guns that were turned in to the authorities. [Daily News]

The Times's publisher has a new apartment. [The Observer]

It's off to Rikers for the gun-hiding rapper Ja Rule. [CNN]


     ·    A Candid, and Prophetic, Interview With Weiner
     ·    Republicans Challenge Democrats on Weiner Donations
     ·    Weiner Was Not the Topic. Really.
     ·    Online Flirtation With Weiner Started With One Word
     ·    Yet Again, a Politician's Instinct Is to Lie


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 9, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Where Growth and Dysfunction Have No Boundaries

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY; Hari Kumar contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; INDIA'S WAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3565 words


GURGAON, India -- In this city that barely existed two decades ago, there are 26
shopping malls, seven golf courses and luxury shops selling Chanel and Louis
Vuitton. Mercedes-Benzes and BMWs shimmer in automobile showrooms. Apartment
towers are sprouting like concrete weeds, and a futuristic commercial hub called
Cyber City houses many of the world's most respected corporations.

Gurgaon, located about 15 miles south of the national capital, New Delhi, would
seem to have everything, except consider what it does not have: a functioning
citywide sewer or drainage system; reliable electricity or water; and public
sidewalks, adequate parking, decent roads or any citywide system of public
transportation. Garbage is still regularly tossed in empty lots by the side of
the road.

With its shiny buildings and galloping economy, Gurgaon is often portrayed as a
symbol of a rising ''new'' India, yet it also represents a riddle at the heart
of India's rapid growth: how can a new city become an international economic
engine without basic public services? How can a huge country flirt with
double-digit growth despite widespread corruption, inefficiency and governmental
dysfunction?

In Gurgaon and elsewhere in India, the answer is that growth usually occurs
despite the government rather than because of it. India and China are often
considered to be the world's rising economic powers, yet if China's growth has
been led by the state, India's growth is often impeded by the state. China's
authoritarian leaders have built world-class infrastructure; India's
infrastructure and bureaucracy are both considered woefully outdated.

Yet over the past decade, India has emerged as one of the world's most important
new engines of growth, despite itself. Even now, with its economy feeling the
pressure from global inflation and higher interest rates, some economists
predict that India will become the world's third largest economy within 15 years
and could much sooner supplant China as the fastest-growing major economy.

Moreover, India's unorthodox path illustrates, on a grand scale, the struggles
of many smaller developing countries to deliver growth despite weak, ineffective
governments. Many have tried to emulate China's top-down economic model, but
most are stuck with the Indian reality. In India, Gurgaon epitomizes that
reality, managing to be both a complete mess and an economic powerhouse, a
microcosm of Indian dynamism and dysfunction.

In Gurgaon, economic growth is often the product of a private sector improvising
to overcome the inadequacies of the government.

To compensate for electricity blackouts, Gurgaon's companies and real estate
developers operate massive diesel generators capable of powering small towns. No
water? Drill private borewells. No public transportation? Companies employ
hundreds of private buses and taxis. Worried about crime? Gurgaon has almost
four times as many private security guards as police officers.

''You could call it the United States of Gurgaon,'' said Sanjay Kaul, an
activist critical of the city's lack of planning who argues that Gurgaon is a
patchwork of private islands more than an interconnected city. ''You are on your
own.''

Gurgaon is an extreme example, but it is not an exception. In Bangalore,
outsourcing companies like Infosys and Wipro transport workers with fleets of
buses and use their own power generators to compensate for the weak local
infrastructure. Many apartment buildings in Mumbai, the nation's financial hub,
rely on private water tankers. And more than half of urban Indian families pay
to send their children to private schools rather than the free government
schools, where teachers often do not show up for work.

With 1.2 billion people, India is the largest democracy in the world, a
laboratory among developing countries for testing how well democracy is able to
accommodate and improve the lives of a huge population. India is richer than
ever before, with rising global influence. Yet its development is divisive at
home. It is experiencing a Gilded Age of nouveau billionaires while it is
cleaved by inequality and plagued in some states by poverty and malnutrition
levels rivaling sub-Saharan Africa.

The volatile contradictions of rapid economic growth ricochet daily through
Indian life. Middle-class rage over mounting corruption is visceral. Frustration
with the government is widespread. Leftists and other critics blame India's
landmark 1991 market reforms for failing to lift the rural poor out of poverty;
business leaders warn that India risks slower growth or even stagnation unless
those economic changes deepen and governing improves.

Today, Gurgaon is one of India's fastest-growing districts, having expanded more
than 70 percent during the past decade to more than 1.5 million people, larger
than most American cities. It accounts for almost half of all revenues for its
state, Haryana, and added 50,000 vehicles to the roads last year alone. Real
estate values have risen sharply in a city that has become a roaring engine of
growth, if also a colossal headache as a place to live and work.

The Birth of a Boom

Before it had malls, a theme park and fancy housing compounds, Gurgaon had blue
cows. Or so Kushal Pal Singh was told during the 1970s when he began describing
his development vision for Gurgaon. It was a farming village whose name, derived
from the Hindu epic the Mahabharata, means ''village of the gurus.'' It also had
wild animals, similar to cows, known for their strangely bluish tint.

''Most people told me I was mad,'' Mr. Singh recalled. ''People said: 'Who is
going to go there? There are blue cows roaming around.' ''

Gurgaon was widely regarded as an economic wasteland. In 1979, the state of
Haryana created Gurgaon by dividing a longstanding political district on the
outskirts of New Delhi. One half would revolve around the city of Faridabad,
which had an active municipal government, direct rail access to the capital,
fertile farmland and a strong industrial base. The other half, Gurgaon, had
rocky soil, no local government, no railway link and almost no industrial base.

As an economic competition, it seemed an unfair fight. And it has been: Gurgaon
has won, easily. Faridabad has struggled to catch India's modernization wave,
while Gurgaon's disadvantages turned out to be advantages, none more important,
initially, than the absence of a districtwide government, which meant less red
tape capable of choking development.

By 1979, Mr. Singh had taken control of his father-in-law's real estate company,
now known as DLF, at a moment when urban development in India was largely
overseen by government agencies. In most states, private developers had little
space to operate, but Haryana was an exception. Slowly, Mr. Singh began
accumulating 3,500 acres in Gurgaon that he divided into plots and began selling
to people unable to afford prices in New Delhi.

Still, growth was slow until after 1991, when the government barely staved off
default on foreign debts and began introducing market economic reforms. Demand
for housing steadily increased, followed by demand for commercial space as
multinational corporations began arriving to take advantage of India's emerging
outsourcing industry.

Outsourcing required workspaces for thousands of white-collar employees. In New
Delhi, rents were exorbitant and space was limited, and Mr. Singh began pitching
Gurgaon as an alternative. It did have advantages: it was close to the New Delhi
airport and a Maruti-Suzuki automobile plant had opened in the 1980s. But
Gurgaon still seemed remote and DLF needed a major company to take a risk to
locate there.

The answer would be General Electric. Mr. Singh had become the company's India
representative after befriending Jack Welch, then the G.E. chairman. When Mr.
Welch decided to outsource some business operations to India, he eventually
opened a G.E. office inside a corporate park in Gurgaon in 1997.

''When G.E. came in,'' Mr. Singh said, ''others followed.''

With other Indian cities also competing for outsourcing business, DLF and other
developers raced to capture the market with a helter-skelter building spree.
Today, Gurgaon has 30 million square feet of commercial space, a tenfold
increase from 2001, even surpassing the total in New Delhi.

''If the buildings were not there,'' Mr. Singh said of multinational companies,
''they would have gone somewhere else.''

Ordinarily, such a wild building boom would have had to hew to a local
government master plan. But Gurgaon did not yet have such a plan, nor did it yet
have a districtwide municipal government. Instead, Gurgaon was mostly under
state control. Developers built the infrastructure inside their projects, while
a state agency, the Haryana Urban Development Authority, or HUDA, was supposed
to build the infrastructure binding together the city.

And that is where the problems arose. HUDA and other state agencies could not
keep up with the pace of construction. The absence of a local government had
helped Gurgaon become a leader of India's growth boom. But that absence had also
created a dysfunctional city. No one was planning at a macro level; every
developer pursued his own agenda as more islands sprouted and state agencies
struggled to keep pace with growth.

''We have to keep up,'' said Nitin Kumar Yadav, the local HUDA administrator.
''That is our pressure.''

Gurgaon had been marketed as Millennium City, yet it had become an unmanageable
city. For companies that had come to India in search of business efficiencies,
the inefficiencies of Gurgaon presented a new challenge they would have to
overcome on their own.

Self-Contained Islands

It is 8 p.m. on a recent Tuesday, time for the shift change at Genpact, a
descendant of G.E. and one of Gurgaon's biggest outsourcing companies. Two long
rows of white sport utility vehicles, vans and cars are waiting in the parking
lot, yellow emergency lights flickering in the early darkness, as employees
trickle out of call centers for their ride home. These contracted vehicles
represent Genpact's private fleet, a necessity given the absence of a public
transportation system in Gurgaon.

From computerized control rooms, Genpact employees manage 350 private drivers,
who travel roughly 60,000 miles every day transporting 10,000 employees.
Employees book daily online reservations and receive e-mail or text message
''tickets'' for their assigned car. In the parking lot, a large L.E.D. screen is
posted with rolling lists of cars and their assigned passengers.

And the cars are only the beginning. Faced with regular power failures, Genpact
has backup diesel generators capable of producing enough electricity to run the
complex for five days (or enough electricity for about 2,000 Indian homes). It
has a sewage treatment plant and a post office, which uses only private
couriers, since the local postal service is understaffed and unreliable. It has
a medical clinic, with a private ambulance, and more than 200 private security
guards and five vehicles patrolling the region. It has A.T.M.'s, a cellphone
kiosk, a cafeteria and a gym.

''It is a fully finished small city,'' said Naveen Puri, a Genpact
administrator.

Actually, it is a private island, one of many inside Gurgaon. The city's
residential compounds, especially the luxury developments along golf courses,
exist as similarly self-contained entities. Nearly every major outsourcing
company in the city depends on private infrastructure, as do the commercial
towers filled with other companies.

''We pretty much carry the entire weight of what you would expect many states to
do,'' said Pramod Bhasin, who this spring stepped down as Genpact's chief
executive. ''The problem -- a very big problem -- is our public services are
always lagging a few years behind, but sometimes a decade behind. Our planning
processes sometimes exist only on paper.''

For many years, even Gurgaon's commercial centerpiece, Cyber City, was off the
public grid. ''They were not connected to any city service,'' said Jyoti Sagar,
a lawyer and civic activist. ''They were like a spaceship. You had these shiny
buildings, and underneath you had a huge pit where everybody's waste was
going.''

Not all of the city's islands are affluent, either. Gurgaon has an estimated
200,000 migrant workers, the so-called floating population, who work on
construction sites or as domestic help. Sheikh Hafizuddin, 38, lives in a slum
with a few hundred other migrants less than two miles from Cyber City. No more
than half the children in the slum attend school, with the rest spending their
days playing on the hard-packed dirt of the settlement, where pigs wallow in an
open pit of sewage and garbage. Mr. Hafizuddin pays $30 a month for a tiny room.
His landlord runs a power line into the slum for electricity and draws water
from a borehole on the property.

''Sometimes it works,'' Mr. Hafizuddin said. ''Sometimes it doesn't work.''

Even at the fringes of Gurgaon's affluent areas, large pools of black sewage
water are easy to spot. The water supply is vastly inadequate, leaving private
companies, developers and residents dependent on borewells that are draining the
underground aquifer. Local activists say the water table is falling as much as
10 feet every year.

Meanwhile, with Gurgaon's understaffed police force outmatched by such a rapidly
growing population, some law-and-order responsibilities have been delegated to
the private sector. Nearly 12,000 private security guards work in Gurgaon, and
many are pressed into directing traffic on major streets.

When an outsourcing employee was sexually assaulted after being dropped near her
home in New Delhi, politicians placed the onus on the companies, even though the
attack occurred on a New Delhi street. Outsourcing companies now must install
GPS devices inside every private car and hire more security guards to escort
female employees to their home at night.

The politicians ''are basically telling me that the Delhi roads are my
responsibility, which is not the case,'' said Vidya Srinivasan, who oversees
logistics for Genpact.

Yet outsourcing is thriving in Gurgaon, anyway. Last year, a leading Indian
industrial association determined that outsourcing was directly and indirectly
responsible for about 500,000 jobs in Gurgaon. Companies still gravitate to
Gurgaon because the city's commercial space is more modern, more abundant and
far cheaper than that in New Delhi, while Gurgaon is also a magnet for India's
best-educated, English-speaking young professionals, the essential raw material
in the outsourcing business. And there is the benefit of a concentration of
expertise: in the past decade, Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, Motorola, Ericsson, Nestle
India and other foreign and Indian companies have opened offices in Gurgaon.

Still, Ms. Srinivasan said, the lack of government support is frustrating. She
recently returned from a new Genpact operation in the port city of Dalian,
China. There, she said, local officials ''are doing everything to keep companies
like ours.'' Asked if the government in Gurgaon was equally responsive, she
shook her head.

''In India, it is not because of the government,'' she said, explaining how
things get done. ''It is in spite of the government.''

Playing Catch-Up

Sudhir Rajpal, the wiry, mustachioed commissioner of the new Municipal
Corporation of Gurgaon, has a long to-do list: fix the roads, the sewers, the
electrical grid, the drainage, the lack of public buses, the lack of water and
the lack of planning. The Municipal Corporation was formed in 2008, and Mr.
Rajpal, having assumed the city's top administrative position a few months ago,
has been conducting a listening tour to convince people that government can
solve their problems.

It is not an easy sell.

One recent morning, his audience was a few dozen farmers in Badshahpur, one of
the villages absorbed into the sprawling new territory of the Municipal
Corporation. Most are actually former farmers, having sold their land to the
developers constructing the office parks and apartment towers now ringing the
village. Many of them had bought new cars or new plots of land or invested in
the new developments. They were now richer. Their frustration was their village.
It was becoming an urban slum.

''The drains are broken and accidents are happening,'' shouted one man. ''Yet no
one is answerable! There are problems and problems. Whatever water we get is
dirty, but we have nowhere to complain.''

When India's public and private sectors are compared, the contrast is usually
stark: the private sector is praised for its efficiency, linear command
structure and task-oriented ethos; the public sector is condemned for its
opacity, lack of accountability and the fact that often no single agency seems
in charge. Even as many Gurgaon residents hope that the Municipal Corporation
can improve services, others worry that its authority is too limited, given that
state agencies will maintain authority over licenses and infrastructure.

In Haryana, developers make campaign donations to politicians and exercise
enormous power. Critics say graft and corruption are widespread. Many developers
have disregarded promises to construct parks and other amenities. Meanwhile,
state agencies like HUDA operate with little accountability. Civic leaders say
more than $2 billion in infrastructure fees collected from Gurgaon have gone
into HUDA's general budget without any benefit to the city.

''They used that money somewhere else,'' said Sanjeev Ahuja, a veteran
journalist in Gurgaon. ''The government thinks the private sector will take care
of the city: 'People are rich. If they need water, they can buy water.' ''

Some people hope Gurgaon's new municipal council, which was elected on May 13 to
oversee the Municipal Corporation, will create a political voice for the city
capable of forcing action. Eventually, the Municipal Corporation is expected to
assume responsibility for providing services in all of Gurgaon, yet some
residents are leery of the change.

Santosh Khosla, an information technology consultant whose family moved to
Gurgaon in 1993, has services provided by his developer, DLF. He said DLF had
broken numerous promises and did only an adequate job of delivering water and
power. Still, adequate is tolerable.

''I'm certain that if it goes to the government,'' he said, ''it will be
worse.''

Citizens Speak Up

Col. Ratan Singh, his military beret placed neatly atop his head, has arrived at
a busy intersection in the midday sun for what he calls ''an agitation.'' He is
82, an Indian Army veteran who has decided that private citizens need to incite
a little conflict in Gurgaon. Demonstrations are common in Gurgaon, and he is
leading a protest against shoddy work by a contractor.

''Every day some agitation is taking place,'' he said, shouting above the din of
traffic. ''People are not satisfied.''

If people should be satisfied anywhere in India, Gurgaon should be the place.
Average incomes rank among the highest in the country. Property values have
jumped sharply since the 1990s. Gurgaon's malls offer many of the country's best
shops and restaurants, while the city's most exclusive housing enclaves are
among the finest in India.

Yet the economic power that growth has delivered to Gurgaon has not been matched
by political power. The celebrated middle class created by India's boom has far
less clout at the ballot box than the hundreds of millions of rural peasants
struggling to live on $2 a day, given the far larger rural vote, and thus are
courted far less by Indian politicians. This has made it harder to accrue the
political power needed to correct Gurgaon's problems. When middle-class civic
groups in Gurgaon pushed state leaders to create a single government authority
overseeing the city, they were flicked away.

Faced with so many urban headaches, though, civic activists like Colonel Singh
are pushing the government for change, or simply making change on their own.
Colonel Singh leads an umbrella group of residents' associations that have
started volunteer vigilance groups as watchdogs against crime.

Another civic activist, Latika Thukral, a former Citigroup employee, is involved
in creating a biodiversity park. Ms. Thukral led efforts to clean up an illegal
garbage dump and is organizing a campaign to plant a million trees this summer.

''If people like us don't stand up for our rights, our country will not
change,'' she said. ''The tipping point has come in India.''

Across India, Gurgaon is both a model and a cautionary tale. Other cities want
to emulate Gurgaon's growth and dynamism but avoid the dysfunction and lack of
planning. Meanwhile, Gurgaon is trying to address its infrastructure woes; last
year, the city was connected to the New Delhi rapid transit system, while a
public-private project is under way to construct a link to Cyber City. Yet the
state and local governments are still struggling to keep up, especially since
Gurgaon is already building a industrial district and planning to create more
commercial space.

''If Gurgaon had not happened, the rest of India's development would not have
happened, either,'' contended Mr. Singh, the chairman of DLF. ''Gurgaon became a
pacesetter.''

India's Way: This is the first article in a series about the messy and maddening
road to progress in India, which has built one of the world's fastest-growing
economies in spite of a government that often fails to keep up.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: UNORTHODOX ENGINE: Gurgaon is part of the ''new'' India, but
its vibrant private sector struggles with a lack of public services. (A1)
A PRIVATE FLEET: Employees at Genpact in Gurgaon, India, are assigned to company
vehicles for a ride home after their shift, a necessity given the lack of a
public transportation system in the city. (A12)
A PUBLIC MUDDLE: Traffic jams are common in Gurgaon, which has grown rapidly and
without much planning. One critic called it a patchwork of private islands
rather than an interconnected city.
CIVIC ANGER: At a recent meeting, residents of Badshahpur, in the Gurgaon area,
complained about the lack of services. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A13) CHARTS: The Paths of Two Giants: India's economic boom began in
1991, when the government began dismantling socialist-era restraints. Since
then, the country's growth rates have been somewhat similar to that those in
China after 1978, when China opened itself to capitalism. But one of the
challenges India faces in continuing to grow rapidly is the quality of its
infrastructure, including power and roads. (Sources: World Bank
Gapminder (G.D.P. per capita, using data from Angus Maddison and the
International Monetary Fund)) (A12)
MAPS: In the past decade, Gurgaon has been one of India's fastest-growing
districts.(Sources: Developed areas based on analysis of satellite imagery by
GeoEye
 CloudMade (roads)) (A13)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             June 9, 2011 Thursday

Live Blog: The Panetta Confirmation Hearing

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2638 words



HIGHLIGHT: Leon E. Panetta, the director of the C.I.A. -- and President Obama's
choice to lead the Department of Defense -- appears on Capitol Hill today for
his confirmation hearing.


Leon E. Panetta, the director of the C.I.A. -- and President Obama's choice to
lead the Department of Defense -- appears on Capitol Hill Thursday for his
confirmation hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee. A master of
Congressional relationships and all but a lock for confirmation, Mr. Panetta
will still face some tough questions about administration policy in Afghanistan
and Iraq, spending plans for the Pentagon and the fighting in the Middle East
and North Africa, especially in Libya.

The hearings to replace Robert M. Gates, the current defense secretary, start at
9:30 a.m. on Thursday and we will offer updates throughout the morning. So stay
tuned here to The Caucus.

12:57 P.M. | What About Iraq? A Request for a Longer Presence

What about Iraq?

There has been a lot of discussion of Afghanistan today. But Senator Jeanne
Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire, asked about the proposed end of the American
mission in Iraq, due to end at the end of this year.

Mr. Panetta noted that the American mission is "on track" to end, but he seemed
to go out of his way to suggest that might not be the end of it.

"It's clear to me that Iraq is considering the possibility of making a request
for some kind of a presence there" beyond the end of 2011, Mr. Panetta said. "I
have every confidence that a request like that is something that will, i think,
be forthcoming at some point."

12:47 P.M. | Boots on the Ground in Libya?

Senator Jim Webb, Democrat of Virginia, made sure he put the question clearly to
Mr. Panetta: Will the United States be putting any ground forces into Libya at
any time.

Mr. Panetta was pretty clear in response: "As far as I know, no one is
discussing any boots on the ground - At any time."

12:34 P.M. | What About Libya?

One exchange that I missed from earlier:

Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, looked over the horizon to a day
when the NATO air campaign against the regime in Libya drives Colonel Muammar
Qaddafi from power. "We do not have a plan in place after we have deposed a
tyrant and chaos and violence ensue," she said.

Mr. Panetta said that Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has been working with
the Europeans and they in turn with the opposition "so that if they do in fact
have to take control of the country that they have that capability."

He called it a "legitimate concern" and said there is "a lot more work to do" to
provide for a stable country once the military objective is achieved.

12:34 P.M. | From One Former Budget Director to Another

What does one former budget director ask another former budget director? Why,
about the budget, what else?

Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, told Mr. Panetta he is very concerned
about cost overruns in the large Pentagon projects.

"This would be one of my major concerns," he said.

Mr. Panetta responded that "a lot of bad habits" had developed at the Pentagon.

"I think what we have got to do is make clear that those who are involved ...
that they have got a responsibility here to work with us, to develop better
competition."

He added: "The work that they are doing is not just money in their pocket. The
work they are doing is important to national security."

"I know that this is tough," he added. "But I'm absolutely convinced that
there's got to be a way to achieve greater cost savings."

12:27 P.M. | Smoking in the Military?

An interesting question from Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of
Connecticut: "What about smoking in the military?"

This might be one that soldiers and other members of the military are interested
in. Mr. Blumenthal said the effects of smoking cost the military $5 billion a
year or more.

But Mr. Panetta was careful not to even suggest that he might support taking
away cigarettes from the nation's fighters. Instead, he focused on the question
of reducing health care costs.

"One of the areas i have to focus on is the health costs that are impacting
here," he said. "The area that you've just defined is one area that we do have
to pay attention to."

12:21 P.M. | Spoke Too Soon. Hearing Resuming Again

Oops. I spoke too soon. The hearing has resumed. Stay tuned for a few more
updates as they wind down toward the lunch break.

12:17 P.M. | Hearing is Over Now

The hearing has broken up for the morning. Thanks for following along with The
Caucus. Keep coming back to the Times Web site for more updates on the hearing
and Mr. Panetta's confirmation process.

11:58 A.M. | Another Peace Dividend? Not in 2012

The first tough-ish question comes from Senator John Cornyn, Republican of
Texas. He noted that Mr. Panetta was budget director for President Clinton in
1994, when there were deep defense cuts.

"Explain your role in those cuts, and whether you think they were deeper than
they should have been," Mr. Cornyn asked. "I hope we don't try to cash the peace
dividend in 2012 while we are engaged in two wars."

Mr. Panetta said that his role as budget director was to provide to the Defense
Department how much money they needed to cut.

"Looking at it in hindsight, it might not have been the best way to achieve
those savings, but it was a decision that was made at the Defense Department,"
Mr. Panetta said.

He also noted, in a side comment, that it was those reductions, along with other
actions, that helped the Clinton administration reach a balanced budget.

11:52 A.M. | Pop Quizzes in Panetta's Future, McCaskill Says

Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, promised Mr. Panetta that she
would provide him some "pop quizzes" if he is  confirmed.

On what subject?

The actions of the Wartime Contracting Commission, a panel that Ms. McCaskill
helped create to keep watch on the Pentagon's spending practices.

"If I'm confirmed, I really do want to work with you closely with regard to the
contracting issues," Mr. Panetta said.

No quiz questions at Thursday's hearing though.

11:44 A.M. | Graham: "I Can't Wait to Vote for You."

There's no one who makes questioning more entertaining than Senator Lindsey
Graham, Republican of South Carolina. And this hearing is no exception.

"The president has put together an A+ national security team, and you are part
of that," Mr. Graham started. "Now some hard questions."

That made Mr. Panetta, and the rest of the room, chuckle. And in truth, Mr.
Graham's questions were not that tough.

"What happens if we lose in Afghanistan?" he asked.

"We not only create another safe haven for Al Qaeda and their militant allies,
but the world becomes a much more threatened place because of that loss,
particularly in that region," Mr. Panetta said.

Mr. Graham then asked what he says to a South Carolina family who has a son or
daughter in Afghanistan who was killed or injured by an explosive device made in
Pakistan.

"I think that is one of those situations that is frustrating and angering, one
where I think we have got to say to that family that we are not just walking
away from that responsibility but we are continuing to put pressure on those
countries," Mr. Panetta said.

Mr. Graham agreed, and quipped, "Pakistan needs to get with the program."

Mr. Graham then asked what happens if the leader in Libya, Muammer el-Qaddafi,
stays in power after the United States has said he has to go.

"I think it sends a terrible signal to these other countries," Mr. Panetta
responded. "I think it tells them that our word isn't worth very much if we're
not willing to stick with it.

Mr. Graham liked that answer: "I couldn't agree with you more. I can't wait to
vote for you."

So much for the tough questions.

11:29 A.M. | Criteria for Measuring Progress in Afghanistan?

Interesting question from Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska: How do we measure
success in Afghanistan "so that we are not in a gray area always about whether
we are winning or losing or making progress?"

Mr. Panetta offered several criteria: 1. Levels of violence. 2. District
assessments. 3. Evaluation of the development of the Afghan Army, police
operation. 4. Governance responsibilities.

"Those are all key areas that I think need to be evaluated," Mr. Panetta said.

11:19 A.M. | A Budget Question: $400 Billion in Cuts?

Here's a budget question, from Senator Kelly Ayote, Republican of New Hampshire:
Do you agree with the proposed $400 billion cuts to the Defense Department over
the next 10 years?

"I agree with the commitment of the president to try to take action to reduce
the deficit," Mr. Panetta said. But, he added, "I do want to say there is a
comprehensive review that is going on ... that comprehensive review is looking
at a number of issues."

He continued, "If there was something that indicated from the comprehensive
review that our military would be adversely impacted, I would share it with the
president."

11:15 A.M. | Not All Hearings Are So Easy. Remember John Tower?

Lot's of praise from both sides of the aisle for Mr. Panetta, whose long service
in government and on Capitol Hill has made him plenty of friends. (And the
successful raid that killed Osama bin Laden recently didn't hurt, either.)

But it's interesting to remember that not all nominations go as smoothly. This
reporter remembers the first confirmation hearing he ever attended - Senator
John Tower's nomination to be secretary of defense in 1989. That confirmation
became extremely contentious, lasted five weeks and ended with Mr. Tower being
defeated in the committee.

Here's a link to the Times story about that vote in February of 1989.

What a difference.

11:08 A.M. | What's the Afghanistan Mission?

Interesting question from one of the newest senators, Scott Brown, Republican of
Massachusetts: "What is the mission in Afghanistan?"

The answer: "The fundamental mission in Afghanistan is to provide sufficient
stability so that country never again becomes a haven for Al Qaeda."

It's obviously more complicated than that, he said, listing efforts to weaken
the Taliban, build up the country's own force structure, and develop "the
governance system." But at the end of the day, he said, that's the answer.

11:00 A.M. | The Next Pearl Harbor? Cyber Attacks

Mr. Panetta was just asked about cyber warfare. His answer was interesting.

"The next Pearl Harbor that we face could well be a cyber attack,"  Mr. Panetta
said. "This is a real possibility in today's world."

Mr. Panetta cited concerns about electronic attacks on the nation's electrical
grid, the infrastructure and the communications networks.

"It's going to take both defensive measures as well as aggressive measures to
deal with it," he said.

10:58 A.M. | Afghanistan Needs Include the Non-Military

Lawmakers are asking Mr. Panetta about the report released this week that
suggests that nonmilitary efforts in Afghanistan are struggling.

"I know that the Department of Defense is our primary military weapon in terms
of securing areas," Mr. Panetta said in response to a question by Senator Jack
Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island. "But if we don't follow it up with these other
important assets, we will never be able to secure these countries."

10:47 A.M. | A Conditions-Based Withdrawal

Another question on the Afghanistan withdrawal, this time from Senator Saxby
Chambliss, Republican of Georgia. Mr. Chambliss said he thought a withdrawal "at
this time makes no sense. It may make sense from a domestic political
perspective." He added, "I am concerned that a significant withdrawal of U.S.
forces will reverse the progress that we have made."

Mr. Chambliss asked if Mr. Panetta would recommend to the president to halt a
withdrawal if it looked like the progress was being reversed.

"This has to be a conditions based withdrawal," Mr. Panetta responded. If it
looked like a withdrawal was hurting the mission, he said, "obviously the
president and the secretary would have to make a judgement."

10:33 A.M. | A Non-Answer on Afghanistan Withdrawal

Mr. Panetta had an interesting exchange with Mr. McCain over the issue of the
Afghanistan withdrawal. Mr. McCain asked whether he agreed with Mr. Gates that a
withdrawal this summer should be "modest." The answer appeared not to satisfy.

"I agree that they should be conditions based," Mr. Panetta said, adding that he
would leave it to Mr. Gates and the president to decide.

You're going to be defense secretary, Mr. McCain said.

"If I'm confirmed, I'll have to obviously arrive at a decision myself," Mr.
Panetta said. "I'm not in that position now. Obviously, i have tremendous
admiration for Secretary Gates. But with regards to specific numbers..."

A miffed Mr. McCain cut him off: "I wasn't asking for specific numbers."

Look for similar exchanges throughout the morning as lawmakers seek to pin Mr.
Panetta down on the size of any withdrawal this summer. And look for Mr. Panetta
to keep dodging the question as Mr. Obama and his advisers meet privately in the
coming weeks to determine the answer to that question.

10:19 A.M. | Pakistan Relationship "Complicated and Frustrating"

Prompted by a question from Mr. Levin, Mr. Panetta calls the United States's
relationship with Pakistan "one of the most critical and yet one of the most
complicated and frustrating relationships that we have."

But he adds: "We have to maintain the relationship."

10:08 A.M. | Praise for the Man Not in the Room: Robert Gates

Mr. Panetta is giving his opening statement. First up: hailing his soon-to-be
predecessor, Robert M. Gates.

Mr. Panetta said that "I, too, believe that he will be remembered as one of the
greatest secretaries  of defense in our nation's history."

Mr. Gates may not be in the room, but his presence is certainly felt. Already,
he has been called "an outstanding" secretary of defense by Ms. Feinstein and
was described by Mr. McCain as "the finest, most effective, most impactful
secretary of defense" in the nation's history.

Expect more praise for Mr. Gates as the hearing continues.

9:56 A.M. | Introductions from California's Senators

Mr. Panetta is being introduced by Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the
chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, and Senator Barbara Boxer of
California. Both have known Mr. Panetta, a former lawmaker from California.

9:52 A.M. | McCain Opening Statement

Senator John McCain of Arizona has offered his initial thoughts as the most
senior Republican on the committee.

He warned against cutting so deeply into the Pentagon's budget that the
government creates a "hollow" armed forces. But at the same time, Mr. McCain, a
veteran lawmaker who is known for opposition to earmarks, said "it will be
important to eliminate weapons programs that are over cost and behind schedule.
We must continue to eliminate every dollar of wasteful spending."

Mr. McCain is generally a hawk when it comes to the use of the military abroad,
and he made it clear in his opening statement that he wants some troops to
remain in Iraq past this summer, and that he wants a scheduled drawdown in
Afghanistan to be small.

"I would agree with Secretary Gates that any drawdown should be modest," Mr.
McCain said.

9:42 A.M. | A Warm Welcome

A friendly welcome for Mr. Panetta from Senator Carl Levin, the chairman of the
Armed Services Committee. But also indications that Democrats will have some
tough questions about the future in Afghanistan as well as inquiries about how
Mr. Panetta will deal with efforts to cut the Pentagon budget.

9:34 A.M. | The Hearing Has Begun

Welcome to the live blog everyone.

The confirmation hearing has just started. Mr. Panetta is in the hearing room in
the Dirksen Senate Office Building. As the hearing began, a few protesters held
pink signs saying "No More War," an indication of one of the biggest questions
that Mr. Panetta will face on Thursday - how fast the United States will
withdraw from Afghanistan.


     ·    The Problem With Obama's Re-Election Pitch
     ·    Bringing Petraeus to C.I.A. Offers Benefits for Obama
     ·    Republicans Bet Public Will Reward Them for Proposing Cuts
     ·    Shutdown Watch: Four Days Out
     ·    The Case for Obama Campaigning as a Foreign Policy President


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 12, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Your Own Facts

BYLINE: By EVGENY MOROZOV.

Evgeny Morozov's most recent book is ''The Net Delusion: The Dark Side of
Internet Freedom.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1386 words


THE FILTER BUBBLE

What the Internet Is Hiding From You

By Eli Pariser

294 pp. The Penguin Press. $25.95.

''Just Google it!'' has become a common cyber-snobbish response to questions
that seem too trivial to merit a human conversation. But is it really an answer?
Now that more and more Internet sites are tailoring their services to the
idiosyncrasies of individual users, queries for ''climate change,'' ''stem
cells'' and even ''pizza'' may yield different outcomes for different people.
This may be an era when we are increasingly entitled to our own facts -- but
should we also be entitled to our own search results?

Google looks to your previous queries (and the clicks that follow) and refines
its search results accordingly. If you click on gossip blogs like Gawker rather
than Netflix after searching for the names of movie stars, links to Gawker may
feature more prominently. Likewise, if you have hundreds of Facebook friends,
you see relevant updates only from the closest of them; Facebook relies on your
earlier interactions to predict what, and who, is most likely to interest you.
Thus, if you're a conservative who clicks on links only from other
conservatives, you may never see updates from your liberal acquaintances, even
if you do ''friend'' them.

Such selectivity may eventually trap us inside our own ''information cocoons,''
as the legal scholar Cass Sunstein put it in his 2001 book ''Republic.com.'' He
posited that this could be one of the Internet's most pernicious effects on the
public sphere. ''The Filter Bubble,'' Eli Pariser's important new inquiry into
the dangers of excessive personalization, advances a similar argument. But while
Sunstein worried that citizens would deliberately use technology to
over-customize what they read, Pariser, the board president of the political
advocacy group MoveOn.org, worries that technology companies are already
silently doing this for us. As a result, he writes, ''personalization filters
serve up a kind of invisible autopropaganda, indoctrinating us with our own
ideas, amplifying our desire for things that are familiar and leaving us
oblivious to the dangers lurking in the dark territory of the unknown.''

Pariser wants companies to become more transparent about their filtering
practices and to introduce more diversity into their search results and
recommendations. (If Amazon thinks you're a reader of crime novels, he wants it
to more actively recommend choices from other genres.) Governments, he writes,
ought to regulate the new information intermediaries proactively and ensure that
people have full control over their data. And citizens, he argues in a somewhat
romantic vein, should not be content as mere passive recipients of tweets, pokes
and bytes; they should aspire to become what some Internet scholars call
''information flaneurs,'' treading the unbeaten paths in cyberspace and defying
the narrow categories stealthily assigned to them by Web services.

Personalization is a cause for concern. For one, it is possible only because Web
sites can gather huge amounts of information about their users, creating a Big
Brother-like infrastructure for surveillance -- a privacy nightmare. In
authoritarian states, personalization may also increase censorship: the
algorithms that determine what ads to show you might also guess what news not to
show you.

While Pariser does discuss the privacy dimensions of personalization, he is most
concerned with its political and social implications, and particularly with what
he believes to be its high toll on serendipitous discovery. Alas, he does not
always treat this issue with the nuance it deserves. For all their sins, Google
and Facebook do allow users to turn off most of their filters and return to the
unpersonalized Web in a matter of seconds, something ''The Filter Bubble''
inexplicably doesn't mention. Forcing Google to be more open about its
algorithms -- one of Pariser's suggestions -- may also hurt innovation in
search; the company may be right to treat its algorithms as a trade secret.
Scholars have been debating this issue, as well as the political ramifications
of search engine bias, for more than a decade. Unfortunately, Pariser glosses
over most of the relevant arguments from cyberlaw, information science and
economics, relying on entertaining anecdotes from popular psychology instead.

Nor is it clear whether personalization will replace the unfiltered Web, or
simply augment it. Will it be offset by innovations that facilitate exposure to
unsought information? The advent of e-readers, for instance, has allowed people
once again to experience the ''completeness'' of the full editions of newspapers
and magazines, something that had been difficult to replicate in the realm of
digital content. Personalization may also protect the ecology of cyberspace:
when search results are tailored, the incentives to game the system and invest
in practices like ''search engine optimization'' to push one's products and
ideas to the top of the universal ranking become weaker. To truly understand
whether personalization is a threat or a blessing, we need a more holistic and
dynamic account of the online landscape, something Pariser does not provide.

Most important, personalization's effects on serendipity are far more ambiguous
than ''The Filter Bubble'' suggests. Lacking a stable working definition of
serendipity, Pariser sometimes equates it with randomness, sometimes with
unexpected exposure to new ideas. But serendipity is a subjective concept that
cannot be understood in isolation from the searcher's own quirkiness and
previous search history. By knowing which Web sites you like to visit and
bookmark, a search engine might immediately point you to useful links that could
otherwise get lost on Page 99 of unpersonalized search results. (In a 2009 study
of search habits that tested this proposition, researchers for Microsoft found
that ''rather than harming serendipity, personalization appears to identify
interesting results in addition to relevant ones.'') Building on Louis Pasteur's
observation that ''chance favors the prepared mind,'' one could see how
personalization might augment serendipity by helping us maximize our own
preparedness.

The book's most provocative implications stem from Pariser's utopian belief that
Internet companies could, and should, be more than just information utilities
facilitating search, communication and shopping. What if one day Google could
urge us to stop obsessing over Lady Gaga's videos and instead pay attention to
Darfur? On closer examination, however, Pariser's true concerns seem to be less
about the sheer diversity of our information flows and more about the future of
our political and cultural literacy. The absence of Lady Gaga links in
Darfur-related searches does not seem to bother him as much as the opposite
situation. But how can companies infer and promote such a pecking order of
significance? Do we even want Google, Facebook and Amazon (or rather their
algorithms) to direct us to pages they ''think'' we should visit to grow
spiritually or intellectually?

Unlike such human filters as critics and editors, algorithms do not ''think'' --
they compute. And while computing the ''is'' (i.e., relevance) is something they
can accomplish, computing the ''ought'' (i.e., our information duties as
citizens) is a much more contentious and value-laden process that is also made
impossible by the limitations of artificial intelligence. This is not to deny
that Silicon Valley engineers, as Pariser argues, have responsibilities that
extend far beyond their job descriptions. But their modest quests to improve
relevance, alleviate information overload and suggest books that may interest us
-- rather than to engage in algorithmic paternalism and assume a more critical
social role -- may be the lesser of two evils.

Although Pariser's conclusions and prescriptions are not wholly convincing, he
is to be commended for reinvigorating the conversation about the dangers of
online personalization. And ''The Filter Bubble'' deserves praise for drawing
attention to the growing power of information intermediaries whose rules,
protocols, filters and motivations are not always visible. But whether we should
demand more substantial civic commitments from these intermediaries is to be
debated.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ED NACIONAL)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                              June 13, 2011 Monday

Hackers Claim to Breach Senate's Web Site

BYLINE: NICK BILTON

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 439 words



HIGHLIGHT: Lulz Security, a group of hackers responsible for a wave of attacks
online, claimed Monday to have breached Bethesda Software, a video game company,
and the Web site of the United States Senate.


Presenting our Bethesda & Senate.gov double surprise release:
http://t.co/9GsZRA0 May the lulz flow through you!Mon Jun 13 19:19:35  via
webThe Lulz BoatLulzSec

5:31 p.m. | Updated Adding comment from the United States Senate; updated
response from the F.B.I.; corrected spelling of Bethesda Softworks.

Lulz Security, a group of hackers who have claimed responsibility for a number
of recent online data breaches, claimed two more victims on Monday, including
Bethesda Softworks, a video game company, and the Web site of the United States
Senate.

The hackers claim that they breached Bethesda Softworks' servers over two months
ago, but just released server data Monday. The group also said it has over
200,000 gamer usernames and passwords that it took from the site. The group said
it has not yet decided whether it will release this information to the public.

Bethesda Softworks did not respond to a request for comment about the data
breach.

Lulz Security also said on Twitter that it had successfully attacked the United
States Senate Web site.

In a release issued on the hacker's Web site, the group said they were releasing
a "small" amount of data from senate.gov "in an attempt to help them fix their
issues." The files released are relatively harmless and only show a thin layer
of internal data on the government Web site.

Martina Bradford, the deputy sergeant-at-arms of the Senate,  said in a
statement Monday that security staff at senate.gov became aware of the attacks
over the weekend. The statement noted that the hackers did not infiltrate any
Senate computers, or the government firewall, but were able to breach the public
Web site's files and file structures of its servers.

"As always, we continue to work with our federal cyber security and law
enforcement partners to enhance the security of federal government Web sites,"
the statement said. "We are also initiating a review of all the sites hosted on
senate.gov, urging the individuals responsible for those sites to conduct their
own review, and continuing to take other actions to safeguard the Senate's
public Web presence."

Lulz Security has claimed responsibility for hacking a number of other sites and
organizations over the past two months, including PBS.org, Sonypictures.com and
an Web site associated with the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

A press officer or the F.B.I. declined to comment about the latest attacks.

     ·    One on One: Jack Tretton, Sony C.E.O. America
     ·    New Questions as Sony Is Hacked Again
     ·    Sony's Security Problems Could Take Years to Fix
     ·    Hacker Group Claims Responsibility for New Sony Break-In
     ·    Sony Chief Defends Response to PlayStation Data Breach


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thieves Found Citigroup Site An Easy Entry

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and ERIC DASH; Riva Richmond contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1058 words


Think of it as a mansion with a high-tech security system -- but the front door
wasn't locked tight.

Using the Citigroup customer Web site as a gateway to bypass traditional
safeguards and impersonate actual credit card holders, a team of sophisticated
thieves cracked into the bank's vast reservoir of personal financial data, until
they were detected in a routine check in early May.

That allowed them to capture the names, account numbers, e-mail addresses and
transaction histories of more than 200,000 Citi customers, security experts
said, revealing for the first time details of one of the most brazen bank
hacking attacks in recent years.

The case illustrates the threat posed by the rising demand for private financial
information from the world of foreign hackers.

In the Citi breach, the data thieves were able to penetrate the bank's defenses
by first logging on to the site reserved for its credit card customers.

Once inside, they leapfrogged between the accounts of different Citi customers
by inserting vari-ous account numbers into a string of text located in the
browser's address bar. The hackers' code systems automatically repeated this
exercise tens of thousands of times -- allowing them to capture the confidential
private data.

The method is seemingly simple, but the fact that the thieves knew to focus on
this particular vulnerability marks the Citigroup attack as especially
ingenious, security experts said.

One security expert familiar with the investigation wondered how the hackers
could have known to breach security by focusing on the vulnerability in the
browser. ''It would have been hard to prepare for this type of vulnerability,''
he said. The security expert insisted on anonymity because the inquiry was at an
early stage.

The financial damage to Citigroup and its customers is not yet clear. Sean
Kevelighan, a bank spokesman, declined to comment on the details of the breach,
citing the ongoing criminal investigation. In a statement, he said that
Citigroup discovered the breach in early May and the problem was ''rectified
immediately.'' He added that the bank had initiated internal fraud alerts and
stepped up its account monitoring.

The expertise behind the attack, according to law enforcement officials and
security experts, is a sign of what is likely to be a wave of more and more
sophisticated breaches by high-tech thieves hungry for credit card numbers and
other confidential information.

That is because demand for the data is on the rise. In 2008, the underground
market for the data was flooded with more than 360 million stolen personal
records, most of them credit and debit files. That compared with 3.8 million
records stolen in 2010, according to a report by Verizon and the Secret Service,
which investigates credit card fraud along with other law enforcement agencies
like the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Now, as credit cards that were compromised in the vast 2008 thefts expire,
thieves are stepping up efforts to find new accounts.

As a result, prices for basic credit card information could rise to several
dollars from their current level of only pennies.

''If you think financially motivated breaches are huge now, just wait another
year,'' said Bryan Sartin, who conducts forensic investigations for Verizon's
consulting arm.

The kind of information the thieves are able to glean is shared in online forums
that are a veritable marketplace for criminals. Networks that three years ago
numbered several thousands users have expanded to include tens of thousands of
hackers.

''These are online bazaars,'' said Pablo Martinez, deputy special agent in
charge of the Secret Service's criminal investigation division. ''They are
growing exponentially and we have seen the entire process become more
professional.''

For example, some hackers specialize in prying out customer names, account
numbers and other confidential information, Mr. Martinez said. Brokers then sell
that information in the Internet bazaars. Criminals use it to impersonate
customers and buy merchandise. Finally, ''money mules'' wire home the profits
through outlets like Western Union or MoneyGram.

''It's like 'Mission Impossible' when they select the teams,'' said Mark Rasch,
a former prosecutor who is now with CSC, an information technology services
firm. ''And they don't know each other, except by hacker handle and
reputation.''

In the Citi attack, the hackers did not obtain expiration dates or the
three-digit security code on the back of the card, which will make it harder for
thieves to use the information to commit fraud.

Not every breach results in a crime. But identify theft has ranked first among
complaints to the Federal Trade Commission for 11 consecutive years, with 1.34
million in 2010, twice as many as the next category, which is debt collection.

Many of these attacks have their origins in Eastern Europe, including Russia,
Belarus, Ukraine and Romania. In fact, the security expert familiar with the
Citi breach said it originated in the region, though he would not specify the
country.

In Russia, Xakep.ru, is one of the larger forums for Eastern European hackers
today, with nearly 13,300 registered members, according to Cyveillance.
HackZone.ru is larger, and has more than 58,000 members. In addition, attacks by
Romanian hackers have grown noticeably more advanced recently, according to
security experts.

On HackZone, one seller who called himself ''zoloto'' promised ''all cards valid
100%'' and that they would be sold only one time.

Underscoring the multinational nature of these rings, American law-enforcement
agencies have also been putting more investigators overseas.

''The only way to address a global issue is to address it globally with your
partners,'' said Gordon M. Snow, assistant director of the F.B.I.'s Cyber
Division.

The Secret Service established a presence in Tallinn, Estonia, last month, and
has embedded agents with Ukrainian authorities since the beginning of the year.
The F.B.I. has embedded agents in the Netherlands, Estonia, Ukraine and Romania,
and works closely with its counterparts in Australia, Germany and Britain.

But even officials at these agencies acknowledge that as fast as they move, the
hackers' strategies are evolving at Silicon Valley speed.

''With every takedown, they regroup,'' said J. Keith Mularski, a supervisory
special agent with the F.B.I.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An ad posted May 28 by a hacker, zoloto, offered credit cards
for sale on the Web site HackZone .ru. Sophisticated attacks by high-tech
thieves are feeding a growing online data bazaar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CYVEILLANCE)
Security experts said that data thieves exploited a vulnerability in Citigroup's
Web site for its credit card customers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN
FICKIES/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A3) CHART: Targets of Hack Attacks: Credit card and
other financial data are stolen from a wide range of targets. Last year 3.8
million records were compromised, with more than a third coming from banks and
other financial firms. (Sources: Verizon
 Secret Service) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 16, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Connecting With Clients Through the Power of Tech

BYLINE: By JOHN GROSSMANN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1299 words


In Lynn Milos's previous business endeavors as a caterer and private chef,
customer service was old school and face to face -- the longstanding marketplace
advantage enjoyed by small businesses over big businesses.

Then Ms. Milos founded Culinary Twist in early 2010 with her husband, Eric
Martel, to make and sell three exotic sauces called Bora Bora, Baja and Maya
Bay. Selling through a distributor and West Coast food stores and specialty
stores, Ms. Milos found the sudden disconnection with her customers
disconcerting. In-store product tastings helped, but she knew she could not
afford them or the personal time commitment on a continuing basis, which is why
she was excited to learn of the high-tech offerings of a feedback-management
company, OpinionLab.

''My heart was pounding through my shirt,'' Ms. Milos said, recalling the
briefing she received. OpinionLab's software is now in the early stages of
enabling Culinary Twist, which is based in Foster City, Calif., to interact
remotely with smartphone-toting shoppers -- even while they are still in the
store.

Nothing is old school about this or a wave of other high-tech customer service
initiatives being adopted by a vanguard of small businesses.

In some instances, such as at Zingerman's, a delicatessen, restaurant,
mail-order food seller and business seminar host based in Ann Arbor, Mich., the
digitally driven service enhancements remain internal and invisible to
customers.

For the last dozen years, Zingerman's has captured customer comments as either
code red (complaints) or code green (compliments), but until recently they were
captured on paper forms.

Storing comments digitally makes it much easier to analyze them, said Maggie
Bayless, managing partner of ZingTrain, the business seminar division.

''We can now sort by types of complaints, customer name or period of time,'' Ms.
Bayless said. ''For example, as we go into the holidays, it's possible to pull
the data for the holiday season a year ago and see what problems we were having
and identify: What do we need to remind people to watch for this year?''

By contrast, the highly visible brand of high-tech customer service offered by
Culinary Twist is activated by so-called Q.R. codes on its product labels. Short
for Quick Response, these bar code cousins, when photographed by an app-enabled
smartphone, offer a wealth of service opportunities.

Potential buyers can view a recipe, say, for pork ribs in Baja sauce when they
are steps from the meat counter. Soon, Ms. Milos said, they will be able to call
up on their hand-held devices a discount coupon that can be scanned at checkout.
And with help from OpinionLab's back-shop capabilities, Ms. Milos can also
receive recipe suggestions, insights or even notification of a problem at a
particular store -- be it a missing favorite or filthy display shelves.

She expects more of the kind of helpful feedback received in an early store demo
that led to a relabeling of the Bora Bora sauce.

''We had so many people say they didn't know what tamarind was, or dates, that
we decided to take those words out of the subscript and change it to more about
the flavor and how the product was used,'' Ms. Milos said. ''It now says 'Sweet
Spice Grilling Sauce.' That's another piece to the Q.R. code and serving the
customer -- just listening to them.''

The Q.R. code enhancements to the labels cost about 15 cents a bottle. Rand
Nickerson, OpinionLab's chief executive, puts additional costs for his company's
services at pennies per consumer comment.

''It's not true anymore that only the Procter & Gambles of the world can afford
to do this,'' he said. ''You don't have to run a wave of $100,000 focus groups
across the country to learn things anymore. The most successful companies in the
future, I believe, will be those who become progressively more and more
customer-driven.''

That is the intention at Great Clips, the nationwide chain of hair salons. ''The
No. 1 reason we lose customers is because we make them wait,'' said Tim Lawless,
who owns Great Clips franchises in Indiana and southern Michigan. ''That's also
the No. 2 and No. 3 reason.''

The online check-in option now being introduced at the Great Clips Web site,
which allows customers to enter their ZIP codes through a computer or
smartphone, checks the current wait times at nearby Great Clips outlets and lets
customers choose the optimum location.

''It's playing in Peoria,'' said David Hands, who with his wife, Tanja, owns
seven Great Clips locations in Peoria and the Bloomington/Normal area of
Illinois, where walk-in customers have typically waited eight to 15 minutes for
a cut. A recent cyber check-in, ''a young guy on the go,'' walked through the
door, sat down and told Mr. Hands, ''Thanks for giving me 10 minutes back to my
life.'' Only two months after introduction, Mr. Hands said, he is averaging 10
remote check-ins per outlet a day -- about 10 percent of his business.

Whiteflash, a Houston-based online retailer of engagement rings, already relies
on chat to serve the needs of its customers, mostly male and comfortable with
technology, who are not shy about spending from $1,500 to many times that amount
without a face-to-face encounter. In fact, said Debi Wexler, Whiteflash founder
and chief executive, many of her customers prefer the company's real-time
electronic conversations.

''Many of our customers are from Malaysia, Hong Kong and Singapore,'' Ms. Wexler
said, ''and a lot of them don't feel comfortable speaking on the phone but feel
very comfortable e-mailing us and chatting with us in online chat.''

The site attracts servicemen stationed overseas but even stateside civilian
grooms-to-be appreciate the chat-enabled buying sessions, she said. ''A lot of
customers, believe it or not, will chat with us during their work hours,'' she
said, ''because they don't necessarily want to be talking on the telephone
ordering their engagement ring while at the office. At home, even when the
girlfriend is there, they can pretend that they're working on the computer when
actually they're talking to a consultant.''

Whiteflash customers can zoom in on various diamond and ring choices before
typing their questions into chat boxes powered by Bold Chat, the company's
software provider, which stores the three to five chats typically needed to
close a sale. This allows another service representative to pick up a
conversation that has been cut off abruptly by the sudden over-the-shoulder
appearance of the fiancee-to-be.

The Web site capabilities of Riten Industries, a 78-year-old maker of tools that
hold industrial parts while they are being produced, allow the company to do
more than just display its products.

Riten's site, enhanced with computer-aided design, makes it possible for
customers to modify a part to meet specific needs, said Andrew Lachat, who owns
the company.

The software, by Thomas Industrial Network of New York, effectively provides
remote self-service at any hour of the day.

This service is helpful to Riten's small machine-shop customers, especially
those that have not invested in computer-aided design, or CAD, software.

''Some don't have more than a half-dozen employees and they don't do CAD,'' said
Mitchell Kirby, vice president of manufacturing, ''so they're happy with what we
provide because they can go on our Web site and draw the tool that they need,
show it to their machine operators, and then send it to me to have it quoted.''

By effectively expanding the CAD acronym to also mean customer-aided design, the
company, based in Washington Court House, Ohio, has increased the custom-made
part of its business, which also includes repairs, to about half of its annual
revenue.

''It's safe to say,'' Mr. Lachat said, ''that we've almost doubled in size since
we went in this direction on the Internet.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:  Lynn Milos of Culinary Twist scanned a Quick Response code on
bottles of her grilling sauce at a store in San Mateo, Calif., for access to her
company's mobile Web site, which contains product information and recipes.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                              June 20, 2011 Monday

Hackers Declare War on Government Agencies

BYLINE: NICK BILTON

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 292 words



HIGHLIGHT: Lulz Security, a hacker group, said over the weekend that it was
initiating cyber warfare with governments and security companies around the
world.


The Internet may be about to get a little more chaotic than usual. Over the
weekend, a group of hackers declared that they are initiating cyber warfare with
governments and security companies around the world.

The group, Lulz Security, has claimed responsibility for a number of recent data
breaches and have already attacked a number of United States government and
corporate Web sites. Lulz Security also said it was working closely with another
group called Anonymous, a loosely affiliated team of activist computer hackers.
Although Anonymous did not put out its own statement about the attacks, the two
groups have been communicating regularly on Twitter.

In a letter posted on a public Web site, Lulz Security announced its plan to
attack more government sites and encouraged other groups and individuals "to
open fire on any government or agency that crosses their path." The undertaking
is called "Operation Anti-Security."

"Top priority is to steal and leak any classified government information,
including email spools and documentation," Lulz Security wrote in the letter.
"Prime targets are banks and other high-ranking establishments."

The Federal Bureau of Investigation declined to comment on the letter.

Last week Lulz Security breached the Web server of the United States Senate and
briefly brought down the Central Intelligence Agency Web site through a
denial-of-service attack. The group has also been responsible for attacks on
Sony, Bethesda Softworks, a gaming company, and a string of other sites.

     ·    Sony and Epsilon Agree to Testify Before Congress
     ·    Video Search Company Gets Investor Attention
     ·    Researcher Releases Facebook Profile Data
     ·    AT&T Is Said to Have Exposed iPad Owners' E-Mail Addresses
     ·    Facebook Security Flaw Publicizes Private Chats


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                              June 20, 2011 Monday

Assad's Image Pelted With Shoes After Speech

BYLINE: ROBERT MACKEY

LENGTH: 439 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Bashar al-Assad's speech in Syria was greeted with jeers
and shoes from his opponents.


As my colleague Anthony Shadid reports, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's
address on Monday, in which he promised reform but said that the state had to
use force against "saboteurs," was met with disappointment and anger by his
opponents.

Within hours, a Facebook page maintained by opposition activists was filled with
video said to show rage on the streets of cities and towns across Syria.

Two clips (one above and one below), both said to have been filmed on Monday in
Kafr Nabl, a town close to the Turkish border in a province recently flooded
with Syrian troops, showed protesters beating and throwing their shoes at a
poster of the Syrian president.

Readers who recall President George W. Bush successfully dodging shoes tossed at
him by an enraged Iraqi reporter in Baghdad in 2008 will be aware that this is a
serious insult in the region.

Another clip that activists said was filmed after the president's speech on
Monday, in the city of Homs, also showed his image being pelted with shoes.

In another clip said to have been recorded during a protest in Homs on Monday,
protesters waved their shoes in derision.

One viewer of the speech on Syrian state television apparently conducted the
ritual in his home:

The mockery even continued online, as activists created a video game, at
Basharshoe.com, in which players click to toss shoes at Mr. Assad, as he
attempts to emulate Mr. Bush's moves, by ducking behind a lectern.

In a segment of Mr. Assad's speech featured in an Al Jazeera English video
report, the Syrian president took direct aim at the Internet activists who have
undermined his government's attempts to block independent reporting inside the
country by using their phones to record protests. The activists, Mr. Assad
claimed, "are being paid money to film demonstrations," and providing video to
foreign news organizations as part of a plot against Syria.

According to Syria's state news agency, Mr. Assad also suggested that "the
advanced phones that we're finding in Syria in the hands of saboteurs," were
evidence of a foreign conspiracy. "Conspiracies," he added, "are like germs
which increase every moment."

Shakeeb Al-Jabri, a Syrian in Beirut who writes on Twitter as LeShaque, noted
that when Mr. Assad tried to reach out to young people, he "praised the Syrian
Cyber Army," a counterrevolutionary group, "which has been terrorizing us
activists."

     ·    Syria's Ruling Alawite Sect
     ·    'Gay Girl in Damascus' Blogger Admits to Writing Fiction Disguised as
          Fact
     ·    Despite Crackdown, New Video Emerges of Defiant Protesters in Syria
     ·    Videos Show Defectors From Syrian Army, Activists Say
     ·    Rare Protest Reported in the Syrian Capital


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             June 23, 2011 Thursday

Guilty Plea in Theft of Data About iPad Owners

BYLINE: NICK BILTON

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 318 words



HIGHLIGHT: A San Francisco man who was accused of taking information on 114,000
iPad 3G owners from AT&#038;T's servers pleaded guilty on Thursday.


1:49 p.m. | Updated Adding no comment from AT&T and the amount of Mr.
Auernheimer's bail.

A  San Francisco man who was accused of  taking  information on 114,000 iPad 3G
owners from AT&T's servers pleaded guilty on Thursday.

According to the New Jersey attorney general's office, Daniel Spitler, 26,
pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to gain unauthorized access to
computers connected to the Internet, and one count of identity theft. Mr.
Spitler is expected to be sentenced on Sept. 28.

Each charge could result in up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.

Mr. Spitler was arrested last year along with Andrew Auernheimer, known online
as Weev, after the Federal Bureau of Investigation found that they had collected
e-mail addresses and unique identification numbers that could be tied to iPad 3G
owners. The two men said they had gained access to the data through a loophole
on AT&T's Web site.

Mr. Auernheimer is expected to be arraigned later this year. He is currently
free on $50,000 bail.

The case gained national attention because the stolen e-mail addresses included
those of members of the Senate and the House of Representatives, and employees
of the Justice Department, NASA and the Department of Homeland Security. There
were also a number of celebrities on the list. Mr. Auernheimer passed the
information along to the gossip blog Gawker.

An AT&T spokesperson declined to comment about the case.

The charges were filed in New Jersey because AT&T's servers are housed in the
state. The attorney general's office said the investigation was led by the
F.B.I.'s Newark Cyber Crimes Task Force, which investigates computer crimes
including data breaches and identity theft.

     ·    Federal Officials Continue AT&T iPad Investigation
     ·    Two Arrested in iPad Security Breach
     ·    Hacking Group Says It Brought Down C.I.A. Site
     ·    Hackers Claim to Breach Senate's Web Site
     ·    One on One: Jack Tretton, Sony C.E.O. America


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                              June 26, 2011 Sunday

Google's War on Nonsense

BYLINE: VIRGINIA HEFFERNAN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1325 words



HIGHLIGHT: Has the distorted, garbled prose of content farms met Waterloo its?


Imagine a sci-fi universe in which every letter, word and sentence is a
commodity. Companies make money off chunks of language. Bosses drive writers to
make more words faster and for less pay. Readers then pay for exposure to these
cheaply made words in the precious currency of their attention.

You can get a glimpse of that world on the Web right now. Just take a sunny
summer tour of a content farm like Associated Content or Answerbag. You can find
these content farms in some quarters of the CNN and AOL sites, too.

Content farms, which have flourished on the Web in the past 18 months, are
massive news sites that use headlines, keywords and other tricks to lure
Web-users into looking at ads. These sites confound and embarrass Google by
gaming its ranking system. As a business proposition, they once seemed exciting.
Last year, The Economist admiringly described Associated Content and Demand
Media as cleverly cynical operations that "aim to produce content at a price so
low that even meager advertising revenue can support it."

As a verbal artifact, farmed content exhibits neither style nor substance. You
may faintly recognize news in some of these articles, especially gossip - but
the prose is so odd as to seem extraterrestrial. "Another passenger of the
vehicle has also been announced to be dead," declares a typical sentence on
Associated Content. "Like many fans of the popular 'Jackass' franchise, Dunn's
life and pranks meant a great amount to me." The insultingly vacuous and frankly
bizarre prose of the content farms - it seems ripped from Wikipedia and
translated from the Romanian - cheapens all online information. A few months
ago, tired of coming across creepy, commodified content where I expected
ordinary language, I resolved to turn to mobile apps for e-books, social media,
ecommerce and news, and use the open Web only sparingly. I had grown confused by
the weird articles I often stumbled on.

These prose-widgets are not hammered out by robots, surprisingly. But they are
written by writers who work like robots. As recent accounts of life in these
words-are-money mills make clear, some content-farm writers have deadlines as
frequently as every 25 minutes. Others are expected to turn around reported
pieces, containing interviews with several experts, in an hour. Some  compose,
edit, format and publish 10 articles in a single shift. Many with decades of
experience in journalism work 70-hour weeks for salaries of $40,000 with no
vacation time. The content farms have taken journalism hackwork to a whole new
level.

So who produces all this bulk jive? Business Insider, the business-news site,
has provided a forum to a half dozen low-paid content farmers, especially
several who work at AOL's enormous Seed and Patch ventures. They describe
exhausting and sometimes exploitative writing conditions. Oliver Miller, a
journalist with an MFA in fiction from Sarah Lawrence who once believed he'd
write the Great American Novel, told me AOL paid him about  $28,000 for writing
300,000 words about television, all based on fragments of shows he'd never seen,
filed in half-hour intervals, on a graveyard shift that ran from 11 p.m. to 7 or
8 in the morning.

Mr. Miller's job, as he made clear in an article last week in The Faster Times,
an online newspaper, was to cram together words that someone's research had
suggested might be in demand on Google, position these strings as titles and
headlines, embellish them with other inoffensive words and make the whole
confection vaguely resemble an article. AOL would put "Rick Fox mustache" in a
headline, betting that some number of people would put "Rick Fox mustache" into
Google, and retrieve Mr. Miller's  article. Readers coming to AOL, expecting
information, might discover a subliterate wasteland. But before bouncing out,
they might watch a video clip with ads on it. Their visits would also register
as page views, which AOL could then sell to advertisers.

So that's how you really commodify writing: you pay little or nothing to
writers, and make readers pay a lot - in the form of their "eyeballs." But
readers get zero back, no useful content. That's the logic of the content farm.
An eyeball for nothing.

"Do you guys even CARE what I write? Does it make any difference if it's good or
bad?" Mr. Miller asked his boss, one night, by instant message.

Mr. Miller says the reply was brief: "Not really."

Mr. Miller's experience is consistent with other recent stories by content farm
workers. It also jibes with the master plan laid out in "The AOL Way," a company
document leaked to the press not long ago. That document reduces the art of
journalism to a process that begins with using metrics to "identify high-demand
topics" and ends with the review of this "hi-vol, lo-cost" textual content -
those are articles, folks - for such important literary virtues as Google rank
and social-media traction.

But an astonishing thing has happened. After months of inaction and seeming
paralysis, the forces of good - or the Forces That Claim to Disdain Evil, anyway
- fought back. With its near-missionary calling "to organize the world's
information and make it universally accessible and useful," Google had evidently
been humiliated by the content-farm system.

Like an earnest teacher who'd been outsmarted by a clique of relentlessly
cheating students, it had lost credibility.

You can't mess with Google forever. In February, the corporation concocted what
it concocts best: an algorithm. The algorithm, called Panda, affects some 12
percent of searches, and it has - slowly and imperfectly - been improving
things. Just a short time ago, the Web seemed ungovernable; bad content was
driving out good. But Google asserted itself, and credit is due: Panda
represents good cyber-governance. It has allowed Google to send untrustworthy,
repetitive and unsatisfying content to the back of the class. No more A's for
cheaters.

At the same time, the goal, according to Amit Singhal and Matt Cutts, who worked
on Panda, is to "provide better rankings for high-quality sites - sites with
original content and information such as research, in-depth reports, thoughtful
analysis and so on."

For big media companies, the Panda formula is now as precious and coveted as any
pink diamond or nuclear microchip in a Hollywood thriller. Content farmers will
need to beat it if they want to keep up business as usual. And many media
companies - old and new - are betting on ad revenue, and ad revenue comes with
eyeballs, and eyeballs come from being in Google's good graces. The secret code
that puts a site on top of Google's search results, or casts it to the bottom,
is invaluable.

On Tuesday, Google officially rolled out Panda 2.2. Put "Whitey Bulger" into
Google, and where you might once have found dozens of content farms, today you
get links to useful articles from sites ranging from The Boston Globe, The Los
Angeles Times, the F.B.I. and even Mashable, doing original analysis of how
federal agents used social media to find Bulger.

Last month, Demand Media, once the most notorious of the content farms,
announced plans to improve quality by publishing more feature articles by hired
writers, and fewer by "users" - code for unpaid freelancers. Amazing. Demand
Media is stepping up its game.

To see how this might play out for readers, I visited eHow, a former
content-farm division of Demand Media, and found an article by a library-science
graduate student named Alison Sperry. It was called "How to Write a Poem Like
Walt Whitman," and if it wasn't E. B. White, it wasn't precisely robot prose,
either.

"Think about an event or experience you are passionate about or brings about a
lot of emotion," Ms. Sperry advised. "Your best writing will come from events,
experiences and knowledge you are passionate about." You don't say.

     ·    Privacy vs. Profits
     ·    The Composer's Other Voice
     ·    The Special Correspondent
     ·    Home Fires: On 'Seeing'
     ·    Home Fires: Writing and Rewriting Iraq


LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            June 29, 2011 Wednesday

Hackers Release More Data From Arizona Police

BYLINE: RIVA RICHMOND

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 353 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hackers publicly exposed for the second time information they claimed
to have stolen from the computer systems and personnel of the Arizona state
police.


Hackers on Wednesday publicly exposed for the second time information they
claimed to have stolen from the computer systems and personnel of the Arizona
state police, in a continuation of a nearly two-month hacking spree.

A hacker group known as Lulz Security last week leaked case files, phone numbers
and addresses of officers from the department in what it said was a response to
the state's tough laws aimed at illegal immigrants. The latest cache contained
material from officers' personal e-mail accounts, including "humiliating dirt,"
according to a statement posted on the Pirate Bay, a site for users of the
file-sharing tool BitTorrent, which the hackers used to distribute the data.

A spokesman for the Arizona Department of Public Safety said it was looking into
the hackers' claims and whether its systems had been breached.

The hackers no longer call themselves Lulz Security, or LulzSec for short, after
disbanding last weekend and rejoining the larger hacker collective Anonymous.
They are now working under a new banner they call "AntiSec," protesting
corruption and censorship.

One of the police department's spokesmen was singled out for attack in the
latest data release for "bragging" about the department's security upgrades,
promising the hackers would be caught and calling them "a cyber terrorism
group."

"The same fate will meet anyone else who tries to paint us as terrorists in an
Orwellian attempt to pass more pro-censorship or racial-profiling police state
laws," the group warned in its statement.

It also said it had spared one former officer from having his personal
information exposed because it learned that he was a Navajo and planned on suing
the department for racial discrimination.

The disclosure followed the release on Tuesday of a pile of stolen content tied
to a variety of organizations, including the governments of Brazil, Australia,
Anguilla and Zimbabwe; a right-wing Colombian police unit; and Universal Music
and Viacom. In a statement, the group said the action was retaliation "against
corrupt Governments (in our world this is all Governments) and corrupt
companies."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fly by Night

BYLINE: By ALEXIS SWERDLOFF

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1806 words


BY day, Jobee, an unassuming Taiwanese restaurant on Howard Street, just east of
the fashion temple Opening Ceremony and north of the fake handbags on Canal
Street, serves bland sesame noodles and tasty mock Sichuan chicken to a sleepy
lunch crowd. A menu is taped to the door. Kitschy paper lanterns swing from the
ceiling.

But at midnight, the lights dim, tables are pushed aside and a former male model
named Vance, with shaggy blond hair and chiseled features, stands guard at the
door. There's no sign overhead, but the in-crowd knows it as Madame Wong's, a
pop-up club that, for a heady period this spring, was arguably the city's
hottest night spot.

''Sorry,'' Vance told three young women on a rainy Wednesday last month.
''There's a private party tonight.''

That line was only half true. Earlier, there was a private reception for
Maripol, the Polaroid artist and former stylist who created looks for Madonna
and Deborah Harry in the 1980s. But that ended hours earlier, and the real party
was just beginning. Young Frenchwomen wearing black short-shorts and ankle boots
sipped Tsingtaos in a red vinyl booth. A couple left the restroom together to a
line of raised eyebrows. Maripol swayed back and forth as James Chance, a
saxophonist, serenaded her.

''Madame Wong's is one of the only spots I'll go out to,'' said Maripol, who is
now in her 50s. ''I cannot deal with corporate clubs anymore -- doormen who
bounce you up. They don't understand the spirit of what New York used to be.''

Pop-up clubs -- temporary parties in nontraditional party spaces -- are having a
moment. With nightclubs facing a citywide crackdown stemming from community
complaints over issues like noise, party promoters have had to be a little
creative. Instead of booking the same venues (one can go to the Boom Boom Room
only so many times a week before it seems tired), they are putting up velvet
ropes and plugging in turntables in unexpected places.

In recent months, pop-up clubs have taken over dim sum parlors, Brooklyn
restaurants, strip clubs, Midtown offices, vacant warehouses, waterfront parks,
school playgrounds and even a laundromat (complete with towel-clad bartenders
and detergent-themed drinks).

The fact that some of these clubs may not be legal only adds to the thrill.
''Young people here -- and by that I mean young, outgoing types in fashion and
music, image-conscious people -- they go out quite a bit, four or five times a
week,'' said Seva Granik, a young party promoter from Brooklyn. ''If you really
want to give them something special,'' he added, ''you have to go outside into
some unused, secret space that the kids haven't been to.''

POP-UP clubs are not entirely new. Popular spots have included 88 Palace, a
Chinese banquet hall under the Manhattan Bridge, and the Pussycat Lounge, a
seedy strip club in the Financial District where Carlos Quirarte, one of the
forces behind the Smile, the Jane Ballroom and Westway, got his start giving
parties in 2002.

But the current crop further blurs the line between one-off raves and regular
clubs. Instead of roving affairs that hop from warehouse to warehouse, these
pop-ups are limited engagements at the same venue, opening and closing at the
whim of its fickle clientele.

''Frankly, this is a depressing trend,'' said Serge Becker, the night-life
veteran who opened the Box, Joe's Pub, La Esquina and, most recently, Miss
Lily's, his new Caribbean restaurant on West Houston Street. ''The city is
completely anti-night life, so it makes sense that people are appropriating
these already existing spaces, without taking them over completely.''

And the more unpolished the space, the better. ''Club owners think that you need
to spend a ton of money on lighting and furniture, but honestly none of that
matters,'' said Mia Moretti, an in-demand D.J. who's been a regular at Madame
Wong's. ''All that matters is that the music's good, the people are good and
that it's dark.''

Restaurants are an obvious venue, simply because most have liquor licenses. A
few even have cabaret licenses. But not just any restaurant will do: the
kitschier and more far-flung, it seems, the better. That might explain the
cheeky appeal of China Chalet, a dragon-and-neon banquet hall on lower Broadway
that has been a favorite hideaway of the fashion and art crowd for about five
years.

On a balmy Thursday last month, it held an issue release party for The Journal,
a glossy art quarterly based in Williamsburg. In the main dining room, which was
covered in chintzy floral carpet and pagoda paintings, young women with bright
red lipstick and high-waisted pants squeezed seven or eight to a table. Artists
like Ari Marcopoulos, Aurel Schmidt and Rita Ackermann milled about. In the back
room, disco balls were hung next to gaudy chandeliers, and D.J.'s played a mix
of Rihanna, New Order and Prodigy.

It was as if New York's art world had been transported to a Holiday Inn in the
Midwest. ''I'm so tired of places that are cool,'' said Michael Nevin, The
Journal's lanky editor, who was clad head-to-toe in white. ''And China Chalet is
not cool, which is why it's great.''

The price doesn't hurt, either. Mr. Nevin paid nothing to rent the vast
second-floor space. All he had to do was guarantee a $3,500 bar tab (the amount
varies from party to party), so there was little pressure in recouping costs
with buzz kills like high cover charges and bottle service.

The restaurant also benefits. ''Financially, it's not a huge influx of money for
us, but it obviously helps,'' said Keith Ng, the restaurant's manager. More
valuable, he said, is ''that someone will come for a party, and then they'll
maybe come here for a cocktail or dinner another night. It's good exposure.''

Another restaurant that's been moonlighting recently as a nightclub is the
Sugarhill Supper Club, an old-school Southern restaurant in Bedford-Stuyvesant,
Brooklyn. On most nights, it's the go-to neighborhood spot for graduation and
anniversary parties. But in late May, Big Freedia, the gender-bending ''Sissy
Bounce'' rap performer from New Orleans, played an impromptu 3 a.m. show that
was mobbed with half-naked Spandex-clad revelers. A few weeks later, Mr. Granik
brought Crystal Ark, a nine-person electro-orchestra, to the carpeted,
mirror-lined basement for a trippy performance.

BUT in this fly-by-night club land, restaurants have started to feel
predictable, so promoters are scouting for more outlandish venues. In May, Get
Your Dance On, a roving dance party, created an outdoor club at a former
Catholic school playground on Mott Street in NoLIta. (The plan was to do three
more parties, but noise complaints from neighbors forced organizers to cancel.)

In mid-June the Metro Community Laundromat in Williamsburg became a pop-up
''Dirty Disco Laundrette.'' For $75, young Brooklynites could drink all night,
push one another around in laundry carts and dance atop washing machines as
Justin Miller of the record label DFA spun disco classics.

No place is sacred, not even the workplace. In January, 80 to 100 people were
discovered drinking and dancing about 3 a.m. in an office building on Broadway
and 52nd Street, above a strip club and sushi restaurant. Promoters claimed they
were filming a music video but the police didn't believe it and shut it down for
the unlicensed sale of alcohol, lack of a cabaret license and other offenses,
said Paul J. Browne, the chief spokesman for the New York City Police
Department.

''Pop-up parties are not illegal per se,'' Mr. Browne added. ''But depending on
circumstances, they could be in violation of various building, fire, alcohol
beverage control or trespassing laws.''

Despite their underground status, pop-up clubs are spreading to other cities. In
Los Angeles, Paul Sevigny and Andre Saraiva opened up a temporary bar called
Paul & Andre in the recently shuttered Cinespace nightclub, just off Hollywood
Boulevard. Like Madame Wong's, the door policy is strict and tends to favor the
fashionable and fabulous.

Pop-ups are also being hatched by traditional brick-and-mortar clubs. Le Baron,
the Parisian hot spot started by Mr. Saraiva, opens a pop-up at Art Basel Miami
Beach every year. Likewise Bungalow 8, Amy Sacco's London-based nightclub, was
reincarnated at the 54th Venice Biennale this month. ''We will also be doing
several other locations this year,'' Ms. Sacco said. ''But they are top
secret.''

Meanwhile, the pop-up label is being tossed around, first with stores and
restaurants, and now with clubs seeking to appear more off-the-grid and,
therefore, cooler. In this age of Yelp and G.P.S.-powered bar guides, where
every venue is a Google click away, the pop-up club is the digital speak-easy,
an unmarked venue without a cyber footprint.

That formula has certainly worked for Simonez Wolf, who started Madame Wong's in
March and within weeks created one of the most talked-about downtown parties. A
former fashion stylist from Paris, Mr. Wolf worked the door at the Beatrice Inn
in 2008 and 2009, when the bar was just about the coolest thing in New York.
With no ''new Beatrice'' in sight, Mr. Wolf took matters into his own hands.

He orchestrated the buzz, largely by keeping the place under wraps. There is no
Web site or phone number. D.J.'s aren't allowed to promote via Facebook or
Twitter. The schedule is erratic. And Mr. Wolf e-mails invitations at the last
minute to about 200 guests -- high-profile friends in fashion, film and art.

He has also resisted talking to the news media. While guests have included Josh
Hartnett, Moby, Steve Buscemi and Karen O from the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, Madame
Wong's has managed to largely avoid mentions in gossip columns. Boldface names,
in return, feel safe. One night, Mr. Wolf said he found himself drinking beer
with David Byrne, Michael Stipe, Terence Koh and Philip Treacy. ''Everyone was
trying to tell their life stories all at once -- it was amazing.

''The coolest space only stays the coolest space for a few years,'' Mr. Wolf
added. ''After that you have to start making money, and to do that you have to
open the floodgates.'' And what happens after that? ''You'd get everyone from
tourists to bridge and tunnel people in the club.''

For a time, the club looked like a victim of its own success. Over Memorial Day
weekend, Madame Wong's was shut down by the police for overcrowding, Mr. Wolf
said, and it briefly relocated to the Golden Unicorn, a dim sum place on East
Broadway. But it reopened at Jobee two Thursdays ago, and just like that it was
back to Tsingtao-sipping and late-night reveling.

With the precarious nature of the pop-up model, however, Mr. Wolf is not taking
any chances. He keeps a running log of potential venues and has been
half-jokingly eyeing the rotating bar atop the Marriott Marquis in Times Square.
''It's sort of my dream to do a party there,'' he said. ''Wouldn't that be
cool?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PORTABLE: The Golden Unicorn, a restaurant by day, briefly
became home to Madame Wong's, a pop-up club, at night. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANNY
GHITIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E1)
AFTER DARK: Left, the D.J. at Madam Wong's, a pop-up club that takes over Jobee,
its current location. At China Chalet, right, a banquet hall by day, a party was
held for The Journal, a glossy art quarterly. Britt Kubat, below, looks through
the magazine. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANNY GHITIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(E6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sony Names New Management for Global PlayStation Unit

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 358 words


TOKYO -- Sony said on Wednesday that it would shuffle the management of its
video game unit, two months after an extensive hacking attack forced the company
to shut down its popular PlayStation Network.

Kazuo Hirai, the president and chief executive of the unit, Sony Computer
Entertainment, will be succeeded by Andrew House, the current head of the unit's
European business, Sony said in a statement. The changes are effective Sept. 1,
the company said.

Mr. House will lead the company's PlayStation strategy, especially the release
of the PlayStation Vita, its next-generation hand-held game machine.

Vita's release comes at a time when portable gaming devices must compete with
phones and other gadgets that are luring players away with inexpensive
downloadable games.

Mr. House must also contend with a growing threat from hackers, who have staged
a flurry of attacks on Web sites and services in recent months, including
several run by Sony.

In mid-April, the company was forced to shut down its PlayStation Network, which
lets users download games or play online, after hackers compromised personal
information from up to 100 million accounts. After a monthlong scramble by Sony
to bolster its online security, the network was restarted in most countries.

Sony has estimated that the recovery from the breach will cost about 14 billion
yen, or $173 million.

Mr. House, who joined Sony in 1990, has worked in corporate communications and
marketing and worked on the introduction of Sony's original PlayStation game
console. He has been president and chief executive of Sony Computer
Entertainment's European unit since May 2009.

Mr. Hirai is seen as a front-runner to eventually succeed Sony's chief
executive, Howard Stringer, who is in his seventh year at the helm of the
company.

Mr. Hirai, who has been chief executive of the video game unit since December
2006, will continue to oversee the gaming business as the unit's chairman, Sony
said.

He will also retain his post as executive deputy president of the entire Sony
group, where he is in charge of Sony's many consumer electronics lines,
including its Bravia TVs and Cyber-shot digital cameras.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                              July 4, 2011 Monday

Complaint Box | How E-Readers Destroyed My Love Life

BYLINE: LISA LEWIS

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 660 words



HIGHLIGHT: In this week's Complaint Box: I had one good pickup line, and
e-readers ruined it.


I noticed his wavy hair, his feline eyes and his lips, which moved slightly as
he read. But the first thing I noticed was his book: Philip Roth's "Portnoy's
Complaint," one of my favorites, was cradled in his palm. Between Delancey
Street and Bryant Park on the uptown F train, I fell for him hard. It wasn't the
first time I'd flirted my way into a Saturday night date with a simple phrase:
"I love that book."  I had one good pickup line, and e-readers ruined it. I can
no longer hit on a handsome man on a long commute by asking about his book -
because I can't see it. Gone are the days when, sitting on a train delayed in
the station, I could imagine exactly where in the New York Public Library we
would first kiss - in the stacks between Mailer and Malamud or Foer and Franzen?
E-books may be saving literature, but my dating life has suffered. We all know
you can't tell a book by its Nook, but for for me, a geeky 29-year-old N.Y.U.
graduate, this problem is particularly acute. A man's literary taste can score
as many points as being good with my parents or an ace in the kitchen. I promise
there is nothing flattering about me awkwardly straining my un-swanlike neck
toward a cute guy's Kindle to guess what he's eyeing. Instead, I am limited to
those who peruse The New Yorker in print. And I fear those days are numbered.

Ladies and gentlemen, take out your books! In New York they are more important
than your Facebook photo.   As our cyber personalities grow more detailed, we
see less of one another in person. A literary flirtation is less risky than a
bar pickup - at least you know you have one thing in common. And there's more
chance for chemistry riding the L train than scrolling through Match.com, where
you'll see what novels a guy claims to read but his profile pic may be of his
hotter brother.

I've had wonderful encounters over books - in cafes, in parks, on subway
platforms. Not just with potential dates, but kindred spirits - a septuagenarian
reading Nicholas Sparks, a tourist from Abu Dhabi who introduced me to Italo
Calvino. A woman new to the city reading E. B. White's "Here Is New York,"
another favorite, is now my good friend.  During the Murakami craze a few
summers ago, when everyone was carrying around his Vintage-issued paperbacks
with their distinct covers, I found myself in a subway car full of passengers
bonding over their "Wind-Up Birds" and "Hard-Boiled Wonderlands." That is what I
love about New York. I don't need 10 best sellers on an iPad; it only takes one
dog-eared title to recognize a soul mate.

Since I can't scope out a guy for his good books, I'll have to find my love
stories elsewhere. Perhaps I'll start reading romance novels - hello, Nora
Roberts. At least if I get an e-reader, no one will know.

Lisa Lewis, a freelance writer and playwright, lives in Park Slope, Brooklyn,
and can be found online at LisaLewisWriting.com.

If you wish to submit a Complaint Box essay, please send it as an attachment and
in the body of the e-mail to complaintbox@nytimes.com, along with your name,
address, phone number and e-mail. In the subject line of the e-mail, type your
last name, followed by "Complaint Box" and the subject of your complaint. Essays
can be 100 to 500 words. Because we receive so many submissions, we can get back
only to those whose complaints are being considered for publication. If you do
not hear from us, thank you anyway, and feel free to submit it elsewhere.

Please note: Complaint Box is not the forum for your complaints about City Room
or The Times. It is for essays on the general hassles of life, like the one
above. If you have an issue with City Room, e-mail cityroom@nytimes.com. For
issues with The Times, see the options at the bottom of the nytimes.com home
page.


     ·    What You're Reading on the Subway
     ·    A Book Store. That's Right. Book, Singular.
     ·    Behind Books for Urban Students, an Unlikely Author
     ·    Out of Albany, Ravitch Is Writing Memoir
     ·    New York Public Library, 11:14 A.M.


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 7, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Becoming One Of the 'Relevant'

BYLINE: By CHRISTIAN LORENTZEN

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; UP CLOSE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1243 words


ON a recent Friday night, Bebe Zeva, a teenage fashion blogger, journalist and
model based in Las Vegas, was dining at the restaurant Lodge in Williamsburg,
Brooklyn, with a group of 20-something contributors to the online magazine
Thought Catalog.

''I like to concentrate on the cuteness of what I'm eating,'' Ms. Zeva said. She
had switched from coconut and almond veganice cream to a skirt steak. In a black
minidress, black stockings, a sheer black and navy metallic robe and a floppy
black hat, with dozens of long silver and gold chains slung from her neck, she
looked like a brunette Stevie Nicks in miniature.

''Don't leave the house unless you look like you're going to a funeral,'' was
Ms. Zeva's style rule for the weekend, which she was spending in the company of
Leigh Alexander, a video-gaming journalist. Ms. Zeva calls this style Cyber
Goth.

When someone at the table asked Ms. Zeva her age (she recently turned 18), the
novelist and poet Tao Lin said: ''She looks a lot more like 12 to me. But she
seems like a genius.''

Ms. Zeva was in town for the premiere screening of ''Bebe Zeva,'' a
feature-length video produced by Mr. Lin and Megan Boyle, who are selling it
through their Web site, mdmafilms.org. (It was also screened this spring in
Houston.)

In January Ms. Zeva appeared in Seventeen magazine, dispensing style advice.
Later she was named a judge at the WWD Magic trade show, which will be held in
her hometown in August. On April 1, Elle's blog asked, ''Is Bebe the new Tavi?''
referring to Tavi Gevinson, the 15-year-old who became a New York Fashion Week
staple after starting a blog at age 11 from her home in Illinois. Mr. Lin helped
cast Ms. Zeva as Audrey, an ingenue, in a planned film adaptation of his novel
''Shoplifting From American Apparel.''

All of this has come naturally to Ms. Zeva, who discusses the contours of her
''career'' with an endearing nonchalance. She was born in 1993 in Miami Beach.
''Bebe'' was a nickname she earned when her sister, Rachel, wasn't able to
pronounce her real name, which she does not reveal publicly. ''Zeva'' derives
from a Hebrew word that means ''she-wolf,'' and she adopted it as a screen name
at her mother's insistence that she not use her real name upon joining MySpace.
(While Ms. Zeva does not use her birth name publicly, she said she intends to
legally change her name to Bebe Zeva in the near future.)

With her mother and sister she moved to Springfield, Mass., when she was 6 years
old. They stayed for five years, then moved to St. Louis for a year before
coming to Las Vegas, where she now lives in a high-rise condo on the Strip.

Ms. Zeva's evolving sense of chic sprang from a period of alienation she
suffered during high school, where she found herself surrounded by peers she
terms ''lifers'' -- those whose lives are defined by ''God, softball and the
suburbs.''

''I wore flared jeans and tight-fitting crewneck T-shirts from the likes of
Hollister and Abercrombie up until my second semester of freshman year,'' Ms.
Zeva wrote in an e-mail after the night at Lodge, ''when I made the conscious
decision to pursue the hipster lifestyle.''

It was around this time, Ms. Zeva recalled, that she went through a period of
''relentlessly'' Googling the word ''hipster.'' On the Web, she discovered the
party photographer Mark, the Cobra Snake, and the blog Hipster Runoff, whose
author goes by the name Carles. Both men have since become mentors of a sort.

Ms. Zeva's first taste of Internet fame came as a T-shirt model for Hipster
Runoff. ''I owe him my career,'' she said without irony of Carles, with whom she
began a correspondence over MySpace, after her mother gave her blessing. The
blog would go on to dub Ms. Zeva an ''alternative it-girl.''

But her growing Internet fame did not translate into popularity at school. ''I
was rejected by the 'alternative crowd' at school, or so I assumed by their
collective refusal to make eye contact with me, so I chose to become a
neo-hippie instead,'' she wrote. ''I wore ankle-length skirts, horizontal
headbands, bundles of necklaces, and no shoes. I carried books by Abbie Hoffman
as props.''

In the summer of 2008, she switched to neon V-necks, colored tights, skinny
jeans and metallic headbands. Life among the ''lifers'' soon brought on what Ms.
Zeva terms ''a severe case of depression,'' during which she ''wore the same
Sarah Lawrence hoodie with a pair of dark-wash Abercrombie & Fitch skinny jeans
and Target moccasins'' for months.

She made her final break from suburban conformity and the ''lifers'' by
transferring to Virtual High School online. She created a profile on
Lookbook.nu, a user-generated fashion photography site, which -- along with her
blog, Fated to Be Hated, the title a reference to her unpopularity in high
school and among some blog commenters who have accused her of betraying the
hipster aesthetic to ''go mainstream'' -- brought her to the attention of
magazines like Seventeen and Elle, and convinced Mr. Lin and Ms. Boyle that she
might be a worthy subject for their documentary.

Ms. Zeva's and Mr. Lin's first contact came in October 2009, when Ms. Zeva, who
had been reading and enjoying ''Shoplifting From American Apparel,'' purchased
an instant-message session with the novelist on eBay.

''What are your ambitions in life?'' Mr. Lin asked during the exchange that
followed.

''I think my ambitions involve 'proving a lot of people wrong' and being
'extremely relevant' and 'well known,' '' Ms. Zeva wrote.

Fame remains central to Ms. Zeva's ambitions. She hopes to pursue a career in
''fashion, journalism and sociology.'' In the fall, she will enroll for a
semester at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, but she hopes to transfer
shortly to Pratt Institute, Parsons, the Fashion Institute of Technology or New
York University.

''I'm leaving my heart here and coming back to retrieve it later,'' she said at
Lodge.

After the meal, the diners were choosing between two parties to attend, one
given by Ms. Alexander's musician friends in Bushwick and another at the offices
of Verso Books, in Dumbo, to which Mr. Lin had been invited.

''Which party will have the more relevant people?'' Ms. Zeva asked.

''Verso publishes Slavoj Zizek,'' Mr. Lin said.

Ms. Zeva is an admirer of the Slovenian philosopher. ''Will he be there?'' she
asked.

''Probably not,'' Mr. Lin said.

The crowd hailed cabs and went to Bushwick. They finished the night at Ms.
Alexander's apartment nearby.

On Sunday, the day of the premiere of ''Bebe Zeva,'' Ms. Zeva was seated at
Gimme! Coffee, on Lorimer Street in Brooklyn, where ''Kids'' by the group MGMT
was playing over the speakers, to Ms. Zeva's displeasure. ''I would expect to
hear this in the suburbs, but not in Brooklyn,'' she said.

From there she walked over the Williamsburg Bridge to Soho House in the
meatpacking district.

On the way, she discussed the unavoidability of cliche in style. ''Nobody can
help being a cliche,'' she said. ''I started out as one cliche, preppy, and
since then I've cycled through a series of other cliches. Now I'm trying to
create a new cliche for the next generation to imitate.''

She was dressed in a Cyber Goth outfit identical to the one she had been wearing
Friday night. She caught her robe once on a traffic cone that was blocking off a
pothole. At Papaya Dog, on Sixth Avenue in the West Village, she bought chicken
wings to take to the premiere.

''Walking into the premiere eating wings is perfect for my personal brand,'' she
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BRANCHING: Ms. Zeva is also the subject of a new mumblecore
documentary, above. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELIZABETH LIPPMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 15, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Suffering Damaging Cyberattack, the Pentagon Takes Defensive Action

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 969 words


WASHINGTON -- The Defense Department suffered one of its worst digital attacks
in history in March, when a foreign intelligence service hacked into the
computer system of a corporate contractor and obtained 24,000 Pentagon files
during a single intrusion, senior officials said Thursday.

The disclosure came as the Pentagon released a strategy for military operations
in cyberspace, embodying a belief that traditional passive programs for
defending military and associated corporate data systems are insufficient in an
era when espionage, crime, disruptions and outright attacks are increasingly
carried out over the Internet.

In releasing the strategy, William J. Lynn III, the deputy defense secretary,
disclosed that over the years crucial files stolen from defense and industry
data networks have included plans for missile tracking systems, satellite
navigation devices, surveillance drones and top-of-the-line jet fighters.

''A great deal of it concerns our most sensitive systems, including aircraft
avionics, surveillance technologies, satellite communications systems and
network security protocols,'' Mr. Lynn said.

Officials declined to identify the military contractor whose data system was
compromised in the March attack. They also refused to name the nation they
suspected was the culprit, saying that any accusation was a matter of official,
and perhaps confidential, diplomatic dialogue.

However, when major intrusions against computers operated by the Pentagon, the
military or defense industry contractors have occurred in the past, officials
have regularly blamed China, and sometimes Russia.

The hacking attack in March, which stole important Pentagon files in the
computer network of a contractor developing a military system, had not been
previously disclosed. Other breaches have been discussed, including earlier this
year at Lockheed Martin, the nation's largest military contractor, and at RSA
Security, which produces electronic identification for computer users.

''Current countermeasures have not stopped this outflow of sensitive
information,'' Mr. Lynn said during a speech at the National Defense University.
''We need to do more to guard our digital storehouses of design innovation.''

The Pentagon's new strategy, the final piece of an effort by the Obama
administration to defend computer networks operated across the government and
private sector, calls for what is termed dynamic defense: looking for potential
attackers on the Internet rather than waiting for an intruder to attack. It also
calls on the Pentagon to build resiliency into its computer networks to help
recover if attacked.

Mr. Lynn also stressed the importance of cooperation with foreign partners to
spot computer network threats overseas, before they compromise systems here.

But James Lewis, an expert on computer network warfare at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies, said the Pentagon's computer networks were
vulnerable to security gaps in the systems of allies with whom the military
cooperates. America's allies are ''all over the map'' on cybersecurity issues,
Mr. Lewis said. ''Some are very, very capable -- and some are clueless.''

The military's Cyber Command was created to coordinate defensive and offensive
operations for Pentagon and military computer networks. Officials speak
obliquely of its capabilities for carrying out offensive operations in
cyberspace if ordered by the president. And for now, the new strategy is
centered on how the United States can defend itself.

But Gen. James E. Cartwright, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
said the Pentagon also had to focus on offense -- including the possibility of
responding to a cyberattack with military action.

''If it's O.K. to attack me, and I'm not going to do anything other than improve
my defenses every time you attack me, it's very difficult to come up with a
deterrent strategy,'' General Cartwright told reporters on Thursday.

He said that in regard to cyberdefense, American military commanders were now
devoting 90 percent of their attention to building better firewalls and only 10
percent to ways of deterring hackers from attacking. He said a better strategy
would be the reverse, focusing almost entirely on offense.

The Pentagon, he said, needs a strategy ''that says to the attacker, 'If you do
this, the price to you is going to go up, and it's going to ever escalate.' ''
He added that right now ''we're on a path that is too predictable -- it's purely
defensive. There is no penalty for attacking right now.''

Officials say the main challenge for the United States in a retaliatory
cyberoperation is determining the attacker. The Internet makes it relatively
easy for online assailants to mask identities, even if the geographic location
where the attack originated can be confirmed.

Mr. Lynn said most major efforts to penetrate crucial military computer networks
were still undertaken by large rival nations. ''U.S. military power offers a
strong deterrent against overtly destructive attacks,'' he said. ''Although
attribution in cyberspace can be difficult, the risk of discovery and response
for a major nation is still too great to risk launching destructive attacks
against the United States.''

However, he warned that the technical expertise needed to carry out harmful
Internet raids was certain to migrate to smaller rogue states and to nonstate
actors, in particular terrorists.

If a terrorist group obtains ''disruptive or destructive cybertools, we have to
assume they will strike with little hesitation,'' Mr. Lynn said.

The new strategy describes how the military's capabilities would support the
Department of Homeland Security and federal law enforcement agencies. And it
acknowledges how much the military relies on private sector computer networks
for such vital supplies as electricity.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 17, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Anyone There?

BYLINE: By HENRY ALFORD

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1570 words


''WHEN people don't answer my e-mails, I always think maybe something tragic
happened,'' said John Leguizamo, the writer and performer, whose first marriage
ended when his wife asked him by e-mail for a divorce. ''Like maybe they got hit
by a meteorite.''

Betsy Rapoport, an editor and life coach, said: ''I don't believe I have ever
received an answer from any e-mail I've ever sent my children, now 21 and 18.
Unless you count 'idk' as a response.''

The British linguist David Crystal said that his wife recently got a reply to an
e-mail she sent in 2006. ''It was like getting a postcard from the Second World
War,'' he said.

The roaring silence. The pause that does not refresh. The world is full of
examples of how the anonymity and remove of the Internet cause us to write and
post things that we later regret. But what of the way that anonymity and remove
sometimes leave us dangling like a cartoon character that has run off a cliff?

For every fiery screed or gushy, tear-streaked confession in the ethersphere, it
seems there's a big patch of grainy, unresolved black. Though it would comfort
us to think that these long silences are the product of technical failure or
mishap, the more likely culprits are lack of courtesy and passive aggression.

''The Internet is something very informal that happened to a society that was
already very informal,'' said P. M. Forni, an etiquette expert and the author of
''Choosing Civility.'' ''We can get away with murder, so to speak. The endless
amount of people we can contact means we are not as cautious or kind as we might
be. Consciously or unconsciously we think of our interlocutors as disposable or
replaceable.''

Judith Kallos, who runs a site on Internet etiquette called netmanners.com, said
the No. 1 complaint is that ''people feel they're being ignored.''

I certainly felt ignored when a young editorial assistant at a magazine asked me
to send important information to her but never acknowledged receipt of same. I
waited 72 hours for her reply, and then sent the information again with a note
saying, ''Just re-sending in case you didn't receive.'' When another 48 hours
elapsed without a reply from her, I resent the information again, this time
appended, ''I'm resending this because I have no way of knowing whether or not
you received it.''

Some six hours later, I started composing a third note -- ''Could you tell me if
you've received this e-mail, please, as I am about to have a small sliver of my
brain removed in surgery, and would love for this sliver to be unclouded by
doubt''-- which, fortunately, her response minutes later kept me from sending.

Some scenarios are even more extended. Diana Abu-Jaber, a novelist, said that a
few years ago she had ''a whole nonrelationship'' with a fellow writer in
Portland, Ore., who would not hit the reply button.

The two women had mutual friends, and had hit it off when they went out for
lunch. Thereafter, the woman started sending Ms. Abu-Jaber e-mails proposing
more get-togethers; but she would never respond to Ms. Abu-Jaber's replies
regarding specific times and places for them.

Ms. Abu-Jaber said, ''I wouldn't hear anything, then suddenly, weeks later,
she'd send another e-mail: 'Are you free? I'd love to see you.' Or even: 'It's
been ages! This is nuts! I miss you!' We managed to have one more lunch together
during which she vaguely pouted about my crazy schedule, and somehow implied
that if only I were more available, we'd see a lot more of each other. It drove
me out of my mind.''

Five years ago, Jean Villepique, the comedian who would go on to play Tracy
Morgan's therapist on ''30 Rock,'' developed an intense crush on a colleague.

Ms. Villepique celebrated her 30th birthday by buying a pair of expensive
spectator-pump Mary Janes and then going out for drinks with co-workers. Soon,
''I was in a cab, shamelessly showing off my new shoes to my crush,'' she said.
''His probably neutral response was interpreted by me as gamey flirting.''

However, when the taxi reached his home, he got out and sent Ms. Villepique on
her way. So she ''marched, cockeyed'' to her computer and composed ''something
awful that included phrases like 'special understanding' and 'I don't feel like
being coy.' Waiting for his response was like keeping my chin up in a room
slowly filling with water. I kept assuming I wouldn't drown in my own
humiliation. Um, I did not hear back.''

Ms. Rapoport, the life coach, is not the only person who blames the young.
''There's a business courtesy you learn in your late 20s,'' Mr. Leguizamo said.
''After you get fired enough times. But before that, you don't always respond
right away, unless it's a sex text.''

I asked my otherwise-spectacular 22-year-old assistant, Ryan Haney, to elaborate
upon any of the psychological or cultural roadblocks that sometimes cause his
e-mails to travel with the speed of photosynthesis, and he responded, ''Videos
of Japanese cats jumping in and out of boxes.''

Regardless of the sender's age, a look at people's reasons for not responding to
e-mail (or responding glacially) may provide solace for those of us on the
nonreceiving end.

One of the more common wait-it-out scenarios was elucidated by Erin McKean, a
former editor in chief for American dictionaries at Oxford University Press:
''If someone sends me an e-mail that requires me to track down a piece of
information, or to walk down stairs, it turns into petrified wood in my inbox.
Then I think I should send something extra, like a fun link, to make up for my
lateness -- and then that starts a procrastination spiral.''

Similarly, many of us are sluglike about responding ''No'' to an R.S.V.P. for an
event that we know we ultimately will not attend. We can't bear to admit defeat,
because to do so is to make life seem more finite, less likely to be peopled
with attractive strangers bearing silver salvers heaped with onion puffs.

Some people do not reply because they receive too much mail, like Lawrence
Lessig, a lawyer who in 2004 wiggled out of replying to e-mails by sending a
blanket declaration of ''e-mail bankruptcy'' to the senders of all of the 200
messages he received daily.

Apologizing for his lack of ''cyber decency,'' Mr. Lessig told his respondents
that if they wrote back, his e-mail program would mark their missives for
special attention, but that he still might not make good on his ''debt.''

Finally, some people point to human error. Sarah Thyre, who played the gym
teacher on the television show ''Strangers With Candy,'' said she sometimes
accidentally deletes e-mails on her iPhone. ''The hair-trigger Trash icon is
located at the bottom center of the touch screen, right where a scrolling finger
ends up. Smartphone? Bah!''

So, like Penelope eyeing the horizon for Odysseus' return, we communications
widows must sit and wait.

We neurotically pore over our spam boxes or think peevish thoughts about our
nonreturnee's spam box. We fret. We struggle with how difficult it is to feel
needy and expectant. In some instances, we are told that our e-mail went into
spam, a statement that activates either our inner skeptic or our sympathy.
(''It's the permissible white lie,'' Ms. McKean said. ''It's the equivalent of
'I can't go to your party, I came down with food poisoning.' Your e-mail gets
food poisoning.'')

In the end, short of asking for e-mail receipts, which many consider rude, our
only hope seems to lie in philosophical repositioning. I acquired some of that
entity when Mr. Forni told me that, online, ''we communicate because we can and
not because we have something important to say.''

''We invest in the swapping of trivialities,'' he said, ''precious time that we
could use for serious reflection. I want to believe that when we stumble upon
black holes of silence on the net, that depends at least in part on someone
reacting against the tyranny of hyperconnection.

''There must be brave and smart souls who came to realize that thinking is more
important than communicating,'' he continued. ''I see them in my mind's eye a
brave minority, sitting in silence, pondering and planning -- the way it used to
be.''

Eager for a second opinion, I sent out interview requests to four Buddhist monks
(two directly, and two through their publishers) and to two Buddhist
monasteries. Six hours later, one monk wrote back apologetically to say he would
not have time to talk by phone because he was leading a 10-day meditation course
in Brazil, where the Internet connection is ''patchy,'' which would prohibit his
responding again by e-mail.

Another monk's assistant wrote back after 50 hours to say that his boss was busy
at a United Nations conference. Finally, some 75 hours after being contacted --
and after his e-mail to me had bounced back to him-- the Rev. Master Jisho
Perry, a monk at the Shasta Abbey in Mount Shasta, Calif., counseled me,
''Patience is the ability to end our expectations.''

He added that the computer industry's perennial promise of faster and faster
service is a ''delusion.''

Delineating a difference between immediate, visceral reacting to stimuli, and
calm, reflective responding to same, he encouraged me to be ''still enough to
respond rather than react.''

I'm trying to be still. I'm trying not to wiggle. When I saw the Royal
Shakespeare Company's production at the Park Avenue Armory the other night, I
took solace. No piece of mail that does not reach me will ever prove as dire as
the one that didn't reach Romeo.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ROSS MACDONALD)(ST1
 ST2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 17, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Songs of Now Sound a Lot Like Then

BYLINE: By SIMON REYNOLDS

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1741 words


ONCE pop music was something by which you could tell the decade, or even the
year. But listening to the radio nowadays is disorienting, if you're searching
for a sound that screams, ''It's 2011!''

Take the biggest hit of the year, Adele's ''Rolling in the Deep.'' The song is
basically 1960s rhythm-and-blues tightened up with modern production. Everything
about ''Rolling'' -- its melody and lyrics, Adele's delivery and timbre, the
role played by the backing vocalists -- gestures back to a lost golden age of
soul singers like Etta James and Dusty Springfield. Then there's Cee-Lo Green's
''Forget You,'' a hit from last year that's still on the radio, and which moves
a decade nearer the present through being steeped in the '70s soul of acts like
the Staple Singers.

Elsewhere on Top 40 radio you'll hear a lot of brash, pounding songs that sound
like '90s club music. Recent smashes by performers like Black-Eyed Peas, LMFAO,
Kesha, Pitbull, Taio Cruz, Jennifer Lopez and Britney Spears recall the ''hip
house'' sound of hitmakers like Technotronic and C&C Music Factory, or mid-'90s
trance anthems by Paul Van Dyk and B T. It may require a mental exercise to
bring out the true weirdness of this development: Imagine how peculiar it would
have been if in the early '90s the charts were suddenly flooded with music that
sounded exactly like '70s disco.

Figures like Lady Gaga and groups including the Black Eyed Peas reach even
further back and throw '80s flavors into the '90s Eurohouse mix: the resemblance
between Madonna's ''Express Yourself'' and Lady Gaga's ''Born This Way'' was
widely noted on its release this year. ''Just Can't Get Enough'' by the Black
Eyed Peas references Styx's ''Mr. Roboto,'' while their song ''The Time''
borrows its chorus from Bill Medley and Jennifer Warnes's ''(I've Had) the Time
of My Life.''

Much of this deja entendu dancepop is exciting in its crass, energy-drink-blast
kind of way. So why does the aural overfamiliarity matter? Well, up until the
2000s pop decades always had epoch-defining sounds. Two or three (sometimes
more) genres would emerge to achieve dominance or, at the very least, prominence
in the mainstream. Musical styles usually build on the past to some degree, but
these genres always took their sources in striking and fresh directions, and
they often wrapped the music up in subcultural garb, with a distinct fashion
element, new rituals and dance moves, and so forth.

The '70s generated heavy metal, punk, disco, reggae and more. The '80s spawned
hip-hop, synthpop and Goth. The '90s had grunge and the techno/rave/electronic
explosion. But the decade and a bit that followed the turn of the millennium has
produced -- well, what exactly? Hip-hop and R&B have built incrementally, at
times imperceptibly, on where they were at during the '90s. Emo is a tuneful and
melodramatic merger of pop-punk and Goth. True, if you venture into the musical
left field, you will find various underground genres that can claim at least
relative freshness: grime and dubstep in Britain, the post-indie sounds of
Animal Collective and similar bands in America. But their effects on mainstream
pop music has been minimal.

Those who don't have much personal investment in the idea that popular music
should always be pushing forward probably won't be especially troubled by the
current pop scene's muddled mix of stasis and regression. But those whose
expectations have been shaped by growing up during more fast-moving and
ever-changing pop decades -- which is basically all of them to date except for
the 2000s -- are likely to be perplexed and disheartened by these developments.
In particular the innovation-obsessed '60s and the cyber-optimistic '90s
instilled an ideal of pop music as herald of the future, a vanguard sector of
the culture that was a little bit ahead of the rest of society.

The fading of newness and nowness from pop music is mystifying. But in the last
couple of years a concept has emerged that at least identifies the syndrome,
even if it doesn't completely explain it. Coined by the co-founders of cyberpunk
fiction William Gibson and Bruce Sterling, ''atemporality'' is a term for the
disconcerting absence of contemporaneity from so much current pop culture. This
curious quality can be detected not just in pop music but in everything from
fashion to graphic design to vintage chic.

A prime example of atemporality is the fad for photography apps like Hipstamatic
and Instagram, which digitally simulate the period atmosphere of pictures taken
in the '70s or '80s, using the cameras and film stock of the time.
Instant-nostalgia snapshots are part of a culture-wide fascination with outmoded
technology and ''dead media'' (Mr. Sterling's term) that encompasses everything
from the cults for manual typewriters and cassettes to the steampunk movement's
fetish for Victoriana to the recent movie ''Super 8.''

Mr. Sterling sees the time-out-of-joint nature of today's pop as a side effect
of digiculture. One of the curiosities of the futuristic-seeming information
technology that we now enjoy is that it has dramatically increased the presence
of the past in our lives. From YouTube to iTunes, from file-sharing blogs to
Netflix, the sheer volume and range of back catalogue music, film, TV and so
forth that is available for consumption is astounding.

We can access all this stuff with incredible speed and convenience, share it and
store it with minimal effort. But a potential downside of this sudden
''affluence'' is a flood of influences that can overwhelm the imagination of
young musicians, who are absorbing five decades of pop history in a frenetic
jumble. Their attention is also being competed for by music from outside the
Anglophone rock and pop traditions, everything from West African guitarpop to
Soviet New Wave music to Ethiopian electronic funk from the 1980s.

The musical omnivorousness that the Internet has encouraged and enabled is one
reason atemporality is even more pronounced when you listen to alternative radio
stations, which specialize in music by bands that consciously aim to have broad
taste and to develop unusual portfolios of influences. Listen to KCRW (89.9 FM),
the NPR-affiliated station in Los Angeles whose programming often wanders
between genres and decades, leaving listeners to wonder if a particular track
was recorded in 2011 or in 1981, or in 1971.

A few weeks ago the station played a gorgeously dreamy tune whose rippling,
dewy-with-reverb keyboard part and yearningly melodic bass line seemed uncannily
redolent of late '70s Fleetwood Mac. Was this actually a lost Mac song circa
1977's ''Rumours''? Or was it an offering from one of the growing number of
contemporary indie bands influenced by '70s soft rock? The song turned out to be
''Roscoe'' by Midlake, a group of 21st-century soft-rockers from Denton, Tex.
But it was a remixed version made by the British outfit Beyond the Wizard's
Sleeve with clear intent to bring out further the Fleetwood Mac-iness of the
song. And then, to show they were in on it, the programmers at KCRW followed
''Roscoe'' by playing ''Rhiannon.''

That 1976 Fleetwood Mac hit is the kind of staple tune you'd normally hear on a
classic rock station rather than KCRW, whose sensibility is like a slightly more
adult version of the online hip music magazine Pitchfork. And this shows how
atemporality has not just jumbled up the decades, it's eroded the barriers
between genres. The iPod shuffle is the era's defining music technology. One
result on the radio dial is the rise of formats like Jack FM that seemingly
mimic a middle-aged man's iPod in shuffle mode: a restless drifting that
nevertheless stays within defined taste limits.

The iPod shuffle and similar digital platforms for music listening have a
contradictory result: on the one hand it serves to erode the historical
divisions between kinds of music by its decontextualizing effect, on the other
hand it enables fans to avoid entirely music they don't like. So the programming
on Jack FM (whose slogan is ''Playing what we want'') slips back and forth
between '70s and '80s, Old Wave and New Wave, with occasional excursions into
the late '60s (Hendrix, Creedence) or the '90s (Sublime, Smashing Pumpkins).
It's a world where hip-hop and techno-rave never happened, but also where ZZ Top
and the Clash are no longer on opposing sides.

Does the atemporality of so much modern pop music mean that when in the future
we listen back to early-21st-century pop, we won't be able to identify a sound
that characterizes the period? Fans often identify periods of pop by their
production hallmark. So they'll talk (usually to complain) about '80s drum
sounds. If there's a modern equivalent, it's the superhumanly perfect vocals
featured in so much current pop and rock thanks to Auto-Tune, the
pitch-correction processor made by Antares Audio Technologies.

The slickness of Auto-Tuned singing seems to have a similar aesthetic quality to
the design of smartphones and MP3-players and other hand-held gadgets, or to the
C.G.I. effects in modern Hollywood blockbusters and the glossy hyper-real
imagery in video games. Auto-Tune vocals even seem a bit sci-fi. Which is why in
one Black Eyed Peas song Will.i.am sings, in heavily processed tones, about how
he's got ''that future flow/that digital spit'' (not a reference to saliva, but
to rapping). Take away the Auto-Tune sheen, though, and there's little about
Black Eyed Peas records to indicate they weren't made in the '90s. The same
applies to other recent dance pop smashes by the likes of Taio Cruz, Kesha and
Lady Gaga.

Pop music in the 2000s may not have made any huge strides on a formal level (the
way songs are written, grooves constructed and so forth), but on this cosmetic
level of the digital gloss that's been applied to the vocals you could say that
it does sound of its time. (Which is also why the rasp of Adele and Cee-Lo Green
is a deliberate throwback to the era of vocal grit and grain, a bid for
''timelessness.'')

For better or worse Auto-Tune is the date stamp of today's pop: it will date
badly, and then it will go through all the stages of starting to see charmingly
quaint, cute, cool. Who knows, at some point in the near future it might well
become a revivable sound, embraced first by early adopter hipsters who will hunt
down ''vintage'' Auto-Tune plug-ins in the same way that they currently collect
antique synthesizers and old-fashioned valve amplifiers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Adele performing at the Beacon Theater in New York in May.
Above, Cee-Lo Green onstage at a concert in Las Vegas in June. Below, Fergie and
Will.i.am of the band the Black Eyed Peas at a show in London. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES FOR BACARDI
JIM DYSON/GETTY IMAGES)(AR14)
 The members of the British-American rock band Fleetwood Mac in New Haven in
1977. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FIN COSTELLO/REDFERNS/RETNA)(AR17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             July 19, 2011 Tuesday

Federal Authorities Arrest 14 Members of Anonymous

BYLINE: NICK BILTON and WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 368 words



HIGHLIGHT: Federal authorities in Washington are expected to announce charges on
Tuesday against about a dozen suspected members of the hacker group Anonymous,
officials said.


6:15 p.m. | Updated

Federal authorities arrested 16 people on Tuesday, 14 of whom are suspected
members of the activist hacker group Anonymous, officials said. The other two
individuals were arrested on cyber-related charges.

Earlier Tuesday, the Federal Bureau of Investigation executed three search
warrants in connection with the hacker group, law-enforcement officials said.
Two of the raids were executed at homes on Long Island, while the other raid
took place in an apartment building in Brooklyn. The authorities said they
seized computers in the raid.

The United States Department of Justice said in a statement that Tuesday's
arrests took place across the United States in Alabama, Arizona, California,
Colorado, the District of Columbia, Florida, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Mexico
and Ohio.

The charges, which were brought by federal prosecutors in the Northern District
of California in San Jose, allege that Anonymous members performed a distributed
denial of service attack against PayPal, the payment Web site, taking the
company's Web site offline for four days.

The attacks, which took place during December of last year, were in retaliation
for PayPal's refusal to process WikiLeaks credit card payments.

All of the defendants charged in the case are between the ages of 20 and 33
years old. The defendants are all being charged with several counts of
conspiracy and intentional damage to a protected computer. Authorities said they
will be arraigned Tuesday in the areas they were arrested.

Anonymous has been at the center of the news lately with members of the loosely
organized group ramping up attacks on corporate and government Web sites. In
recent months the group has started to call its efforts AntiSec, or Anti
Security, and says it hopes to expose security flaws online.

Anonymous has claimed responsibility in the past for attacking MasterCard and
Visa in an effort to assist the WikiLeaks founder, Julian Assange. The group has
also attacked sites related to the Church of Scientology.

     ·    Hackers Hit Arizona Police Again
     ·    LulzSec Hackers Make Enemies Online
     ·    Guilty Plea in Theft of Data About iPad Owners
     ·    Hacking Group Says It Brought Down C.I.A. Site
     ·    Hackers Claim to Breach Senate's Web Site


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 24, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Decoding Your E-Mail Personality

BYLINE: By BEN ZIMMER

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; GRAY MATTER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1033 words


Ben Zimmer, a former On Language columnist for The New York Times Magazine, is
the executive producer of VisualThesaurus.com and Vocabulary.com.

IMAGINE, if you will, a young Mark Zuckerberg circa 2003, tapping out e-mail
messages from his Harvard dorm room. It's a safe bet he never would have guessed
that eight years later a multibillion-dollar lawsuit might hinge on whether he
capitalized the word ''Internet,'' or whether he spelled ''cannot'' as one word
or two.

But that is exactly the kind of stylistic minutiae being analyzed in a lawsuit
filed by Paul Ceglia, owner of a wood-pellet fuel company in upstate New York.
Mr. Ceglia says that a work-for-hire contract he arranged with Mr. Zuckerberg,
then an 18-year-old Harvard freshman, entitles him to half of the Facebook
fortune. He has backed up his claim with e-mails purported to be from Mr.
Zuckerberg, but Facebook's lawyers argue that the e-mail exchanges are
fabrications.

When legal teams need to prove or disprove the authorship of key texts, they
call in the forensic linguists. Scholars in the field have tackled the disputed
origins of some prestigious works, from Shakespearean sonnets to the Federalist
Papers. But how reliably can linguistic experts establish that Person A wrote
Document X when Document X is an e-mail -- or worse, a terse note sent by
instant message or Twitter? After all, e-mails and their ilk give us a much more
limited purchase on an author's idiosyncrasies than an extended work of
literature. Does digital writing leave fingerprints?

The law firm representing Mr. Zuckerberg called upon Gerald McMenamin, emeritus
professor of linguistics at California State University, Fresno, to study the
alleged Zuckerberg e-mails. (Normally, other data like message headers and
server logs could be used to pin down the e-mails' provenance, but Mr. Ceglia
claims to have saved the messages in Microsoft Word files.) Mr. McMenamin
determined, in a report filed with the court last month, that ''it is probable
that Mr. Zuckerberg is not the author of the questioned writings.'' Using
''forensic stylistics,'' he reached his conclusion through a cross-textual
comparison of 11 different ''style markers,'' including variant forms of
punctuation, spelling and grammar.

But Mr. McMenamin's report has raised eyebrows in the forensic linguistics
community. Earlier this month, the outgoing president of the International
Association of Forensic Linguists, Ronald R. Butters, publicly questioned
whether Mr. McMenamin could actually establish that Mr. Zuckerberg likely did
not write the e-mails based on such slender evidence. For example, the would-be
Zuckerberg e-mails had one instance of uncapitalized ''internet,'' while a
sample of e-mails known to be sent by Mr. Zuckerberg had two capitalized
instances of ''Internet.'' ''Are we really doing 'scientific' and 'linguistic'
analysis at all when we simply note instances or absences of this or that
superficial textual feature?'' Mr. Butters asked.

Some experts are more optimistic. Carole E. Chaski, president of Alias
Technology and executive director of the Institute for Linguistic Evidence, has
taken on what she terms ''the keyboard dilemma,'' that is, ''the problem of
identifying the authorship of a document that was produced by a computer to
which multiple users had access.'' She has developed computer software that
categorizes grammatical structures as ''marked'' and ''unmarked'': an unmarked
noun phrase, for instance, has its main noun at the end of a simple phrase
(''our marriage,'' ''a divorce''), while a marked one has the noun in the
beginning of a phrase (''anything you ask'') or in the middle (''the rest of our
lives''). These aspects of a writer's syntax are relatively stable across
different styles of writing, Ms. Chaski argues. They are also less prone to
technological intervention -- compared to spelling and punctuation, which can be
changed on the fly by spell-check and autocorrect features.

Recently, a team of computer scientists at Concordia University in Montreal took
advantage of an unusual set of data to test another method of determining e-mail
authorship. In 2003, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, as part of its
investigation into Enron, released into the public domain hundreds of thousands
of employee e-mails, which have become an important resource for forensic
research. (Unlike novels, newspapers or blogs, e-mails are a private form of
communication and aren't usually available as a sizable corpus for analysis.)

Using this data, Benjamin C. M. Fung, who specializes in data mining, and Mourad
Debbabi, a cyber-forensics expert, collaborated on a program that can look at an
anonymous e-mail message and predict who wrote it out of a pool of known
authors, with an accuracy of 80 to 90 percent. (Ms. Chaski claims 95 percent
accuracy with her syntactic method.) The team identifies bundles of linguistic
features, hundreds in all. They catalog everything from the position of
greetings and farewells in e-mails to the preference of a writer for using
symbols (say, ''$'' or ''%'') or words (''dollars'' or ''percent''). Combining
all of those features, they contend, allows them to determine what they call a
person's ''write-print.''

Many linguists, however, would challenge the notion that the ''fingerprint,'' a
supposedly unique identifier, can be metaphorically applied to writing. Surely
we all have our own written quirks and mannerisms -- I tend to overuse
em-dashes, for instance. But there is just too much internal variability in any
person's body of writing to imagine that we could take just a bit of it -- a
handful of e-mails -- and recognize some sort of linguistic DNA. That is all the
more true when it comes to digital genres like text messages, instant messages
and tweets, full of unusual spellings and innovative abbreviations, and often
sensitive to the type of device we're using.

Still, these new quantitative approaches hold out the hope of at least
differentiating one author from another with a reasonable degree of confidence.
This can provide the kind of reliable foundation for research that forensic
stylistics as traditionally practiced cannot. Hmm, or is that ''can not''?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOON MO KANG)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 24, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Look Past The Beauty, If You Can

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1842 words



LOS ANGELES

A--CLONE army of starlets marches through Hollywood casting offices every day --
all beautiful, all talented, all interchangeable. Pick one, any one. But every
so often a young actress rolls into town and drops jaws. Keep your eye on that
one, studio executives say. That one is different.

Olivia Wilde, 27, is one of those women.

The green-eyed bombshell arrived in the movie capital in 2002, strangely enough,
to work in a casting agency, your basic head-shot processing plant. Her parents,
two prominent Washington journalists with all sorts of Beltway and celebrity
connections, helped arrange it. The goal, according to her mother, Leslie
Cockburn, a producer for ''60 Minutes,'' was to squelch Ms. Wilde's interest in
acting by exposing her to a particularly hardhearted corner of the dream
factory, where hundreds of resumes are casually tossed aside.

''They thought I would take one look at the cattiness and people from Yale and
Juilliard begging for jobs and hightail it out of town,'' Ms. Wilde said
recently over lunch at a tucked-away little cafe on Sunset Boulevard.

But Ms. Wilde was almost immediately cast herself, popping up in shows like
''The OC'' on Fox and landing a continuing supporting role on that network's hit
series ''House'' as a self-destructive doctor. Her first big movie part, a Joan
of Arc-like cyber warrior, came last year in ''Tron: Legacy.'' Now she has seven
films in stages of completion, starting with ''Cowboys & Aliens,'' an atypical
action extravaganza that arrives on Friday from Universal Pictures, and
continuing one week later with Universal's ultra-crude comedy ''The Change-Up.''

''Olivia reminds me a lot of Angelina Jolie -- a fiercely intelligent, drop-dead
gorgeous woman who knows what she wants to do and goes after it,'' said Donna
Langley, Universal's co-chairwoman.

Despite her success in landing ensemble movies Ms. Wilde is still waiting for
that one breakout leading part, either a dramatic role that gets her noticed by
critics or one that makes her the face of the film. Like what ''Letters to
Juliet'' did for Amanda Seyfried or Emma Stone's ride with ''Easy A.'' Her looks
could prove a liability; when you are the kind of actress who lands the No. 1
spot on Maxim magazine's Hot 100 list, it's very easy to be pigeonholed as
cinematic eye candy. It took Charlize Theron's turn as a greasy-haired,
yellow-toothed serial killer in ''Monster'' for people to take her seriously.

And just because Ms. Wilde is working a lot these days doesn't mean her film
career won't ultimately fizzle as fast as it started. At this point she's still
just a string of bad movies away from being Kate Hudson.

Ms. Wilde has also chosen a difficult balancing act, at least for a starlet: She
has ideas, and she expects directors and writers to listen to them, at a time
when up-and-coming actresses of her ilk are still expected to be seen and not
heard. When they do speak up, especially publicly, studios often deem them
''difficult'' and they wither. See: Heigl, Katherine, or Fox, Megan.

''Trying to fight this industry's tendency to celebrate the physical is a waste
of time,'' Ms. Wilde said. ''So I'm happy to play that game. But I am also
thirsty for input. I'm not a dunce whose only skill is knowing how to take a
photograph, you know? And at the end of the day I think it makes me slightly
less replaceable.''

When she was cast in ''Cowboys & Aliens'' as a gunslinger with a big secret, the
writers of ''Tron: Legacy,'' Edward Kitsis and Adam Horowitz, called the new
film's writers with a warning: Ms. Wilde will want to discuss her character's
psychological makeup aggressively. ''It wasn't a negative, but rather saying
that she's a dream, somebody who is collaborative and can talk intelligently
about the story,'' Mr. Horowitz said.

In ''The Change-Up,'' which stars Jason Bateman and Ryan Reynolds as opposites
who swap bodies ''Freaky Friday'' style, Ms. Wilde, who plays a vixen legal
assistant, spoke up with an idea about adding a scene where her character gets a
tattoo in, um, an extremely delicate spot. It's in the finished movie (although
her parents may want to close their eyes during it).

''What makes Olivia's input different is that she's not a squeaky wheel who
rolls onto the set and has this pushiness that demolishes the whole thing,'' Mr.
Bateman said. ''She has a self-deprecating sense of humor about herself, and
she's generous with ideas, even if they don't directly benefit her.''

In person Ms. Wilde is warm and chatty, with perfect posture. An aura of
self-confidence surrounds her, tempered slightly by a tendency to bite her lower
lip. She arrived at lunch early, seemingly without makeup, and immediately
started talking about her dog, Paco, a rescued cross-breed that has appeared in
Old Navy commercials. After being trained by the retailer to perform in ads,
Paco now enjoys wearing clothes, she said with a laugh.

Calling herself a ''world-class nerd,'' Ms. Wilde bemoaned a meeting later in
the afternoon at the slick Los Angeles branch of the Soho House chain of private
clubs. ''One of the things that takes you by surprise is that there is zero
sense of entitlement,'' said Katie Jacobs, a ''House'' executive producer. ''She
considers herself as somebody who always has her foot in her mouth.''

Ms. Wilde, who attended the Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., was raised to be
inquisitive and have opinions. Her mother is an investigative journalist known
for covering United States military scandals for ''60 Minutes,'' PBS and ABC
News. Ms. Cockburn also directed the acclaimed 2009 documentary ''American
Casino,'' which looked at how the financial meltdown impacted the working class.

Andrew Cockburn, her father, is also a journalist and the author of books like
''Rumsfeld: His Rise, Fall and Catastrophic Legacy.'' Together, the Cockburns
helped produce the 1997 movie ''The Peacemaker,'' starring George Clooney and
Nicole Kidman in a tale about stolen nuclear weapons. The film was based on a
book the couple wrote, ''One Point Safe.''

(In a nod to her father's Irish heritage, Ms. Wilde looked to Oscar Wilde for a
stage name.)

The Cockburn home in Washington was a hotbed for intellectuals and celebrities.
The writer Christopher Hitchens, a family friend, sometimes baby-sat. Ms. Wilde
remembers listening in on a conversation at the dinner table between the
diplomat Richard Holbrooke and Mick Jagger. ''They finally noticed me and sent
me to bed,'' she said with a laugh. ''I wish I could remember what the
discussion was about.''

Ms. Wilde's parents also infused her with a sense of social responsibility. She
tries to use her growing celebrity to direct attention to charities like Power
Up Gambia, which works to bring solar power to clinics in rural Africa. Much of
Ms. Wilde's free time these days is devoted to Artists for Peace and Justice,
which focuses on education and health programs in Haiti. On one trip there she
worked at a morgue.

But even as a child Ms. Wilde was a bit of a ham. ''Olivia religiously watched
reruns of 'I Love Lucy' to study Lucille Ball's technique,'' Ms. Cockburn said,
noting that her daughter also made elaborate home movies.

Because she was such a fan of slapstick humor -- Ms. Wilde lists the ''Police
Academy'' movies as childhood favorites -- her parents took her to a taping of
''Saturday Night Live'' when she was 10, and they attended the after-party.
Chris Farley noticed her and challenged her to a brownie-eating contest. ''He
won, but I gave him a run for his money,'' Ms. Wilde said.

''The Change-Up,'' directed by David Dobkin (''Wedding Crashers''), definitely
has its slapstick moments, but her role in ''Cowboys & Aliens,'' which co-stars
Daniel Craig and Harrison Ford, is serious and brooding. Ms. Wilde's parade of
films following those two are also diverse: in the indie comedy ''Butter,'' she
plays a competitor at a butter-carving competition; ''Blackbird,'' a crime
drama, finds her as a desperate fugitive; in the science-fiction thriller ''In
Time,'' about people who stop aging at 25, she plays Justin Timberlake's mother.

Picking the widest variety of roles is partly a way for Ms. Wilde to show that
she's more than just a pretty face. To emulate the careers of Sigourney Weaver
or Katharine Hepburn, two actresses Ms. Wilde said she sees as role models, she
will need to win over critics. So far that crowd has been quiet on her acting,
instead commenting mostly on her babe-dom. (One notable exception: Roger Ebert
described her performance in ''Tron: Legacy'' as ''fragrant,'' noting that she
was able to ''plausibly project human emotions in an environment devoid of
organic life.'')

But role diversity also reflects her wanderlust. She's one of those people who
casually peppers a conversation with sentences like ''I was in Brazil, learning
how to free-dive from some spear fisherman.''

That tendency to leap before she looks is evident in her personal life too. When
Ms. Wilde was 19 she was engaged to Tao Ruspoli, a filmmaker and son of an
Italian prince (for real), at the anything-goes Burning Man festival in Nevada.
A few weeks later she married him on an old school bus, where he was living. She
filed for divorce in March.

''It was a great eight years, but it was time for both of us to move on,'' she
said. At the least she came away with entertaining stories about visiting his
family in Italy, like the time she arrived at a ''casual'' dinner to find
trumpet players and people on stilts dropping flower petals. ''I was like, where
am I?'' she said. A similar feeling came over her on the New Mexico set of
''Cowboys & Aliens,'' which was directed by Jon Favreau (''Iron Man''). ''I was
coated in dust for four months straight,'' she said. Not that she complained to
Mr. Favreau, who said he was surprised to find her asking for harder and harder
stunts.

He pointed to a scene in which Ms. Wilde's character, on a horse galloping
across the desert, is yanked from the saddle by a flying alien. The plan was to
use a stunt double for part of the sequence, augmented by a computerized
''digital double'' in postproduction. All Mr. Favreau expected Ms. Wilde to do
was ride a mechanical horse for a couple of close-ups of her face.

But Ms. Wilde ended up performing the complicated stunt herself, being pulled
off a speeding horse by a wire attached to a crane. ''Frankly, she put our stunt
riders in a tough spot,'' Mr. Favreau said. ''Here was our ingenue, doing all of
the scary stuff and making it look easy.''

Online Correction: July 24, 2011, Sunday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article misspelled the name of the performing arts school in New
York. It is the Juilliard School, not Julliard.

Correction: August 14, 2011, Sunday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A profile on
July 24 about the actress Olivia Wilde misspelled the name of the indie comedy
in which she plays a competitor at a butter-carving competition. The movie is
''Butter,'' not ''Butte.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The actress Olivia Wilde, a regular on the Fox series
''House,'' has seven films in stages of production. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN SCANLON
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR1)
From top, from left, Olivia Wilde with Ryan Reynolds in ''The Change-Up''
as Thirteen (in lab coat) on ''House''
standing at left with Dr. Reza Nabavian, Susan Sarandon, Dr. Bob Arnot, Demi
Moore, Gerard Butler, the director Paul Haggis and Sean Penn in Haiti
on ''The OC''
in Los Angeles
with Daniel Craig in ''Cowboys & Aliens''
in ''Tron: Legacy.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD CARTWRIGHT/UNIVERSAL PICTURES
PAUL DRINKWATER/FOX
KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/GETTY IMAGES
DARREN MICHAELS/FOX
KEVIN SCANLON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ZADE ROSENTHAL/UNIVERSAL PICTURES
 WALT DISNEY PICTURES)(AR7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                              July 24, 2011 Sunday

The Confidence Game at Google+

BYLINE: VIRGINIA HEFFERNAN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1211 words



HIGHLIGHT: The new social network makes us re-think, even briefly, what online
reality means.


It's extremely satisfying having just 20 friends on the new Google+.

Twenty simple, comprehensible, there-from-the-start friends. I know their first
and last names by heart. To add their birthdays and e-mail addresses to my
memory bank would require only a short afternoon with flashcards.

Twenty friends don't exceed anyone's capacity for caring. And because they're so
few, these relatively arbitrary 20 nonetheless appear to be of a far higher
quality than  of friends could ever be - and more real, by far, than the
hundreds and even thousands of friends many now have on Facebook, that other
social network.The pleasure of Google+, Google's new Facebook-style service,
which launched in invite-only beta a month ago, is simple: It's empty. A scenic,
untenanted place, like Montana. You run into a friend, say a Facebook friend, on
this western frontier, and say, "Wow. It's great to see you out here. From the
East Coast, you say? Baltimore? I'm from Boston!" Just that dubious connection
makes us companionable on Google+, makes us "social connections," as the local
Google+ idiom has it. Makes us friends.

That's all good for users - a rich experience to be in a big space with only a
few friends. But it's not so good for Google+. Social networks are trust
exercises, and to survive they typically must work night and day to cultivate
two illusions. The first is that they are absolutely packed. And the second is
that they - though they look like mere Web sites - are .

That illusion of packedness is crucial. Just ask anyone at Facebook. Every few
months that company announces a global membership number - right now it's 750
million. When numbers seem to be dipping, as they did last May when the number
of Facebook members in the U.S. went from 155.2 million to 149.4 million,
Facebook soft-pedals them. Lately, to throw off the impression that growth might
be slowing, Mark Zuckerberg has said that the number of members is now a less
significant sign of company health than the number of apps members share. But
Facebook still makes sure that 750 million is on the company's Wikipedia page.

As for the second illusion - the sheen of reality - this one's trickier. It's
unique to the Web. In the past, information on paper was something to read.
Bricks and mortar were a place to be. But, since the first appearance of the Web
in 1990, we have come to accept that information in pixels is something to read
- and also . That familiar and yet still jaw-dropping metaphor takes energy to
maintain. The odd shared sense that there's three-dimensionality and immersion
and real-world consequences on the Web as in no book or board game - that's the
Web's sine qua non. Hence, cyber. And "being on" the Internet.

How does a company build this all-important impression? By the time they entered
into public consciousness, Facebook and Twitter and YouTube and Skype seemed
fully formed (in contrast to the more experimental, improvisational feel of
Google+, which, as Gmail was when introduced, in "beta" version). Not only were
there millions of people on it already, but they were important people, and they
were making real things happen.

The dominant social networks are fantasy games built around rigged avatars,
outright fictions and a silent - and often unconscious - agreement among players
that the game and its somewhat creaky conceits influence the real world. This
pact is what distinguishes Facebook and Twitter from other fantasy games like
Dungeons and Dragons and L.A. Noire. And because of this pact, and because so
many hundreds of millions of people participate in this pact, Facebook and
Twitter  have meaning and significance in the real world. Just as paper money is
valuable because people who use it believe it's valuable, Facebook and Twitter -
right this minute - have value entirely because a whole continent's worth of
people believe they have value. So many players have invested so much trust in
these games that they can't afford  to believe they're paying off.

Everyone - especially people at Google - knows this perception and pact can
change on a dime, as it did with Friendster and MySpace, which once boomed and
are now social ghost towns. Friendster had technical and financial problems for
years, and people lost faith in it. MySpace was monetized so rapaciously that
the user's experience was compromised. Of course, the boom-bust also happened
with the original ghost towns, those places that exploded overnight in response
to the railroads or the Gold Rush, only to empty out as soon as skepticism and
even panic about their reason for being set in. The real world is filled with
ruins of spaces that once drew hopeful hordes. Cyberspace is, too, even though
it's unthinkable now  to imagine that anyone might ever enter "twitter.com" into
a Web browser and encounter "page not found."

Because the symbolic doings on these massive sites, along with the widespread
suspension of disbelief about oddities as various as "at-replying" on Twitter
and "poking" on Facebook, these actions now  real life. Facebook used to insist
on this slippage in the crazy way it used to ask you to verify friendships.
You'd be alerted that an account had proposed to link to yours, and Facebook
would send you a message: "Russell Simmons wants to be friends on Facebook. We
need you to confirm that you are, in fact, friends with Russell Simmons."

This among requests from actual friends. That "in fact" got me every time.  I am
neither friends with Russell Simmons nor even "in" anything that would look to
my grandmother like "a place for friends." I am sitting at a computer. But sure!
"In fact" I'm friends with Russell! Whoosh - into the pact I went.

Google+, which has 18 million users  as of last Friday, makes a few stabs at
setting up the pact. But Google's way seems more experimental than blustery -
most likely because its profits are so tied to the prowess of its search engine.
But I do see that the "friends" circle is expressly for "Your real friends, the
ones you feel comfortable sharing private details with."

The word "real" - that's a run at the reality trick. I toyed with the idea of
taking the site at its word, and keeping things real on Google+, by only
befriending people whom I would, say, have to my house. But that's not the Web
way. Already, my "real" friends include people I've barely met.

At least I didn't resist much this time. I still remember when I got that
Russell Simmons confirmation request on Facebook. I wanted to say, "Sure, I want
my Facebook account to be connected to an account called Russell Simmons after
the famous impresario and co-founder of Def Jam.  But I can't confirm that this
odd new desire of mine has anything to do with  of offline life in which real
friends exist."

I didn't want to console Facebook that all it was doing was creating an online
map to offline relationships. I wanted Facebook to  that it was a massive
fantasia - arguably a fraud - and that this note was an invitation to play a
very new and very strange game, whose contours, years later, we are only
beginning to fathom.

     ·    The Difference Between Friends and Friends, Explained
     ·    Friends in Revolution
     ·    On Gay Rights, Moving Real-Life Friends to Action
     ·    Google's War on Nonsense
     ·    Commemorating the Civil War's 150th Anniversary


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                              July 29, 2011 Friday

#trendingnyc: The Week on Twitter

BYLINE: MATT FLEGENHEIMER

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 591 words



HIGHLIGHT: The legalization of same-sex marriages and the National Football
League's contract resolution were among the top trending topics in New York.


Did Niagara Falls host the first same-sex wedding in New York State? Hard to
say.

But New York's Twitter users did reward the upstate attraction with heavy
traffic early Sunday morning, when a picture of the waters, illuminated in the
colors of the rainbow, made the cyber rounds.

"Breathtaking," wrote Steven Ferezy, an actor who posts as @sferezy.

In a fit of creative spelling, Tricia Okin, under the Twitter handle
@papercutny, said:

Purdy. Good job Niagra/NYS! RT @thinkprogress: Marriage equality officially
begins in NY, Niagara Falls goes rainbow http://t.co/mFlIThHSun Jul 24 17:10:46
via TweetDeckTricia Okinpapercutny

The good cheer survived into the early part of the week, after the National
Football League resolved its labor dispute on Monday. The city's Twitter
community took little time to answer the implied hypothetical: It was, in fact,
ready for some football.

FOOTBALL BACK and Rex Ryan were trending throughout the day, with the Jets head
coach drawing heat for his annual exercise in boastful predictions.

At @AnishESPN, Anish Shroff, an anchor on ESPNNews, wrote:

Is Rex Ryan trying to catch Patrick Ewing? (most championships guaranteed w/o
delivering)Tue Jul 26 23:45:06 via Twitter for BlackBerry®Anish ShroffAnishESPN

New York Giants fans were less cynical. Many celebrated the team's latest
addition, Mark Herzlich, the cancer survivor who signed as an undrafted free
agent. Others welcomed the potential return of Plaxico Burress, or "Plax" as
teammates often called him, the former Super Bowl hero who spent nearly two
years behind bars after accidentally shooting himself in the leg at a nightclub
in 2008.

@mmmfutter voiced his dissent, dryly:

@tbsimon Resigning Plax is shooting themselves in the foot.Wed Jul 27 15:28:12
via TweetDeckMichael Futtermmmfutter

In other metaphorical gun news: Flatiron had Twitter notoriety Wednesday and
Thursday when a supposed hostage situation near the Flatiron Building on Fifth
Avenue caused users to spread the word. Alas, the scene lacked one key
ingredient: hostages.

As it became clear that police had taken a man into custody, without a horde of
hostages to save, New Yorkers took to Twitter to admonish   Twitter.

@BloomsburyPress wrote:

Or, this is what happens when a minor kerfuffle happens outside a building full
of people with Twitter accounts #flatiron#pgWed Jul 27 20:35:20 via
TweetDeckBloomsbury PressBloomsburyPress

And @samdalsimer said:

@jasonschreier ha! Great story. The flatiron "hostage situation" today was the
perfect example of the rippling stupidity effect of TwitterThu Jul 28 03:33:53
via Twitter for iPadSam Dalsimersamdalsimer

Some New Yorkers, though, groped for a silver lining. Amidst the confusion
Wednesday afternoon, @nicolecardoza posted:

Flatiron hostage situation details still murky, but there's no line on the Shack
Cam at Shake Shack! #toosoon#flatironWed Jul 27 19:47:25 via webNicole
Cardozanicolecardoza

The week closed on a sad note, with residents mourning the death of Hideki
Irabu, the former Yankees pitcher who died of an apparent suicide Thursday at
age 42.

Some fans sprinkled pitching advice in with their condolences. @bharniman wrote:

RIP Hideki Irabu. I saw the first Yankees game you ever pitched, and you were
awesome that night.  Rest easy, and throw strikes.Fri Jul 29 01:24:55 via
TweetDeckbrian harnimanbharniman



     ·    Twitter Overreach, Top Competition and a Retirement
     ·    #trendingnyc: The Week on Twitter
     ·    At a Private School, Virtual Learning and the Rock
     ·    #trendingNYC: The Week on Twitter
     ·    Web Site Posts Image Said to Be of Bare-Chested Weiner


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 31, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

#Trending N.Y.C.

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 623 words


Did Niagara Falls host the first same-sex wedding in New York State? Hard to
say.

But New York's Twitter users did reward the upstate attraction with heavy
traffic early Sunday morning, when a picture of the waters, illuminated in the
colors of the rainbow, made the cyber rounds.

''Breathtaking,'' wrote Steven Ferezy, an actor who posts as @sferezy.

In a fit of creative spelling, Tricia Okin, under the Twitter handle
@papercutny, said:

Purdy. Good job Niagra/NYS! RT @thinkprogress: Marriage equality officially
begins in NY, Niagara Falls goes rainbow http://t.co/mFlIThHSun Jul 24 17:10:46
via TweetDeckTricia Okin papercutny

The good cheer survived into the early part of the week, after the National
Football League resolved its labor dispute on Monday. The city's Twitter
community took little time to answer the implied hypothetical: It was, in fact,
ready for some football.

FOOTBALL BACK and Rex Ryan were trending throughout the day, with the Jets head
coach drawing heat for his annual exercise in boastful predictions.

At @AnishESPN, Anish Shroff, an anchor on ESPNNews, wrote:

Is Rex Ryan trying to catch Patrick Ewing? (most championships guaranteed w/o
delivering)Tue Jul 26 23:45:06 via Twitter for BlackBerry(R)Anish Shroff
AnishESPN

New York Giants fans were less cynical. Many celebrated the team's latest
addition, Mark Herzlich, the cancer survivor who signed as an undrafted free
agent. Others welcomed the potential return of Plaxico Burress, or ''Plax'' as
teammates often called him, the former Super Bowl hero who spent nearly two
years behind bars after accidentally shooting himself in the leg at a nightclub
in 2008.

@mmmfutter voiced his dissent, dryly:

@tbsimon Resigning Plax is shooting themselves in the foot.Wed Jul 27 15:28:12
via TweetDeckMichael Futter mmmfutter

In other metaphorical gun news: Flatiron had Twitter notoriety Wednesday and
Thursday when a supposed hostage situation near the Flatiron Building on Fifth
Avenue caused users to spread the word. Alas, the scene lacked one key
ingredient: hostages.

As it became clear that police had taken a man into custody, without a horde of
hostages to save, New Yorkers took to Twitter to admonish Twitter.

@BloomsburyPress wrote:

Or, this is what happens when a minor kerfuffle happens outside a building full
of people with Twitter accounts #flatiron#pgWed Jul 27 20:35:20 via
TweetDeckBloomsbury Press BloomsburyPress

And @samdalsimer said:

@jasonschreier ha! Great story. The flatiron ''hostage situation'' today was the
perfect example of the rippling stupidity effect of TwitterThu Jul 28 03:33:53
via Twitter for iPadSam Dalsimer samdalsimer

Some New Yorkers, though, groped for a silver lining. Amidst the confusion
Wednesday afternoon, @nicolecardoza posted:

Flatiron hostage situation details still murky, but there's no line on the Shack
Cam at Shake Shack! #toosoon#flatironWed Jul 27 19:47:25 via webNicole Cardoza
nicolecardoza

The week closed on a sad note, with residents mourning the death of Hideki
Irabu, the former Yankees pitcher who died of an apparent suicide this week at
age 42.

Some fans sprinkled pitching advice in with their condolences. @bharniman wrote:

RIP Hideki Irabu. I saw the first Yankees game you ever pitched, and you were
awesome that night. Rest easy, and throw strikes.Fri Jul 29 01:24:55 via
TweetDeckbrian harniman bharniman

Trending topics are drawn from a periodic sampling by The New York Times of
locally trending popular terms reported by Twitter in the past week, with posts
of specific New York interest highlighted.

THIS WEEK ON TWITTER: Niagara Falls; Same-Sex Wedding; Football Back; Rex Ryan;
Mark Herzlich; Plax; Flatiron; Hideki IrabunThis is a more complete version of
the story than the one that appeared in print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 5, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Guardians Of Security Are Targets

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1108 words


LAS VEGAS -- The Web site of ManTech International, a $2.6 billion computer
security company that won a major F.B.I. contract, sells its services this way:

''Whether an intrusion is conducted by a skilled outsider with criminal intent,
an adolescent hacker seeking a thrill or a disgruntled employee bent on revenge
or espionage, the potential risks to the organization are enormous.''

Last Friday, ManTech was that organization.

A band of Internet vigilantes calling itself Anonymous said it had sneaked into
ManTech's computers to demonstrate the company's insecurity. The group released
what it said were internal company documents and, in language that suggested the
handiwork of an adolescent hacker seeking a thrill, taunted the company online:
''It's really good to know that you guys are taking care of protecting the
United States from so-called cyber threats.''

ManTech is in good company. In recent months, several security firms and
consultants have been hit by the very intruders they are hired to keep at bay.

Think of these companies as the new Pinkertons: Instead of taking on
19th-century outlaws in the Wild West, they are hired today to protect corporate
and government data, including the most confidential intelligence information,
across a vast virtual frontier. The string of embarrassing attacks on them
demonstrates how vulnerable everyone is online, including those who are paid to
be the protectors.

Many technology professionals who have long warned about such security risks say
so-called hacktivist groups like Anonymous, which publicize their attacks to
make a point, are the least worrisome of the many potential intruders out there.

''With the rise of hacktivism, now the people who break into you tell you they
break into you,'' said Jeff Moss, founder of the Black Hat conference, which
drew nearly 6,500 technologists, largely security professionals, to Las Vegas
this week. ''A little bit of public humiliation is going to go a long way in
helping the security industry clean up.''

Other times, the attackers are mysterious and more worrying entities, as in the
case of the still unknown organization that in March breached the systems of
RSA, whose electronic security tokens are used across many industries.

RSA's parent company, EMC, has said that replacing tokens and cleaning up the
mess has cost it roughly $90 million so far this year. Hackers used information
obtained in the RSA attack to break into Lockheed Martin, the largest military
contractor in the country.

On Wednesday the security company McAfee said it had uncovered a campaign of
computer break-ins at 72 organizations and companies worldwide. McAfee called it
the handiwork of a nation-state intent on acquiring, among other things,
American military designs. Military contractors in the United States made up a
disproportionately large share of the companies selected -- 12 in all.

Anonymous, for its part, has made it plain that it goes after defense and
intelligence contractors to expose their security vulnerabilities, not for
financial or strategic gain. Booz Allen Hamilton, a $5.6 billion company based
in McLean, Va., that does computer security work for the Defense Department, was
hit by the group in early July; the hackers released the e-mail addresses of
90,000 military personnel.

The most notorious breach of a security company came early this year after an
executive at HBGary Federal, a relatively small consultant eyeing a government
contract, boasted publicly of his ability to unmask the members of Anonymous. In
response, hackers made off with a large trove of the company's e-mail messages
and dumped them online, exposing details of its business transactions.

Greg Hoglund, who is the chief executive of HBGary, the parent company that owns
a minority stake in HBGary Federal, said that the breach was the result of ''a
human mistake'' and that his firm, along with other security companies, had
fortified their systems since then.

''It was a wake-up call for the entire security industry,'' Mr. Hoglund said.
''It probably needed to happen. I wish I didn't have to be the sacrificial
lamb.''

As unlikely as it may seem, HBGary Federal still has a contract to help an
unnamed federal agency sniff out spies inside its organization. And HBGary
continues to sell its software, intended to ferret out the circumstances of a
network intrusion.

For its part, ManTech posted a vague statement on its site last Friday after the
Anonymous attack, saying that it addresses threats to its information systems
and pointing out the obvious: ''All organizations attract cyber threats in our
highly networked world.''

An academic who studies computer security, who declined to be named because he
consults for the government, described the Anonymous attacks on security
companies in blunt terms: ''They're pulling their pants down publicly.''

The spate of attacks -- and the fear of more -- could actually end up buoying
the fortunes of the global security industry. A nationwide survey of company
technology managers, conducted by Forrester Research, found that computer
security had increased as a share of the total information technology budget of
companies, to 14 percent this year from 8.2 percent in 2007. Of those surveyed
this year, 56 percent said it was a high priority to ''significantly upgrade.''

''The landscape is more menacing now,'' said Eve Maler, principal analyst for
security and risk at Forrester. ''Even the most experienced practitioners are in
the process of upping their game.''

All of the major defense and intelligence contractors have expanded their
digital security wings in recent years. They are simply following the money. The
business of security for government agencies is growing by an enviable 9 percent
a year, according to the research firm Input/Deltek. Federal government
contracts alone amount to over $9 billion today and are projected to grow to
$13.3 billion by 2015. ''Cybersecurity,'' Deltek concluded in a recent report,
''is somewhat immune to spending and budget cuts.''

For better or worse, said Jonathan L. Zittrain, a Harvard Law School professor,
securing the Internet has been largely left to private players -- and even
government information is increasingly guarded by private companies, whose
actions can be difficult to monitor and hold accountable.

''In the absence of larger public order, we've seen do-it-yourself approaches:
the technologically savvy can configure their own firewalls, and corporations
can try to buy security,'' he said. ''But this can be as figuratively dicey as
trying to get and maintain security contractors in Baghdad immediately following
the fall of Saddam Hussein.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeff Moss is the founder of Black Hat and Defcon, well-known
conferences on hacking and the security industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 5, 2011 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Are You Reading This? That Is So Cool.

BYLINE: By STEVE BODOW.

Steve Bodow is co-executive producer and former head writer for ''The Daily Show
With Jon Stewart.''

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg.

LENGTH: 693 words


WHAT'S up, Times readers? Normally right now you'd be nodding off over a very
thoughtful prescription for offering Qaddafi an honorable exile at a plastic
surgery teaching hospital. But not today, people! Because I deleted that snoozer
when I hacked my way in here.

That's right. I hacked the Op-Ed page. You're only reading this because I broke
into The Times's internal network (''The Old Gray Linux Box'' we call it) and
put this piece in the lineup myself.

Surprise, surprise: a dead-tree media company's cyber-security was no tougher to
crack than Citibank's or the C.I.A.'s or any of the other institutions my
brethren have hacked into in the past few months.

You're probably wondering what I want. To be clear: I, along with a large group
of my associates, am acting alone. We take orders from no one. Though in the
spirit of disclosure, in this one Estonian chat room there's a 9-year-old boy
with some surprisingly good ideas.

We are completely untraceable, except for my byline, which only just now
occurred to me might be a problem.

Anyway, I wanted to set right a lot of the misunderstanding about us hackers
that has emerged this summer.

First, hackers are not criminals. I mean, technically, if you're into a strict
reading of the penal code, some of us are. But even the most radical hacktivist
groups among us -- even lawless, renegade outfits like Anonymous and LulzSec and
News Corp. -- are doing the valuable service of reminding the world that there
are no such things as ''total security'' or ''journalistic ethics.''

Which brings me to point 2.0: hacking's a fact of life now. Computer hacking,
phone hacking, credit card hacking -- these are but the beginning. We can hack
anything. I'm personally sitting on 52,000 T-Mobile account passwords, 14
million Frontier Airlines EarlyReturns points, a thumb drive full of Balenciaga
handbag serial numbers, and 200 slightly racy beach-vacation photos of a certain
well-known celebrity chef. I'm not making a threat. I'm just saying if a two-top
doesn't open up at a certain French fish restaurant next Thursday night, I tweet
the Speedo pics.

So we're here to stay and only getting closer. This summer, Facebook hired
21-year-old George Hotz, a k a Geohot, famed for hacking into Sony's
''unbreakable'' PlayStation 3 system. The new head of security for Icann, the
regulatory body that manages the Internet's foundational structure, is Jeff
Moss, a k a Dark Tangent. The Defense Department, F.B.I. and C.I.A. routinely
bring hacking talent in-house. Basically, our institutions now base their human
resources strategies on the plot of ''48 Hrs.''

I'm also hoping The Times will see the logic of making this Op-Ed column a
regular gig for me. In fact, I'm demanding it. Otherwise, things could get ugly.

You don't think I'm serious, do you?

Fine -- here's a little taste of some of the humiliation that awaits.

FACT: The New York Times network's user name and password were ''intern'' and
''Ochs1234.'' Come on. To hacktivists like me that's like an engraved invitation
-- if we ever even used paper, which we don't.

FACT: The boys in corporate don't want anyone to know, but 70 percent of company
revenues last year came from Times New Roman font royalties.

FACT: Tom Friedman's column has, for the last three years, been written not been
by Tom Friedman but by a consortium of Malaysian university students studying
artificial intelligence. T.F. has agreed to keep this quiet because the
Malaysians agreed to give him the book rights to the whole thing.

And for my last trick FACT: Most amazing of all -- now the world can be told --
Maureen Dowd

Congratulation reader! Our very good reputation firm has now possession of
Yakutsk gold mine but needs financing wired to Moscow for financial purposes.
Due to short time we have re-hacked newspaper Web site for spreading word to
smart Op-Ed readers

Hey. My name's Dave. I'm not wearing underpants. Vidlink:
www.youtube.com/watch?v=2vbz...

Arghh, sorry. Hacker Steve here again. Clearly some bugs to work out. Go read
''Thomas L. Friedman'' for a few minutes? I gotta go ask my Estonian what to do
here. Check back next Tuesday. That's the slot I've decided I want.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                             August 5, 2011 Friday

A Homemade Drone Snoops on Wireless Networks

BYLINE: SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 443 words



HIGHLIGHT: A remote-controlled plane that can snoop quietly on wireless networks
and attack them was on display at the Black Hat conference in Las Vegas.


It flies. It spies. It is the color of sunshine, and it has googly eyes.

Meet WASP, the Wireless Aerial Surveillance Platform, one of the star
attractions of this year's Black Hat conference for computer security
professionals in Las Vegas.

It's a remote-controlled plane with a computer in its belly that can fly up to
400 feet above the ground, snoop quietly on wireless networks below and attack
one if it wants to. It can also pretend to be a GSM cellphone tower,
eavesdropping on calls and text messages that pass through.

The WASP was built by Richard Perkins and Mike Tassey using hobby materials,
including Styrofoam plane body, plastic propeller and foam tires, along with
circuit boards and wires. The materials are all off the shelf, costing $6,190 -
a fraction of the cost of a spy plane, with cyber weapons included.

Its creators eschew the term "spy plane" for their device. "There's a negative
connotation to a spy plane," Mr. Tassey said. "This was done in an attempt to
prove a concept."

What concept?

"That it can be done," he said.

His sentiment perfectly embodied the ethos of Black Hat, a spirited gathering of
technologists who sometimes make scary things to show that they can be made, and
other times break things to show how badly they need to be fixed.

At the same conference, for instance, a diabetic hacked into his electronic
insulin pump and demonstrated how easily it could be shut down remotely,
depriving a patient of insulin or worse, pumping in far more insulin than he
needed. And a pair of security researchers demonstrated how easy it was to
extract money from stolen credit cards, using the card-reading device
distributed by Square.

The bird conjured by Mr. Perkins and  Mr. Tassey is barely four feet long and
becomes an imperceptible, quietly humming little creature when it hovers
overhead. Its vital assets are distance and anonymity. It would be easily
deployed over, say, an office building to sniff out information going across its
wireless network. Or if the office network is well secured, the plane could
follow one of its employees on a trip to a neighborhood Starbucks to use the
cafe's Wi-Fi network. The WASP could mimic the cafe's network, luring the
unwitting employee and allowing access to a laptop or cellphone. As Mr. Tassey
put it, "In Starbucks, no one can hear your laptop scream."

Both  men have day jobs helping the federal government keep their information
systems secure. They say they have no plans to make money on their device, nor
to snoop on anyone, only to show how cheap and easy it can be to snoop and
attack.


     ·    Security Researchers Catalog Mobile Vulnerabilities
     ·    Quick Bits: Monday Morning Tech News


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday

At a Hacker Conference, Plenty of Friendly Federal Agents

BYLINE: SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 668 words



HIGHLIGHT: Defcon, a convention of computer hackers, was crawling with federal
agents who were there not to arrest hackers but to recruit them.


LAS VEGAS -- Why are  federal agents hobnobbing with hackers?

Defcon, a convention of computer hackers here, was crawling with federal agents
on Friday. They smiled, shook hands, handed out their business cards, spoke on a
panel called "Meet the Federal Agent 2.0" and were really, really nice.

Naturally, the agents  have been hanging out at hacker gatherings for years for
the purposes of snooping. "Cloak and dagger," as one federal agent put it.

This time they came with another purpose: to chat, impress and, perhaps
ultimately, lure. The United States Cyber Command, the Pentagon's Internet
defense arm,  "has a work force issue," said Daron Hartvigsen, special agent
with the Air Force Office of Special Investigations.   "We have needs that some
in this community can solve. We need folks with skills."

Government agencies especially need computer professionals with cybersecurity
skills.

At Defcon, these skills were in ample supply --  and they can alternately thrill
and scare.  There were hackers and lockpickers here, problem solvers,
troublemakers and assorted geeks. There were attendees with mohawks and blue
hair, and some with blue mohawks. One wore a cape. A few wore kilts. Those
without tattoos seemed to be in a minority. And most, whether out of fear or
conceit, insisted on using their digital nicknames rather than their real ones:
LosT, alien, Abstract.

In their midst were Internet crime investigators representing the Army, Navy,
Air Force and NASA. The F.B.I.  set up a recruiting table at a related
conference of security professionals earlier in the week. An official from the
National Security Agency was scheduled to speak to next-generation hackers at a
two-day event called Defcon Kids on Saturday.

For the agents, it seemed less an aggressive recruiting drive than a public
diplomacy mission. They spoke about their computer science degrees. They took
pains to describe themselves as lovable  under their crew cuts. Ryan Pittman, an
ex-police offier who now works computer security  cases in the Army's criminal
investigations division, said the convention was an opportunity to whittle away
the image of  "jackbooted thugs." Ahmed Saleh, a computer crimes investigator
with NASA, described a job that might be appealing "if you're a geek and you
want to catch the bad guys."

There seemed to be plenty of receptive hackers. Christine Banek, a 29-year-old
software programmer with plum-colored hair, sidled up to Mr. Saleh after the
panel and asked if his agency was still hiring. She said she had applied online
and had not heard back. "If they were offering, I would totally take it," she
said. Later, she suggested aloud that the government legalize marijuana.
Positive drug tests generally disqualify a candidate from a law enforcement
position.

The audience had many questions. What do you do if you're asked to do something
you're morally opposed to? Mr. Saleh said he had never been put in that
situation, but that an employee at Starbucks could face a similar dilemma.
(Really, on the morality of soy lattes?)

Do you use informants in computer cases, as you would in other cases? Yes. Do
the agents  attack the computer systems of suspects? No. How seriously do the
agents regard  Lulz Security, the loose-knit vigilante group under the F.B.I.'s
watch  lately for attacking government and corporate Web sites, asked a young
man from Sacramento. Mr. Hartvigsen said it would not be prudent to comment on
an active case, offering only: "We investigate folks who break the law."

One could be forgiven for wondering whether the agents  might feel compelled to
do a bit of cloak-and-dagger at the conference, too. After all, there was some
braggadocio from proclaimed members of the hacking collectives that are under
investigation. One prominent member, who goes by the  nickname Sabu, posted
taunts on Twitter Friday afternoon, suggesting, probably falsely, that the
agents were unwittingly hobnobbing with him too at DefCon. He wrote: "LOL to the
two Feds that came to the booth."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 7, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

After 9/11, an Era of Tinker, Tailor, Jihadist, Spy

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT and THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1201 words


Eric Schmitt and Thom Shanker are reporters for The New York Times and authors
of the forthcoming ''Counterstrike: The Untold Story of America's Secret
Campaign Against Al Qaeda,'' from which this article is adapted.

WASHINGTON

AFTER the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the Bush administration let loose a global
campaign to take down leaders of terrorism wherever they were hiding. It wasn't
a surprising response to such terrifying assaults, but it had the unintended
consequence of creating as many militants as were taken off the battlefield.
There simply was no way for America to capture and kill its way to victory.

A different mind-set was needed to confront violent extremism. But it took years
after 9/11 for policy makers to realize they could draw on cold-war-style
thinking and skulduggery to protect America from its new global enemies. Cold
war deterrence theory, which relied on containment, intimidation and the sowing
of doubt to keep a tense nuclear peace with the Soviet Union, has in the decade
since 9/11 been updated and expanded to offer new and effective methods to help
keep stateless terrorist cells at bay.

The new strategy includes military raids, to be sure, notably drone strikes. But
it also includes network-disrupting tactics to deter the terror enablers who
would not want to sacrifice their own lives to jihad, and computer and cellphone
hacking to instill doubts among terrorists and their supporters about one
another.

Take the way terrorist networks move money around. They rely on transfer houses
called hawalas, which operate throughout the Muslim world in an ancient
tradition of honor, trust and confidentiality. In late 2009 and early 2010, the
American military began a successful campaign against the hawala network in
Nangarhar Province, Afghanistan, which was financing vicious militant attacks in
villages along the border with Pakistan.

The American military shut down half a dozen of the family businesses. But to
achieve a more long-lasting deterrent effect, officers warned scores more that
if they picked up the militant accounts, their ''families will suffer a drop in
well-being,'' said one United States Central Command officer involved in the
secretive campaign, who declined to go into further detail. Under threat of
swift and painful action should they continue moving money for militants, the
hawala operators were deterred from playing any further role in supporting
terrorist attacks.

Or consider what American computer specialists are doing on the Internet,
perhaps terrorist leaders' greatest safe haven, where they recruit, raise money
and plot future attacks on a global scale. American specialists have become
especially proficient at forging the onscreen cyber-trademarks used by Al Qaeda
to certify its Web statements, and are posting confusing and contradictory
orders, some so virulent that young Muslims dabbling in jihadist philosophy, but
on the fence about it, might be driven away.

And in a classified tactic used multiple times across the Middle East, American
military and intelligence officers have hacked the cellphones of terrorist
leaders using computer code, to lure them into an ambush or spread the word that
fellow cell members were embezzling money or plotting against their comrades.
Distrust of secure communications disrupts and even deters action.

While this new deterrence may not work with suicide bombers once they have
strapped on an explosive vest -- or Ayman al-Zawahri, Osama bin Laden's
successor atop Al Qaeda -- it does with terrorist facilitators like gunrunners,
financiers, brokers who find safe houses and many others involved only for
personal gain and not to make jihad.

Even terrorists, however suicidal, value some things greatly, like personal
glory and their personal reputations. Intelligence and military officials
confirm that fear of humiliation and failure kept Al Qaeda from attempting some
attacks on a 9/11 scale after 2001, when defenses against terrorist strikes were
heightened.

At first glance, adapting cold war deterrence to the campaign against terrorism
would seem unlikely if not impossible. After all, terrorists hold no territory
and thus hold no territory dear. They offer no obvious high-value targets for
American attack comparable to the national treasures the Soviets knew were at
risk: cities, critical factories, dachas of the elite, military bases, or silos
protecting the Kremlin's own nuclear force. Considering the nihilistic goals of
jihad, what can you threaten that will deter a suicide terrorist so obviously
willing to give up his life in pursuit of holy war against the United States?

A lot, it turns out. Over the past several years, a small band of eclectic
thinkers at the Pentagon and in the military's regional commands developed an
approach they call New Deterrence, which borrows from its traditional namesake
but includes an elastic set of concepts and tactics, some of which officials
were willing to describe to reporters in broad outlines, in part to further sow
doubt and suspicion in the enemy.

Deterrence in the strictest cold war sense refers to the idea that you induce,
even compel, an adversary not to do something by credibly threatening terrible
pain and suffering in retaliation. In its counterterrorism application, the goal
is the same: identify vulnerable parts of an enemy's chain of command,
operational cells and support network, and take steps that would put them at
risk to alter their behavior in your favor. If you can deter even one link in
the chain of a terrorist network, you have an opportunity to halt the entire
network. Some national security experts went even further back to theories of
criminal deterrence.

The Navy commando raid that killed Bin Laden on May 2 in Abbottabad, Pakistan,
was a culmination of the new thinking, after nearly a decade of missteps,
mistakes, trial and error under fire, and ultimately lessons not only learned
but taken to heart. In the end, it was Bin Laden's operational requirement to
have a human courier connecting him to his terrorist network -- someone to
physically transfer thumb drives with treatises, orders, demands and videos, and
to receive feedback from his support network in the field -- that led the United
States exactly to where Al Qaeda's leader was hiding.

Although drawing far less notice than drone strikes and commando raids, the
evolution in counterterrorism strategy in the decade since 9/11 can be traced in
the public language of administration policy.

The National Security Strategy of 2002, signed by President George W. Bush one
year after the Sept. 11 attacks, stated that ''traditional concepts of
deterrence will not work against a terrorist enemy whose avowed tactics are
wanton destruction and the targeting of innocents.''

But as the Obama administration prepared for the 10th anniversary of the 9/11
attacks, the White House and the Pentagon announced they were adapting the
principles of deterrence, in The National Military Strategy of the United States
of America of 2011.

''Though terrorists are very difficult to deter directly, they make cost/benefit
calculations and are dependent on states and other stakeholders we are capable
of influencing,'' the document declared.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The National Counterterrorism Center in Tysons Corner, Va.
Counterterrorism strategy has evolved considerably in the decade since 9/11.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) (SR7)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 8, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Agents, an Aerial Snoop and Teams of Hackers

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK; Pg.
6

LENGTH: 1038 words


LAS VEGAS

WHY are federal agents hobnobbing with hackers?

Defcon, a convention of computer hackers here, was crawling with them on Friday.
They smiled, shook hands, handed out business cards, spoke on a panel called
''Meet the Federal Agent 2.0'' and were really, really nice.

Naturally, federal agents have been hanging out at hacker gatherings for years
to snoop. ''Cloak and dagger,'' as one put it.

This time they came with another purpose: to schmooze, impress and, perhaps
ultimately, lure. The United States Cyber Command, the Pentagon's Internet
defense arm, ''has a work force issue,'' said Daron Hartvigsen, special agent
with the Air Force Office of Special Investigations. ''We have needs that some
in this community can solve. We need folks with skills.''

Government agencies especially need computer professionals with cybersecurity
skills. At Defcon, these skills were in ample supply -- and they can alternately
thrill and scare. There were hackers and lockpickers here, problem solvers and
troublemakers. There were attendees with mohawks and blue hair, and some with
blue mohawks. One wore a cape. A few wore kilts. Most, whether out of fear or
conceit, insisted on using their digital names rather than their real ones:
LosT, alien, Abstract.

In their midst were Internet crime investigators representing the Army, Navy,
Air Force and NASA. The F.B.I. set up a recruiting table at Black Hat, a related
conference of security professionals earlier in the week. A National Security
Agency official was to speak to next-generation hackers at a two-day event
called Defcon Kids on Saturday.

For the federal agents, it seemed less an aggressive recruiting drive than a
public diplomacy mission. They took pains to describe themselves as lovable
hackers under their crew cuts.

Ryan Pittman, an ex-cop who now works computer crime cases in the Army's
criminal investigations division, said the convention was an opportunity to
whittle away the federal agents' image as ''jackbooted thugs.'' Ahmed Saleh, a
computer crime investigator with NASA, described a job that might be appealing
''if you're a geek and you want to catch the bad guys.''

There seemed to be plenty of receptive hackers. Christine Banek, 29, a software
programmer with plum-colored hair, sidled up to Mr. Saleh after the panel and
asked if his agency was still hiring. She said she had applied online and had
not heard back. ''If they were offering, I would totally take it,'' she said.
Later, she suggested aloud that the government legalize marijuana. Positive drug
tests generally disqualify a candidate from a law enforcement position.

It flies. It spies. It is the color of sunshine, and it has googly eyes.

Meet WASP, the Wireless Aerial Surveillance Platform, one of the star
attractions of this year's Black Hat conference.

It's a remote-controlled plane with a computer in its belly that can fly up to
400 feet above the ground, snoop quietly on wireless networks below and attack
one if it wants to. It can also pretend to be a GSM cellphone tower,
eavesdropping on calls and text messages that pass through.

The WASP was built by Richard Perkins and Mike Tassey using hobby materials,
including a Styrofoam plane body, a plastic propeller and foam tires, along with
circuit boards and wires. The materials are all off the shelf, costing $6,190 --
a fraction of the cost of a spy plane, with cyberweapons included.

Its creators eschew the term ''spy plane.'' ''There's a negative connotation to
a spy plane,'' Mr. Tassey said. ''This was done in an attempt to prove a
concept.''

What concept?

''That it can be done,'' he said.

His sentiment perfectly embodied the ethos of Black Hat, a spirited gathering of
technologists who sometimes make scary things to show that they can be made, and
at other times break things to show how badly they need to be fixed.

The bird conjured by Mr. Perkins and Mr. Tassey is barely four feet long and
becomes an imperceptible, quietly humming little creature when it hovers
overhead. It could be deployed over, say, an office building to sniff out
information going across its wireless network. Or if the office network is well
secured, the plane could follow an employee on a trip to a neighborhood
Starbucks.

The WASP could mimic the cafe's network, luring the unwitting employee and
allowing access to a laptop or cellphone. As Mr. Tassey put it, ''In Starbucks,
no one can hear your laptop scream.''

They sat at tables along the perimeter of a ballroom in the Rio hotel. Lights
were low. Laptops burned like campfires. Men and women hunched over the
machines, their backs curved like question marks. Their fingers clicked away
furiously.

''This is a spelling bee for hackers,'' explained Giovanni Vigna, 42, a
professor of computer science from the University of California, Santa Barbara.
''It's a way to prove your hacking skills.''

Each team, he said, was given the same type of virtual server, with the same
strengths and weaknesses. The teams were charged with defending their servers
and attacking those of others. Each time a weak spot was attacked, a flag was
awarded. The team with the most flags won. Hence, the name of the contest:
Capture the Flag. This was the final round.

Contests are a big deal at Defcon. But they're not all on computers. Defcon is
about celebrating tinkering.

There was a ''lockpicking village'' where interested parties did exactly that:
pick locks. ''Most of us see locks as puzzles,'' Babak Javadi, 26, one of the
organizers, explained. He has been taking apart locks since he was a kid, he
said, and now runs a security business, specializing in high-security locks.

There was a barber offering mohawks. There were vendors selling ''advanced
gaming eyewear,'' glasses that sell for up to $189 a pair, designed to reduce
the glare of a computer screen and ease eye fatigue. There were vendors selling
luggage tags that said ''Geek on Board.''

In one hall, a competition was under way to invent a beer-cooling contraption.
In another, teams were competing to tamper with so-called tamper-resistant
materials.

''You're doing something you're not meant to do: That's the essence of
hacking,'' said Chris Kuivenhoven, 34, a security engineer from Atlanta.
''People can use it for good or bad.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:  Hackers at the Black Hat convention in Las Vegas. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY ISAAC BREKKEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 8, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1165 words


International

SALEH LEAVES SAUDI HOSPITAL

MONTHS AFTER INJURY

Ali Abdullah Saleh, Yemen's embattled and wounded president, has been discharged
from the hospital where he was being treated in Saudi Arabia and has moved into
a government residence there, Yemen's official SABA news agency reported. Mr.
Saleh was severely wounded in a bomb attack in June but has refused to step
down, despite six months of mass protests demanding his ouster. PAGE A9

BEATLEMANIA REACHES CUBA

Cubans are discovering the Beatles, a half-century late, at a government-owned
bar in Havana called the Yellow Submarine. Though today the bonds between
counterculture rock and leftist politics are well established, when the Beatles
first gained popularity, some Cuban authorities saw anything in English as
American and practically treasonous. Many Cubans still recall having to sneak a
listen to whatever album they could find. Havana Journal. PAGE A8

BAHRAIN FREES LAWMAKERS

Two former lawmakers from Bahrain's Shiite opposition were freed from jail with
several others who were arrested in the wake of widespread antigovernment
protests. The move comes after Bahrain's king accepted a series of political
reforms drawn up to address grievances. The release appeared to be aimed at
diffusing tensions, although activists said the government continued to crack
down on nightly demonstrations. PAGE A9

CLERIC WARNS TROOPS IN IRAQ

Moktada al-Sadr, a powerful anti-American Shiite cleric, reiterated his threat
to have his thousands of followers attack any United States troops that stay
past the current Dec. 31 deadline to leave Iraq. Iraqi officials have tried to
portray American soldiers who remain past the deadline as trainers of the
growing Iraqi military. PAGE A6

National

DRUG ABUSE ON CAPE COD

FUELS RISING PROPERTY CRIME

Cape Cod may be a summer playground known for its pristine beaches, shingled
homes and laid-back way of life. But unbeknownst to most tourists, parts of it
are plagued by drug abuse that the police say has led to a jump in property
crime. One police officer estimated that about 75 percent of the property crimes
are drug-related, with a majority of drug users looking for narcotic painkillers
like oxycodone with acetaminophen. PAGE A10

RETURN FROM DEPORTATION

Four years ago, United States immigration officials deported Janina Wasilewski
to Poland. She had to leave behind her husband, and she took her son, an
American citizen, with her. Several applications she had filed to become a legal
resident became tangled in the immigration courts and were finally denied. Now
she and her 10-year-old son, Brian, are to return to their home in the Chicago
suburbs. PAGE A10

WHAT VOTERS CAN'T HAVE

The bad news for President Obama and incumbents in both parties is that voters
expect a return to economic conditions that cannot be repeated. Voters who yearn
for better times have repeatedly faced disappointment, and that disappointment
may represent the long-term political consequence of the recession. PAGE A11

New York

TWO- OR 3-YEAR SENTENCE?

JUDGE'S WORDS AT ISSUE

Even though court records had him down for a three-year sentence, Jerry
Herrington was sure that the judge had given him only two years. Despite
obtaining a transcript that quoted Justice Brenda Soloff as delivering a
two-year sentence, Mr. Herrington faces an uphill battle for vindication. PAGE
A13

Business

NEWS CORP.'S SOFT POWER

AND A UNIT'S LEGAL TRAIL

A division of the News Corporation has twice come under significant civil and
criminal investigations in the United States, but neither inquiry went anywhere.
Both cases involve News America Marketing, an obscure but lucrative division of
the News Corporation that is a big player in the business of retail marketing,
including newspaper coupon inserts and in-store promotions. David Carr, The
Media Equation. PAGE B1

THE RISE OF DIGITAL RECEIPTS

Major retailers have begun offering electronic versions of receipts, either
e-mailed or uploaded to password-protected Web sites, and customers are
increasingly opting to go paperless. Beyond the cost savings and environmental
benefit, the e-receipts present marketing opportunities for retailers. PAGE B1

HACKERS VALUABLE TO AGENTS

Defcon, a convention of computer hackers here, was crawling with federal agents.
They came with a purpose: to schmooze, impress and, perhaps ultimately, lure.
The United States Cyber Command, the Pentagon's Internet defense arm, has a
workforce issue according to Daron Hartvigsen, special agent with the Air Force
Office of Special Investigations, and government agencies especially need
computer professionals with cybersecurity skills. PAGE B6

MEDICAL JOURNAL HONORED

The Spine Journal recently devoted an entire issue to editorials and reports
that challenged previous medical studies supporting the safety and effectiveness
of Infuse, a bone-growth product sold by Medtronic. The American Society of
Business Publication Editors celebrated the journal's effort by presenting it
with its 2011 ''Journalism That Matters'' award, an honor given in recognition
of coverage that causes change by government or industry. PAGE B4

TARGET'S NEW AD CAMPAIGN

Italian films of the 1960s are the inspiration for a new ad campaign
highlighting the latest high fashion brand to market its line for a limited run
at Target. Missoni, long famous for its family heritage and bold, graphic knits,
is the latest brand to join with the retail giant. PAGE B5

Arts

'RENT' TO BE REVIVED

WITH OFF BROADWAY RUN

''Rent,'' already a reconception of Puccini's opera ''La Boheme,'' about friends
and lovers grappling with art, AIDS and life in the East Village, was a critical
and commercial sensation in the late 1990s. Three years after its Broadway run
ended, the musical is now returning to New York, this time Off Broadway.

PAGE C1

REVIVAL OF 'UNCLE VANYA'

Staged by the Hungarian director Tamas Ascher -- and featuring a performance by
Cate Blanchett as a chipped trophy wife -- this ''Uncle Vanya'' is an
ever-pulsing portrait of just how impossible and essential it is to live in
close quarters with those maddening creatures called human beings, writes Ben
Brantley.

PAGE C1

Sports

JETS LOSE DEFENSIVE END

TO NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS

Shaun Ellis, the defensive end whom the Jets drafted in the first round in 2000
with the pick New England gave them as compensation for Bill Belichick fleeing
New York, agreed to a one-year deal with the Patriots.. PAGE D6

SWALLOWED BY A SHIFT

Mark Teixeira, the Yankees' first baseman, has spent much of this year putting
up solid power numbers. But his batting average has hovered around .250. For a
player in the prime of his career, it is a stark and startling decline. PAGE D1

NEW HOPE FOR PANTHERS

For the Carolina Panthers, who are coming off a 2-14 season, a new day may be
dawning. The team has a new coach, Ron Rivera, and the top overall pick in the
draft, Cam Newton, not to mention a jaw-dropping spending spree in the
neighborhood of $100 million. PAGE D5

OP-ED

Paul Krugman PAGE A17

Ross Douthat PAGE A17

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (The 6th Floor)

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

Really Now, What's So Bad about Auto-Tune Pop?

BYLINE: ALEX PAPPADEMAS

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 1506 words



HIGHLIGHT: A love letter to Auto-Tune in several parts.


One thing you learn when you spend a bunch of time on YouTube looking up songs
that use the electronic pitch-correction algorithm known as Auto-Tune is that a
lot of people really hate Auto-Tune. Which is weird. It's just a sound-obnoxious
in the hands of the untalented, occasionally amazing in the hands of the
amazing. Hating it is like hating falsettos, or the accordion. And, okay, given
the current omnipresence of the sound in pop music, it's like hating the
accordion during some strange period of accordion-fascism during which
everyone's paying top dollar to sound like early Los Lobos or Weird Al. Rap and
R&B may have run with Auto-Tune more than other genres, but these days you can't
get away from it, even by listening to   or .

The argument against Auto-Tune is almost always a taste discussion masquerading
as a discussion of standards-the belief that there's something inherently
"wrong" with using Auto-Tune, either to fix the flaws in a vocal performance or
creatively distort one, is born of a work-ethical view of music that prizes
technical facility over inspiration. (As a country, we're obsessed with singing,
and with people being able to hit notes on command-it's why we've made
blockbuster hits out of the skills-over-art juggernaut that is American Idol,
but also Glee, a show about how singing makes you a better person, and The
Voice, a show about how singing is so important that even unconventionally
attractive people should be allowed on television if they can do it.)

The truth is that artists and producers have been using technology (reverb,
overdubbing, electronic harmonizers) to change the sound of their voices for
decades. The link between "organic" live performance and recorded music was
broken in the late '40s when Les Paul popularized multitrack recording. More
important, there's no cheating in art. And sure, you could go super-purist by
listening to nothing but music recorded in cabins in the woods-but it's worth
noting that even Bon Iver's Justin Vernon, whose "For Emma, Forever Ago"is the
most acclaimed recorded-in-a-cabin-in-the-woods record of recent years, has made
use of Auto-Tune both subtly and blatantly. Vernon's "Woods" is proof of
Auto-Tune's potential as a creative tool; in their own way, all these songs are,
too.

In order to avoid completely soaking you in Auto-tone, I'll post several
Auto-tune adjusted songs and what makes them so good, or so bad they are good,
over the next few days. Below is a first taste.

Cher, "Believe" (1998)

In the late '70s and early '80s, Dr. Harold "Andy" Hildebrand worked in seismic
data interpretation for Exxon, using digital-signal processing and mathematical
algorithms to hunt for underground oil deposits. In 1984, the Landmark Graphics
Corporation, a company he co-founded, shipped its first stand-alone
seismic-data-interpretation workstations, which cost $240,000; in 1989, at 40,
Hildebrand retired. (Landmark was acquired by Halliburton in 1996.) He always
liked music; for a while, after he left Landmark, he studied composition at Rice
University, and it was there that he started thinking about music-related
applications for the technologies he worked with in the oil industry. In 1990,
he founded a company called Jupiter Systems to market a sample-looping program
called Infinity. In the late '90s, a dinner-party guest jokingly challenged
Hildebrand to create a program that would let nonsingers sing on key. Hildebrand
picked up the challenge, and in 1997, his company, now known as Antares Audio
Technologies, introduced the first version of a vocal-processing software
program called Auto-Tune.

It was marketed as a tool to let producers digitally correct bum notes in a
singer's performance, and it's still used for that purpose in recording studios.
But it became a cultural phenomenon for a different reason. Auto-Tune featured
an adjustable "retune speed" setting, which controlled the amount of time it
took for a digitally processed voice to slide from one note to the next. If you
set the retune speed to zero, instead of mimicking the smooth note-to-note
transitions of an analog human voice, the program made people sound like robots.
In 1998, Cher's dance single "Believe" became the first hit song to deploy that
cyborg warble on purpose. Back then, the only people familiar with Auto-Tune and
able to recognize its now-distinctive auditory "footprint" were recording
engineers; when the British music magazine Sound on Sound  "Believe" producers
Mark Taylor and Brian Rawling about the track in 1999, they dissembled,
attributing the effect to a device called the Digitech Talker, in what's been
retroactively interpreted as an attempt to protect a trade secret. It didn't
stay a secret for long. Depending on how you feel about Auto-Tune morally and
aesthetically, the first time the Auto-Tune kicks in on "Believe"-it happens
when Cher sings the words "can't break through" and it comes out like "c@@@n't
br33ak thr0000ugh"-is either the dawn of a bold new era of sonic invention or
the beginning of the death of individuality in pop music. It's Alexander Graham
Bell's phone call or it's the Matrix coming online. Life after love or life
after people. Would anyone have cared about this song, if Taylor and Rawling
hadn't tweaked the vocals? Maybe. But I challenge you to tell me what it's
"about," other than the Rise of RoboCher. (The video features Cher as a kind of
holographic mother-goddess, soundtracking the romantic dramas playing out in a
club full of central-casting young people, so maybe it's a song about why girls
with Natalie Portman-in-The-Professional bangs fall for jerks with Dave Pirner
dreads. But it's really about software.)

T-Pain feat. Lil Wayne, "Can't Believe It (A Capella)" (2008)

Cher introduced the world to Auto-Tune as a special effect; a few years later,
Kid Rock used it to strike a road-weary-rock-balladeer on 2000's , bridging the
gap between Lynyrd Skynyrd and C3PO. But it was Faheem Rasheed Najm, a
Tallahassee-born singer/songwriter/producer known professionally as T-Pain, who
made the sound . T-Pain first used Auto-Tune's pitch correction software on a
mixtape in 2003, then slathered it all over his debut solo album "Rappa Ternt
Sanga," which generated hit singles like "I'm Sprung" and "I'm N Luv (Wit a
Stripper)." The omnipresence of zero-retune-speed Auto-Tuned vocals in hip-hop
and R&B is essentially a post-T-Pain phenomenon; even  who've mastered the
technology on their own instead of paying T-Pain to show up at the party and
spike the punch owe him a debt. T-Pain thinks that Antares owes him, too. In
July, he sued them for copyright infringement, seeking to prevent them from
using his name and likeness in the marketing of Auto-Tune. (The fact that he'd
signed a new endorsement deal with Izotope, an Antares competitor, and is
planning to market a new and as-yet-top-secret voice-manipulation program
code-named "The T-Pain Effect" probably had more than a little bit to do with
this decision.) While T-Pain's synthetic-yet-earthy vocals have graced plenty of
great singles, I'm partial to this promo-only a capella version of the first
single from his third album Thr33 Ringz, which turns a song about all the things
T-Pain wants to buy for some "fly mamacita" into otherworldly cyber-gospel. Mr.
Pain offers to set his potential paramour up in "a mansion in Wiscansin [sic]"
and "a condo/All the way up in Toronto." As sugar-daddy boasts go, these are
pretty weird-I mean, wouldn't a condo in Toronto be pretty affordable?

Kanye West, "Heartless" (2008)

During the recording sessions for his fourth album, 2008's Auto-Tune-drenched
"808s" and "Heartbreak," Kanye West reportedly got some Auto-Tune tech support
from T-Pain. But the real touchstone for "808s" isn't anything in the T-Pain
catalog. If anything, it's closer to Neil Young's 1982 album "Trans," on which
Young used a vocoder to distort his vocals to express the frustration he felt
about his inability to communicate with his son Ben, who'd been born with
cerebral palsy and was unable to speak. "Trans" and "808s" both used robotic
voice effects to dramatize just how difficult it is to communicate a genuine
feeling electronically; they constrain their emotional content in order to
amplify it. (Similarly, each time we send an e-mail, we're speaking in a "robot
voice" and expecting nuance and humanity to come across.) Or maybe Kanye-still
reeling from the breakup of his relationship with fiancee Alexis Phifer and the
death of his mother during a plastic-surgery procedure-chose a device that would
let him sing because he was too sad to rap. Either way: "808s" was a landmark
record for Auto-Tune in black pop, proof that it could be a compelling aesthetic
choice rather than an R&B-crossover crutch. Stripped of its natural authority,
West's singing becomes a pixilated whimper, the sound of a man trying and
failing to insulate himself from hurt; the treatment throws the cracks in his
voice (and his psyche) into sharp relief.


     ·    Auto-Tuned Gregory Brothers Serenade The Times


LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Green)

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday

Revisiting Climate and the Food Supply

BYLINE: JUSTIN GILLIS

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 559 words



HIGHLIGHT: A forecast for wheat production in Europe could serve as a model of
the kind of research that is needed to clarify climate-related risks to
agriculture worldwide and to guide society toward strategies for coping.


When I was researching a June article on the threat that climate change poses to
the food supply, scientists described numerous difficulties they have
encountered in seeking to forecast food production. They cited uncertainty about
whether crops would be hit harder by drought or heat.

They also acknowledged that they had not found good ways to factor short-term
weather shocks into their projections, even though such shocks are expected to
increase on a warming planet.

Now comes a new paper that starts to tackle these problems, at least for one
region of the world. It is a forecast for wheat production in Europe, and it has
limitations. But I suspect it can serve as a model of the kind of research that
is needed in many regions to try to clarify the climate-related risks to
agriculture worldwide and to guide society toward strategies for coping.

The paper, released online on Thursday morning and scheduled for future
publication in the journal Scientific Reports, includes forecasts of future heat
waves as well as droughts. (This "synthetic weather" was derived from larger
computer forecasts of climate change produced by the big global research
centers.)

The researchers, Mikhail A. Semenov and Peter R. Shewry, who work at a leading
British agricultural center called Rothamsted Research, combined this database
of hypothetical future weather with a program that mimics the growth of wheat
crops. That allowed them to test drought against heat to see which would most
likely have the biggest impact on Europe's wheat yields in the middle of this
century.

The surprising result was that increased drought in Europe, at least in this
particular computer analysis, barely mattered at all. The cyber-wheat was able
to mature faster in a warmer climate, offsetting some effects of water stress
late in the growing season, and it also responded well to the increasing level
of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, as many plants are expected to do.

The upshot was that "wheat will avoid the most severe drought stress by maturing
early," the paper said.

But the analysis yielded a worrisome signal on the likely effect of heat waves.
Lacking enough information about today's wheat varieties, the scientists were
not able to calculate a precise decline in yields produced by the heat.

They did find that heat shock was likely to increase at times when plants are
known to be especially sensitive, like during the flowering phase. Under certain
circumstances, "the yield losses could be substantial," the scientists warned.

That result was consistent with recent experience. A heat wave in Europe in 2003
knocked agricultural yields back an estimated 30 percent. And the real value of
research like this, I suspect, is going to be to help wheat breeders clarify
where they need to put their efforts, given the limited money available for
agricultural research.

This study suggests that one of our biggest needs will be crop varieties that
can tolerate short-term heat shocks, especially at the time of flowering. Such
improved varieties will be required "if climate change is not to result in
losses of yield and food shortages," the researchers write.


     ·    Can Biofuels Save Sub-Saharan Africa?
     ·    Modest New Steps on the Food Supply
     ·    Food Prize Goes to Ex-Leaders of Ghana and Brazil
     ·    Farm Jobs Lost? Blame Environmentalists! (Or Not.)
     ·    World Food Supply: What's To Be Done?


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            August 25, 2011 Thursday

Android Is No. 1 Target of Mobile Hackers

BYLINE: NICK BILTON

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 412 words



HIGHLIGHT: A report from McAfee said that Android is now the most targeted
mobile software by hackers and malware developers.


"Chaos."

This is the word McAfee, the antivirus and computer security company, chose to
describe the state of desktop and mobile hacking in a new report issued this
week.

The "McAfee Threats Report" said that a rise in "hacktivism" from groups like
Lulz Security, or LulzSec, and Anonymous, helped drive a drastic increase in
online attacks in recent months. McAfee also found that GoogleAndroid is now the
most targeted mobile platform by hackers.

Over the past several months LulzSec caused havoc online when it began hacking
dozens of Web sites belonging to government agencies and corporations. McAfee
said in its report that LulzSec's brazen hacks were done with the hope of
bringing turmoil to the Web, mostly for fun, rather than a monetary goal.

Although some suspected members of LulzSec have been arrested by police, there
are new threats that have emerged by hackers who are targeting Android users.

"There is malware ending up on Android phones that is coming out of China and is
being used to steal the identity of Android users," said Dave Marcus, director
of security research at McAfee Labs, in a phone interview. "Once hackers take
control of an Android device, they have access to any kind of information on
there including personal data, GPS logs and carrier and billing code
information."

McAfee said in its report that Android was previously the third most targeted
mobile device by hackers; it is is now No. 1 - not a title Google will likely be
proud of. Google did not respond to a request for comment about the McAfee
report.

Mr. Marcus said Android users have become the top target for malware developers
because Google does not use a vetting process to monitor the distribution of new
mobile apps. Anyone can share an app on the Google Marketplace, including
hackers who hide malware inside free mobile software and games. In comparison,
Apple monitors and approves each application it allows into the iTunes App
Store.

"We certainly see this trend to hack mobile phones as something that is going to
continue to grow over the next year," Mr. Marcus said. "These cyber criminals
are having some success when it comes to stealing information through Trojan
viruses on Android phones. Why would they stop if it's working?"


     ·    Security Experts Say Police Arrested Wrong Hacker
     ·    LulzSec Hackers Make Enemies Online
     ·    Mobile Devices Account for a Growing Portion of Web Traffic
     ·    Will Siri Bring Back the iPhone's Wow Factor?
     ·    The iPhone 4S Is as Much About Google as Apple


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 29, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mobile Hackers Choose Android

BYLINE: By NICK BILTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 389 words


''Chaos.''

This is the word McAfee, the antivirus and computer security company, chose to
describe the state of desktop and mobile hacking in a new report issued this
week.

The ''McAfee Threats Report'' said that a rise in ''hacktivism'' from groups
like Lulz Security, or LulzSec, and Anonymous, helped drive a drastic increase
in online attacks in recent months. McAfee also found that GoogleAndroid is now
the most targeted mobile platform by hackers.

Over the past several months LulzSec caused havoc online when it began hacking
dozens of Web sites belonging to government agencies and corporations. McAfee
said in its report that LulzSec's brazen hacks were done with the hope of
bringing turmoil to the Web, mostly for fun, rather than a monetary goal.

Although some suspected members of LulzSec have been arrested by police, there
are new threats that have emerged by hackers who are targeting Android users.

''There is malware ending up on Android phones that is coming out of China and
is being used to steal the identity of Android users,'' said Dave Marcus,
director of security research at McAfee Labs, in a phone interview. ''Once
hackers take control of an Android device, they have access to any kind of
information on there including personal data, GPS logs and carrier and billing
code information.''

McAfee said in its report that Android was previously the third most targeted
mobile device by hackers; it is is now No. 1 - not a title Google will likely be
proud of. Google did not respond to a request for comment about the McAfee
report.

Mr. Marcus said Android users have become the top target for malware developers
because Google does not use a vetting process to monitor the distribution of new
mobile apps. Anyone can share an app on the Google Marketplace, including
hackers who hide malware inside free mobile software and games. In comparison,
Apple monitors and approves each application it allows into the iTunes App
Store.

''We certainly see this trend to hack mobile phones as something that is going
to continue to grow over the next year,'' Mr. Marcus said. ''These cyber
criminals are having some success when it comes to stealing information through
Trojan viruses on Android phones. Why would they stop if it's working?''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MCAFEE)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 31, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tight Budget? Look to the 'Cloud'

BYLINE: By VIVEK KUNDRA.

Vivek Kundra, the , Obama administration's chief information officer from 2009
until this month, is a fellow at the Berkman Center for Internet and Society and
the Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy, both at
Harvard.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 876 words


Cambridge, Mass.

AS the global economy struggles through a slow and painful recovery, governments
around the world are wasting billions of dollars on unnecessary information
technology. This problem has worsened in recent years because of what I call the
''I.T. cartel.'' This powerful group of private contractors encourages reliance
on inefficient software and hardware that is expensive to acquire and to
maintain.

In one particularly egregious example of waste, the Defense Department last year
pulled the plug on a personnel system devised by Northrop Grumman after spending
approximately $850 million on it in 10 years.

When I joined the Obama administration as the chief information officer, we
quickly discovered vast inefficiencies in the $80 billion federal I.T. budget.
We also saw an opportunity to increase productivity and save costs by embracing
the ''cloud computing'' revolution: the shift from hardware and software that
individuals, businesses and governments buy and then maintain themselves, to
low-cost, maintenance-free services that are based on the Internet and run by
private companies.

Examples of cloud computing companies include Web behemoths like Amazon and
Google, which offer a variety of services (data storage or e-mail, for example),
as well as companies like salesforce.com, which helps businesses manage customer
relationships via social networks. Other services and applications include
health care access, mobile energy management and storm recovery assistance. Most
cloud-based services are either free for consumers or delivered via a monthly
subscription service for businesses. According to the research firm Gartner,
cloud computing will be a $149 billion industry by 2015.

Like a large office building, cloud data centers are efficient: many different
tenants occupy the same space, sharing the same critical infrastructure, yet
each tenant still has its own secure, customizable space. For example, in
preparation for the 2010 census, the Census Bureau used the cloud computing
services of salesforce.com to expand its I.T. capabilities, saving the cost and
time of purchasing, designing and installing a brand-new I.T. infrastructure.

Shortly after the Obama administration took office, we instituted a ''Cloud
First'' policy, which advocates the adoption of cloud services by government
agencies and mandates the transition of at least three projects for every agency
to the cloud by next summer.

Some agencies, like the General Services Administration, have embraced cloud
computing; the agency has cut the I.T. costs on things as simple as its e-mail
system by over 50 percent. But other agencies have balked. The State Department,
for instance, has raised concerns about whether the cloud approach introduces
security risks, since data is stored off site by private contractors.

But cloud computing is often far more secure than traditional computing, because
companies like Google and Amazon can attract and retain cyber-security personnel
of a higher quality than many governmental agencies. And government employees
are so accustomed to using cloud services like Dropbox and Gmail in their
personal lives that, even if their agencies don't formally permit cloud
computing, they use it for work purposes anyway, creating a ''shadow I.T.'' that
leads to a more vulnerable organization than would a properly overseen cloud
computing system.

The United States cannot afford to be left behind in the cloud computing
revolution. In health care alone, a productivity increase of 1 percent in the
next 10 years -- much of which could be achieved with cloud-based services --
represents a $300 billion value. Similar efficiencies could be realized in
sectors like financial services, education and manufacturing.

Consider the example of Japan, which has faced significant economic challenges
for two decades. The government's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry
estimates that the Japanese cloud computing market is likely to reach $20.1
billion by 2015 and is implementing a cloud initiative as a key tenet of its
national economic strategy.

Similar growth is predicted for India, where the cloud market is projected to
grow to $3 billion by 2015 and create 100,000 jobs. As foreign governments
prioritize investment in the cloud, the United States cannot hesitate because of
hypothetical security threats that serve the entrenched interests of the I.T.
cartel.

One of the critical remaining issues concerning cloud computing is whether cloud
data can and should flow between nations and what restrictions should be placed
upon it. The next step should be the creation of a global Cloud First policy
that forces nations to work together and resolve these critical issues. The
United States, along with leading nations in Europe and Asia, has an opportunity
to announce such an initiative at the World Economic Forum meeting in January.

The budget crisis will accelerate the move toward cloud services. Governments,
businesses and consumers all have a lot to gain, but not everyone will have an
equal say at the table. Public and private organizations that preserve the
status quo of wasteful spending will be punished, while those that embrace the
cloud will be rewarded with substantial savings and 21st-century jobs.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (T Magazine)

                           September 12, 2011 Monday

Backstage Beauty Report | Derek Lam

BYLINE: STEPHANIE LACAVA

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; womens-fashion

LENGTH: 285 words



HIGHLIGHT: It was the architect Richard Neutra's rigorous West Coast houses that
inspired the beauty look at Derek Lam - that and the color yellow.


It was the architect Richard Neutra's rigorous West Coast houses that inspired
the beauty look at Derek Lam - that and the color yellow. Both may be odd
inspirations for hair and makeup, but that's what makes them so welcome. Better
yellow and geometry than another repeat reference, though the look wasn't
totally different from last time around. "This collection's an evolution from
last season, not a complete change," Orlando Pita said. "The hair has that
feeling too." This meant a low side-parted ponytail instead of hair pulled back
at the crown without a visible barrette. "Clean, simple lines," is how Pita
described the look he created using Phyto Volume Active Mousse, blow drying with
a T3 featherweight Luxe, then sealing the ends with Phyto 7 and a T3 Single Pass
iron. The hair was then scraped back into a ponytail with a part over the right
eye. Pita used Phyto Finishing Spray and a little Shine Defining Wax to "make it
perfectly done." Nails were painted Estee Lauder's Nude Attitude, but it was the
eyes that went a little wild. Tom Pecheux (Estee Lauder's creative makeup
director) explained the Neutra connection by making references to large windows
that "let the outdoor weather into the house," which became a ray of yellow from
Estee Lauder Rain Boots shadow on the lid highlighted with Cyber Copper brown
shimmer all the way to the brow bone. Citron Kiss lip gloss was the final step.
Canary colored in the vial, it's the perfect way to warm up another lip color or
let the light in for spring.

Complete Coverage: Spring 2012 Fashion Week


     ·    Backstage Beauty | Derek Lam
     ·    Model-morphosis | Derek Lam
     ·    Backstage Beauty Report | Diane von Furstenberg
     ·    Runway In Review
     ·    Photos of the Moment | Derek Lam


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                          September 15, 2011 Thursday

Executives May Be Too Confident on Cybersecurity, Survey Finds

BYLINE: SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 443 words



HIGHLIGHT: Global executives are confident in their ability to secure their
information systems, but few are actually on top of their companies' security
issues, a PricewaterhouseCoopers survey found.


Every week comes a new report warning how vulnerable consumers, companies and
government agencies are to hackers bent on breaching computer systems and
extracting sensitive data.

This week came a somewhat unusual report, compiled by the global consulting firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers. It surveyed more than 9,000 executives in over 130
countries and found them confident in their ability to secure their information
systems and bullish about cybersecurity spending. In the survey, released
Thursday, 43 percent of respondents said they had confidence in their security
protocols and 50 percent said they expected their companies to spend increasing
amounts of money on cybersecurity.

Digital hubris can be dangerous, though.

PricewaterhouseCoopers parsed the data more closely. They asked the executives
about the precautions they were taking. It turned out that only 13 percent of
those surveyed had actually done what the consulting firm considered to be
adequate -- meaning they had an overall security strategy, they had reviewed the
effectiveness of their strategy and they knew precisely the types of breaches
that had already hit them over the last 12 months.

Even as the use of social networks has proliferated, barely one in three
respondents said their companies had a policy governing their employees' use of
tools like Facebook and LinkedIn.  Social media, the report's authors concluded,
is a double-edged sword for many companies.

"It's a great business opportunity," Mark Lobel, a principal at
PricewaterhouseCoopers, said by phone. "It's also a terrible avenue for data
loss and data leakage."

Driving the spending on security was the prospect of cyber-espionage, or
snooping on sensitive company and government data, everything from blueprints of
fighter jets to confidential information about mergers and acquisitions. But
only 16 percent of respondents said they were prepared for cyber-espionage.

The worries about security were echoed on Tuesday by Gen. Keith B. Alexander,
chief of the United States Cyber Command, who warned of the looming threat of a
computer attack. Speaking at a conference, General Alexander said he could not
predict whether such an attack would be on government institutions or private
firms. "It is a question of time," he said, according to a writeup by the
Defense Department. "What we don't know is how far out it is."

He estimated that cyber crimes have cost the global economy a trillion dollars.


     ·    Senator Introduces Online Security Bill
     ·    Anonymous to BART: We Hack. We Organize, Too
     ·    Picking Locks and Hacking Servers at Defcon
     ·    Security Experts Say Police Arrested Wrong Hacker
     ·    Anonymous Promotes Legal Boycott of PayPal


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Call It Your Online Driver's License

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SLIPSTREAM;
Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1137 words


WHO'S afraid of Internet fraud?

Consumers who still pay bills via snail mail. Hospitals leery of making
treatment records available online to their patients. Some state motor vehicle
registries that require car owners to appear in person -- or to mail back
license plates -- in order to transfer vehicle ownership.

But the White House is out to fight cyberphobia with an initiative intended to
bolster confidence in e-commerce.

The plan, called the National Strategy for Trusted Identities in Cyberspace and
introduced earlier this year, encourages the private-sector development and
public adoption of online user authentication systems. Think of it as a driver's
license for the Internet. The idea is that if people have a simple, easy way to
prove who they are online with more than a flimsy password, they'll naturally do
more business on the Web. And companies and government agencies, like Social
Security or the I.R.S., could offer those consumers faster, more secure online
services without having to come up with their own individual vetting systems.

''What if states had a better way to authenticate your identity online, so that
you didn't have to make a trip to the D.M.V.?'' says Jeremy Grant, the senior
executive adviser for identity management at the National Institute of Standards
and Technology, the agency overseeing the initiative.

But authentication proponents and privacy advocates disagree about whether
Internet IDs would actually heighten consumer protection -- or end up increasing
consumer exposure to online surveillance and identity theft.

If the plan works, consumers who opt in might soon be able to choose among
trusted third parties -- such as banks, technology companies or cellphone
service providers -- that could verify certain personal information about them
and issue them secure credentials to use in online transactions.

Industry experts expect that each authentication technology would rely on at
least two different ID confirmation methods. Those might include embedding an
encryption chip in people's phones, issuing smart cards or using one-time
passwords or biometric identifiers like fingerprints to confirm substantial
transactions. Banks already use two-factor authentication, confirming people's
identities when they open accounts and then issuing depositors with A.T.M.
cards, says Kaliya Hamlin, an online identity expert known by the name of her
Web site, Identity Woman.

The system would allow Internet users to use the same secure credential on many
Web sites, says Mr. Grant, and it might increase privacy. In practical terms,
for example, people could have their identity authenticator automatically
confirm that they are old enough to sign up for Pandora on their own, without
having to share their year of birth with the music site.

The Open Identity Exchange, a group of companies including AT&T, Google, Paypal,
Symantec and Verizon, is helping to develop certification standards for online
identity authentication; it believes that industry can address privacy issues
through self-regulation. The government has pledged to be an early adopter of
the cyber IDs.

But privacy advocates say that in the absence of stringent safeguards,
widespread identity verification online could actually make consumers more
vulnerable. If people start entrusting their most sensitive information to a few
third-party verifiers and use the ID credentials for a variety of transactions,
these advocates say, authentication companies would become honey pots for
hackers.

''Look at it this way: You can have one key that opens every lock for everything
you might need online in your daily life,'' says Lillie Coney, the associate
director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center in Washington. ''Or, would
you rather have a key ring that would allow you to open some things but not
others?''

Even leading industry experts foresee challenges in instituting across-the-board
privacy protections for consumers and companies.

For example, people may not want the banks they might use as their
authenticators to know which government sites they visit, says Kim Cameron,
whose title is distinguished engineer at Microsoft, a leading player in identity
technology. Banks, meanwhile, may not want their rivals to have access to data
profiles about their clients. But both situations could arise if identity
authenticators assigned each user with an individual name, number, e-mail
address or code, allowing companies to follow people around the Web and amass
detailed profiles on their transactions.

''The whole thing is fraught with the potential for doing things wrong,'' Mr.
Cameron says.

But next-generation software could solve part of the problem by allowing
authentication systems to verify certain claims about a person, like age or
citizenship, without needing to know their identities. Microsoft bought one
brand of user-blind software, called U-Prove, in 2008 and has made it available
as an open-source platform for developers.

Google, meanwhile, already has a free system, called the ''Google Identity
Toolkit,'' for Web site operators who want to shift users from passwords to
third-party authentication. It's the kind of platform that makes Google poised
to become a major player in identity authentication.

But privacy advocates like Lee Tien, a senior staff lawyer at the Electronic
Frontier Foundation, a digital rights group, say the government would need new
privacy laws or regulations to prohibit identity verifiers from selling user
data or sharing it with law enforcement officials without a warrant. And what
would happen if, say, people lost devices containing their ID chips or smart
cards?

''It took us decades to realize that we shouldn't carry our Social Security
cards around in our wallets,'' says Aaron Titus, the chief privacy officer at
Identity Finder, a company that helps users locate and quarantine personal
information on their computers.

Carrying around cyber IDs seems even riskier than Social Security cards, Mr.
Titus says, because they could let people complete even bigger transactions,
like buying a house online. ''What happens when you leave your phone at a bar?''
he asks. ''Could someone take it and use it to commit a form of hyper identity
theft?''

For the government's part, Mr. Grant acknowledges that no system is
invulnerable. But better online identity authentication would certainly improve
the current situation -- in which many people use the same one or two passwords
for a dozen or more of their e-mail, e-tail, online banking and social network
accounts, he says.

Mr. Grant likens that kind of weak security to flimsy locks on bathroom doors.

''If we can get everyone to use a strong deadbolt instead of a flimsy bathroom
door lock,'' he says, ''you significantly improve the kind of security we
have.''

But not if the keys can be compromised.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (GRAPHIC BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Visions Of an Age When Oil Isn't King

BYLINE: By DWIGHT GARNER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words


THE QUEST

Energy, Security, and the Remaking of the Modern World

By Daniel Yergin

Illustrated. 804 pages. The Penguin Press. $37.95.

Daniel Yergin is America's most influential energy pundit, and the book that put
him on the map was ''The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money, and Power''
(1991). It was a best seller, won a Pulitzer Prize and was tailored into a
popular PBS mini-series. In the two decades since, Mr. Yergin, operating as a
kind of one-man think tank, has had a virtual monopoly on the subject of energy
and geopolitics. Such is his influence that one half expects his competitors to
file antitrust litigation against him.

Mr. Yergin is back with a sequel to ''The Prize.'' It is called ''The Quest:
Energy, Security, and the Remaking of the Modern World,'' and, if anything, it's
an even better book. It is searching, impartial and alarmingly up to date.
(Events like the partial meltdowns at the Fukushima nuclear complex in Japan,
the political upheavals in Egypt and Libya, and the killing of Osama bin Laden,
all from this year, are combed into his arguments.) Mr. Yergin brooks no cant
about climate-change denial, and lingers on the topic of cleaner future fuels.
Our heads may be buried in our sleek laptops and gadgets, his masterly book
announces, but our toes are still soaking in dirty, morally contaminated oil.

''The Quest'' will be necessary reading for C.E.O.'s, conservationists,
lawmakers, generals, spies, tech geeks, thriller writers, ambitious terrorists
and many others. But it won't be easy reading. This is a very large and not
overly elegant book; committing to it is like committing to a marriage, or to a
car lease, or to climbing Everest. Base camps will periodically need to be
established on this 804-page mountain. Sherpas -- perhaps in the form of your
children, delivering sustaining tea and coffee and rum -- will be required.
Nearing the summit you may find the dead bodies of those who did not make it all
the way.

The book's girth makes its own environmental statement. The idea that tens of
thousands of copies, produced from a slaughtered forest, will then be flown and
trucked around the country is honking madness. I don't own an e-reader and
haven't longed for one. But maybe it's time; using a Kindle or an iPad,
especially as prices fall, is surely an ecological declaration.

''The Quest'' is encyclopedic in its ambitions; it resists easy synopsis. What
sucks you onward are its strong set pieces, some of the best of which are about
what Mr. Yergin calls ''the new world of oil.'' Examples include the breakup of
the Soviet Union and the race for control of oil deposits in the newly
independent states. This murderous contest became known as the new ''Great
Game.''

Mr. Yergin delivers a gripping financial tick-tock account of the swift mergers
in the energy industry in the late 1990s and early 2000s, when six companies --
BP and ARCO, Exxon and Mobil, and Chevron and Texaco -- became three. He takes
in Sept. 11, the Iraq war, Hurricane Katrina and the tangled global reasons why
oil prices spiked dramatically between 2004 and 2008, ultimately hitting a
record $147 a barrel. He appraises the rapid growth of China, now the world's
largest automobile market. ''Sometime around 2020,'' Mr. Yergin suggests, China
''could pull ahead of the United States as the world's largest oil consumer.''

He considers the notion of ''peak oil'' -- the idea that the world's supply is
rapidly running out -- and mostly dismisses it. Thanks to new technologies,
estimates of the world's total stock keep growing. But there are other reasons
to move beyond oil, not all of them ecological.

Among Mr. Yergin's fears is Iran possessing an atomic bomb and upsetting the
balance of power in the Middle East. A nuclear Iran is especially terrifying, he
writes, because of the West's lack of direct ''communication with Tehran, which
could increase the likelihood of an 'accidental' nuclear confrontation.'' He
worries too about future cyber attacks on energy grids, perhaps even a ''cyber
Pearl Harbor.''

Mr. Yergin devotes a large chunk of his book to renewable sources of energy:
wind, direct sunlight, biofuels and hydropower, among others. He is particularly
interested in the possibility of ''disruptive technologies,'' or unforeseen,
game-changing energy sources. He describes these as the ''Googles'' of energy,
and notes that venture capitalists are increasingly interested in financing
research in them.

Threaded throughout the book are small, adept profiles both of world leaders and
of less well known figures, like H. L. Williams, the godfather of offshore
drilling; the Princeton mathematician John von Neumann, a pioneer of
computer-driven weather forecasting; and Roger Revelle, who, while teaching at
Harvard in the 1960s, educated Al Gore on global warming.

''The Quest'' often works on a micro as well as a macro level; that is, there
are incidental pleasures. Mr. Yergin prints an oilman's maxim: ''Easy glum, easy
glow.'' He quotes the Venezuelan leader Juan Pablo Perez Alfonso, a founder of
OPEC, who called oil ''the excrement of the devil.'' He catalogs Jimmy Carter's
Sisyphean struggle to make energy independence a central issue during his
presidency. The effort, Mr. Carter argues, was the ''moral equivalent of war.''
Critics mocked him with that phrase's initials: MEOW.

When it comes to assessing the world's energy future Mr. Yergin is a
Churchillian. He argues that we should consider all possible energy sources, the
way Winston Churchill considered oil when he spoke to the British Parliament in
1913. ''On no one quality, on no one process, on no one country, on no one
route, and on no one field must we be dependent,'' Churchill said. ''Safety and
security in oil lie in variety and variety alone.''

One of Mr. Yergin's closing arguments focuses on the importance of thinking
seriously about one energy source that ''has the potential to have the biggest
impact of all.'' That source is efficiency. It's a simple idea, he points out,
but one that is oddly ''the hardest to wrap one's mind around.'' More efficient
buildings, cars, airplanes, computers and other products have the potential to
change our world.

So does old-fashioned individual action. Mr. Yergin turns to the Japanese, who
have rarely had abundant natural resources. He brings up the notion of
''mottainai,'' a word that is difficult to translate into English yet explains
why the Japanese save wrapping paper from gifts to use again and again. The best
translation of ''mottainai,'' Mr. Yergin writes, is ''too precious to waste.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
Destruction in Tripoli, the Libyan capital. Social instability is a critical
factor in energy security. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Daniel Yergin (PHOTOGRAPH BY JON CHOMITZ) (C4)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     September 22, 2011 Thursday 00:00 EST

At Least His Abs Get a Workout;
Movie Review | 'Abduction'

BYLINE: STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: MOVIES

LENGTH: 595 words



HIGHLIGHT: Taylor Lautner stars in "Abduction." There is also a plot, of sorts.


"You will then be responsible for the death of all your friends ... on
Facebook," the archvillain (Michael Nyqvist) of the risible thriller "Abduction"
warns the baby-faced Nathan Harper (Taylor Lautner), a sort of teenage Jason
Bourne in search of his true identity. Did I say risible? At the screening I
attended, that threat prompted hoots of derisive laughter, as did other howlers,
including, "I'm not dying here; there's a bomb in the oven."

A joke? Oh, if only.

Directed by John Singleton ("Four Brothers," "2 Fast 2 Furious"), from a
screenplay by Shawn Christensen, "Abduction" is a sloppy, exploitative act of
star worship created (if that's the right word for cynical hackwork) around Mr.
Lautner, the pouty 19-year-old heartthrob of the "Twilight" franchise. The
camera swoons around him as if he were a priceless sculpture, often moving in
for extreme close-ups. The movie stops in its tracks long enough to ogle an
extended smooch whose slurping seems scientifically calculated to take things to
the brink of an R rating.

To give Mr. Lautner his due, he is a martial-arts dervish with perfectly
sculptured abs. His acting, however, is another matter. I can't recall another
teenage star so opaque. If his physiognomy -- recessed eyes that don't seem to
focus, a wide snub nose and Elvis-y lips -- conjure Neanderthal manhood after a
cosmetic makeover, his boyish monotone with its utter lack of inflection
suggests that he is really an advanced robot simulating human speech without
registering emotion or even comprehension.

Throughout most of the movie, Nathan is on the run with his across-the-street
neighbor and high-school classmate Karen (Lily Collins), who, like Nathan, loses
her sultry mystique once she opens her mouth. They are pursued by two small
armies, one made up of C.I.A. officers, the other of Eastern European goons, who
finally clash at a Pittsburgh Pirates game; both sides are desperately searching
for a list of spies encrypted in a cellphone that landed in Nathan's hands.

Don't ask about the whys and wherefores; I doubt whether even the screenwriter
could tell you. Reputable actors like Alfred Molina, Sigourney Weaver, Jason
Isaacs and Maria Bello are on hand, but they can't paper over the fatuity of the
two leads and the screenplay's gaping holes.

The trouble begins when Nathan comes across a photograph of his 3 1/2-year-old
self on a missing-children Web site, a cyber fishing expedition that directs the
baddies to his home, where they storm the place and kill his parents minutes
after he discovers he is not their biological son. As a mad chase ensues,
"Abduction" stokes the illusion that Nathan is suddenly the most important
person in the world. Any self-centered teenager can identify with that.

"Abduction" is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has extreme
violence.

ABDUCTION

Opens on Friday nationwide.

Directed by John Singleton; written by Shawn Christensen; director of
photography, Peter Menzies Jr.; edited by Bruce Cannon; music by Edward
Shearmur; production design by Keith Brian Burns; costumes by Ruth Carter;
produced by Doug Davison, Ellen Goldsmith-Vein, Lee Stollman, Roy Lee, Dan
Lautner and Pat Crowley; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes.

WITH: Taylor Lautner (Nathan), Lily Collins (Karen), Alfred Molina (Burton),
Jason Isaacs (Kevin), Maria Bello (Mara), Sigourney Weaver (Dr. Bennett), Denzel
Whitaker (Gilly) and Michael Nyqvist (Kozlow).

PHOTO: Taylor Lautner and Lily Collins, on the run in "Abduction," directed by
John Singleton.  (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE TALAMON/LIONSGATE)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 23, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Least His Abs Get a Workout

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW
'ABDUCTION'; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 576 words


''You will then be responsible for the death of all your friends ... on
Facebook,'' the archvillain (Michael Nyqvist) of the risible thriller
''Abduction'' warns the baby-faced Nathan Harper (Taylor Lautner), a sort of
teenage Jason Bourne in search of his true identity. Did I say risible? At the
screening I attended, that threat prompted hoots of derisive laughter, as did
other howlers, including, ''I'm not dying here; there's a bomb in the oven.''

A joke? Oh, if only.

Directed by John Singleton (''Four Brothers,'' ''2 Fast 2 Furious''), from a
screenplay by Shawn Christensen, ''Abduction'' is a sloppy, exploitative act of
star worship created (if that's the right word for cynical hackwork) around Mr.
Lautner, the pouty 19-year-old heartthrob of the ''Twilight'' franchise. The
camera swoons around him as if he were a priceless sculpture, often moving in
for extreme close-ups. The movie stops in its tracks long enough to ogle an
extended smooch whose slurping seems scientifically calculated to take things to
the brink of an R rating.

To give Mr. Lautner his due, he is a martial-arts dervish with perfectly
sculptured abs. His acting, however, is another matter. I can't recall another
teenage star so opaque. If his physiognomy -- recessed eyes that don't seem to
focus, a wide snub nose and Elvis-y lips -- conjure Neanderthal manhood after a
cosmetic makeover, his boyish monotone with its utter lack of inflection
suggests that he is really an advanced robot simulating human speech without
registering emotion or even comprehension.

Throughout most of the movie, Nathan is on the run with his across-the-street
neighbor and high-school classmate Karen (Lily Collins), who, like Nathan, loses
her sultry mystique once she opens her mouth. They are pursued by two small
armies, one made up of C.I.A. officers, the other of Eastern European goons, who
finally clash at a Pittsburgh Pirates game; both sides are desperately searching
for a list of spies encrypted in a cellphone that landed in Nathan's hands.

Don't ask about the whys and wherefores; I doubt whether even the screenwriter
could tell you. Reputable actors like Alfred Molina, Sigourney Weaver, Jason
Isaacs and Maria Bello are on hand, but they can't paper over the fatuity of the
two leads and the screenplay's gaping holes.

The trouble begins when Nathan comes across a photograph of his 3 1/2-year-old
self on a missing-children Web site, a cyber fishing expedition that directs the
baddies to his home, where they storm the place and kill his parents minutes
after he discovers he is not their biological son. As a mad chase ensues,
''Abduction'' stokes the illusion that Nathan is suddenly the most important
person in the world. Any self-centered teenager can identify with that.

''Abduction'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has extreme
violence.

ABDUCTION

Opens on Friday nationwide.

Directed by John Singleton; written by Shawn Christensen; director of
photography, Peter Menzies Jr.; edited by Bruce Cannon; music by Edward
Shearmur; production design by Keith Brian Burns; costumes by Ruth Carter;
produced by Doug Davison, Ellen Goldsmith-Vein, Lee Stollman, Roy Lee, Dan
Lautner and Pat Crowley; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes.

WITH: Taylor Lautner (Nathan), Lily Collins (Karen), Alfred Molina (Burton),
Jason Isaacs (Kevin), Maria Bello (Mara), Sigourney Weaver (Dr. Bennett), Denzel
Whitaker (Gilly) and Michael Nyqvist (Kozlow).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Taylor Lautner and Lily Collins, on the run in ''Abduction,''
directed by John Singleton. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE TALAMON/LIONSGATE)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 25, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Not-So-Smart Cities

BYLINE: By GREG LINDSAY

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; GRAY MATTER; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 838 words


Greg Lindsay is a visiting scholar at the Rudin Center for Transportation Policy
and Management at New York University and the co-author of ''Aerotropolis: The
Way We'll Live Next.''

THE Southwest is famously fertile territory for ghost towns. They didn't start
out depopulated, of course -- which is what makes the latest addition to their
rolls so strange. Starting next year, Pegasus Holdings, a Washington-based
technology company, will build a medium-size town on 20 square miles of New
Mexico desert, populated entirely by robots.

Scheduled to open in 2014, the Center for Innovation, Testing and Evaluation, as
the town is officially known, will come complete with roads, buildings, water
lines and power grids, enough to support 35,000 people -- even though no one
will ever live there. It will be a life-size laboratory for companies,
universities and government agencies to test smart power grids, cyber security
and intelligent traffic and surveillance systems -- technologies commonly lumped
together under the heading of ''smart cities.''

The only humans present will be several hundred engineers and programmers
huddled underground in a Disneyland-like warren of control rooms. They'll be
playing SimCity for real.

Since at least the 1960s, when New York's Jane Jacobs took on the autocratic
city planner Robert Moses, it's been an article of faith that cities are immune
to precisely this kind of objective, computation-driven analysis. Much like the
weather, Ms. Jacobs said, cities are astoundingly complex systems, governed by
feedback loops that are broadly understood yet impossible to replicate.

But Pegasus and others insist there's now another way -- that, armed with enough
data and computing muscle, we can translate cities' complexity into algorithms.
Sensors automatically do the measuring for us, while software makes the
complexity manageable.

''We think that sensor development has gotten to the point now where you can
replicate human behavior,'' said Robert H. Brumley, the managing director and
co-founder of Pegasus. These days, he and others believe, even the unpredictable
''human factor'' is, given enough computing power, predictable. ''You can build
randomness in.''

Mr. Brumley isn't alone in his faith that software can do a better job of
replicating human behavior than the humans themselves. A start-up named Living
PlanIT is busy building a smart city from scratch in Portugal, run by an ''urban
operating system'' in which efficiency is all that matters: buildings are
ruthlessly junked at the first signs of obsolescence, their architectural
quality being beside the point.

To the folks at Living PlanIT and Pegasus, such programs are worth it because
they let planners avoid the messiness of politics and human error. But that's
precisely why they are likely to fail.

Take the 1968 decision by New York Mayor John V. Lindsay to hire the RAND
Corporation to streamline city management through computer models. It built
models for the Fire Department to predict where fires were likely to break out,
and to decrease response times when they did. But, as the author Joe Flood
details in his book ''The Fires,'' thanks to faulty data and flawed assumptions
-- not a lack of processing power -- the models recommended replacing busy fire
companies across Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx with much smaller ones.

What RAND could not predict was that, as a result, roughly 600,000 people in the
poorest sections of the city would lose their homes to fire over the next
decade. Given the amount of money and faith the city had put into its models,
it's no surprise that instead of admitting their flaws, city planners bent
reality to fit their models -- ignoring traffic conditions, fire companies'
battling multiple blazes and any outliers in their data.

The final straw was politics, the very thing the project was meant to avoid.
RAND's analysts recognized that wealthy neighborhoods would never stand for a
loss of service, so they were placed off limits, forcing poor ones to compete
among themselves for scarce resources. What was sold as a model of efficiency
and a mirror to reality was crippled by the biases of its creators, and no
supercomputer could correct for that.

Despite its superior computing power and life-size footprint, Pegasus' project
is hobbled by the equally false assumption that such smart cities are relevant
outside the sterile conditions of a computer lab. There's no reason to believe
the technologies tested there will succeed in cities occupied by people instead
of Sims.

The bias lurking behind every large-scale smart city is a belief that bottom-up
complexity can be bottled and put to use for top-down ends -- that a central
agency, with the right computer program, could one day manage and even dictate
the complex needs of an actual city.

Instead, the same lesson that New Yorkers learned so painfully in the 1960s and
'70s still applies: that the smartest cities are the ones that embrace openness,
randomness and serendipity -- everything that makes a city great.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL HOPPE)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 25, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico Turns to Social Media For Information and Survival

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Karla Zabludovsky contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1185 words


MEXICO CITY -- Before the police or news reporters had even arrived at the
underpass outside Veracruz where gunmen held up traffic and dumped 35 bodies at
rush hour last week, Twitter was already buzzing with fear and valuable
information.

''Avoid Plaza Las Americas,'' several people wrote, giving the location.

''There are gunmen,'' wrote others, adding, ''they're not soldiers or marines,
their faces are masked.''

These witness accounts have become common in Mexico over the past year,
especially in violent cities where the news media have been compromised by
corruption or killings. But the flurry of Twitter messages about the bodies
arrived at a telling moment -- on the same day that Veracruz's State Assembly
made it a crime to use Twitter and other social networks to undermine public
order.

It is the first law of its kind in Mexico, but most likely not the last. At
least one other state, Tabasco, is considering a similar measure, and all across
Mexico, public officials are now complaining about new technologies that can
help spread rumors. Panic is the fear: Two people in Veracruz were charged last
month with terrorism and sabotage after their Twitter messages -- spreading a
false rumor that schools were under attack -- seemed to cause traffic accidents
as parents flooded the roads.

And yet, according to scholars and many Mexicans, social media has become a
necessity in Mexico, with a mission far different from what has emerged in the
Arab revolutions, or in China. In those countries, social networks have been
used to route around identifiable sources of repression and to unify groups
dispersed over large areas. In Mexico, Twitter, Facebook and other tools are
instead deployed for local survival.

''These aren't acts of political sedition or real-time attempts to bring about a
change in government,'' said Nicholas T. Goodbody, a professor of Mexican
cultural studies at Williams College. ''These are people trying to navigate
daily life.''

In many ways, the explosion of electronic crime-sharing is the product of trends
that both create and destroy communities: Mexico today is both highly connected
and highly dangerous. Around 40,000 people have been killed in the ramped-up
drug war of the past five years, while the middle class is growing, scared and
increasingly networked. Cellphones are as common as keys; Twitter has more than
four million users in Mexico, according to tracking companies; and among the
more than 30 million people with regular Internet access, 95 percent have
profiles on Facebook.

Add to that the proliferation of Web sites and blogs dedicated to covering
violence with submissions from readers (Wikinarco, Blogdelnarco, Borderland
Beat), and what Mexico has ended up with is a crowd-sourced universe of morbid,
frightening information -- which is often not available elsewhere.

''Social media is filling the gap left by the press,'' said Andres
Monroy-Hernandez, a doctoral candidate from Mexico at the M.I.T. Media Lab. ''In
different regions of Mexico, both the state and the press are weak, while
organized crime is becoming stronger and, in some places, replacing the state.''

Many Mexicans now say they trust Twitter more than local news outlets, and in
some areas, parents and grandparents are being taught by their children how to
get online -- specifically so they can be safe.

Anonieta Salazar Loftin, a doctoral student in Mexican history at the University
of Texas at Dallas, said this is how his relatives back home use social media.
He said that anonymous crime-focused Twitter accounts like @balaceramty -- which
is based in Monterrey and has more than 40,000 followers -- provide a needed
public service.

''They fulfill the need for information in an immediate and accessible way and,
on a deeper, psychological level, provide some knowledge or certainty in the
face of uncertainty,'' Mr. Loftin said.

The Veracruz law is specifically aimed at false rumors that create unnecessary
panic. But experts say that given how hazy real-time reports of violence can be,
there could also be a danger of prosecuting well-intentioned watchdogs who share
information that turns out to be wrong.

Diana (a k a @mariana--war), one of many Mexicans who is following developments
in Veracruz via Twitter, said that more good than bad comes from open,
unregulated sharing. Declining to give her full name out of fear, she said that
while she probably lives with more fear now because she is ''in the know''
thanks to social media, its civic role should not be undervalued.

Referring to digital warnings about cartel checkpoints and shootouts, she said,
''People's lives are saved with Twitter.''

Not always. Two weeks ago, a man and a woman in their early 20s were found
hanging from a bridge in the border city of Nuevo Laredo, with a sign near their
mangled bodies that read: ''This will happen to all the Internet snitches.'' A
third person was found dead on Saturday with a sign declaring she was killed for
social media postings.

These are grisly warnings to the new media faithful. ''Social media is no longer
for fun and socializing in Mexico,'' said a contributor to Borderland Beat from
the state of Tamaulipas, who goes by @OVEMEX.

The killings highlighted the growing power of the so-called cyber guardians,
whose Twitter accounts sometimes carry avatars depicting Pancho Villa and other
heroes of the Mexican Revolution. The drug cartels, which have often
successfully enforced information blackouts at the local level by intimidating
the police and reporters, are clearly threatened by the decentralized
distribution of the Web. And it may be harder for them to control.

''People are uniting and exposing the truth,'' said @OVEMEX, pointing out that
delicate information often passes through several people or accounts before it
reaches the public. ''We all watch each other's backs.''

Of course, Mexico's struggle goes well beyond information. Mr. Monroy-Hernandez
at M.I.T. said that the spread of social media, which he describes as a symptom
of institutional dysfunction, will probably not ''play a central role in
fighting the problem.''

Some government officials may figure out how to work with, or at least tolerate,
social media. On Wednesday afternoon in Veracruz, the authorities said they had
identified most of the 35 dumped bodies, which were discarded, seminude, near a
mall popular with tourists. They said that 12 were women and that nearly all of
the identified victims had criminal records, hinting that they may have been
members of the Zetas gang, killed by rivals.

On Thursday, an additional 11 bodies turned up across the city, prompting
another round of Twitter commentary.

But by that time, the state's governor, Javier Duarte de Ochoa, had pardoned the
two Twitter users who had sent out false messages about the attacks against
local schools. He even announced it on Twitter.

Online, the response was swift. ''He's not useless after all,'' wrote one
Mexican Twitter user.

Another, referring to a Twitter campaign of solidarity with users using
#TwitTerrorista in their messages, added: ''Thanks to our efforts, our Twitter
friends are free.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:  Twitter users in Veracruz posted updates last week when gunmen
held up traffic and dumped 35 bodies in an underpass during rush hour.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY VERACRUZ EN RED/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 2, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cucina dell'Arte

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI.

FRANK BRUNI, an Op-Ed columnist for The New York Times, was the restaurant
critic of The Times from June 2004 to August 2009.

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; EUROPE ISSUE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 3069 words


A TIMID speaker of foreign tongues, I had scrawled the address on a piece of
paper, so I didn't have to say the numbers and words, and the taxi driver
studied it, perplexed for a few seconds, then tickled.

''This is a restaurant, isn't it?'' he asked, in Italian.

''Si!'' I said. ''Si!'' My response to linguistic insecurity is to repeat myself
-- and talk extra loudly.

''In a castle, right?'' he added.

I wasn't sure. In reading up on the place, I had somehow focused only on the
menu and skipped details about setting, atmosphere. A castle?

Possibly.

Hopefully.

Please, please, please.

We set out, driving from the center of Turin toward Rivoli, about 12 miles away.
As we drew near, I spied a very steep hill with what looked like a very, very
old stone fortress on top.

The driver pointed to it. ''The restaurant is there,'' he said. ''Definitely.''
He grinned and checked his rearview mirror for my and my companion's reactions.
We were beaming.

Then he spiraled up the hill, or tried to, repeatedly doubling back and revising
his route, Sisyphus in a Fiat, because some streets were blocked and others
dead-ended. The last mile took 10 minutes.

And so, fittingly, I arrived at Combal.Zero, one of the oddest and happiest
dining experiences I've ever had.

I say fittingly because the out-of-the-way surprise of its location foreshadowed
the out-of-the-ordinary revelation of its food -- a maccheroni-and-egg souffle
with a meaty Bolognese sauce skirting it and a lava of rich cheese oozing down
its sides; a concentration of egg yolk and caviar to be sucked in one
promiscuously intense mouthful from a plastic shell -- and spoke to my specific
mission on this particular eating adventure. I was doing unexpected Italy. Less
obvious Italy. Italy without any thought of carbonara. Italy without any nod to
amatriciana.

Back when I lived in Rome, from 2002 to 2004, and during many getaways to Italy
through the years, I almost always approached the country the way most of its
denizens and visitors do, reveling in the rustic and straightforward aspects of
its cooking. I would feast on unadorned plates of cured meats: speck,
prosciutto, culatello. I would order simple salads of arugula, which is somehow
sharper and more peppery in Italy than anywhere else. I would stick to pasta
dishes with just a few clarion flavors: the salty, fatty wallop of pancetta; the
salty, milky seduction of pecorino. And I savored these in excellent restaurants
with restrained prices and matter-of-fact decor. Italy has a seemingly limitless
supply of them.

But it also, of course, has fancier alternatives with creative and even
progressive cuisine, the kinds of places that sophisticated travelers more
commonly associate with France or, thanks to the chef Ferran Adria and his
avant-garde disciples, Spain. This was the Italy I explored over five days, four
cities, hundreds of miles and various modes of transportation: train, taxi,
rental car, my own waddling feet. Combal.Zero was just one exemplary ambassador
of it.

In Milan, at a restaurant named Innocenti Evasioni (Innocent Escapes), I had
eggplant parmigiana reinterpreted as chunky wedges of the vegetable tossed with
cherry tomatoes and cubes of mozzarella that hadn't been made to melt. In
Florence, at a restaurant named Ora d'Aria (Hour of Air), I had an artful riff
on a traditional Tuscan panzanella salad -- that's the one with soaked hunks of
bread -- as a vivid modernist phalanx of slender tomato squiggles, strands of
zucchini, wisps of purple onion and tender nuggets of smoked rabbit loin, all
arranged with plenty of space between them on a slender white rectangle of a
plate. The only bread in the equation was a rumor of crumbs on the rabbit.

And in Alba, at an absolutely marvelous restaurant named Piazza Duomo, I had a
riot of amuse bouches as numerous, delightful and whimsically presented as any
I'd encountered. Paper-thin, crunchy wafers of baked cheese jutted from the
crevasses of a rock. A ball with a liquid cheese center sat on a marble
pedestal. One tiny, opaque bowl held an ice of green apple, shiso and black
sesame. A slightly larger, translucent one -- a globe, really -- held mousselike
layers of foie gras, sweet corn and prune.

Some of the restaurants I sampled are internationally celebrated, with Michelin
stars and other such plaudits. Combal.Zero appeared on the most recent San
Pellegrino list of the world's 50 best restaurants, determined by a poll of
chefs and industry insiders worldwide. So did Cracco, a supremely luxurious
restaurant in Milan where I had another of my dinners.

Both Combal.Zero and Cracco put Italian traditions through the paces of Mr.
Adria's so-called molecular gastronomy, an agenda championed perhaps most
assertively in Italy by Osteria Francescana, in Modena. I skipped Francescana
only because I'd been and written about it before, and already knew it to be a
treasure. Five other restaurants drew my attention. In all, my posture stiffened
a bit, not because I felt cinched but because I felt I owed it to evenings with
an emphasis on beauty instead of bounty -- on the curves of the gleaming
stemware and the colors of food arranged with the utmost precision on sleek
plates. This was the epicurean equivalent of fashion-house or furniture-design
Italy, less comforting than riveting -- and equally enjoyable.

And all were to be found in hideaways of sorts, their physical situations
peculiar or their entrances barely marked, which added to the sense of adventure
and discovery.

Piazza Duomo, for example, is tucked into a second-story room up a
matter-of-fact staircase behind a mysterious purplish door off a cobbled alley.
You have to be buzzed up.

Innocenti Evasioni is on a narrow street labeled ''private'' and seems to be the
lone business among apartments and houses.

Even Cracco, just a few blocks from the cathedral in the center of Milan, plays
its own game of peekaboo. On the ground level, all you see is a vestibule, where
a solitary host stood on the night when my companion, Kerry, and I went. The
host tucked the two of us into an elevator, and we descended two stories, to
emerge into a series of elegant, contemporary dining rooms invisible from the
street. Somehow, the host was already there: he'd apparently bounded down the
stairs and beat us without breaking a sweat. That's the sort of energetic but
seemingly effortless service Cracco aces.

About Cracco's cooking my feelings were mixed, especially in the context of
price: the food alone for our meal for two was more than 225 euros, about $300
at $1.34 to the euro. Some dishes struck me as inventive for the sake of
inventive, like a starter course of multicolored dried vegetables and fruits
whose appeal was principally visual. Others were inventive to the point of
flat-out weird, like a chocolate-and-caviar concoction for dessert. And several
dishes, those included, didn't seem all that reflective of local traditions and
ingredients, as the best cooking usually is.

When Cracco -- named for its chef, Carlo Cracco -- kept Italy in the picture, it
and we were much better off. Ravioli that came midway through our meal, just as
the chef was stopping by our table to say hello, exemplified this. They were
taller than they were broad and resembled dark chocolate truffles, because they
had been coated on the outside with a powder made from squid ink. Inside was a
goat cheese so fresh and liquid it could almost have passed for goat milk.

As for the pasta, it had an exquisitely chewy texture, firmer than usual but
still yielding, that I struggled to describe.

''Al dentissimo!'' I told the chef, who seemed not to like the sound of that. He
shook his head.

''Almost rigid,'' I tried, but that didn't go over any better.

He elected to talk process instead of results. ''The ravioli can't be cooked too
long,'' he said. ''They must be taken out at exactly the right moment.'' These,
by all evidence, had been. The contrast between their exteriors and interiors
was perfect.

And it was a good, pleasant thing that the chef lingered awhile, because he's an
absurdly handsome man, with an uncanny resemblance to Kris Kristofferson circa
''A Star Is Born.'' I half expected Barbra Streisand to pop up behind him, begin
belting ''Evergreen'' and then wisely steal him away.

THE phrase ''ora d'aria'' refers to the period when prison inmates are let into
the yard: a blessed reprieve, which the restaurant Ora d'Aria certainly offers.
One of its two main dining rooms is deep inside, far from the street; the other,
with sleek white tulip chairs and gray banquettes, is underground. We chose to
go down, and ate near the portal to the restaurant's expansive wine cellar,
crowded in particular with Chianti, Montepulciano, Montalcino. Ora d'Aria knows
exactly where it is -- Tuscany -- and its wine list and menu pay homage to that.

Less audacious and more accessible than Cracco, it doesn't cast its lot with
sci-fi cooking, but rummages its enchanted region of Italy for underexposed
traditions and ingredients, which it mingles with better-known ones. Eating here
is like encountering an old friend who has had a thorough makeover. He's the
same but different, familiar but fresh.

The ragu for a dish of pappardelle, a noodle with special currency in Tuscany,
was made with a fennel-flavored salami that I don't often encounter, and one of
the dish's accents was nepitella, a minty wild herb that grows in the
countryside around Florence.

The pappardelle was part of a five-course, 60-euro tasting menu that was both
fairly priced and wisely portioned: Kerry and I left feeling pampered, not
decadent; sated, not comatose. Ora isn't an event you set aside an entire
evening and a week's salary for, but rather a smart, welcome change of pace from
so many Italian restaurants with a classical approach.

That's true as well of Innocenti Evasioni, where the cooking is slightly more
playful than Ora's but not Cracco-caliber loopy. Only one dish there wholly
befuddled me.

''I'm not sure what this is or where to start,'' I told Kerry as I glanced
longingly at the pretty, intact, easily identifiable squash blossoms before him,
then looked anew at the pale green puddle in a bowl in front of me. Was it
supposed to be a soup? A foam? It bubbled and crackled, like Rice Krispies.
Maybe it was a cereal. And above it, on the lip of the bowl, was a one-bite
sandwich or cookie or such, formed by an inky tapenade between golden squares of
crisp pastry.

I submerged the sandwich in the moss-colored sea, mashed everything up, swept a
spoon through it and took a taste. Not bad! I registered basil. Olive. Butter.
More basil. I was done before I knew it.

The meal progressed to the newfangled eggplant parmigiana; to a tangle of
tagliolini, colored dark green from oregano in the dough; to thick coins of
impossibly moist chicken breast accented with cumin and cashew, two ingredients
Italy doesn't typically showcase. All of this unfolded in a cozy room with a
wall of glass looking onto a lush garden. It was a lovely retreat from the chaos
of Milan.

FROM Milan to Turin is a snap, just an hour in a high-speed train, and Turin is
blessed with a sense of order and a cleanliness that elude Rome, Milan and
Naples. I love it for its regally composed self but even more because it's the
anchor of the mountainous Piedmont region, which has few if any culinary rivals.
Piedmont traffics in agnolotti, those dimpled handmade purses of pasta. Vitello
tonnato, the tuna-sauced veal. Barolo and Barbaresco, wines of the gods. The
white truffles of Alba.

It is the home of Slow Food, and of a university affiliated with it, in
Pollenzo, where the campus of red brick buildings includes one of my favorite
restaurants in Italy, Guido, along with a stunning hotel and spa, the Albergo
dell'Agenzia.

Guido wasn't on the agenda for this trip; although plenty refined, it serves
essentially orthodox renditions of Piedmont classics. But Kerry and I did stay
at the hotel, and in preparation for the meal at Piazza Duomo, a 15-minute drive
away, he splashed in the outdoor pool. I ran a few miles up and down the country
roads just outside town, gazing at turrets on hilltops in the distance.

Piazza Duomo is in the aged, atmospheric center of Alba, which is visible
through its windows. The brownish, grayish stone of the buildings presents an
amusingly jarring contrast to the dining room itself, painted entirely in bright
pink, with odd drawings all over the walls: a giant anchor; an enormous broom;
two limber, entwined figures engaged in intensive yoga or mild eroticism -- take
your pick. As befits a restaurant in a region of remarkable viticulture, the
wine list is superb, not just because it has scores of Piedmont's most
celebrated reds but because it makes them affordable. Here you can find and
order a terrific Barolo with at least five years of age for under 70 euros,
roughly $90. Good luck with that in New York.

All in all Piazza Duomo is expensive. We spent about 110 euros each on four
courses following that amuse-bouche extravaganza. But for that we got intense,
unusual flavor combinations -- raw shrimp, for example, with a thick concentrate
of grape not unlike jelly -- and flawless cooking. A rack of suckling pig chops
was juicy perfection, and their sauce, ladled onto them tableside, sweetened the
deal, literally. It had strawberry and raspberry in it.

The restaurant's chef, Enrico Crippa, favors fruity, sweet notes, putting them
where you least expect them. For instance, his minuscule agnolotti harbored not
only pork but also raisin, along with bits of almond biscuit and cinnamon. His
version of pasta ''cacio e pepe,'' which is a cheesy and peppery Italian
classic, was dusted with chocolate, but not too much. Both dishes, along with
everything we ate at Piazza Duomo, were superb.

So was everything we ate at Combal.Zero, once we finally found it. The Fiat's
ascent to the castle, portions of which are believed to go back at least to the
12th century, didn't conclude the teasing, mysterious buildup to our meal. Where
amid all this ancient stone was the restaurant's entrance? Kerry and I spotted a
locked gate and, nearby, a buzzer. After I pressed it, the gate swung open, and
we climbed a curving path skirted by lush vegetation. The restaurant was at its
end, a long glass sleeve attached to the castle, which one side of it faces. The
other side faces the streets, apartments and houses at the base of the hill and
far beyond it. Their amber lights glowed in the night.

Combal.Zero is as expensive and luxurious as Cracco, with tables so widely
separated they seem to occupy different time zones, but the payoff is greater.
Its chef, Davide Scabin, never succumbs to pointless eccentricity.

He indulges a fanciful theatricality, though. To get at the yolk-caviar
combination, you're asked to play surgeon, and to use a scalpel-like X-Acto
knife to slice open the plastic shell.

''You have to press hard,'' our server instructed us, ''but if you press too
hard, you'll lose everything inside.'' At 55 euros for the one mouthful --
caviar of his quality isn't cheap -- I didn't want to lose even a drop. This was
high-stakes surgery. My hand trembled. The souffle reimagining of a pasta
Bolognese is served against a blue backdrop, with thick segments of a gold-leaf
picture frame around it. The message was clear -- and accurate. I was eating
art.

Thin ribbons of veal kidney came not only in a creamy gin sauce but also with a
gin-and-tonic on the side. The tonnato with the vitello wasn't the usual
tuna-mayonnaise mix but pureed tuna only, in little dabs around which slices of
pink, rare veal were folded.

We also had an uni risotto and spaghetti with sweetbreads and foie gras, the
delicacies coming one after the other. What to drink? We tried two uncommon
whites; a chardonnay, sauvignon blanc and arneis blend by Malvira, followed by a
2003 blend of marsanne and roussanne by Poderi A. Bertelli. It was opulent,
dreamy.

The taxi driver who picked us up to bring us back to our hotel said that he
didn't know anyone who'd eaten at the restaurant, and wasn't familiar with it
himself. He wondered about the food.

''It's different,'' I said.

''From another country?'' he asked.

''No,'' I said, then stopped, because I was once again getting shy about my
Italian, and because it wasn't good enough to capture my thoughts. I wanted to
say that the food was from another Italy: less hidebound, more mischievous, just
as magical and wholly worth a try.

Six Restaurants Where Progressive Italian Cooking Shines

Combal.Zero, Piazza Mafalda di Savoia, Rivoli; (39-011) 956-5222;
www.combal.org. A contemporary space attached to an aged castle on a hilltop
just outside Turin. Don't miss: maccheroni souffle; reimagined vitello tonnato.
Dinner for two with wine, 350 to 400 euros, or about $470 to $535 at $1.34 to
the euro. Closed Sunday and Monday.

Cracco, Via Victor Hugo 4, Milan; (39-02) 876-774; ristorantecracco.it. Elegant
dining rooms below ground in the center of town. Don't miss: calamari ravioli.
Dinner for two with wine, 325 to 375 euros. Open nightly except Sunday; for
lunch Tuesday through Friday.

Innocenti Evasioni, Via Privata della Bindellina, Milan; (39-02) 3300-1882;
innocentievasioni.com. A cozy dining room with windows looking out onto a lush
garden. Don't miss: chicken with cashew and cumin. Dinner for two with wine, 130
to 160 euros. Open nightly except Sunday.

Ora d'Aria, Via dei Georgofili 11 Rosso, Florence; (39-055) 200-1699;
www.oradariaristorante.com. Sleek, modern dining rooms; the one downstairs abuts
the wine cellar. Don't miss: New Wave panzanella salad. Dinner for two with
wine, 170 to 200 euros. Open nightly except Sunday; for lunch, Tuesday through
Saturday.

Osteria Francescana, Via Stella 22, Modena; (39-059) 210-118;
osteriafrancescana.it. A beautifully spare space with stylized art in one of
northern Italy's most pleasant small cities. Don't miss: five textures and ages
of Parmesan. Dinner for two with wine, over 400 euros. Open nightly except
Sunday; for lunch, Monday through Friday.

Piazza Duomo, Piazza Risorgimento 4, Alba; (39-0173) 366-167;
piazzaduomoalba.it. A bright pink dining room overlooking an old square. Don't
miss: shrimp with grape; agnolotti with cinnamon. Dinner for two with wine, 300
to 350 euros. Lunch and dinner hours vary with the season; usually closed Sunday
and Monday.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CLOCKWISE FROM LEFT: Waiter, posing, pours a Barolo at Piazza
Duomo in Alba
rabbit panzanella at Ora d'Aria in Florence
amuse bouches at Piazza Duomo
in Milan, Innocenti Evasioni's version of eggplant parmigiana. (TR8)
ABOVE FROM LEFT: A maccheroni souffle at Combal.Zero, near Turin
Davide Scabin, Combal.Zero's chef
Combal.Zero's ''cyber egg,'' a concentration of yolk and caviar. (TR8-TR9)
CLOCKWISE FROM ABOVE: A dessert called Pablo Picasso at Ora d'Aria in Florence
the entrance to Ora d'Aria, down an alley, is on the left
 Innocenti Evasioni in Milan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOMAS VAN HOUTRYVE FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (TR9) MAP(TR9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 2, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Week Ahead Oct. 2 - Oct. 8

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 268 words


Theater

Steven McElroy

We have arrived at that fruitful point in the fall theater season when a
Broadway production will open about once a week for the next couple of months,
ensuring that Midtown Manhattan will be crammed with new productions.

There are openings coming in other neighborhoods too, of course, where the
prices are more recession friendly. In a year that has brought revivals of the
AIDS-themed ''Angels in America'' and ''Normal Heart,'' completists may want to
check out the Barefoot Theater Company's next production. The first offering in
a three-play festival called STRIPPED is another work from early days of the
AIDS crisis: Joe Pintauro's sobering 1991 drama ''Raft of the Medusa,'' set in
an AIDS support group and newly revised by the author (Wednesday through Oct.
22). Stripped continues with ''Verse Chorus Verse'' (Oct. 26 to Nov. 12), a
drama by Randall Colburn inspired by the Nirvana song of the same name, and will
conclude with ''Gloucester Blue'' (Nov. 16 to Dec. 3), a new play written and
directed by Israel Horovitz. This dark comedy is the latest of several Horovitz
works that Barefoot has presented. Cherry Lane Studio Theater, 38 Commerce
Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, barefoottheatrecompany.org; $18.

Uptown, Project: Theater, is presenting ''Mangella,'' a new play by Ken
Ferrigni, directed by Joe Jung. Billed as a cyber-thriller, the play is about a
hacker caring for his demented father and whose computer may have a mind of its
own. Thursday through Oct. 23, the Drilling Company, 236 West 78th Street,
Manhattan; (212) 868-4444, projecttheater.org; $18.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 7, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

White House Upgrades Computer Safety

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 709 words


WASHINGTON -- The White House plans to issue an executive order on Friday to
replace a flawed patchwork of computer security safeguards exposed by the
disclosure of hundreds of thousands of classified government documents to
WikiLeaks last year.

The order by President Obama culminates a seven-month governmentwide review of
policies and procedures involving the handling of classified information, and
recommendations on how to reduce the risk of breaches.

The directive enshrines many stopgap fixes that the Pentagon, the State
Department and the Central Intelligence Agency made immediately after the
initial WikiLeaks disclosures last November. Since then, for instance, the
military has disabled 87 percent of its computers to prevent people from
downloading classified data onto memory sticks, CDs or DVDs.

The Pentagon has also developed procedures to monitor and detect suspicious
behavior on classified computer systems. And the State Department stopped
distributing its diplomatic cables over a classified e-mail system used by many
in the military, including Pfc. Bradley E. Manning, who is accused of leaking
the classified documents to WikiLeaks.

Computer security analysts say these safeguards, as well as others in the
executive order aimed at bringing greater consistency and accountability to
information sharing and protection policies, are long overdue, and lag behind
what is routine in the private sector.

''The real surprise continues to be that relatively elementary procedures should
have been in place and were not,'' said Ravi Sandhu, executive director of the
Institute for Cyber Security at the University of Texas at San Antonio.

In addition to these immediate measures, Mr. Obama's order creates a task force
led by the attorney general and the director of national intelligence to combat
leaks from government workers, or what the White House calls an ''insider
threat.''

The directive also establishes a special government committee that must submit a
report to the president within 90 days, and then at least once a year after
that, assessing federal successes and failures in protecting classified
information on government computer networks.

According to government prosecutors, the three big WikiLeaks document dumps were
disguised as a Lady Gaga CD and smuggled out of a military intelligence office
in Iraq by Private Manning. Computer security analysts say the case revealed
major lapses in securing classified data in war zones.

Now, virtually every Defense Department computer is blocked from downloading
classified information onto memory sticks or CDs, except for explicitly
authorized ''mission essential'' exceptions.

The Pentagon has issued a cyber identity credential to anyone using unclassified
networks and has started a similar program for personnel using classified
networks. These credentials allow supervisors to track what users are working
on.

And the military is accelerating the analysis of logs from computers on the
classified networks to detect large transfers of data or the use of data that is
unrelated to an individual's job duties.

''It's an additional tool to provide indicators that flag anomalous behavior,
much as credit card companies monitor credit card use and a user's profile,''
said Teri Takai, the Defense Department's chief information officer.

The WikiLeaks disclosure also revealed disparities in the use of security
safeguards by various federal agencies and even within agencies. Under the new
order, each federal agency will designate a senior official to oversee
procedures for safeguarding classified data that also protect user privacy and
civil liberties.

''As technology changes, we hope to be ahead of the curve, seeing where
technology is going and being able to respond before it's necessary,'' said
Patrick F. Kennedy, the under secretary for management at the State Department.

Despite the changes and continuing review, administration officials say the new
policies and procedures are relatively untested.

''I don't think we'll ever be able to guarantee this won't happen again, but
this greatly enhances our chances of preventing it or catching it in the
process,'' said Monte Hawkins, the director for identity management and
biometrics policy at the National Security Council.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                             October 7, 2011 Friday

Newswallah: What's in the English-Language Press Friday

BYLINE: SRUTHI GOTTIPATI

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 281 words



HIGHLIGHT: Top stories on Friday.


Officials claimed a breakthrough in the Delhi High Court blast case that killed
15 and injured scores of others a month ago. The National Investigation Agency
tasked with finding the perpetrators detained another suspect from the Kishtwar
area of Jammu and Kashmir - their third arrest in the case. Officials say the
third suspect, identified only as Wasim, is one of the key conspirators and
hatched the plot after being lured by the Harkat-ul-Jehadi Islami in Bangladesh.


Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah on Thursday once again dismissed
a demand from the main state opposition party that he step down from office
after the death of a party worker stoked controversy.  The People's Democratic
Party says Mr. Abdullah may "influence" the judicial inquiry into the death,
which he denies.

The wife of arrested police officer Sanjiv Bhatt has written again to union Home
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, accusing Gujarat police of treating her
husband like a "terrorist." Shweta Bhatt said her husband wasn't being given
food or water in while detained.  Mr. Bhatt, who had accused Gujarat Chief
Minister Narendra Modi of complicity in the communal riots in the state in 2002,
was arrested on September 30.

The Indian Institute of Technology or IIT Bombay will set up a research center
on homeland security to provide state-of-the-art technology for police and
paramilitary forces tackling urban terrorism, militant insurgents and cyber
crime.


     ·    Newswallah: In the English-Language Press Tuesday
     ·    Newswallah: In the National English-Language Press Today
     ·    Newswallah: Bharat Edition
     ·    Newswallah: In the English-Language Press Today
     ·    Newswallah: In the English-Language Press Wednesday


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 9, 2011 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Ann Arbor, Mich.

BYLINE: By JENNIFER CONLIN

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; 36 HOURS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1629 words


IT is not just the throngs of University of Michigan students dressed in maize
and blue singing ''Hail to the Victors'' that makes Ann Arbor the ultimate
college town each fall. Nor is it Michigan Stadium, with the largest attendance
in the country (114,804 at one recent game), and recently renovated to the tune
of $226 million. Rather it is the urban sophistication of this town -- with its
mix of restaurants, bars, boutiques, art-house movie theaters and world-class
art museums -- that keeps many University of Michigan alumni from leaving long
after they have graduated. For travelers, the sheer energy and the abundance of
cultural opportunities, from classical dance performances to bluegrass concerts,
makes a fall visit here a good time to get into the college spirit, even if
you're not a student.

Friday

2 p.m. 1) OLD-TIME SHOPPING

Start your weekend in Nickels Arcade, an elegant glass-covered atrium that
opened in 1918 and still houses businesses dating back more than 80 years. Van
Boven Clothing (326 South State Street; 734-665-7228), for instance, is a men's
clothier that has long catered to well-dressed fraternity boys. The intimate
Comet Coffee (16 Nickels Arcade; 734-222-0579) brews coffee from Ethiopia to El
Salvador one cup at a time. Then cross State Street to Moe's Sport Shop (711
North University Avenue; 734- 668-6915; moesportshops.com) to suit up for
tomorrow's game. ''U of M'' apparel has been sold here since 1915, and you'll
find such items as T-shirts and temporary ''M'' face tattoos.

3 p.m. 2) STUDENT SCENE

The Diag, as the open space on the central campus is called, is a leafy oasis
intersected by sidewalks connecting academic buildings. Relax on a bench and
take in the student scene, featuring everything from charity bucket drives to
Ultimate Frisbee games. Just don't step on the brass inlaid ''M'' in front of
the Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library -- lore has it that freshmen who step on it
will earn an F on their first exam. Then visit the architecturally stunning
Michigan Law School quadrangle (625 South State Street), which could easily
stand in for Harry Potter's Hogwarts, as could the library's Reading Room with
its vaulted ceilings, oak wainscoting and stained glass windows.

5 p.m. 3) NEW NOSTALGIA

Between the Law School and the Ross School of Business you'll find Dominick's
(812 Monroe Street; 734-662-5414), which has been serving students and the
area's aging hippie population ever since the '60s, when the town was at the
forefront of the Vietnam War protest movement. Though its picnic tables and
booths are increasingly filled with entrepreneurs and M.B.A. candidates,
everyone seems to enjoy the sangria served in jam jars on the patio. But avoid
the temptation to eat here; instead head to Mark's Carts
(markscartsannarbor.com) -- a jumble of ethnic food carts in a cozy courtyard on
Washington Street between First and Ashley Streets, where, on Friday evenings
throughout the fall, you can eat paella ($8) or tangy Thai slaw ($3) while
listening to jazz, folk and rock performers.

8 p.m. 4) COOL CULTURE

The University Musical Society (ums.org) offers a range of dance, theater and
musical productions performed at places that include the Hill Auditorium, with
its superb acoustics and the small but elegant Lydia Mendelssohn Theater. But it
is the Ark (316 South Main Street; 734-761-1818; theark.org), one of North
America's oldest nonprofit acoustic music clubs, that has developed an
international reputation, not just for preserving American music (folk and
bluegrass, in particular), but also for showcasing world music from Africa, the
Caribbean and elsewhere. Tickets start at $10.

Saturday

9 a.m. 5) SUNNY SIDE UP

Beat the crowds at Angelo's (1100 Catherine; 734-761-8996; angelosa2.com), where
thick slices of raisin toast ($2.35) are second only to the pumpkin pancakes
($6.99). Work off the calories with a brisk walk to the Farmers' Market (315
Detroit Street; tel: 734-794-6255), with stalls stocked with local products,
from fruit-flavored syrups (rhubarb, peach, cantaloupe, $8.99) to wooden bird
houses ($20).

Noon 6) PATIENCE & PUMPERNICKEL

Don't be put off by the line outside Zingerman's deli (422 Detroit Street;
734-663-3354; zingermansdeli.com); waiting is part of the experience. The
friendly servers hand out nibbles of fresh bread, cheese and brownies while you
decide which of the 99 sandwiches you want (most popular: Zingerman's Reuben on
Jewish rye, $15.50). Or cross the street to Monahan's Seafood Market (407 North
Fifth Avenue; 734-662-5118; monahansseafood.com) for an oyster po' boy ($8.95)
and fresh chowder ($4.95).

1 p.m. 7) FUN IN THE BIG HOUSE

Kickoff time varies between noon and 4 p.m., depending on the college football
broadcast schedule. Don't show up at the Big House, as the stadium is called,
ticketless. Buying seats ($70) in advance is a must for most of the seven or
eight home games a season; tickets are available through the university's
athletic site, mgoblue.com. Though alcohol is not allowed, there is plenty of
spirit in the cheering of ''Let's Go Blue'' and the tunes played by the Michigan
Marching Band. When football season is over, there is ice hockey in the winter,
softball in the spring, and some 20 other sports, from water polo to wrestling.

5 p.m. 8) COCKTAIL CRAWL

Whether Michigan has won or lost, students hit the bars. Avoid South University
and State Street (student hubs) and head to the more civilized Main Street (the
place Bob Seger, who grew up in Ann Arbor, is actually singing about in the song
''Mainstreet''). With dozens of night spots, it's easy to find a martini or
microbrew; one favorite is Palio (347 South Main: tel: 734-456-3463;
paliorestaurant.com), where postgame parties erupt on the rooftop bar.

7 p.m. 9) THE GLOBAL GOURMET

If it is ethnic food you crave, try Pacific Rim (114 West Liberty Street;
734-662-9303; pacificrimbykana.com) whose pan-Asian menu includes a delicate
tuna tartare with taro chips, and pan-seared quinoa-crusted scallops (dinner
with wine, $50). Head to Logan (115 West Washington Street; 734-327-2312;
logan-restaurant.com) for Gruyere custard with caramelized onions and tomatoes
or wild boar Bolognese (dinner with wine, $50). If you want a quick bite, Frita
Batidos (117 West Washington Street; 734-761-2882; fritabatidos.com) serves
Cuban specialties like fritas (spicy burgers of chorizo, black bean, white fish,
beef or turkey on a soft brioche for $7 and $8), and batidos, fresh fruit
shakes, with sweetened milk, crushed ice and the option of rum.

9 p.m. 10) WILD AT DARK

Housed in an old brewery, the Cavern Club (210 South First Street; 734-913-8890;
cavernclubannarbor.com) attracts some of the biggest bands and D.J.'s from metro
Detroit (when a band is performing, $5; $10 for 18 to 21). Or check out the
Michigan Theater (603 East Liberty Street; 734-668-8463; michtheater.org).
Opened in 1928 as a vaudeville and silent movie palace, it now offers live
entertainment (the Ann Arbor Symphony performs here regularly), as well as
independent films. Night owls will appreciate the Saturday midnight shows of
cult classics like ''The Rocky Horror Picture Show'' at the nearby State
Theater, an Art Deco cinema built in 1942 (233 South State Street; 734-761-8667;
michtheater.org/state).

Sunday

9 a.m. 11) NOT JUST A NAME

As the town's name suggests, there are many trees, both native and exotic, here.
You can see some of them at Nichols Arboretum (1610 Washington Heights;
734-647-8986; lsa.umich.edu/mbg), a 123-acre site with panoramic views and a
path along the winding Huron River (open sunrise to sunset).

11 a.m. 12) ECLECTIC BRUNCH

Cafe Zola (112 West Washington Street; 734-769-2020; cafezola.com) offers an
eclectic menu that borrows from French, Italian and Turkish cuisines -- like
crepes, both savory and sweet, and Turkish eggs (with feta, spinach, tomato,
olives and cucumber). Brunch, $20.

1 p.m. 13) PAINTINGS, POTS AND MORE

With over 18,000 works of art (European, African, Asian, American and Middle
Eastern), there is something for everyone at the University of Michigan Museum
of Art (525 South State Street; 734-764-0395; umma.umich.edu). Those preferring
ancient and medieval art should cross the street to the Kelsey Museum of
Archaeology (No. 434; 734-764-9304; lsa.umich.edu/kelsey), with more than
100,000 Mediterranean and Middle Eastern objects.

IF YOU GO

The Bell Tower (300 South Thayer Street; 734-769-3010; belltowerhotel.com) is a
charming hotel located right on campus and close to downtown. A standard king is
$175 a night.

The Inn at the League (911 North University Avenue; 734-764-3177;
uunions.umich.edu/league/inn), with wonderful views of the grounds, offers a
true campus experience, a convenience store, information desk, cyber lounge,
several dining spots and a garden. Both a standard king and double room start at
$135 a night. Suites are $230 and $15 for each additional guest.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 16, 2011; October 23, 2011



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
The 36 Hours column on Oct. 9, about Ann Arbor, Mich., misstated the phone
number for the Ann Arbor Farmers' Market. It is 734-794-6255. The article also
misstated the kickoff time for football games in the Big House, as theUniversity
of Michigan's stadium is called. Kickoff varies between noon and 4 p.m., not 1
and 4 p.m.

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The 36 Hours
column on Oct. 9, about Ann Arbor, Mich., misstated the phone number for the Ann
Arbor Farmers' Market. It is 734-794-6255. The column also misstated the name of
the street that Bob Seger, who grew up in Ann Arbor, sings about in his song
''Mainstreet.'' It is Ann Street, near Main Street; it is not Main Street.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From Left: University of Michigan students perform for
strollers on Main Street
Michigan Marching Band in Michigan Stadium at football season opener
 the pan-Asian Pacific Rim restaurant. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY DING FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) MAPS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (The 6th Floor)

                            October 14, 2011 Friday

Teen Spirit Smells Like . . . Victory!

BYLINE: DEAN ROBINSON

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 826 words



HIGHLIGHT: Teenagers, according to recent brain studies, are quite possibly the
most fully, crucially adaptive human beings around. Whatever.


If you have - or have ever had - a teenager in your home or, really, if you have
ever known a teenager, then chances are there's been an occasion when you
wondered, What was he ? (Or if he was thinking.) That's why you should check out
National Geographic's October cover article by David Dobbs, "The New Science of
the Teenage Brain." It's full of fascinating things. Even Shakespeare is
enlisted to sum up the problem of teenagedom, through a character who says, of
10- to 23-year-olds, "There is nothing in the between but getting wenches with
child, wronging the ancientry, stealing, fighting." The bard neglects drinking,
drug doing, driving while drinking or drug doing, cutting classes, indulging all
sorts of cyber shenanigans, playing too much of that damn "Halo" video game -
wait, I sound like the ancientry, don't I? - but you get the idea. Teenagers are
crazy.*

Basically, the fully grown brain (size-wise) is rewiring itself between the ages
of 12 and 25, as myelin insulates the nerve fibers used most frequently, and the
unused fibers are left to atrophy. This system upgrade means "we get better at
integrating memory and experience into our decisions. . . . [and] the frontal
areas develop greater speed and richer connections, allowing us to generate and
weigh far more variables and agendas than before." (Improved neural efficiency
is good for more than thought processes, of course. Think sports, for example.
Myelination is at the heart of Daniel Coyle's cover article for Play magazine in
2007, which led to his book "The Talent Code: Greatness Isn't Born. It's Grown.
Here's How." Upshot: get your kid swinging a bat or a racket or a club early and
often and with focus. If you'd prefer a Mozart, substitute piano for sporting
goods.)

But I guess all that work going on in the cranium means things are unsettled up
there for years. (I imagine it's like this: If you want to replace the
knob-and-tube wiring in an old house - the kind that burns a place down - you
have to make a mess of the homestead for a while.) As Dobbs writes, capturing
the good and bad of the teenage brain's maturation:

When this development proceeds normally, we get better at balancing impulse,
desire, goals, self-interest, rules, ethics and even altruism, generating
behavior that is more complex and, sometimes at least, more sensible. But at
times, and especially at first, the brain does this work clumsily. It's hard to
get all those new cogs to mesh.

This realization has been dawning for a while now, since teenagers started
having their brains scanned and studied in the 1990s. What's emerging more
recently is the recognition that this state of affairs confers evolutionary
advantages; it isn't only some byproduct phase to be endured. The allure of
novelty, thrills and intense social interaction, combined with the flexibility
afforded by late myelination, opens young people up to the world. New horizons
are sought; useful experiences are had. Dobbs again:

The move outward from home is the most difficult thing that humans do, as well
as the most critical - not just for individuals but for a species that has shown
an unmatched ability to master challenging new environments. In scientific
terms, teenagers can be a pain in the ass. But they are quite possibly the most
fully, crucially adaptive human beings around. Without them, humanity might not
have so readily spread across the globe.

I have to admit I'm having trouble reconciling this new general way of thinking
about teenage wasteland with some particulars. Let's say one teen didn't start
his required summer reading - four novels! historical source materials!
statistics crypto-whatever! - until days before school began . . . um, that
means he's adapting himself for what, exactly?

*Here's an evocative description of these years from the point of view of Lola
Cabral, a character in Junot Diaz's novel "The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar
Wao":

I was the tallest, dorkiest girl in the school, the one who dressed up as Wonder
Woman every Halloween, the one who never said a word. People saw me in my
glasses and my hand-me-down clothes and could not have imagined what I was
capable of. And then when I was twelve I got that feeling, the scary witchy one,
and before I knew it my mother was sick and the wildness that had been in me all
along, that I tried to tamp down with chores and with promises that once I
reached college I would be able to do whatever I pleased, burst out. I couldn't
help it. I tried to keep it down but it just flooded through all my quiet
spaces. It was a message more than a feeling, a message that tolled like a bell;
change, change, change.

It didn't happen overnight. Yes, the wildness was in me, yes it kept my heart
beating fast all the long day, yes it danced around me while I walked down the
street, yet it let me look boys straight in the face when they stared at me, yes
it turned my laugh from a cough into a long wild fever, but I was still scared.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Out With Textbooks, In With Laptops for an Indiana School District

BYLINE: By ALAN SCHWARZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1188 words


MUNSTER, Ind. -- Laura Norman used to ask her seventh-grade scientists to take
out their textbooks and flip to Page Such-and-Such. Now, she tells them to take
out their laptops.

The day all have seen coming -- traditional textbooks being replaced by
interactive computer programs -- arrived this year in this traditional,
well-regarded school district, complete with one naysaying parent getting
reported to the police. Unlike the tentative, incremental steps of digital
initiatives at many schools nationwide, Munster made an all-in leap in a few
frenetic months -- removing all math and science textbooks for its 2,600
students in grades 5 to 12, and providing a window into the hurdles and hiccups
of such an overhaul.

The transformation, which cost $1.1 million for infrastructure, involved
rewiring not just classrooms but also the mindset of students, teachers and
parents. When teachers started hearing that ''the server ate my homework,'' they
knew a new era had begun.

''The material we're teaching is old but everything around it is brand-new,''
said Pat Premetz, chairwoman of the math department at Wilbur Wright Middle
School in Munster, who described the initiative as both ''very overwhelming''
and ''the most exciting thing to happen in my 40 years of teaching.''

''This isn't stressing out students,'' Ms. Premetz added. ''It's stressing out
teachers because of some of the technological problems, and parents who are
wondering why their kids are on the computer so much.''

Munster is hardly the first district to go digital. Schools in Mooresville,
N.C., for example, started moving away from printed textbooks four years ago,
and now 90 percent of their curriculum is online. ''It didn't happen overnight
for us -- it was an incremental change,'' said Mark Edwards, Mooresville's
superintendent of schools. ''The competency is evolutional.''

But Munster's is part of a new wave of digital overhauls in the two dozen states
that have historically required schools to choose textbooks from
government-approved lists. Florida, Louisiana, Utah and West Virginia approved
multimedia textbooks for the first time for the 2011-12 school year, and Indiana
went so far as to scrap its textbook-approval process altogether, partly
because, officials said, the definition of a textbook will only continue to
fracture.

''We've stopped pretending that the state board of education is the biggest
school district in the state,'' said Tony Bennett, Indiana's superintendent of
public instruction. ''I believe in local control, and we don't have the ability
to be the keeper of knowledge we have been in the past. We'll be better off if
we uncuff people's hands.''

Uncuffed, Angela Bartolomeo's sixth graders spent a recent Wednesday rearranging
terms of equations on an interactive Smart Board and dragging-and-dropping
answers in ways that chalkboards never could. (In between, a cartoon character
exclaimed that ''Multiplying by 1 does not change the value of a number!'' in
his best superhero baritone.)

When the children followed up the lesson with exercises on their laptops, the
curriculum, Pearson Education's ''Digits,'' not only allowed them to advance at
individual rates, but also alerted Ms. Bartolomeo via her iPad when they were
stuck on a particular concept and needed help.

Software wirelessly recorded the children's performance in a file that the
teacher would review that night. ''Last year I'd have to walk around and ask
every kid how it's going, and I'd be grading sheets, that kind of thing,'' Ms.
Bartolomeo said. ''This way I can give my time to the kids who really need it.
And it's a lot more engaging for the kids. They're actually doing their homework
now.''

Ms. Norman, the seventh-grade science teacher, is using material from Discovery
Education, which on that Wednesday included videos from Discovery's
''Mythbuster'' series (commercial-free), an interactive glossary and other eye
candy to help students investigate whether cellphones cause cancer. When Ms.
Norman told the students to take out their ear buds to watch a video, two in the
back yelped, ''Cool!''

''With a textbook, you can only read what's on the pages -- here you can click
on things and watch videos,'' said Patrick Wu, a seventh grader. ''It's more fun
to use a keyboard than a pencil. And my grades are better because I'm focusing
more.''

Even as more and more schools nationwide have eschewed traditional textbooks,
spending an estimated $2.2 billion on educational software last year, vigorous
debate continues over whether technology measurably enhances achievement. But
long before Munster will have a chance to reap any potential rewards, there has
been a steep learning curve.

It was left to Maureen Stafford, Munster's director of instructional programs
and assessment, to convince skeptical colleagues (some of whom did not want to
relearn how to teach) and parents (some of whom did not want their children to
be exposed to the online wilderness) that the switch could be made in a matter
of months. The town contributed about half of the $1.1 million to build the
wireless infrastructure in the district's three elementary schools, middle
school and high school, with district funds covering the rest.

Each student was issued a laptop, with an annual rental fee of $150. The
computers are cut off from noneducational Web sites, including social networks.
The children are not allowed to use any other computer for their work because,
she said, ''kids on the south end of town will have Cadillacs and others on the
north end will have eBay versions. That's not equitable.''

Some parents balked at the expense and risk, even though the fee is the same as
what the district had long been charging for textbooks, and includes insurance.
Then there were the Luddites: one father sent so many nasty e-mails to Ms.
Stafford that she reported him to the police for, fittingly, cyber-harassment.
(He ceased and desisted.)

''You don't want your child to have a laptop?'' Ms. Stafford said. ''What are we
going to do? That's our textbook! There's nothing else.''

There were the inevitable technical glitches. One girl in Ms. Norman's class
missed the video because she could not connect to the network, so she had to
catch up in the Media Center (formerly known as the library). During a
contentious meeting with a Pearson representative, several math teachers
complained of assignments disappearing, tests not saving, and network failures
lasting hours while students struggled to get online for homework.

''We have no record of any outages at that time,'' the Pearson representative,
Chuck Dexter, explained as the teachers grew angrier. ''That's what we need to
figure out.''

Ms. Stafford, 62, has long planned to retire in 2013, and noted in an interview
that it would have been far easier for her, and many others in Munster, to stay
with print textbooks for another few years. But when Indiana made multimedia an
option, she felt she had no other.

''This wasn't a technology initiative -- this was a curriculum initiative,'' Ms.
Stafford said. ''The best programs out there needed the technology required to
implement it. It was time.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jason Crary, 13, with his classmates in Laura Norman's
seventh-grade honors science class, taking a lesson on energy consumption on
their laptop computers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Weighs Its Strategy On Warfare in Cyberspace

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER; Charlie Savage contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 660 words


WASHINGTON -- The four-star Air Force general who oversees Pentagon efforts in
cyberspace acknowledged Tuesday that the Defense Department had more work to do
in clarifying the military's doctrine for waging offensive computer warfare and
setting up rules of engagement to guide specific cyberattacks.

The officer, Gen. C. Robert Kehler, who is in charge of the military's Strategic
Command, said these discussions were becoming ever more timely as American
interests were challenged by ''a number of very sophisticated actors who operate
in cyberspace.''

But, he noted, ''I believe that the United States still has an edge in
cyberspace.''

As the Obama administration has focused on developing the nation's capabilities
for computer-network operations, civilian and military officials have been
reluctant to discuss offensive digital capabilities -- computerized attacks
targeting an adversary's networks -- preferring instead to focus their public
statements on advances in defending America's own computer networks.

''I think we are looking at what an offensive component would be: What does that
look like? What kind of options would we want to be able to offer?'' General
Kehler said. ''I think that we have always said that there needs to be an
offense and defense mix.''

But the types of doctrine that have existed for decades to shape military
operations on land, at sea, in the air and in outer space do not yet exist at
the same level of detail and sophistication for cyberspace -- nor do the
specific rules of engagement to guide individual digital operations.

''I do believe that without question, there needs to be a full conversation
about doctrine and there needs to be a full conversation about rules of
engagement,'' he said. ''There needs to be a full conversation about legal
applications.''

General Kehler spoke one day after The New York Times reported that before the
American-led airstrikes against Libya in March, the administration considered --
but rejected -- plans to disrupt Libya's air-defense system in what officials
said could have been the largest cyberoffensive ever begun. Instead, the
campaign opened with attacks by cruise missiles and bombs.

The proposal was rejected because of doubts that such a complex operation could
be developed and carried out quickly enough to save the rebel city of Benghazi,
which was then threatened by troops loyal to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.

But the deliberations also spawned a host of legal questions that were put aside
without resolution but will arise the next time such an operation is considered.

Among them was whether ordering a purely computer-based attack on Libya -- an
operation that would not involve the introduction of combat forces into Libyan
territory or airspace -- would trigger domestic legal restrictions on war-making
by the executive branch.

General Kehler's Strategic Command is the headquarters responsible for
overseeing the military's operations in cyberspace; the bulk of the work, and
day-to-day attention to this emerging domain of warfare, falls to a subordinate
headquarters, the military's new Cyber Command.

In a breakfast meeting with reporters, General Kehler noted that a number of
defensive missions that were well understood by other parts of the military
might cross the line into offensive actions when applied to the digital domain.

For example, officials say that the United States needs to maintain ''active
defenses'' in cyberspace, a concept that seeks to identify and even neutralize
threats before they hit a Defense Department network.

General Kehler noted that the concept of forward defenses was well understood by
ship captains at sea and ground commanders in combat, but that it was not yet
clear how to apply them in the digital world.

''Is active defense really offensive in cyberspace?'' General Kehler asked. ''I
would argue that it really is not. It does not have to be, for sure. But those
are the issues that we are trying to work our way through.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. C. Robert Kehler says discussion is needed on doctrine and
rules of engagement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Protests Are a Payday for Security Firms

BYLINE: By KEVIN ROOSE

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth; SPECIAL SECTION: WEALTH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1515 words


They call when they make the Forbes 400 list. They call when annual hedge fund
rankings appear, when their names are mentioned on CNBC and when their children
travel abroad. And, these days, they call when protesters camped in Lower
Manhattan grow uncomfortable with the idea of their existence.

The ultra-rich bankers, hedge fund managers and private equity executives of New
York City have long enlisted private security firms to help safeguard them and
their wealth. But as the mood on Main Street turns increasingly hostile, New
York's financial titans are cranking their security measures up to 11. For the
high-end security firms that provide the moneyed elite with specialty services
like around-the-clock bodyguards and elaborate home security systems, Occupy
Wall Street has been a stimulus package all its own.

''We expect to more than double our revenue in New York this year,'' said Paul
M. Viollis, a co-founder of Risk Control Strategies, a firm that protects some
of the top executives on Wall Street.

Another company, Insite Security, has gotten dozens of calls since the protests
began and expects to increase its revenue at least 40 percent this year,
according to Christopher Falkenberg, its chief executive. (In accordance with
the industry's code of secrecy, none of the security experts interviewed for
this article provided client names.)

Executive protection, as the guard-the-rich industry is known, got an initial
jolt from the financial crisis of 2008. Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive
of Goldman Sachs, got permission from a local review board to build a
six-foot-high security gate outside his Hamptons house in April 2008, the month
after Bear Stearns collapsed. Lehman Brothers, another crisis casualty, had a
bomb-sniffing Labrador retriever named Bella stationed at its headquarters. And
in 2010, when the activist group the Yes Men encouraged its supporters to
perform citizens' arrests on John A. Paulson, the billionaire hedge fund
manager, Mr. Paulson's firm hired additional security guards to combat the
threat, according to a person with knowledge of the decision. A spokesman for
Mr. Paulson declined to comment.

But the most recent round of Main Street rage has raised the risk factor. Last
week, when protesters picketed the homes of some of Manhattan's richest
residents, they made a stop at Mr. Paulson's mansion, as well as the homes of
Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, and Stephen A. Schwarzman,
the billionaire co-founder of the Blackstone Group. One sign carried by
protesters depicted Mr. Blankfein's severed head on a stake.

Scenes like these are causing executives to supplement their internal security
teams with the services of outside specialty firms. A chief financial officer of
a major bank recently called Risk Control Strategies with the news that he had
received a menacing e-mail from an anonymous sender.

''You filled your pockets, and now I'm going to fill mine, starting with your
family,'' the e-mail said, according to Mr. Viollis. The firm quickly dispatched
a pair of guards to the client's house.

Another client, a C-suite executive at a large Wall Street firm, recently asked
Mr. Viollis to send undercover agents to Zuccotti Park to find out if the
protesters were planning to harm him or his colleagues. (Mr. Viollis said he
would probably decline the request.)

But as versions of Occupy Wall Street fan out across the country, even
executives who aren't recognizable to the general public are worried.

''If Zuccotti Park is tapping into resentment against wealthy people, that
really changes the calculus,'' said Mr. Falkenberg, a former Secret Service
agent. ''It's not that far of a connection between what's happening now in that
park and a more focused, research-based kind of attack.''

The executive protection industry has existed as long as there have been
executives, but it got a boost in 2003, when Edward S. Lampert, a Greenwich
hedge fund manager, was kidnapped by four men on his way to his car. The men
stuffed the billionaire into a Ford Expedition at gunpoint, took him to a motel
and tied him up in the bathroom for two days. (Mr. Lampert survived the
incident, and his kidnappers were caught and convicted.)

These days, bankers and hedge fund managers are willing to spend millions of
dollars to avoid enduring anything similar.

''Typically, what happens is that these guys wake up one day, look around, and
say, 'Wow, I've really provided some great benefits for my family, and boy, it
looks like I've also introduced a modicum of risk,' '' said Mr. Viollis. ''Then
they call me.''

The first step in securing an executive is building what is known as a risk
profile. Security experts -- typically retired detectives, C.I.A. agents and
military veterans -- conduct surveillance on a client and pick out every point
of vulnerability. Does she eat at the same deli every Wednesday? Does he park
his car in a spot labeled with his name? Are his children's Facebook profiles
filled with photos of the family's vacation house? They then present the client
with a list of the habits that could present an opportunity for thieves or
kidnappers.

''People think security is having a 300-pound bald guy named Tiny following
you,'' Mr. Falkenberg said. ''In reality, it's a lot more complicated than
that.''

After the risk profile is complete, firms begin fortifying the client's life,
starting at home, using a cornucopia of high-tech gadgets. There are biometric
door locks that read palm prints, infrared cameras that can spot potential
intruders in total darkness and in-ground sensors that can detect motion around
a home's perimeter and immediately transmit data to a dispatcher.

''Now, instead of having a retired cop sitting in the garage on Maiden Lane, you
have a whole command center at your disposal,'' said Robert S. Tucker, the chief
executive of T.& M. Protection.

International travel, a staple of bank executive life, is among the biggest
security hazards. In the downtown offices of Risk Control Strategies, a
wall-mounted computer monitor displays a map of the world overlaid with blinking
icons denoting security risks. There is an icon for hazardous materials, an icon
for riots and civil disobedience and an icon indicating instances of cyber
-hacking. Traveling executives are often given profiles of dangerous
neighborhoods, and some are equipped with armored town cars.

As anxiety has rippled through the gilded class, a cottage industry has sprouted
to protect high-net-worth individuals from every threat imaginable. There are
companies that sell kidnapping insurance, companies that will run background
checks on domestic staff members, companies that will replace glass windows with
bulletproof polycarbonate panels and companies that will build safe rooms with
steel-fortified walls.

Many of the latest technological advances in the executive protection industry
are ''technical surveillance countermeasures,'' sensors that can sweep homes,
offices, hotel rooms and cars for electronic spying devices. Mr. Viollis
estimates that his business in that area has tripled this year, largely because
of an influx of hedge fund managers who believe they may be the targets of an
investigation and financial executives worried about the theft of trade secrets
by competitors.

All these provisions come at a startling cost. Just one highly trained bodyguard
-- ''personal protection professional,'' in the industry parlance -- can run
$200 an hour, and a full-time driver can cost an executive $150,000 per year. A
thorough sweep for surveillance can cost $1.25 per square foot of space and a
full-home surveillance system can run anywhere from $100,000 to $1.5 million.

Even where paranoia is a cardinal virtue, there are those who seem to take
caution too far. One executive contacted Insite requesting help planning his
escape from the United States in the event the federal government was
overthrown, said Howard A. Shapiro, Insite's chief technology officer. The
executive wanted to know how much gold to keep on hand and how to escape the
United States by submarine in the event of a major incident.

''He was spending the majority of his wealth on security,'' Mr. Shapiro said.
''We don't encourage that.''

But when personalized security programs work, they can turn life-threatening
situations into mere blips on the radar.

Late last year, Gertrude Boyle, the 86-year-old chairwoman of Columbia
Sportswear, came home to find a man waiting in her driveway, asking her to sign
a book for him. When Ms. Boyle refused, the man pulled a gun and demanded a
large ransom payment. Ms. Boyle calmly told the gunman she had to disable her
home security system before letting him into her house, and surreptitiously
pressed a panic button that summoned the police. Officers arrived within
minutes, and Ms. Boyle escaped unharmed.

In a turbulent age for Wall Street's power brokers, that kind of security has no
price tag. ''You can never protect someone 100 percent,'' said Mr. Viollis, his
face illuminated by the glowing icons on the global threat map in his office.
''But you can get close.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RISK MANAGEMENT: Trouble spots around the globe are monitored
at T.& M. Protection's command center in New York. Since the financial crisis,
more executives are turning to private firms for security. (F1)
BROAD SCOPE: Instead of one retired police officer, ''you have a whole command
center at your disposal,'' said Robert S. Tucker of T.& M. Protection. Above,
the firm's command center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
EXECUTIVE PROTECTION: Paul M. Viollis, standing, a co-founder of Risk Control
Strategies, and Donald J. Ackerman, a vice president, with wiretap detection
devices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 SEEKING HELP: Christopher Falkenberg, of Insite Security, has received dozens
of calls since the Wall Street protests began. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Slap Shot)

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday

Luongo's Gambling Goes Off Ice

BYLINE: JOANNE C. GERSTNER

SECTION: SPORTS; hockey

LENGTH: 320 words



HIGHLIGHT: Vancouver Canucks goalie Roberto Luongo is finding himself as a
favorite target of fans, but hopes they still like him enough to play poker.


Vancouver Canucks goalie Roberto Luongo has been accused more than a few times
of gambling while in net.

Now it seems he likes to bluff and take chances in real life too, as he's now
endorsing an online poker site. Playnow.com is hosting tournaments with Luongo,
letting registered users play online against him. Players can also play against
a virtual Luongo character in the game's software.

This association with cards isn't new, as Luongo has publicly played poker in
the past in tournaments for the Canucks and N.H.L. Players Association
charities.

Hopefully he draws more love playing poker online than from wired Canucks fans.
Do a search for "Luongo" on Twitterand it brings up enough vitriol to give the
goalie a dead hand.

Luongo, coming off the disappoinment of losing the Stanley Cup finals in seven
games to the Bruins, is off to a slow start. He's started four games, with a 1-2
record and a 3.70 goals against average. He was heartily booedby the home fans
Tuesday evening, during a 4-0 loss to the Rangers.

"I've got ears," Luongo told The Province, when questioned about the boo-birds.
"I mean, they're not happy with my play and I'm not happy with my play. I guess
they're entitled. That's fine. I understand that. I have to pick up my game and
make some saves."

Luongo is scheduled to start Thursday against the Predators, creating more cyber
wailing and gnashing of teeth.

¶ "Luongo getting the start tomorrow. This could get real interesting if he
gives up a soft one early" -taj1944

¶ "This hate #canucks fans have for Luongo needs to stop. Instead of booing him
why dont we cheer and support him through the slump?" - SteVacc


     ·    Monday Morning Skate: Top Free Agent Defensemen, Bruins' Second-Round
          Success, Draft Preview
     ·    Keeping Score: Which Team Has the Right Stuff to Win the Cup?
     ·    Game 7 Preview: Chicago at Vancouver
     ·    Luongo Looks to Change his Playoff History
     ·    Global Puck: Silver (or Gold) Lining for Brodeur?


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            October 24, 2011 Monday

Hate New York or Love It, as Dorothy Parker Did

BYLINE: CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 893 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Day: Readers' observations bred curiosity about what Dorothy
Parker had to say about the city as she knew it. Also, what City Room is reading
in other newspapers and blogs.


Improbably, and metaphorically, Dorothy Parker crossed paths the other day with
a few New Yorkers who had names like Vintage James, Bob C. and MelissaArtist.

Parker, who needs no apposition, has been absent for 44 years. The others are
very much with us, even if they may seem ethereal because of their
indecipherable monikers, products of the cyber-world we colonize. Digital
communication is often the antithesis of the bar in "Cheers." Nobody knows your
name.

In any event, Parker resurfaced in a news article about a present-day devotee of
hers. This fellow, Kevin C. Fitzpatrick, is keen on preserving a row house on
West 72nd Street that was one her many residences across the years in a city
that she loved as much as she enjoyed skewering people. The article briefly
mentioned an essay that Parker wrote in 1928 for McCall's magazine, in which she
absolutely gushed about New York.

At the same time, by happenstance, City Room took note of the fact that people
are eternally moving to and going out of the city - with about 250,000 having
headed in each direction in 2009. Readers were then invited to tell why they
came and whether they were happy about the decision or had their eyes on the
exits. Three dozen people responded. Most were delighted to be here, though some
said that the city captures them heart and mind only in the sense that it breaks
one and drives the other crazy.

MelissaArtist of Astoria, Queens, cited the cultural opportunities. "This city
is like an open canvas to me," she said. "I am miserable if I am too far away
from it for too long."

Bob C. of Manhattan, moved here in 2002 to attend law school, then left for
Washington in 2007. He couldn't return fast enough. "I tell people -
half-jokingly - I already tried leaving once," he wrote. "I'm not gonna try
again."

Of course, there were dissenters, few with more passion than Vintage James of
Brooklyn. "Moved here decades ago," he said. "Hated it. Before we got married,
my wife promised we would move. She lied. I am still here and I still hate it."
Poor James. Here's hoping the marriage is solid.

These observations bred a curiosity about what exactly Parker had said about New
York back in 1928. We'd never read the essay, whose title in an anthology of her
writings is rendered as "My Home Town," though other sources suggest that it was
"My Hometown" in the original McCall's version.

Either way, it is an extraordinary love letter. Since we can't possibly top
Dorothy Parker (who, by the way, was born in Long Branch, N.J., while her
parents were summering there in 1893), we'll yield the floor to her.

Yes, there are other admirable cities, and New York can be "a bad, headstrong
selfish brat," she wrote.

"But then one day there comes to me the sharp picture of New York at its best,"
she said, "on a shiny, blue-and-white autumn day with its buildings cut
diagonally in halves of light and shadow, with its straight, neat avenues
colored with quick throngs, like confetti in a breeze.

"Someone, and I wish it had been I, has said that 'autumn is the springtime of
big cities.' "

New York, Parker continued, "is always a little more than you had hoped for."

"Each day," she said, "there is so definitely a new day. 'Now we'll start all
over,' it seems to say every morning, 'and come on, let's hurry like anything.'
London is satisfied, Paris is resigned, but New York is always hopeful. Always
it believes that something particularly good is about to come off, and it must
hurry to meet it."

"Other places may give you a sweet and soothing sense of level," she said. "But
in New York there is always the feeling of 'Something's going to happen.' "

Eighty-three years later, the old gal holds up quite well, wouldn't you say?


Here's what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs this morning.

In spite of Zuccotti Park rules, tents went up to protect protesters from the
weather. [Wall Street Journal]

Occupy Wall Street protesters took on health care reform. [NY1]

A Brooklyn teenager was arrested and charged with trying to sell cocaine to
Occupy Wall Street protesters. [DNAinfo]

A woman testified that police officers provided her with drugs in exchange for
sex. [Daily News]

Neighborhood residents gathered in Brooklyn to remember a 34-year-old woman who
was killed trying to shield children from gunfire. [NY1 and New York Post]

A man convicted in a deadly home invasion in Connecticut claimed he had killed
many more people. [New York Post]

Law enforcement agencies and two Harlem churches took 139 guns off the streets
as part of the Cash for Guns buy-back program, officials said. [DNAinfo]

Some politicians are upset about the state spending $500,000 on smoking surveys.
[Daily News]

Lawyers for Levi Aron, who is accused of killing an 8-year-old Brooklyn boy, are
expected to ask that the trial be moved. [CBS New York]

A 60-year-old New York City man suing for age discrimination wants an
88-year-old judge removed from case on grounds that he is too old. [Associated
Press]

New buildings at Riverside Park South will carry a hidden Woody Allen homage to
Manhattan. [DNAinfo]

A derailed No. 6 train was causing major delays on the 4, 5 and 6 lines.
[DNAinfo]


     ·    Romney, Bachmann and the Oys of Yiddish
     ·    Solidarity: 99 Percent Elusive
     ·    Detroit Beats New York, in Baseball and in Terror Trials
     ·    Noblesse Oblige Among the Protesting Masses
     ·    The Comptroller's Poster Problem


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            October 28, 2011 Friday

As Casino Opens Its Doors, Pent-Up Demand Is Released

BYLINE: MATT FLEGENHEIMER

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 688 words



HIGHLIGHT: Resorts World, the city's first casino, opened its doors next to
Aqueduct racetrack in Queens on Friday, not a moment too soon for some people.


Shortly after 1 p.m., when the doors of New York City's first casino, next to
the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens, opened to the public, Kim Franklin, 45, from
East New York, Brooklyn, brushed past a security guard, extended both arms to
ensure that no one behind her in line could pass and broke into a jog as she
approached the escalators.

"Oh, my God," she said as the flashing lights of video slot machines came into
view. "I don't even know where to go."

The opening came about an hour after a ribbon-cutting ceremony for Resorts World
Casino New York City that included company executives and elected officials
talking up the economic benefits of the South Ozone Park site - the company says
it will generate up to $1.5 million a day for the state - and ended with the
release of 100 doves and a trumpet rendition of the "Rocky" theme. Then the
crowds that had braved the morning chill were finally allowed inside, where four
escalators connected the front doors to the main casino area. Three funneled
guests up to the slot machines. Only one allowed them to come back down to exit.

Though the Elvis impersonator near the entrance insisted it "felt like Vegas"
when he walked inside, the facility might look out of place on Nevada's famous
Strip.

Across the street from its parking lot on Friday, residents gardened in the
yards of their single-family homes, many of which were festooned with gnomes or
Halloween decorations. Inside the casino, to remain in accordance with state
rules that prevent human-operated table games, visitors gambled in the company
of a mechanized staff. At the baccarat tables, a long robotic arm dealt the
cards. Guests shot craps using two fingers and a touch screen. And a roulette
game was supervised by a chesty cyber-woman who leaned forward immodestly as she
spun the little white ball on a pixilated wheel.

Some touches are deliberately local. Images of the city skyline splash across
the casino's walls. Areas are named for Times Square, Fifth Avenue and Central
Park. Even some of the slot machines exhibit regional flair, like "N.Y. Gold,"
"Wall Street Winner," and a "Sex and the City" themed game.

Danny Falcicchio, 65, from nearby Howard Beach, won a $2,084 jackpot on the Wall
Street machine, though a technical glitch delayed his payment for more than 40
minutes.

"I can walk here," he marveled, chuckling as he sipped a drink. "That's
dangerous."

Ms. Franklin, who took Friday off from her job as a principal's secretary,
harbored no such reservations. As she entered the casino, she received a call
from a friend seeking an early review.

"Girl, I am in the casino," Ms. Franklin said, raising her voice with each word.
"I was the first one in the building." Within minutes, Ms. Franklin was
celebrating a $4 profit at a pirate-themed penny slot machine and contemplating
her first drink order.

Near the bar area, replete with a 28-by-18-foot video screen, Richie Santa, the
Elvis impersonator, was joined by imitators of Tina Turner and Lady Gaga. The
latter said little, wearing a dress of playing cards. The former told passers-by
that they were "simply the best," interrupting herself occasionally to ask, of
no one in particular, "Tell me something: What's love got to do with it?"

For some of the thousands who showed up, Friday's opening was less a celebration
than a scouting visit. Elliott Simmons, 81, from Jamaica, Queens, said he had
not yet gambled because he had to "learn the machines" first. He could afford to
pace himself, he said, since he planned to visit about once a week.

"I usually go to Atlantic City," Mr. Simmons said, unzipping a black pouch with
membership cards from a half-dozen casinos. "But this is beautiful."

He was proof, Mr. Simmons added, that the establishment would translate to
"money coming in for the city."

Did it bother him, he was asked, that it might be his money?

"This joint is nice," he said, picking at the wisps of white hair on his chin.
"And I win sometimes."


     ·    Aqueduct Casino Deal is Dead
     ·    Seeking a Jackpot in a Down Economy
     ·    A Luxury Train, Bound for Atlantic City
     ·    Fight Heats Up Over Aqueduct's Future
     ·    Seven Arrested in Gambling Raids in Flushing


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 29, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Some, New Casino Opens Not a Moment Too Soon

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 677 words


Shortly after 1 p.m., when the doors of New York City's first casino, next to
the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens, opened to the public, Kim Franklin, 45, from
East New York, Brooklyn, brushed past a security guard, extended both arms to
ensure that no one behind her in line could pass and broke into a jog as she
approached the escalators.

''Oh, my God,'' she said as the flashing lights of video slot machines came into
view. ''I don't even know where to go.''

The opening came about an hour after a ribbon-cutting ceremony for Resorts World
Casino New York City that included company executives and elected officials
talking up the economic benefits of the South Ozone Park site - the company says
it will generate up to $1.5 million a day for the state - and ended with the
release of 100 doves and a trumpet rendition of the ''Rocky'' theme. Then the
crowds that had braved the morning chill were finally allowed inside, where four
escalators connected the front doors to the main casino area. Three funneled
guests up to the slot machines. Only one allowed them to come back down to exit.

Though the Elvis impersonator near the entrance insisted it ''felt like Vegas''
when he walked inside, the facility might look out of place on Nevada's famous
Strip.

Across the street from its parking lot on Friday, residents gardened in the
yards of their single-family homes, many of which were festooned with gnomes or
Halloween decorations. Inside the casino, to remain in accordance with state
rules that prevent human-operated table games, visitors gambled in the company
of a mechanized staff. At the baccarat tables, a long robotic arm dealt the
cards. Guests shot craps using two fingers and a touch screen. And a roulette
game was supervised by a chesty cyber-woman who leaned forward immodestly as she
spun the little white ball on a pixilated wheel.

Some touches are deliberately local. Images of the city skyline splash across
the casino's walls. Areas are named for Times Square, Fifth Avenue and Central
Park. Even some of the slot machines exhibit regional flair, like ''N.Y. Gold,''
''Wall Street Winner,'' and a ''Sex and the City'' themed game.

Danny Falcicchio, 65, from nearby Howard Beach, won a $2,084 jackpot on the Wall
Street machine, though a technical glitch delayed his payment for more than 40
minutes.

''I can walk here,'' he marveled, chuckling as he sipped a drink. ''That's
dangerous.''

Ms. Franklin, who took Friday off from her job as a principal's secretary,
harbored no such reservations. As she entered the casino, she received a call
from a friend seeking an early review.

''Girl, I am in the casino,'' Ms. Franklin said, raising her voice with each
word. ''I was the first one in the building.'' Within minutes, Ms. Franklin was
celebrating a $4 profit at a pirate-themed penny slot machine and contemplating
her first drink order.

Near the bar area, replete with a 28-by-18-foot video screen, Richie Santa, the
Elvis impersonator, was joined by imitators of Tina Turner and Lady Gaga. The
latter said little, wearing a dress of playing cards. The former told passers-by
that they were ''simply the best,'' interrupting herself occasionally to ask, of
no one in particular, ''Tell me something: What's love got to do with it?''

For some of the thousands who showed up, Friday's opening was less a celebration
than a scouting visit. Elliott Simmons, 81, from Jamaica, Queens, said he had
not yet gambled because he had to ''learn the machines'' first. He could afford
to pace himself, he said, since he planned to visit about once a week.

''I usually go to Atlantic City,'' Mr. Simmons said, unzipping a black pouch
with membership cards from a half-dozen casinos. ''But this is beautiful.''

He was proof, Mr. Simmons added, that the establishment would translate to
''money coming in for the city.''

Did it bother him, he was asked, that it might be his money?

''This joint is nice,'' he said, picking at the wisps of white hair on his chin.
''And I win sometimes.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kim Franklin, one of the first guests at the Resorts World
casino in South Ozone Park, Queens, on Friday, winning a few dollars.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                            October 31, 2011 Monday

The Ideas Behind a Move to 'Occupy London'

BYLINE: RAVI SOMAIYA

LENGTH: 868 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Occupy London movement does not yet have concrete aims, but it
does appear to have deep, and eclectic, philosophical underpinning.


The Occupy London movement does not yet have concrete aims, but it does appear
to have some deep, and eclectic, philosophical underpinnings.

In a series of recent conversations with protesters camped outside St. Paul's
Cathedral in London -- held as efforts to evict them by legal means continued --
they cited diverse intellectual influences: from the cyber-anarchic aims of
WikiLeaks and Anonymous to ideas draw from eastern philosophy and the writings
of Noam Chomsky, St. Paul, Nietzsche, Freud and even the father of modern
capitalism, Adam Smith.

Many of the protesters seem to feel they have stumbled across a secret others
are blind to. Kai Noitulover, 20, was among several in London who cited a recent
study on the concentration of corporate power. The study, by the Swiss Federal
Institute of Technology in Zurich, analyzed the relationships between 43,000
transnational corporations and concluded that 147 companies hold a
disproportionate sway over the global economy. The British banking group
Barclays, the study said, headquartered just a few miles from Occupy London, is
the most powerful institution of all. "There's now proof that these companies
run the world," said Mr. Noitulover.

And their influence does not stop with the economy, protesters said.
"Governments rely on money from these huge companies," said George Barda, 35,
espousing a similar theory. He went on, as did several others, to cite Noam
Chomsky, particularly his book "Manufacturing Consent," and theorized that the
mainstream media (in the person of a reporter for The New York Times), also in
thrall to corporate interests, is determined to misrepresent the movement.

With the economy, the government and the media merely zombie institutions, many
of the demonstrators said, the only measure open to outraged citizens is
protest, whether online or offline. Mr. Noitulover was among those wearing the
stylized, Guy Fawkes mask used by the online hacker-activist movement Anonymous.
The group, along with WikiLeaks, had helped to coordinate the movement worldwide
via social media. Both groups share the view that the Internet is not subject to
the strictures of traditional society, and that it can, and should, foment
revolution.

There is ancient philosophy, too. Ben Doran, 21, a pianist, argued, citing
eastern philosophy, that the Occupy movement does not need aims because "the
future only exists in thought, and thought is just perception and bias. So only
the present matters. It's all about now." On a recent Friday a group of
protesters could be seen, through the gauzy mesh of a special tent, meditating
while facing an orange-robed, turbaned guru.

A man dressed as Jesus Christ was seen at the protests hoisting a placard
saying, "There's a reason," referring to a Biblical passage, "I threw out the
money lenders." Other signs alluded to the Christian disdain for usury.

An Oxford-educated engineer who gave his name only as John, 37, gave the most
comprehensive theory. He too cited the Bible to argue that attempts by the
church to remove protesters were un-Christian. St. Paul, he explained, citing a
passage in the Acts of the Apostles, was himself a tent-maker. The church had
abandoned the teachings of Jesus and worshiped only, he said, quoting Nietzsche,
"stone, stupidity, heaviness, fate, nothingness." Like governments and large
companies the church now represents part of Sigmund Freud's model of the psyche
-- the superego. It promotes cultural norms, Mr. Freud had theorized, and stands
in opposition to humans' primal wants and needs.

Further, said John, "modern capitalism is based in a model of production, a
system where things are made and sold." An economy built on innovation, and
incremental development of ideas, would be more sustainable, he said.

He added that modern capitalists had failed to heed warnings that Adam Smith had
built into "The Wealth of Nations." Smith is known today as an advocate of the
free market. "But he also said," John noted, "that that could have negative
consequences," referring to a passage in which Smith warned that manual labor
had a dulling effect on the mind, rendering the average worker, "as stupid and
ignorant as it is possible for a human creature to be."

This was dangerous for society, Smith argued, because a worker who spends his
days performing just one or two mechanical operations, again and again, falls
into a "torpor," which "renders him not only incapable of relishing or bearing a
part in any rational conversation, but of conceiving any generous, noble, or
tender sentiment, and consequently of forming any just judgment concerning many
even of the ordinary duties of private life. Of the great and extensive
interests of his country he is altogether incapable of judging."

Smith concluded, "in every improved and civilized society, this is the state
into which the laboring poor, that is, the great body of people, must
necessarily fall, unless government takes pains to prevent it."


     ·    Police Tactics Questioned in Oakland Protest
     ·    Updates on Occupy Protests Nationwide
     ·    Debate Over Social Media Incitement as Flash Mobs Strike
     ·    In British Riots, Social Media and Face Masks Are the Focus
     ·    Philadelphia Fights Violent Flash Mobs With Curfews


LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                           November 2, 2011 Wednesday

Word of the Day | wallow

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 365 words



HIGHLIGHT: This word has appeared in 56 New York Times articles in the past
year.


wallow \[#x2c8]wa-([#x2cc])lo\ verb and noun

verb: roll around
verb: devote oneself entirely to something; indulge in to an immoderate degree,
usually with pleasure
verb: be ecstatic with joy
verb: delight greatly in
noun: a puddle where animals go to wallow
noun: an indolent or clumsy rolling about

The word wallow has appeared in 56 New York Times articles in the past year,
including on June 9 in "In India, Dynamism Wrestles With Dysfunction," by Jim
Yardley:

GURGAON, India - In this city that barely existed two decades ago, there are 26
shopping malls, seven golf courses and luxury shops selling Chanel and Louis
Vuitton. Mercedes-Benzes and BMWs shimmer in automobile showrooms. Apartment
towers are sprouting like concrete weeds, and a futuristic commercial hub called
Cyber City houses many of the world's most respected corporations.

Gurgaon, located about 15 miles south of the national capital, New Delhi, would
seem to have everything, except consider what it does not have: a functioning
citywide sewer or drainage system; reliable electricity or water; and public
sidewalks, adequate parking, decent roads or any citywide system of public
transportation. Garbage is still regularly tossed in empty lots by the side of
the road.

... Not all of the city's islands are affluent, either. Gurgaon has an estimated
200,000 migrant workers, the so-called floating population, who work on
construction sites or as domestic help. Sheikh Hafizuddin, 38, lives in a slum
with a few hundred other migrants less than two miles from Cyber City. No more
than half the children in the slum attend school, with the rest spending their
days playing on the hard-packed dirt of the settlement, where pigs wallow in an
open pit of sewage and garbage. Mr. Hafizuddin pays $30 a month for a tiny room.
His landlord runs a power line into the slum for electricity and draws water
from a borehole on the property.

The Word of the Day and its definitions have been provided by the
language-loving minds behind Vocabulary.com and the Visual Thesaurus.

Learn more about the word "wallow" and see usage examples across a range of
subjects on the Vocabulary.com dictionary.

Click on the word below to map it and hear it pronounced:

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Motherlode)

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday

Why Parents Lie to Let Kids Join Facebook

BYLINE: PEGGY ORENSTEIN

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 658 words



HIGHLIGHT: Millions of parents are helping their kids get around the 13-and-over
rule for joining Facebook.


It's been clear for a while that parents lie about their children's ages so they
can join Facebook. A  published in June found that there were 7.5 million users
under age 13 (the site's lower limit); more than five million were under 10.
Over the year leading up to the report, a million children said they were
harassed or threatened on the site.

But cyber-bullying is not why kids are supposed to stay away. The legal reason
for the age limit is to protect children's privacy. Facebook collects personal
data from its users - lots of it. The site's whole purpose is to erode the
concept of privacy, to make public everything about you, not only for the
benefit of your 622 BFFs, but to customize your advertising or use your
endorsement of a product (through the "like" button) to sell it to a friend.

The Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) was designed to protect
children from that kind of exposure. Enacted by Congress in 1998, it limits the
amount of information any site can collect from kids under 12. Among other
things, it requires verifiable parental consent before collecting personal data;
mandates the posting of a policy describing how that information will be used;
and requires the maintenance of "confidentiality, security and integrity of
information they collect from children."

The parents of 7.5 million kids have given that idea a collective shrug.

Should the responsibility for policing pint-sized pretenders fall to Facebook?
Well, that's not going to happen. Mark Zuckerberg, the social network's founder
and hardly an advocate of privacy, openly opposes the COPPA regulations.

His reasoning - that there is something educational to be gained on the site -
is a little self-serving, but his conclusion may not be entirely wrong.

A survey published on Tuesday by the Internet journal First Monday asked 1,007
parents of children between the ages of 10 and 14 how they feel about
Internet-age restrictions. They found:

* Parents of 13- and 14-year-olds report that, on average, their child joined
Facebook at age 12.
* More than half of parents of 12-year-olds said their child had a Facebook
account; 82 percent of those parents knew when their child signed up; 76 percent
assisted their 12-year-old in creating the account.
* More than three-quarters of parents said it is acceptable for their child to
violate minimum-age restrictions on online services.

Given those numbers, COPPA clearly isn't working. The authors argue that while
parents want to protect their children's privacy, they don't want limitations
imposed regarding which sites their kids can access. Rather, they preferred to
join up honestly, then have mechanisms provided through which they could control
the information gathered about their children as well as what they could see or
do. Which sounds good, I suppose - if you believe Facebook would do it, that the
site has the interests of parents and kids at heart.

What do you think? Is it time to dismantle COPPA? Take another look at it? Are
you willing to give up your child's privacy for access to online fun and
connection? Should preteens be on Facebook?

Finally, a coda to my earlier post on siblings: My oldest brother, David,
reminds me that he used to regularly hold me down while singing a jingle from a
hair product commercial ("Dippity-do: holds and holds") and threatening to hock
a loogie on my forehead. He thought that I had forgotten - ha! Actually, I'd
meant to include that in the post.

So in the interests of full disclosure, and because revenge is a dish best
served cold, I'm here to tell you that David teased me until I cried nearly
every day for 11 years, until he went to college. And I love him now as much as
I hated him then.

So parents of siblings who are at one another's throats all day - take heart.
Things can change.


     ·    Should Children Be Allowed on Facebook?
     ·    Facebook for Parents
     ·    When Your Kid Won't "Friend" You
     ·    Mixed-Race Families and Same-Sex Ones
     ·    The Brother-Sister Bond


LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 4, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Blunt Report to Congress, U.S. Accuses China and Russia of Internet Spying

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 749 words


WASHINGTON -- American intelligence agencies, in an unusually blunt public
criticism of China and Russia, reported to Congress on Thursday that those two
foreign governments steal valuable American technology over the Internet as a
matter of national policy.

Both China and Russia hide behind the anonymity of proxy computers and dispersed
routers in third countries to pilfer proprietary corporate information to
accelerate their own economic development, according to the new intelligence
assessment.

They have also targeted the computer networks of government agencies and
universities, the report said.

American officials have for years hinted that China and Russia were leading
suspects in the Internet theft of economic secrets, and those accusations have
appeared as scattered commentary in government reports. Google has accused China
twice in two years of broad Internet intrusions targeting its users.

However, American officials, when pressed, have said that pinpointing the
culprits remained difficult in cyberspace, and they also usually emphasized that
specific complaints of computer-network espionage were best raised in private
government-to-government channels.

In contrast, the new intelligence study, compiled as a report to Congress on
foreign economic and industrial espionage over the past two years, presents a
pointed case that China and Russia are the leading actors in the Internet theft
of economic secrets.

''The computer networks of a broad array of U.S. government agencies, private
companies, universities and other institutions -- all holding large volumes of
sensitive economic information -- were targeted by cyber espionage,'' the report
said.

''Chinese actors are the world's most active and persistent perpetrators of
economic espionage,'' it added. ''Russia's intelligence services are conducting
a range of activities to collect economic information and technology from U.S.
targets.''

The governments in Beijing and Moscow, and their intelligence services, contract
with independent hackers to expand their capabilities and cloak responsibility
for the computer intrusions, the report said.

Even friendly nations spy on the United States via computers. The report warns
that ''some U.S. allies and partners use their broad access to U.S. institutions
to acquire sensitive U.S. economic and technology information.''

In addition, some of the efforts to steal American economic, technical and trade
secrets are conducted by foreign corporations, by organized criminal groups and
by individuals.

Internet espionage exists within the United States, but it is subject to
domestic criminal law, and intelligence officials underscored that the United
States does not conduct economic espionage as a matter of national policy.

Senior officials in China also state unwaveringly that their government opposes
computer-based espionage. In July, during a news conference in Beijing, the
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said, ''The Chinese government opposes
hacking in all its manifestations.''

Most computer-network espionage against American economic targets has focused on
these areas, according to the study: information and communications technology;
assessments of supplies of scarce natural resources; technologies for clean
energy and health care systems or pharmaceuticals; and military data, especially
maritime systems, and air and space technologies.

The report is the collective assessment of 14 American intelligence agencies and
was compiled by the Office of the National Counterintelligence Executive, which
reports to the director of national intelligence.

Although it described the theft of economic and trade information as a national
security threat, the study says there are no reliable estimates of the monetary
value of the losses. ''Many companies are unaware when their sensitive data is
pilfered, and those that find out are often reluctant to report the loss,
fearing potential damage to their reputation with investors, customers and
employees,'' the study said.

The report concludes with a series of recommendations for strategies to
determine how open a company needs to be on the Internet, programs for assessing
threats from inside a company, efforts to manage data more effectively, and an
emphasis on network security and auditing.

That last category could include real-time monitoring of computer networks for
intrusions, muscular software to protect files, the encryption of corporate
information as well as better programs to authenticate users.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 6, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Is It Wheat or Chaff?

BYLINE: By LAURA PAPPANO

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; CONTINUING EDUCATION
E-LEARNING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1892 words


LAST June, when U.S. News & World Report announced plans to add online programs
to its college kingmaking franchise, skeptics said it couldn't be done.
Predicted to be published in October, the ranking is now promised only for some
time ''when it's cold out,'' says Eric Brooks, the data research analyst tasked
with developing a methodology.

The company sent 4,837 surveys to institutions seeking data on student
participation requirements, training for faculty members and course delivery (is
there a smartphone app?). It also requested high school class standings and
SAT/ACT scores, which set off a hurricane of objections, including a Huffington
Post article by Deb Bushway, interim president of Capella University, saying it
wouldn't fill out the survey because U.S. News was ''asking the wrong
questions'' -- these are working adults, after all. Kaplan University, with
47,000 online students, bowed out, too. ''Not this round,'' says Geri Malandra,
the provost. ''We need to make sure they have their data more stable.''

Robert Morse, U.S. News director of data research, sees the objections as ''an
excuse'' to pass on the first round. ''They want to find out how they will be
measured,'' he says.

Setting aside the question of whether a ranking of any kind takes an accurate
measurement, it's worth noting that the effort marks an important
acknowledgement. Online programs are shedding ''adult learning'' labels and
coming of age. Enrollment in online education grew 21 percent last year compared
with 2 percent in higher education over all, according to the 2010 Sloan Survey,
which reports that more than 5.6 million, or nearly one-third of all students,
now take at least one course online.

Despite that, there is scant criteria with which to compare programs in search
of that ''good fit.'' A Google searcher invariably ends up at lead-generating
sites that claim to ''match'' students to the ''right'' college. Richard
Capezzali, president of Education Connection, says 300,000 unique users visit
its site each month and 40,000 sign up for help. Looking for an online
bachelor's program? Some 350 colleges pay Education Connection for a certain
number of leads each month; you'll likely be connected with for-profits, and
then hounded by phone calls and e-mails. Once the lead target is reached, the
college stops showing up as a possible match, Mr. Capezzali says, ''because the
school's marketing budget has hit a cap.''

John B. Bear, who has written guides on distance learning since 1974 and is
working on one about online M.B.A.'s, says e-learning has improved a lot since
the days of dial-up but finding a good program is a crapshoot. ''I have two
words: Be careful,'' he says. ''The differences among schools are significant,
but hard to find.'' With all manner of institutions diving in, Dr. Bear says,
it's tough to tell strong, well-supported programs from duds. ''In every field,
at every degree level, it's less clear.''

For those used to traditional colleges, online is confusing partly because the
elements are scrambled. It's all there -- the courses, the financial aid office,
instructors, fellow students, even online fraternities -- but configured
differently. Instructors may not ''design'' courses they teach; the tech help
desk may be outsourced to someone's living room and the library to another
university (librarians for Excelsior College, a nonprofit that has 30,000 online
students and is based in Albany, are actually at Johns Hopkins in Baltimore).

Most students looking to study online face a tension: They want to learn, but
they need institutions to operate more like Starbucks than State U.

Libraries with vast holdings? Less critical than 24/7 digital accessibility.
Big-name professors with endowed chairs don't matter; e-mailing students quickly
does. Faculty quality counts, but online is more about guiding than lecturing.
Ph.D.'s and brilliant campus lecturers do not guarantee strong online
instruction. ''It really takes a different set of skills,''says Ron Legon,
executive director of the Quality Matters Program, which works to improve online
learning. ''The online classroom turns them into coaches.''

That's why Alexa Schriempf, a philosophy Ph.D. who teaches online at Penn State
World Campus and Southern New Hampshire University, makes herself available to
students by smartphone even at her part-time job picking greenhouse vegetables.

''Online platforms are set up for you to very quickly provide feedback,'' she
says. ''They have windows all over the place where you can very quickly put two
lines of text -- 'This is perfect. If you keep this up you will meet the
requirement. Have you thought about this?' '' she says, noting that some
colleagues hardly engage, and ''just grade at the end of the term.''

One frustration for those researching online programs is that the usual data
that helps students choose isn't very helpful here. Because of the government's
definition of students for its retention and graduation rates -- full time,
seeking a bachelor's degree for the first time -- statistics miss most online
learners. (Capella's graduation rate is officially zero because only five
students fit government criteria; the online-only institution has 38,000
students and says that over all 47 percent of students graduate within six
years.) And if you want to see how a traditional college fares with its online
students, you can't: the stats are lumped together.

Where to begin? ''The answer I give, which infuriates people, is that you have
to be as comfortable as you can that the degree will meet your needs,'' Dr. Bear
says. An M.Arch is a professional degree; an M.A. in architecture is not. Dr.
Bear received ''a tear-stained letter'' from someone who confused the two.

It seems obvious that you should know what degree you want, but Mr. Capezzali of
Education Connection says many who call about finishing a bachelor's are unsure
what to study and pick criminal justice because it looks appealing on TV. ''It's
'C.S.I.' this and forensic that,'' he says. ''People say, 'I want to go back to
school.' They don't have a strategy so they default to certain things.''

It's easy to be sold if you don't have a plan. Or even if you do, says Russell
Poulin, deputy director of research and analysis at the WCET-WICHE Cooperative
for Educational Technologies, who played secret shopper looking for an online
M.B.A. program focusing on nonprofits. He shared his contact information, and
quickly was called by for-profits who did ''a pretty hard sell.'' When those who
called didn't have the kind of M.B.A. he wanted, he says, ''they tried to get me
into their regular M.B.A.''

Despite his experience, Mr. Poulin wouldn't rule out for-profit schools.
''Sometimes for-profits match very well. They have done a good job figuring out
how to deliver courses in smaller modules that are available to students with
the proper library and support mechanisms. It may be a good fit. You just have
to guard against a high-pressure recruiter talking you into something.''

Ray Schroeder, director of the Center for Online Learning, Research and Service
at the University of Illinois at Springfield, says bricks-and-mortar
institutions are putting ''their reputations on the line'' when they start
online programs. ''As a blanket statement don't avoid for-profit universities,''
he says. ''But scrutinize them as you would any really young university.'' One
caution is that, as moneymaking enterprises, unpopular courses or programs could
be eliminated or changed to suit the market.

For-profits have gotten into trouble because of aggressive recruiting tactics,
but some nonprofits have rolled out online programs without the student support
they need. Students typically do classwork from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. What if they
can't access the library or log in?

''A large number of colleges offering online courses have the equivalent of
bankers' hours,'' says Kenneth C. Green, founding director of the Campus
Computing Project, which studies technology policies in higher education. ''They
close at 8 p.m. and they're not open on weekends.''

Traditional colleges jump online hoping to make money from faculty expertise
they already have but don't rethink how they operate, says Wayne Brown, chief
executive officer of Educators Serving Educators, a year-old division of
Excelsior College that helps traditional colleges start online programs. For
example, he says, colleges are used to taking months to review applications.
''In online learning, the potential student is out there surfing the Web page
and they will send an e-mail,'' Dr. Brown says. ''They expect a response really
quick. Not two weeks. The for-profits will respond before they leave that Web
page.''

It is a stretch for traditional colleges to suddenly focus on customer service.
But that is something online students sitting at their kitchen table in another
time zone count on.

''Undeniably, the for-profits have a lot to teach us about improved service to
students,'' says Paul J. LeBlanc, president of Southern New Hampshire
University, which hopes an emphasis on service at its College of Online and
Continuing Education will result in an increase in online enrollment to 8,900
students by June from 2,034 in 2007.

The online ''campus'' -- 24,000 square feet (soon to be 57,000) of new-smelling
industrial carpeting and cubicles in a renovated brick warehouse on the
Merrimack River in Manchester, N.H. -- hardly resembles an academic institution.
But deans, advisers and financial aid officers work from here along with
recruiters staffing phones. Online is about function over style, and about
serving adults -- typically female, in their 30s -- who need degree programs
that can be molded around hectic lives juggling work and family.

That is why Dr. LeBlanc will chase down your transcript (and pay the fees). It's
why if you don't log into class for five days, your adviser (who's received an
alert) will call and find out what's up. And it's why instructor evaluations are
heavy on relationships (''Instructor-student interaction demonstrates respect'')
and light on scholarship (''Provides accurate information that demonstrates
in-depth knowledge of topic/subject'').

This is not your tree-dappled campus experience. It isn't exactly new -- online
study has been around a few decades. But it does still, to many, feel risky,
says Dr. Green of the Campus Computing Project.

''No one would confuse Phoenix with Princeton,'' he says, noting that the
for-profit behemoth and the elite institution have entirely different
educational goals. The prospective online student must always weigh that there
is, Dr. Green observes, ''stigma in various industries about whether an online
degree is 'as good as.' ''

One bonus for students in programs connected to traditional universities:
diplomas likely won't mention that the degree was earned online.

That concern was not lost on Tamika Ahlfeld, a 40-year-old single mother from
Pottsville, Pa., who wanted to go to a college that was familiar, solid and
credible. Ms. Ahlfeld enrolled in the online program of Florida Institute of
Technology in 2009 and plans to graduate in 2014 with a bachelor's in computer
information systems.

How did she choose? ''When I was in high school, I wanted to go to Florida Tech.
I knew it was a good school. I had friends there. And,'' she says, ''I liked the
weather.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GOOGLE SEARCH: Education Connection pulls in leads for colleges
with campy YouTube videos. But a good fit? Not necessarily. (ED8)
 CYBER-CAMPUS: At Southern New Hampshire University's new online headquarters,
customer service is the focus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY MAYHEW/S.N.H.U.) (ED10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 6, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

America's Deadly Dynamics With Iran

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER.

The chief Washington correspondent of The New York Times.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2235 words


COMMUTING to work in Tehran is never easy, but it is particularly nerve-racking
these days for the scientists of Shahid Beheshti University. It was a little
less than a year ago when one of them, Majid Shahriari, and his wife were stuck
in traffic at 7:40 a.m. and a motorcycle pulled up alongside the car. There was
a faint ''click'' as a magnet attached to the driver's side door. The huge
explosion came a few seconds later, killing him and injuring his wife.

On the other side of town, 20 minutes later, a nearly identical attack played
out against Mr. Shahriari's colleague Fereydoon Abbasi, a nuclear scientist and
longtime member of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps. Perhaps because of
his military training, Mr. Abbasi recognized what was happening, and pulled
himself and his wife out the door just before his car turned into a fireball.
Iran has charged that Israel was behind the attacks -- and many outsiders
believe the ''sticky bombs'' are the hallmarks of a Mossad hit.

Perhaps to make a point, Mr. Abbasi, now recovered from his injuries, has been
made the director of Iran's atomic energy program. He travels the world offering
assurances that Iran's interest in nuclear weapons is peaceful.

Even for the Iranian scientists who get to work safely, life isn't a lot easier.
A confidential study circulating through America's national laboratories
estimates that the Stuxnet computer worm -- the most sophisticated cyberweapon
ever deployed against another country's infrastructure -- slowed Iran's nuclear
progress by one to two years. Now it has run its course. But there is no reason
to believe the attacks are over.

Iran may be the most challenging test of the Obama administration's focus on
new, cheap technologies that could avoid expensive boots on the ground; drones
are the most obvious, cyberweapons the least discussed. It does not quite add up
to a new Obama Doctrine, but the methods are defining a new era of nearly
constant confrontation and containment. Drones are part of a tactic to keep
America's adversaries off balance and preoccupied with defending themselves. And
in the past two and a half years, they have been used more aggressively than
ever. There are now five or six secret American drone bases around the world.
Some recently discovered new computer worms suggest that a new, improved Stuxnet
2.0 may be in the works for Iran.

''There were a lot of mistakes made the first time,'' said an American official,
avoiding any acknowledgment that the United States played a role in the cyber
attack on Iran. ''This was a first-generation product. Think of Edison's initial
light bulbs, or the Apple II.''

Not surprisingly, the Iranians are refusing to sit back and take it -- which is
one reason many believe the long shadow war with Iran is about to ramp up
dramatically. At the White House and the C.I.A., officials say the recently
disclosed Iranian plot to kill the Saudi ambassador to the United States -- by
blowing up a tony Georgetown restaurant frequented by senators, lobbyists and
journalists -- was just the tip of the iceberg. American intelligence officials
now believe that the death of a Saudi diplomat in Pakistan earlier this year was
an assassination. And they see evidence of other plots by the Quds Force, the
most elite Iranian military unit, from Yemen to Latin America.

''The Saudi plot was clumsy, and we got lucky,'' another American official who
has reviewed the intelligence carefully said recently. ''But we are seeing
increasingly sophisticated Iranian activity like it, all around the world.''
Much of this resembles the worst days of the cold war, when Americans and
Soviets were plotting against each other -- and killing each other -- in a now
hazy attempt to preserve an upper hand. But Iran is no superpower. And there are
reasons to wonder whether, in the end, this shadow war is simply going to delay
the inevitable: an Iranian bomb or, more likely, an Iranian capability to
assemble a fairly crude weapon in a matter of weeks or months.

For understandable reasons, this is a question no one in the Obama
administration will answer publicly. To admit that Iran may ultimately get a
weapon is to admit failure; both George W. Bush and Barack Obama vowed they
would never let Iran achieve nuclear arms capability, much less a bomb. Israelis
have long argued that if Iran got too close, that could justify attacking Iran's
nuclear sites. Reports in Israel last week suggested that such a pre-emptive
attack is once again being debated.

The worries focus on renewed hints from top Israeli officials that they will act
unilaterally -- even over American objections -- if they judge that Iran is
getting too close to a bomb. (It is worth noting that they have made similar
noises every year since 2005, save for a brief hiatus when Stuxnet -- which
appears to have been a joint project of American and Israeli intelligence -- was
doing its work.)

To many members of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's government -- and, by the
accounts of his former colleagues, to the Israeli leader himself -- the Iran
problem is 1939 all over again, an ''existential threat.''

''WHEN Bibi talks about an existential threat,'' one senior Israeli official
said of Mr. Netanyahu recently, ''he means the kind of threat the United States
believed it faced when you believed the Nazis could get the bomb.''

Israelis worry that as Iran feels more isolated by sanctions and more threatened
by the Arab Spring, which has not exactly broken Tehran's way, it may view
racing for a bomb as the only way to restore itself to its position as the most
influential power in the Middle East. The fate of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi may
strengthen that impulse.

''One should ask: would Europe have intervened in Libya if Qaddafi had possessed
nuclear weapons?'' the Israeli defense minister, Ehud Barak, said on army radio
last week, referring to the Libyan leader's decision to give up his program in
2003. ''Would the U.S. have toppled Saddam Hussein if he had nuclear weapons?''

To many in the Obama administration, though, the Iranian threat seems more akin
to 1949, when the Soviets tested their first nuclear device. That brought many
confrontations that veered toward catastrophe, most notably the Cuban Missile
Crisis. But ultimately the Soviets were contained. Inside the Pentagon and the
National Security Council, there is a lot of work -- all of it unacknowledged --
about what a parallel containment strategy for Iran might look like.

The early elements of it are obvious: the antimissile batteries that the United
States has spent billions of dollars installing on the territory of Arab allies,
and a new Pentagon plan to put more ships and antimissile batteries into the
Persian Gulf, in cooperation with six Arab states led by Saudi Arabia. It was
the Saudi king who famously advised American diplomats in the cables revealed by
WikiLeaks last year that the only Iran strategy that would work was one that
''cut off the head of the snake.''

The big hitch in these containment strategies is that they are completely
useless if Iran ever slips a bomb, or even some of its newly minted uranium
fuel, to a proxy -- Hezbollah, Hamas or some other terrorist group -- raising
the problem of ascertaining a bomb's return address. When the Obama
administration ran some tabletop exercises soon after coming to office, it was
shocked to discover that the science of nuclear forensics was nowhere near as
good in practice as it was on television dramas. So if a bomb went off in some
American city, or in Riyadh or Tel Aviv, it could be weeks or months before it
was ever identified as Iranian. Even then, confidence in the conclusion,
officials say, might be too low for the president to order retaliation.

The wisdom of a containment strategy has also taken a hit since the revelation
of the plot to kill the Saudi ambassador. Emerging from a classified briefing on
the plot, a member of Congress said what struck him was that ''this thing could
have gotten Iran into a war, and yet we don't know who ordered it.'' There is
increasing talk that it could have been a rogue element within the Quds Force.
If so, what does that say about whether the Iranian leadership has as good a
hand on the throttle of Iran's nuclear research program as Washington has long
assumed?

That issue may well come to a head this week after the International Atomic
Energy Agency, the nuclear watchdog that has been playing a cat-and-mouse game
with Iran's nuclear establishment for a decade now, issues what may be one of
its toughest reports ever.

IF the leaks are an accurate predictor of the final product, the report will
describe in detail the evidence the I.A.E.A. has amassed suggesting that Iran
has conducted tests on nuclear trigger devices, wrestled with designs that can
miniaturize a nuclear device into the small confines of a warhead, and conducted
abstruse experiments to spark a nuclear reaction. Most likely, the agency will
stop short of accusing Iran of running a bomb program; instead, it will use the
evidence to demand answers that it has long been refused about what it
delicately calls ''possible military dimensions'' of the nuclear program.

Much of the work on those ''possible military dimensions'' is done, the I.A.E.A.
believes, by scientists who have day jobs at Iran's major universities,
including one just across the street from what is believed to be the nuclear
project's administrative center. Among the scientists was Mr. Abbasi, the
survivor of last November's bomb attack, who was named in 2007 to the United
Nations' list of Iranian scientists subject to travel bans and economic
sanctions because they were believed to be central to the bomb-development
effort.

Mr. Abbasi, according to people familiar with the I.A.E.A.'s investigation,
worked on calculations on increasing the yield of nuclear explosions, among
other problems in manufacturing a weapon. He was a key scientist in the Iranian
covert nuclear weapons program headed by Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, an academic and
strong supporter of Iran's nuclear weapons program. For the past decade, Mr.
Fakhrizadeh has run programs -- with names like ''Project 110'' and ''Project
5,'' they seem right out of a James Bond movie -- that the West believes are a
shell game hiding weapons work. Suspicions have been heightened by Iran's
refusal to allow him or his colleagues to be interviewed by the United Nations'
nuclear inspection teams. And since last year's attacks -- and another this past
summer -- Mr. Fakhrizadeh has gone completely underground.

No one expects the United Nations' revelations of the evidence to prompt more
action against Iran. Most governments have had access to this evidence for a
while. The Iranians will say it is all fabrication, and because the agency will
not reveal its sources, that charge could stick. The Chinese and the Russians
have already protested to the I.A.E.A. head, Yukiya Amano, that revealing the
evidence will harden Iran's position. They oppose any new sanctions.

While the Obama administration may act unilaterally to shut down transactions
with Iran's central bank, officials concede that the only economic step that
could give the mullahs pause would be a ban on Iranian oil exports. With oil
already hovering around $93 a barrel, no one in the administration is willing to
risk a step that could send prices soaring and, in the worst case, cause a
confrontation at sea over a blockade.

For all the talk about how ''all options are on the table,'' Washington says a
military strike isn't worth the risk of war; the Israelis say there may be no
other choice. But they have said ''this is the last chance'' every year since
2005.

All of which raises the question: how much more delay can be bought with a
covert campaign of assassination, cyberattacks and sabotage?

Some more, but probably not much. It has taken the Iranians 20 years so far to
get their nuclear act together -- far longer than it took the United States and
the Soviets in the '40s, the Chinese and the Israelis in the '60s, the Indians
in the '70s, and the Pakistanis and the North Koreans in more recent times. The
problem is partly that they were scammed by Abdul Qadeer Khan, the Pakistani who
sold them his country's discards.

The assassination and the sabotage have taken a psychological toll, making
scientists wonder if every trip to work may be their last, every line of code
the beginning of a new round of destruction. Stuxnet was devilishly ingenious:
it infected millions of computers, but did damage only when the code was
transferred to special controllers that run centrifuges, which spin at
supersonic speed when enriching uranium. When operators looked at their screens,
everything looked normal. But downstairs in the plant, the centrifuges suddenly
spun out of control and exploded, like small bombs. It took months for the
Iranians to figure out what had happened.

But now the element of surprise is gone. The Iranians are digging their plants
deeper underground, and enriching uranium at purities that will make it easier
to race for a bomb. When Barack Obama was sworn into office, they had enough
fuel on hand to produce a single weapon; today, by the I.A.E.A.'s own inventory,
they have enough for at least four. And as the Quds Force has shown, sabotage
and assassination is a two-way game, which may ratchet up one confrontation just
as Americans have been exhausted by two others.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Demonstrators in Tehran last year protested the assassination of
an Iranian nuclear scientist. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ATTA KENARE/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE--GETTY IMAGES)(SR6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY TAVIS COBURN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 7, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Study Finds Widespread Sexual Harassment of Students in Grades 7 to 12

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 828 words


Nearly half of 7th to 12th graders experienced sexual harassment in the last
school year, according to a study scheduled for release on Monday, with 87
percent of those who have been harassed reporting negative effects such as
absenteeism, poor sleep and stomachaches.

On its survey of a nationally representative group of 1,965 students, the
American Association of University Women, a nonprofit research organization,
defined harassment as ''unwelcome sexual behavior that takes place in person or
electronically.'' Over all, girls reported being harassed more than boys -- 56
percent compared with 40 percent -- though it was evenly divided during middle
school. Boys were more likely to be the harassers, according to the study, and
children from lower-income families reported more severe effects.

''It's pervasive, and almost a normal part of the school day,'' said Catherine
Hill, the director of research at the association and one of the authors of the
report.

Over all, 48 percent of students surveyed said they were harassed during the
2010-11 school year. Forty-four percent of students said they were harassed ''in
person'' -- being subjected to unwelcome comments or jokes, inappropriate
touching or sexual intimidation -- and 30 percent reported online harassment,
like receiving unwelcome comments, jokes or pictures through texts, e-mail,
Facebook and other tools, or having sexual rumors, information or pictures
spread about them.

Whatever the medium, more girls were victims: 52 percent of girls said they had
been harassed in person, and 36 percent online, compared with 35 percent of boys
who were harassed in person and 24 percent online.

''I was called a whore because I have many friends that are boys,'' one
ninth-grade girl was quoted as saying. An eighth-grade boy, meanwhile, reported,
''They spread rumors I was gay because I played on the basketball team.''

The study asked students to reflect on the 2010-11 school year in an attempt to
capture the prevalence of sexual harassment, the effects it has on the harassed
and the reasons the harassers engage in the behavior. It also questioned
students about preventive measures. Coming amid increased attention to bullying
and cyber-bullying, the report aimed to highlight the damaging effects of
inappropriate sexual comments, online rumors or lurid Facebook posts.

''Bullying is getting a lot of attention,'' said Holly Kearl, an author of the
report and program manager of the university association's Advocacy Fund. ''We
don't want schools to forget about sexual harassment'' and not talk about it,
she said. Ms. Kearl said some schools that talk to students about sexual
harassment and how to respond to it have been successful in reducing it. ''We
want to encourage schools to know what Title IX is,'' she said, referring to the
federal law that prohibits discrimination based on gender in schools, ''to have
a coordinator and to publicize it.''

The report documents many forms of harassment. The most common was unwelcome
sexual comments, gestures or jokes, which was experienced by 46 percent of girls
and 22 percent of boys. Separately, 13 percent of girls reported being touched
in an unwelcome way, compared with 3 percent of boys; 3.5 percent of girls said
they were forced to do something sexual, as did 0.2 percent of boys. About 18
percent of both boys and girls reported being called gay or lesbian in a
negative way.

In the survey, students were asked to identify what had the worst effect on
them. For boys, it was being called gay -- ''Everyone was saying I was gay, and
I felt the need to have to run away and hide,'' a ninth-grader said. For girls,
the leading problem was having someone make ''unwelcome sexual comments, jokes
or gestures to or about you.''

Girls also reported more negative consequences: 37 percent said they did not
want to go to school after being harassed, versus 25 percent of boys. Twenty-two
percent of girls who were harassed said they had trouble sleeping, compared with
14 percent of boys; 37 percent of girls felt sick to their stomach, versus 21
percent of boys.

Those students who experienced both online and in-person harassment experienced
the worst effects: 46 percent said they did not want to go to school, 44 percent
felt sick to their stomachs and 43 percent found it hard to study.

Half of those who were harassed said they did nothing about it; 9 percent said
they reported the incident to an adult at school; and 27 percent of students (32
percent of girls and 20 percent of boys) said they talked about it with a family
member.

When asked what types of students were most at risk of harassment, students said
''good-looking boys'' were the safest, with pretty girls, ugly girls and
feminine boys the likely targets. Girls whose bodies are most developed are the
most at-risk, students said.

''This is an issue that's especially complex for girls, though it affects all
students,'' Ms. Hill said. ''Boys are targets, and girls can be harassers.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: What They've Experienced: Percentage of 7th to 12th graders in a
national survey (Source: American Association of University Women)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 7, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pushing China's Limits On Web, if Not on Paper

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Mia Li contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CULTURE AND CONTROL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2689 words


BEIJING -- When the novelist Murong Xuecun showed up at a ceremony here late
last year to collect his first literary prize, he clutched a sheet of paper with
some of the most incendiary words he had ever written.

It was a meditation on the malaise brought on by censorship. ''Chinese writing
exhibits symptoms of a mental disorder,'' he planned to say. ''This is castrated
writing. I am a proactive eunuch, I castrate myself even before the surgeon
raises his scalpel.''

The ceremony's organizers forbade him to deliver the speech. On stage, Mr.
Murong made a zipping motion across his mouth and left without a word. He then
did with the speech what he had done with three of his best-selling novels, all
of which had gone through a harsh censorship process: He posted the unexpurgated
text on the Internet. Fans flocked to it.

Murong Xuecun (moo-rong shweh-tswen) is the pen name of Hao Qun. At 37, he is
among the most famous of a wave of Chinese writers who have become publishing
sensations in the past decade because of their canny use of the Internet.

Mr. Murong's books are racy and violent and nihilistic, with tales of
businessmen and officials engaging in bribe-taking, brawling, drinking, gambling
and cavorting with prostitutes in China's booming cities. He is a laureate of
corruption, and his friends have introduced him at dinner parties as a writer of
pornography.

That his books are published at all in China shows how the industry, once
carefully controlled by the state, has become more market-driven.

But Mr. Murong's prose inevitably runs up against censorship, which the Chinese
Communist Party is intent on maintaining despite the publishing industry's
gradual changes. Mr. Murong says he is a ''word criminal'' in the eyes of the
state, and a ''coward'' in his own eyes for engaging in self-censorship. His
growing frustrations have pushed him to become one of the most vocal critics of
censorship in China. After zipping his mouth in Beijing last November, he
delivered his banned speech three months later in Hong Kong. He also discussed
the issue last weekend in New York at the Asia Society.

Mr. Murong owes his commercial success to the fact that he has found ways to
practice his art and build a fan base on the Internet, outside the more heavily
policed print industry.

He addresses political issues on both a blog and a microblog account that
resembles Twitter, which has nearly 1.1 million followers. He posts his novels
chapter by chapter or in sections online under different pseudonyms as he
writes. This Dickens-style serialization generates buzz, and the writing evolves
with reader feedback. Once the book is finished or nearly so, Mr. Murong signs
with a publisher. The censored print editions make money, but the Internet
versions are more complete.

In 2004, the state-run China Radio International called Mr. Murong's popular
first novel a ''cyber trendsetter'' in a report that was reposted on the Web
site of the newspaper People's Daily, the Communist Party's mouthpiece. Local
officials in the city of Chengdu, where the story is set, denounced it. The
uncensored version of the novel, ''Chengdu, Please Forget Me Tonight,'' was
translated into English (''Leave Me Alone: A Novel of Chengdu'') by Harvey
Thomlinson and nominated in 2008 for the prestigious Man Asian Literary Prize.

''I simply found it extremely fun to do,'' Mr. Murong said of writing online, as
he chain-smoked one afternoon in his 26th-floor Beijing apartment overlooking
the Western Hills, a jester's grin on his boyish face. ''Later, I realized that
the writers and readers on the Internet changed the course of Chinese literature
and started a new phenomenon.''

The Internet has ignited a revolution in China's publishing industry by allowing
a diversity of voices to bloom. Publishing houses can spot new talents and buy
the rights for print editions. All this has contributed to the market reforms of
the past decade and debate within the party about how to both nurture and
control the industry.

Although its systemic censorship crushes creativity, the party craves domestic
and international respect for China's cultural output. After a four-day policy
meeting on culture and ideology in October, the party's Central Committee said
China needed to bolster its soft power and ''cultural security'' with more
''outstanding cultural products.'' Last week, People's Daily ran a commentary
that called for the state to build up publishing houses into companies with
international brands so their books can help spread ''socialist core values.''
And some officials ache for a mainland Chinese writer to win the Nobel Prize for
Literature.

Chinese rulers have long had a complicated relationship with books, promoting
ones that enshrine official thought and history while banning or destroying
others. Qin Shihuang, ancient China's unifier, burned books and buried scholars
alive. In the 18th century, the Qianlong Emperor purged thousands of texts and
their authors for treasonous ideas while assembling a vast imperial collection
to be printed. Mao Zedong and his comrades were no different.

As intellectual discourse began to flower again in the 1980s, writers like Yu
Hua, Mo Yan and Su Tongcast a critical eye on Chinese history and rural society.
Wang Shuo wrote urban ''hooligan'' literature. But it was the spread of the
Internet in the late 1990s that really opened the floodgates.

Younger writers went online to tell tales of boom-era China. One Web site,
Rongshuxia, was particularly influential, carrying novels by Annie Baobei, Ning
Caishen and Li Xunhuan (the pen name of Lu Jinbo, now a prominent publisher who
supports Mr. Murong). In recent years, the Internet has popularized genre
fiction, and bookstores here now stock the whole gamut: science fiction and
fantasy, horror, detective, teenage romance and, most lucrative of all,
children's stories.

''The Internet created all, and I say all, the literary trends that took off in
2005 and afterward,'' said Jo Lusby, managing director of Penguin China.

Power Over Publishing

More books are being printed now than at any time since the Communist Party took
power in 1949. In 2010, about 328,000 titles were published, more than double
the number in 2001, according to official statistics.

But the government still wields important instruments of control. The agency
overseeing the industry, the General Administration of Press and Publication,
has not allowed real growth in the houses officially allowed to publish books.
Last year, there were 581 such houses, just 19 more than in 2001. All are
state-owned, and the government is moving to consolidate them.

Those numbers do not capture an important phenomenon: Market demand has led to a
boom in private houses. To publish, they must either form joint ventures with
the state-owned houses or, more often, buy from them International Standard Book
Numbers codes, one for each title. On paper, this practice is illegal, but the
authorities turned a blind eye to it for years. A tightening could be in the
works -- this year, officials have said they prefer that the private houses
enter into joint ventures, which would mean more oversight and would help push
state-owned enterprises toward the market.

As for censorship, chief editors act as the ultimate gatekeepers. They know they
could lose their jobs if published material raises the ire of officials.
Nonfiction books on special topics like the military or religion go through
additional vetting by the relevant ministries. In the industry, ''there is a
shadow over the hearts of everyone,'' said Mr. Lu, the publisher.

In June, officials made an example of Zhuhai Publishing House, a small
state-owned company, by abruptly shutting it down. Zhuhai had published a memoir
by Jimmy Lai, a Hong Kong newspaper publisher reviled by some Chinese leaders.

The Internet does not offer writers total liberation, either, since there are
online monitors. And some writers are reluctant to post entire books because of
fears of piracy; Mr. Murong said he had not posted his last book, a nonfiction
work about a pyramid scheme, for that reason.

Writers looking to avoid these difficulties end up doing the government's job
for it. Mr. Murong said he had abandoned two novels-in-progress that he
suspected would never get published. One was called ''The
Counterrevolutionary.''

''The worst effect of the censorship is the psychological impact on writers,''
Mr. Murong said. ''When I was working on my first book, I didn't care whether it
would be published, so I wrote whatever I wanted. Now, after I have published a
few books, I can clearly feel the impact of censorship when I write. For
example, I'll think of a sentence, and then realize that it will for sure get
deleted. Then I won't even write it down. This self-censoring is the worst.''

Inspired by the Internet

Mr. Murong argued with Mr. Lu when they were completing plans in 2008 to publish
''Dancing Through Red Dust,'' about the corrupt legal system. Mr. Lu, who had
bought an ISBN code from Zhuhai Publishing House, told Mr. Murong that he wanted
to limit the print run because the book was too sordid. In an interview, Mr. Lu
said Mr. Murong was ''the best writer under the age of 40,'' but added that
''Murong has one problem: his writings are too dark.''

''He's a loner nihilist who believes in nothing,'' Mr. Lu said.

Mr. Murong's four novels and one work of investigative journalism are based on
years spent in China's fastest-growing cities. He traveled to Beijing from his
family's farm in Jilin Province to attend the China University of Political
Science and Law, which trains judges, lawyers and police officers, the kind of
people who figure prominently in his novels. Mr. Murong then moved from Chengdu
to Shenzhen to Guangzhou, working at companies in various positions like legal
adviser.

He wrote on the side and sent stories to magazines, but received only rejection
slips. Then he stumbled across an in-house Internet forum at Softo, the
cosmetics company where he worked in Guangzhou. Hundreds of company employees
posted on it, but people on the outside could also gain access. Amateurs were
posting poems, short stories and serialized novels.

''I saw a novel titled 'My Beijing,' which inspired me,'' Mr. Murong said. ''I
thought, 'I can write that kind of thing as well.' ''

In 2002, he began his novel of Chengdu. Using a pen name, ''The Little Match
That Sells Girls'' -- a twisted reference to Hans Christian Andersen's ''The
Little Match Girl'' -- he posted his chapters online as he wrote them. The
evolving novel gained notoriety and was reposted on forums. It was a bawdy
page-turner: the protagonist, Chen Zhong, an employee at an automobile oil and
parts company, regularly engages in bribery and adultery. There are sex scenes
in bars and brothels. One of his best friends is a corrupt police officer.

But the freewheeling nature of the Internet could surprise even Mr. Murong.
After posting Chapter 26, he went on a long business trip. He came back to find
that someone else had written Chapter 27. ''I had been pirated,'' he said with a
laugh. Now the book had two lives.

Writing on the Internet meant, for the most part, working beyond the curtain of
censorship. The print world was different. After Mr. Murong signed a contract to
have the Chengdu novel published by Zhou Wen, an entrepreneur, he was forced to
cut 10,000 words.

But he had an out. After the book was published, he posted an uncensored
manuscript on the Internet, one that was even more complete than the
chapter-by-chapter version he had written online. ''It did feel liberating,'' he
said.

Some writers are skeptical that uncensored books on the Internet can have much
of an effect. Chan Koonchung, the author of ''The Fat Years,'' a dystopian novel
published in Hong Kong and Taiwan but banned on the mainland, has seen at least
two electronic versions of his book posted by fans. But he said he believed that
only a small number of mainland Chinese would read it online because it could
not be discussed in the news media or any other forum. ''Most people don't know
about these books,'' Mr. Chan said. ''So they're not going to go onto the
Internet to look for them.''

Mr. Murong eventually persuaded another house to publish a complete edition of
the Chengdu novel. Publication rights generally last three to five years in
China, and publishers putting out editions beyond the first one sometimes feel
more confident in reinserting passages that were originally censored.

''Once a book gets past the censors and gets published, it is legitimate,'' Mr.
Murong said. ''A couple of years later, you can publish the complete version.
The logic is this: If the first version was not banned, why would the second one
be?''

Learning the Lines

Mr. Murong began muzzling himself with his second book, ''Heaven to the Left,
Shenzhen to the Right,'' about young people trying to make their fortunes in
Shenzhen. ''I already knew where the lines were, based on the experience of my
first book being edited,'' he said.

For example, Mr. Murong had originally intended for his protagonists to have
experienced the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests and crackdown. But he said he did
not dare cross this ''untouchable red line.''

There was another impetus to self-censorship. ''I always become good friends
with the editors,'' he said. ''I don't want to get my friends in trouble. If
they say something is risky, or if they might lose their job over it, I'll let
them delete what they want.''

As with the Chengdu novel, the complete version of the Shenzhen tale exists
online. An uncensored version of Mr. Murong's fourth novel, the one about the
legal system, is sold as an e-book.

The intact version has, for example, a scene where the protagonist, a corrupt
lawyer, is asked to sign away his organs while on death row.

''Now that I'm aware of my self-censoring tendencies, I try to make up for it
while I write,'' Mr. Murong said. ''I can write one version and publish a
'cleaner' version.''

But sometimes it can be surprising what slips into the first print editions. Mr.
Murong's third novel, ''Some Die of Greed,'' a critique of China's rampant
materialism, has a scene in which wealthy men at a restaurant eat a woman's
breast and drink a virgin's blood.

As Mr. Murong's fame grew, the official Writers Association asked him to join,
but he rejected their overtures. Meanwhile, he took his work in a new direction,
toward journalism, which undergoes more scrutiny from censors than fiction.

Mr. Murong's most painful struggle with censorship came when he worked with an
editor from Heping Publishing House on his latest book, ''China: In the Absence
of a Remedy,'' the nonfiction expose that documents Mr. Murong's 23 days spent
undercover to investigate a pyramid scheme. There were endless negotiations.
Even a phrase like ''Chinese people'' had to be changed to ''some people.'' Mr.
Murong yelled at the editor, smashed a cup on the floor and punched the wall of
his home.

''It was like someone was whipping me for no reason,'' Mr. Murong said. ''In
2008, the censorship was painful, and I could endure it. But in 2010, I couldn't
endure it anymore.''

Zhang Jingtao, the editor, said he wanted to ''make the book more appropriate
for our society and our times.''

''Publishing is a cultural activity, which falls under the realm of ideology,''
Mr. Zhang said. ''My job is to be the ideological quality control.''

The book was published last year to great acclaim, even if it was incomplete.
Newspapers ran articles on Mr. Murong's role in alerting the police to the fraud
ring. The book was serialized in People's Literature, a magazine co-founded by
Mao. Its editors decided to award Mr. Murong the magazine's annual literature
prize.

Last November, the day before the award ceremony, Mr. Murong spent eight hours
preparing his speech. He wrote: ''The only truth is that we cannot speak the
truth. The only acceptable viewpoint is that we cannot express a viewpoint.'' It
was 4,000 words long. In the end, not a single one was spoken.

Culture and Control: Articles in this series are exploring the struggle to shape
the culture of authoritarian China.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Murong Xuecun has won fame with nihilistic novels. (A1)
Murong Xuecun signing copies of his book ''Dancing Through Red Dust'' at Ocean
University of China in Qingdao, China, last month.
Mr. Murong in Qingdao. ''The worst effect of the censorship is the psychological
impact on writers.''
 Lu Jinbo, a prominent publisher, supports and admires Mr. Murong, but says,
''He has one problem: his writings are too dark. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHIHO FUKADA
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                            November 7, 2011 Monday

Israel Denies Hackers Knocked Government Sites Offline

BYLINE: RAVI SOMAIYA and ROBERT MACKEY

LENGTH: 761 words



HIGHLIGHT: Several Israeli government Web sites crashed on Sunday, just hours
after a statement issued in the name of the hackers who call themselves
Anonymous had threatened to target the country in retaliation for its blockade
of Gaza.


Several Israeli government Web sites, including those of the country's military
and security services, crashed on Sunday, just hours after a statement issued in
the name of the hackers who call themselves Anonymous had threatened to target
the country in retaliation for its blockade of Gaza.

Ofir Gendelman, a spokesman for Israel's prime minister who communicates with
Arab media organizations, insisted on Sunday that the Web sites had gone offline
"because of a server malfunction, not as a result of a cyberattack."

Mr. Gendelman added on Monday, "All of the Israeli government Web sites which
were down yesterday are now back up."

As the Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported, a government department responsible
for managing the official sites said in a statement: "A thorough investigation
was conducted and the source of the malfunction was found to be
I.B.M.-manufactured storage component." The department which oversees Israel's
"E-Government Project" added that the problem had been resolved during Sunday
night. I.B.M. refused to comment on Monday.

Barrett Brown, who has spoken to the news media on behalf of Anonymous, said
Monday that members of the group had carried out "a planned attack" on the Web
sites in question. He said he did not have any direct evidence that the attack
had brought down the sites, but called the Israeli government's claim of a
coincidental hardware failure "absurd."

Nitzan Miron, a former member of the Israeli military's cybersecurity division,
told The Guardian that a hardware failure was possible, since all of the Web
sites were run from a single data center, which made it possible for "a chain
reaction" to knock them all offline at once without a cyberattack. He added that
it was "just the front-end sites" for the security services Shin Bet and Mossad,
which crashed and those contain no "actual classified information."

Anonymous is a deliberately leaderless and nebulous group -- its only criterion
for membership is to claim membership -- so it can be hard to say which threats
are credible. Its operations against organizations that it feels are unjust
sometimes feature significant numbers of motivated activists in determined
attacks, but on other occasions are nothing more than a handful of people
agitating on social networking sites like Twitter and YouTube.

When the freewheeling online campaign movement starts its attacks using
specialized software and thousands of volunteers, it can overwhelm the public
Web sites of its targets. Previous attacks have crashed the Web sites of
financial companies and government institutions.

The video message threatening Israel was uploaded to YouTube on Friday and
announced on a new Twitter account, @AnonymousMMV, set up later the same day.
Unlike other Twitter accounts established in the group's name, which have posted
thousands of messages to tens of thousands of followers, the new account has
released just 17 messages to 117 followers since Friday.

The video statement warned that the hackers would retaliate against Israel for
stopping two Gaza-bound ships that sought to challenge a blockade of the
Palestinian territory last week.

The message called Israel's blockade "illegal" and said that the interception of
the boats was "against democracy, human rights, international and maritime
laws." It also made reference to a deadly commando raid on another Gaza-bound
flotilla, last May, which left nine activists dead. Anonymous, the statement
said, would "strike back, again and again, until you stop."

Like the Twitter account that announced it, the YouTube channel the video was
uploaded to is also new. It was set up last month, and contains just one
previous video -- another statement in the group's name claiming that "rumors of
an impending attack on Facebook by Anonymous" were false.

Slim Amamou, a Tunisian Internet activist who has supported Anonymous campaigns
in the past, appeared to hail the operation on Twitter. But a chat Web site
named "OpIsrael," of the type that Anonymous often uses to plan such operations,
was closed on Monday.

Israel promotes itself as a particularly wired society, but its range of
government Web sites are frequent targets for attack by opponents of the state.
According to Haaretz, Israel's defense ministry Web site is subjected to 80,000
attacks a day.


     ·    Video of Israeli Navy Intercepting Boats Bound for Gaza
     ·    Irish and Canadian Boats Head for Gaza
     ·    German Anger Over Israeli Settlements Could Cost Israel a Submarine
     ·    Updates on the Israeli-Palestinian Prisoner Swap
     ·    Angered by Shalit Deal, Israeli Defaces Rabin Memorial


LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

7 Charged In Web Scam Using Ads

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA and JENNA WORTHAM

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 706 words


It was a subtle swap: a cheesy advertisement for a vacation timeshare atop the
home page of ESPN.com, in a spot that might have been claimed by a well-known
brand like Dr Pepper.

Those who saw swapped advertisements, federal prosecutors say, might never have
known that their computer had been drawn into a complex Internet advertising
scam that they say generated $14 million for its creators.

Over the last four years, a group of men in Eastern Europe quietly hijacked
millions of computers worldwide and diverted unsuspecting users to online
advertisements from which they could profit, federal law enforcement officials
said on Wednesday.

Six men, all in their 20s and early 30s, are under arrest in Estonia for what
the United States attorney's office in New York called ''a massive and
sophisticated Internet fraud scheme.'' A Russian suspect in the case remains at
large.

The malicious software infected four million computers, including 500,000 in the
United States, the prosecutors said. The software was so subtle that most people
using an infected computer were probably unaware of it.

It was a two-pronged scheme, prosecutors said. One component involved
redirecting clicks on search results to sites that were controlled by the
defendants. A search for ''I.R.S.,'' for instance, would lead a user to the Web
site of the tax preparer H&R Block. The sites to which users were directed would
pay the swindlers a referral fee, prosecutors said. The more traffic they could
redirect, the more fees they collected.

The other way the group made money, according to the indictment, was to swap
legitimate online advertisements on certain Web sites with others that would
generate payments for the defendants. Prosecutors said that Web sites for ESPN
and The Wall Street Journal were affected -- but only when viewed on the
infected computers.

''On a mass scale, this gave new meaning to the term false advertising,'' Preet
Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said
at a press conference in Manhattan.

The security firm Trend Micro, which was among several private companies that
helped federal officials with the investigation, called it the ''biggest
cybercriminal takedown in history.'' The group running the scheme had 100
command-and-control servers worldwide, the company said, one of which was in a
data center run in New York.

The scheme came to light after 100 computers at the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration were found to have been infected. The malicious software
spread through infected Web sites.

The most serious aspect of the scheme was that it attacked part of the
scaffolding of the Internet: the domain name system, or D.N.S., which links the
numerical addresses of Web sites with more user-friendly addresses like irs.gov.

''When people start attacking infrastructure, it creates the potential for a
rogue version of the Internet,'' said David Dagon, a computer security expert at
the Georgia Tech College of Computing who helped federal authorities in the
investigation.

Unlike more traditional malware that ferrets out valuable personal information,
the group's program was not designed to steal data, so it was not easily
detected, private security consultants said. It manipulated the infrastructure
of the Web to do what it does every day in great volumes: display advertising.

All six of the Estonian defendants were in the custody of Estonian police. Four
of them also face charges in that country. One of them, Vladimir Tsastsin, 31,
has been previously convicted of money laundering in Estonia, according to the
Federal Bureau of Investigation. He is identified with a company called Rove
Digital, which investigators say ran the operation's infrastructure.

According to the indictment, the malware also staved off antivirus software
updates, which meant that an infected computer could not detect that it was
infected. This also made the machine vulnerable to other security bugs.

The malware affected both Windows and Mac operating systems. On its Web site,
the F.B.I. outlines how to detect this particular program and how to get rid of
it.

Mr. Bharara described the scheme as ''cyber infestation of the first order''
that reflected the global nature of Internet fraud.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The United States attorney's office in New York said that when a
computer was infected with the group's malware, it might change the ad on the
left page to one like the ad on the right page. (B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Motherlode)

                            November 14, 2011 Monday

Can Virtual Schools Really Replace Classrooms?

BYLINE: KJ DELL'ANTONIA

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 740 words



HIGHLIGHT: Is virtual schooling effective or just a way for struggling schools
to save money?


If the  in the Sunday Magazine played to a fantasy of what home schooling could
be - the traveling, the rebellion against the authority of the classroom, the
rugged individualist children - then The Wall Street Journal's counterpoint, "My
Teacher Is an App," is the disillusioning reality for many.

The article reports that an estimated 250,000 students in 2010-11 attend school
online, sometimes in the form of full-time public cyberschools, sometimes in a
cyber "hybrid" school. These children aren't "home schooled" from a statistical
point of view; they're enrolled in schools with names that sound like online
degree factories (Georgia Cyber Academy, Florida Virtual School), but are
legitimately run by states and districts or outsourced to for-profit
corporations. They're going to school. At home.

A quarter-million kids represent a tiny percentage of the 56 million
kindergartners through 12th graders in the United States, but it's a percentage
that's growing, according to The Journal's numbers: up 40 percent in the last
three years. It's that increase, rather than the actual number of students
affected, that makes these virtual schools worth talking about, and it's an
increase not just in children and parents willing to embrace this, but also in
school districts. Georgia and Florida both say they spend substantially less on
a student in their online schools. An Idaho school superintendent told The
Journal that he was considering closing entire departments and outsourcing their
courses to online providers. "It's not ideal," he said, "but Idaho is in a
budget crisis, and this is a creative solution."

I don't question the success of the virtual school for some students (like those
pursing an acting career, or being taught at home by a parent using an online
school curriculum). But I do question that form of money-saving "creativity."
When I read the descriptions of some of the online course work ("up to half of
each school day in computer labs playing math and literacy games that adjust to
their ability level"), I begin to suspect that we are talking about two very,
very different things here: virtual schools that supplement active students and
families learning at home, and virtual schools that substitute for active
students learning with teachers in schools.

Which students get what is going to fall across the usual divide, I suspect. I'm
persuaded by Will Richardson, a blogger, education writer and former teacher,
who sees this form of virtual classroom growing quickly and indiscriminately. If
concerned parents and teachers don't begin reinventing the classroom experience
themselves, he writes (he favors the use of technology and teachers in schools),
"we will quickly find ourselves competing at scale with cheaper, easier
alternatives that won't serve our kids as well."

At least one study has found that students in full-time online schools don't do
as well on standardized tests of math and reading. But some schools report
better results. This is new, this cyberschool stuff. Results apparently may
vary. But wouldn't it make sense that the students who will succeed in the
"virtual school" world will be those who have, along with their parents, chosen
it, rather than those who had some  administrator looking to save money choose
it for them?

I can imagine parents and students who've had great success with either a
full-time online school or a cybercurriculum for home schooling leaping to the
defense of virtual education. But the really important question isn't whether
the virtual classroom works for some students. It's whether it works for enough
that we should stand by while thousands of students earn a United States history
credit "by playing a semester-long video game that whisks them through the
historical milestones," as The Journal reports.

I am not sold, but maybe I'm falling for the fallacy of placing too much
importance on something just because it's what's familiar. Have you or your
child tried out an actual full-time online school, or experienced an online
classroom that replaced a live teacher, or allowed a single teacher to work with
more students? And ultimately, is a full-time cyberschool truly a school, or
will it fail without a parent with a blackboard?


     ·    How Graphic Should Sex Education Get?
     ·    To Fix Failing Schools, Target Troubled Kids?
     ·    Lessons of the Home-Schooling Anarchist
     ·    What Good Teachers Do When Kids Fail
     ·    Putting Down the iPad So My Kids Can See Me Read


LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 16, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sexual Harassment in the Workplace

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 464 words


To the Editor:

Re ''In Favor of Dirty Jokes and Risque Remarks'' (Sunday Review, Nov. 13):

Granted that we may have let the pendulum swing too far in our current
definition of ''hostile work environment,'' but Katie Roiphe can't possibly be
unaware of the critical distinction she has left out of her critique: that
between the powerful and the powerless.

When a colleague, or a classmate, makes a sexual remark, or even a sexual
advance, it may be welcome or not, it may attract or repel, it may make the
workplace seem hostile or fun, and all other things being equal, we as a society
might be better off allowing everyone to negotiate his or her own way through
these entirely normal interactions.

But when the off-color remark or unwanted advance comes from your boss or your
professor, it's an entirely different story. We do not have the same freedom to
say no to those on whom our salaries or our grades or our futures depend. It's
the power relationship that is the crux of the matter. That's what Herman Cain
is accused of, and that's why the issue is in the Sunday Review.

DAVID BERMAN New York, Nov. 13, 2011

To the Editor:

As a young woman preparing to enter the professional world, I could not disagree
more strongly with Katie Roiphe.

Sexual jokes and flirtations, like sexist language, do not foster creativity or
productivity. Rather, they foster stereotypes and reinforce gender roles,
stifling our progress toward a gender-blind, equal world.

Ms. Roiphe belittles those women who feel genuine discomfort or fear when a
co-worker makes a crude comment. I can only hope that I enter an accepting work
force very different from Ms. Roiphe's risque world.

LAUREN M. HARDING Philadelphia, Nov. 14, 2011

To the Editor:

Katie Roiphe's commentary about a sexual harassment survey by the American
Association of University Women undermines the importance of protecting students
from sexual harassment by making light of the study's statistics and implying
that most reported incidences were as minor as being called ''so hot'' on
Facebook.

Considering that there have been several cases of teenage suicides incited by
cyber-harassment in recent years, the sarcastic tone Ms. Roiphe takes seems
inappropriate. Perhaps the jokes and remarks the article's title refers to are
victims of stringent sexual harassment policies, but the argument that such
social faux pas are worth preserving over providing people with a safe work
environment is oversimplified and absurd.

JESSICA GARCIA Santa Clarita, Calif., Nov. 14, 2011

To the Editor:

Dirty jokes stereotype women in the same way racial jokes stereotype blacks. One
doesn't have to be an ''anodyne drone'' to be respectful of others.

''It was only a joke'' is the last refuge of sexists and bigots.

McCORD CLAYTON Palo Alto, Calif., Nov. 13, 2011

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday

Zombiegate!

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 651 words



HIGHLIGHT: We asked Glen Duncan if he wanted to clarify his review of Colson
Whitehead's novel "Zone One" or reply to his critics.



Since my review of Colson Whitehead's novel "Zone One" appeared in The New York
Times Book Review on Oct. 30, Twitter has been cacophonous with the cries of the
offended. A good many of my incensed tweeters are, I suspect, beyond
mollification - once you've decided someone's an elitist jerk who needs stabbing
in the face, the road back from contempt is probably impassable - but for any
not yet at the homicidal stage, the remarks below might be of interest.

Concisely, I'm accused of dismissing genre readers as idiots. The accusation
derives from the following paragraph:

Colson Whitehead is a literary novelist, but his latest book, "Zone One,"
features zombies, which means horror junkies and gore gourmands will soon have
him on their radar. He has my sympathy. I can see the disgruntled reviews on
Amazon already: "I don't get it. This book's supposed to be about zombies, but
the author spends pages and pages talking about all this other stuff I'm not
interested in." Broad-spectrum marketing will attract readers for whom having to
look up "cathected" or "brisant" isn't just an irritating chore but a moral
affront. These readers will huff and writhe and swear their way through (if they
make it through) and feel betrayed and outraged and migrained. But unless
they're entirely beyond the beguilements of art they will also feel fruitfully
disturbed, because "Zone One" will have forced them, whether they signed up for
it or not, to see the strangeness of the familiar and the familiarity of the
strange.

In the minds of the outraged, an exhaustive and heinous equation has occurred -
namely, the equation of "horror junkies and gore gourmands" with "readers for
whom having to look up 'cathected' or 'brisant' isn't just an irritating chore
but a moral affront."

The equation is possible if you ignore the obvious import of the phrase
"broad-spectrum marketing." At the risk of explaining the self-explanatory,
"broad-spectrum marketing" is marketing designed to maximize the audience to
whom the product can be made to appeal. For the publishers of "Zone One," it
means making sure anyone who likes reading about zombies - from devourers of
undemanding splatterfests to connoisseurs of revenant high art - will stand a
good chance of thinking it's for them. Put bluntly (a cynic would say
tautologically), it's marketing designed to fool the the market.

It works. When I wrote the review back in August, "Zone One" hadn't been
published, so my Amazon predictions were just that: predictions. Now that it has
been published, I invite you, gentle reader, to take a trip to the relevant
Amazon customer review page. There you will find, at one end of the market
spectrum, plenty of satisfied readers (who were looking for something more than,
or at least as well as, gory entertainment) but just as many, at the other end,
hollering and snarling that they've been duped.

No plot! Not enough action! Thesaurus required! These are the complaints of
those punters who know what they want from "a zombie novel" and go straight to
the online ballot box when they don't get it - as is their right, of course, and
God bless the wonders of cyber-democracy, amen. But quite how pointing out (a)
that such readers exist and (b) that they won't like a certain type of book they
feel they've been hoodwinked into buying makes me an elitist jerk (let alone
face-stabbing material) remains a mystery to me.

I'm saying nothing here of the concussive obtuseness by virtue of which so many
think my having published a "genre" novel somehow compromises my position
(rather than, say, giving me an insider's view of how Mr. Whitehead's book might
fare), nor of the po-facedness that demands umbrage at my
intellectual-and-porn-star analogy. To those calling for my public castration on
these grounds I can only bid a cheery adieu and wish them good luck and lots of
laughs in the world of politically correct literalism.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                            November 18, 2011 Friday

Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2187 words



HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter.


Investigators Are Said to Zero In on Suspect Borrowing at MF Global  |  With
$600 million in customer money still missing, investigators have discovered
hundreds of millions of dollars in suspect borrowing at MF Global, people
briefed on the investigation say.

Regulators suspect that the commodities and derivatives brokerage firm
improperly diverted customers' cash for its own use in the days before its
bankruptcy, these people said, and at least some of that money was used to cover
trading losses, meaning the money may no longer be simply missing. It may be
gone.

MF Global, like other brokers, can use customer cash if it puts up sufficient
collateral. But the firm did not provide enough backing in late October,
essentially taking free loans, said the people briefed on the investigation, who
spoke on the condition of anonymity.
DealBook » | DealBook: An Ill-Fated Firm Is Ready to Move On


     ·    An Ill-Fated Firm Is Ready to Move On  |  Bedeviled in the past by a
          clutch of troubled owners, including MF Global, the Washington
          Research Group, whose 20 employees were fired last Friday, has been on
          a desperate search for a 10th owner.It looks as if it has found one.
          The firm is in talks to be acquired by Guggenheim Partners, the
          fast-growing financial services firm, said two people with knowledge
          of the talks who requested anonymity. There are several other
          interested parties, including Royal Bank of Canada and Macquarie of
          Australia. A deal could be announced as soon as Friday, though it
          might still fall apart.
          DealBook »
     ·    Day 2: Inside MF Global's Bankruptcy Hearing  |  A proposal to make
          cash distributions to MF Global customers was the focus of a hearing
          on Thursday at the federal bankruptcy court in Manhattan. DealBook
          provided live coverage of the proceedings.
          DealBook »


DEAL NOTES

Protesters Re-Occupy Zuccotti Park  |  As protesters around the country
commemorated the two-month birthday of Occupy Wall Street with a surge of
demonstrations, the effort in Manhattan to shut down the New York Stock Exchange
fell short, The New York Times reports. But amid arrests and violence,
protesters achieved a separate goal.

"We failed to close the stock exchange, but we took back our park," Adam
Farooqui, of Queens, told The Times. "That was a real victory."
NEW YORK TIMES

We May or May Not Be the 99 Percent  |  The Occupy protests have spawned
demonstrations in locales like Martha's Vineyard; Santa Barbara, Calif.; and
Jackson Hole, Wyo., Bloomberg Businessweek writes.

"To be on the street with a sign is so unheard of out here," Ty Batirbek-Wenzel,
46, told Businessweek, of a protest in the Hamptons.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

Mergers & Acquisitions »

NYSE and Deutsche Borse Offer Deal Concessions  |  Deutsche Borse and NYSE
Euronext announced plans to divest businesses in Europe and open up certain
operations to rivals in an effort to win regulatory approval for their proposed
$9 billion merger.
DealBook »

Motorola Shareholders Give Google Their Blessing  |  Motorola Mobility said its
shareholders were overwhelmingly in favor of the company's $12.5 billion sale to
Google, with 99 percent of voters giving a thumbs up, The Associated Press
reports.
ASSOCIATED PRESS

Kodak Is Said to Put Online Photo Service on the Block  |  The struggling film
company Eastman Kodak is looking to sell its online photo-sharing business, and
is said to seek "hundreds of millions of dollars" for the site that recently has
been losing users, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

Petrobras Has No Shortage of Offers for Assets  |  The Brazilian oil company
Petrobras has received "many, many, many" offers for $13.6 billion of assets it
aims to sell to help finance a five-year investment plan, the company's chief
executive, Jose Sergio Gabrielli, told Bloomberg News.

"In the ultra-deep waters, we have several exploratory activities going on right
now," Mr. Gabrielli told Bloomberg. "And some companies are interested in buying
things from us."
BLOOMBERG NEWS

Statoil Buys Into South American Unit  |  The Norwegian oil company Statoil
agreed to buy a 30 percent stake in a South American oil production unit from
the London-based Tullow Oil, Reuters reports.
REUTERS

Britain After EMI  |  Despite the symbolic loss that comes with the sale of
EMI's recorded music division to Universal Music, The Economist writes that the
British music scene is doing just fine without the big label, thank you very
much.
ECONOMIST

INVESTMENT BANKING »

UBS Outlines How It Plans to Carry Out Turnaround  |  Sergio P. Ermotti, the
chief executive of the bank, said his efforts would include shrinking business
units and raising capital levels.
DealBook »

Banks in Italy Find an Unusual Liquidity Lifeline  |  Short-term lending by a
London Stock Exchange-owned clearinghouse is increasingly  in demand amid
turmoil in the Italian financial market.
DealBook »

Bank of America's New Strategy Chief Takes the Stage  |  After Mike Lyons left
last month from his post as Bank of America's strategy chief, Thong Nguyen, who
once worked in the bank's wealth management division, has taken that role, The
Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

Jefferies Tries to Instill Calm  |  The chief executive of the Jefferies Group
sought to assure investors that the brokerage firm would be fine, even as its
debt traded at distressed levels, Bloomberg News reports. "Some bond investors
sell first and ask questions later," the firm's chief executive, Richard B.
Handler, told Bloomberg.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

Relatively Speaking, Jefferies Isn't So Bad  |  The Wall Street Journal's Heard
on the Street writes that despite potential pitfalls, Jefferies isn't in the
dire straits that some are suggesting, and its market valuation as a percentage
of book value is about in line with Goldman Sachs's.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

Commercial Mortgage Delinquencies Rise  |  Hit by defaults, the market for
commercial mortgage-backed securities is showing signs of strain, even after it
appeared to be recovering, The New York Times writes.
NEW YORK TIMES

Spanish Banks Seen as Entering Consolidation Period  |  As small banks in Spain
try to unload real estate assets, some of that debt may simply be "unsellable,"
Pablo Cantos, managing partner of the Madrid-based MaC Group, told Bloomberg
News. "I foresee Spain will be left with just four large banks," he said.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

European Banks Still Counting Pre-Crisis Goodwill  |  After paying premiums for
acquisitions in good times, European banks may now need to write off a portion
of their combined $270 billion in goodwill, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

PRIVATE EQUITY »

Lone Star to Sell Korean Bank Stake  |  Lone Star Funds, the private equity firm
that was found guilty of stock price manipulation, was told by South Korean
authorities to reduce its stake in the Korea Exchange Bank to 10 percent or
lower, so that the lender can be acquired by the Hana Financial Group, Reuters
reports.
REUTERS

Silver Lake Aims Big  |  Even as some of its rivals struggle, the private equity
firm Silver Lake Partners, which is considering a deal for Yahoo, continues to
set its sights on big targets after its recent $8.5 billion sale of Skype to
Microsoft, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

Korea's Kumho to Sell Assets  |  Kumho Industrial, the South Korean construction
and transportation company, plans to sell about $884.5 billion of assets to 10
private equity firms, a local newspaper reported, according to Reuters.
REUTERS

San Diego Newspaper Sold  |  The private equity firm Platinum Equity sold The
San Diego Union-Tribune to the chairman of the hotel development firm Manchester
Financial Group for a sum said to be at least $110 million, The New York Times
reports.
NEW YORK TIMES

HEDGE FUNDS »

H.P. Gives Relational's Whitworth a Board Seat  |  Hewlett-Packard said it named
Ralph V. Whitworth, the head of the hedge fund Relational Investors, to its
board as the computer giant seeks to head off potential campaigns by activist
shareholders.
DealBook »

Legg Mason's Miller to Hand Over the Reins  |  Bill Miller, the legendary Legg
Mason mutual fund manager who beat the S&P 500-stock index for 15 years in a
row, said on Thursday that he was stepping down, after admitting that his
stock-picking strategy slipped in the wake of the financial crisis, The New York
Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES | BLOOMBERG NEWS

'Most Impressive' Manager Lags Behind  |  Greg Coffey, a fund manager at Moore
Capital Management, seems to have fallen short of proving himself to be, in the
words of the firm's founder, "one of the most impressive traders in the world,"
as his average returns have trailed the industry, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

Galleon Claims to Be Victim of Crimes  |  The Galleon Group, the defunct hedge
fund once run by Raj Rajaratnam, who was convicted of insider trading, says it
lost more than $1.5 million from crimes committed at another hedge fund,
FrontPoint Partners, and is seeking restitution, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Yelp Files for I.P.O.  |  The filing shows that while revenue at the reviews
site rose 79.9 percent, to $58.4 million for the first nine months of this year,
the company lost $7.4 million.
DealBook »

Is Yelp a Dud?  |  MarketWatch writes that Yelp appears to be just another
mediocre tech offering trying to take advantage of investor demand, as the
company is still losing money.
MARKETWATCH

Zynga Shakes Up Ranks  |  As the gaming company prepares for its I.P.O., the
chief business officer, Owen Van Natta, and Brad Feld, a director, have stepped
down.
DealBook »

Angie's List Soars, But Delphi Disappoints  |  Some glitter and some coal in the
I.P.O. market: Angie's List soars 39 percent in its debut, but Delphi Automotive
falls below its offering price.
DealBook »

Canadian Oil Trust Is Said to Plan Offering  |  The North American Oil Trust,
based in Calgary, plans to raise $365 million in an initial offering, in what
would be Canada's second-biggest I.P.O. this year, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

VENTURE CAPITAL »

Venture Capitalist Blogs His Pain  |  James Altucher, the venture capitalist who
has suffered personal and financial hardship, shares his anxieties on Twitter
and on his blog, and has attracted a following, Bloomberg Businessweek writes.

"I think the role James fulfills in the post-crash world is beacon of hope,"
Joshua Brown, a financial adviser who blogs as the Reformed Broker, told
Businessweek. "I know it sounds corny, but no one has been more forthcoming
about how the torn economic fabric of this country has affected him personally."

BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK

Security Company Raises $50 Million  |  Rapid7, which provides cyber security
services to companies, raised $50 million in a financing round, bringing its
total financing to $60 million, TechCrunch reports.
TECHCRUNCH

3-D Printing Company Scores $5.1 Million  |  Firms including Union Square
Ventures and Index Ventures invested $5.1 million in Shapeways, which offers a
3-D printing service, TechCrunch reports.
TECHCRUNCH

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

Manager Who Claimed to Own Facebook Shares Charged With Fraud  |  John A.
Mattera, 50, a Florida-based investment manager, was arrested Thursday on
charges of running an $11 million, two-year fraud that falsely promised
investors access to coveted shares of Groupon, Facebook and other private
companies.
DealBook »

Missing $4.9 Billion at Olympus May Be Linked to Criminal Groups  |  In what
could become one of the biggest scandals in Japanese corporate history, law
enforcement officials say there is at least $4.9 billion unaccounted for at
Olympus, and are investigating whether some of it went to groups with ties to
organized crime, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES

Critic of Big Banks Poised for F.D.I.C. Spot  |  Thomas M. Hoenig, recently the
president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, seems likely to receive
Senate confirmation for a six-year term as vice chairman of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, The Wall Street Journal reports. Mr. Hoenig, an outspoken
critic of "too big to fail" firms, said in a speech this year that regulators
"must break up the largest banks."
WALL STREET JOURNAL

Lake Shore Head Sentenced to Prison  |  Philip J. Baker, who formerly ran the
defunct hedge fund Lake Shore Asset Management, was sentenced to 20 years for
participating a fraud scheme that prosecutors said cost nearly 1,000 investors
$154.8 million over five years, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

S.&P. Issues Another Questionable Release  |  A week after mistakenly sending an
alert that suggested it had cut France's credit rating, Standard & Poor's again
provoked head-scratching with a release announcing it had upgraded Brazil, to
the rating the country already held, Bloomberg News reports.

"I have some people calling and asking what's going on. Everyone is lost,"
Mauricio Junqueira, a money manager at Squanto Investimentos in Sao Paulo,
Brazil, told Bloomberg. "S.&P. has to be careful."
BLOOMBERG NEWS

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            November 20, 2011 Sunday

Mobile Deals Set to Lure Shoppers Stuck in Line

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 94 words



HIGHLIGHT: Aggressive promotions by online merchants are creating a frenzy among
traditional retailers, who count the Friday after Thanksgiving as the busiest
shopping day of the year.


As retailers battle to draw customers into their stores on Black Friday, online
merchants are plotting a cunning ambush, reports Stephanie Clifford of the New
York Times. She says the merchants are offering an arsenal of mobile-only deals
intended to pick off shoppers as they wait in line.

Read the entire article in the New York Times.


     ·    Is Black Friday Becoming the New Cyber Monday?
     ·    Online Shoppers Spend Over the Weekend, but Will It Last?
     ·    Online Sales Spiked 15 Percent on Cyber Monday
     ·    Square Updates App to Highlight Customer Rewards
     ·    PayPal Prepares to Expand Offline


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Gadgetwise)

                            November 20, 2011 Sunday

Mobile Deals Set to Lure Shoppers Stuck in Line

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; personaltech

LENGTH: 87 words



HIGHLIGHT: Aggressive promotions by online merchants are creating a frenzy among
traditional retailers, who count the Friday after Thanksgiving as the busiest
shopping day of the year.


As retailers battle to draw customers into their stores on Black Friday, online
merchants are plotting a cunning ambush, reports Stephanie Clifford of the New
York Times. She reports that the merchants are offering an arsenal of
mobile-only deals intended to pick off shoppers as they wait in line.

Read the entire article in the New York Times.


     ·    83% of Retailers Plan Cyber Monday Sales
     ·    Black Friday Shopping Survival Guide
     ·    Electronics Price Predictor Is Now Mobile
     ·    WeRewards Pays You to Check In
     ·    How Online Retailers Read Your Mind


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           November 22, 2011 Tuesday

Flipboard Adds Its First iPad Catalog for Gilt Taste

BYLINE: CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 425 words



HIGHLIGHT: Flipboard, whose iPad app has made social media feeds and online
magazines more attractive to read, now plans to do the same thing for e-commerce
sites. First is Gilt Taste, which has introduced a catalog on Flipboard that
features artful, full-screen photographs of the products for sale.


Flipboard's iPad app has made browsing social media feeds and magazines a lot
more attractive. Now it is doing the same thing for e-commerce sites.

On Tuesday, in time for Black Friday and Cyber Monday shopping, the first
catalog will arrive on Flipboard, for Gilt Taste, Gilt's food and wine
e-commerce site. Flipboard plans to add more catalogs next year.

When Flipboard readers click on the Gilt Taste catalog, they will see artful,
full-screen photographs of products like artisanal cheese, a juicy steak or
shiny chef's knives. They can flip through the pages with their fingers as if
they were reading a magazine, which Gilt Taste also is, with recipes and
articles by food writers. And they can make purchases from Gilt without leaving
the Flipboard app.

It is the first time that Gilt, which has its own iPad apps, has shown its
content or sold items in another app. The company became partners with Flipboard
in part because it has figured out how to make Web content attractive, said
Shan-Lyn Ma, the general manager of Gilt Taste.

"Our goal is to make people hungry and thirsty, and it's never been more the
case than when you look at the app," Ms. Ma said. Gilt Taste also wanted to
reach new shoppers who know about Flipboard but not about Gilt, she said.

Flipboard, which has so far teamed up with publishers and social networks, sees
catalogs as a new business opportunity, said Mike McCue, its chief executive and
co-founder. For retailers, he said, it offers an alternative to Web sites and
print catalogs and a way to turn their Twitter and Facebook feeds into sales by
offering the ability to make purchases within Flipboard.

"Beauty has been highly underrated" on the Web, he said, showing a big Gilt
Taste picture of a hunk of cheese on Flipboard. He added that he would be more
likely to buy it from the app than on a typical Web site.

Gilt Taste becomes one of many retailers, from Wal-Mart to Saks Fifth Avenue,
that are taking advantage of the iPad's unique characteristics - like its touch
screen, its video and the ease of using it while relaxing on a couch - to give
catalogs a new spin.

"We believe that usage of the iPad and Flipboard will really spike during
Thanksgiving, when people are at home and have more time on their hands to read
and really have the lean-back iPad experience," Ms. Ma said.


     ·    Mobile Deals Set to Lure Shoppers Stuck in Line
     ·    Is Black Friday Becoming the New Cyber Monday?
     ·    Online Shoppers Spend Over the Weekend, but Will It Last?
     ·    Online Sales Spiked 15 Percent on Cyber Monday
     ·    A Flash Sale Site for Modern Design


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 25, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Forecasting the Best Deals

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1078 words


Oren Etzioni writes articles about artificial intelligence for scholarly
journals, is a renowned expert on data mining and gained fame when Microsoft
paid $115 million for Farecast, an airline-ticket price predictor he founded.

Now, Professor Etzioni, who teaches computer science at the University of
Washington, has directed his considerable intellect at the American ritual of
shopping for bargains on Black Friday. After examining billions of prices of
consumer electronics, he has decided to spend the busiest shopping day of the
year scuba-diving in Bali.

Why? It is not until early December, Professor Etzioni's research shows, that
prices are likely to be the lowest for electronics, products that are among the
biggest sellers on the Friday after Thanksgiving.

''The bottom line is, Black Friday is for the retailers to go from the red into
the black,'' he said. ''It's not really for people to get great deals on the
most popular products.''

What the professor has determined with a complex computer algorithm for consumer
electronics, others have found through less scientifically rigorous means for
other products, including clothing and toys: despite all the ads that suggest
otherwise, the lowest prices tend to come at other times of the year.

In the case of toys, stores actually offer the steepest discounts in the weeks
immediately following Thanksgiving because they want to unload the inventory not
swept up on Black Friday, said Dan de Grandpre, who has tracked deals for 15
years at Dealnews.com.

''Toys have a very short shelf life,'' he said.

''On Dec. 26, they're not really useful to retailers anymore, so they have to
get rid of it and start slashing prices early in December.''

And it is a precise window of opportunity. In the week or so before Christmas,
toy prices shoot back up, Mr. de Grandpre's tracking shows, as last-minute
shoppers come stampeding for Barbies and Lego sets and stores are less desperate
''because they've been able to reduce their inventory.''

The added value Professor Etzioni brings to price discussions is the computer
crunching of the trove of data provided by online prices -- and specific
recommendations about when to make a purchase.

Following the approach of Farecast, now part of Microsoft's Bing search engine,
the professor's start-up company, Decide.com, studies current and historical
prices, information about new models and rumors about new product introductions
to figure out the best time to buy.

Type in the name of a product -- a Soundcast SurroundCast speaker system, for
instance. Decide.com will pull prices from around the Web, and tell you to buy
or wait. In the SurroundCast case, it showed this week that prices were at $150
in early September and had now gone up to $160.

The verdict: wait. Decide.com said it was 96 percent confident that prices for
the speaker system would drop within two weeks.

Introduced this summer, the Web site predicts prices for consumer electronics
only, though Professor Etzioni says there are plans to expand to categories like
cars and potentially even clothing in a couple of years. In the meantime, others
are making educated guesses about when it is best to spend money on variety of
products.

James C. Bieri, who heads a Detroit-based real estate firm that leases to
retailers, has determined there are far better times than the Friday after
Thanksgiving to make most apparel purchases. Many stores offer steep discounts
on products other than clothing, he said, to get shoppers into their stores.

''They're going to use apparel to get some of the margins back on the stuff
they're giving away,'' he said. Better times to make apparel purchases include
back-to-school and post-holiday clearance sales, and it is an area where
coupons, friends-and-family discounts and the like are big money-savers.

Assuming fruitcake and candy canes still sound good after the holidays, sales of
gourmet food and candy should be postponed until then, advised Brad Wilson, of
BradsDeals.com, because prices drop drastically.

As for appliances, major retailers like Sears tend to discount those at the end
of their fiscal quarters (Sears's next quarter ends Jan. 31.) But Mr. de
Grandpre said that this year, the deals in the weeks before Thanksgiving had
been as good as he could remember, especially from retailers like Lowe's and
Home Depot, and brands like LG and Samsung.

Retailers do discount smaller appliances on the Friday after Thanksgiving.
''You'll see small kitchen electronics under $20, sometimes under $10 --
blenders, toasters,'' he said. ''But it's low-end, cheap Chinese knockoffs that
are heavily discounted -- often there's a mail-in rebate hassle that goes with
it -- but it's a very, very low price.''

That is true of most of the biggest deals on that Friday, he said. Because
retailers want to impress shoppers with very low prices, the quality of the
discounted items can be low.

For higher-end electronics, Mr. de Grandpre's trends show, shoppers should wait
until the week after Thanksgiving.

''Black Friday is about cheap stuff at cheap prices, and I mean cheap in every
connotation of the word,'' Mr. de Grandpre said. Manufacturers like Dell or HP
will allow their cheap laptops to be discounted via retailers on that Friday,
but they will reserve markdowns through their own sites for later.

''Their best promotions happen during Cyber Monday week,'' he said, referring to
the marketing name drummed up by online retailers for the Monday after
Thanksgiving.

Did Decide.com agree with the laptop advice?

It did. A low-end Dell laptop had dropped to $249 at Amazon this week, and
Decide said to buy it now. But for a more feature-heavy laptop, priced at $1,528
at Sears and $1,541 at PCNation, Decide said to wait, as it expected prices to
stay flat or decline by up to $339 within two weeks.

On Friday, ''there will be big sales, but are they big sale on the items you
want?'' Professor Etzioni said, over his remarkably clear cellphone connection
from Bali. ''Look at all the amazing volatility, and wait for the price drops.''

If some consumers insist on shopping on Friday, Professor Etzioni and Mr. de
Grandpre have some suggestions. Movies, music and books are among the few
categories that reach their lowest prices starting the week of Thanksgiving, Mr.
de Grandpre said. And for online shoppers, the professor's Decide.com could spot
a good deal in a holiday special of smartphones for 1 cent from Amazon.

''Buy,'' the Web site advised, ''before prices rise.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At a Best Buy in Naples, Fla., on Nov. 26, 2010. Electronics
tend to be cheaper in early December, a professor found. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER
PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
Above, at a Toys ''R'' Us store in Paramus, N.J., on the day after Thanksgiving
in 2010. Stores typically offer steeper discounts on toys in the weeks after
Thanksgiving. At left, shoppers at a Best Buy in Avondale, Ariz. At right, Oren
Etzioni. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELIZABETH LARA/THE RECORD OF BERGEN COUNTY, VIA
ASSOCIATED PRESS
CARLOS CHAVEZ/THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 RICK DAHMS) (B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            November 25, 2011 Friday

Shoppers Are Staying Home and Logging On This Season

BYLINE: CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 370 words



HIGHLIGHT: Online sales are expected to increase 15 percent this holiday season,
more than last year and significantly more than the 2.8 percent increase in
sales expected offline. Driving the trend: better prices online, free shipping,
tax breaks and increased use of cellphones and tablets for shopping.


As stores lure shoppers with Black Friday deals as early as Thanksgiving Day,
many shoppers are planning to stay on their couches and shop online.

Online sales will increase 15 percent this holiday season to $37.6 billion,
according to predictions by comScore, which measures Web use. That is up from 12
percent last year, though still not in the 20 percent growth range that online
retailers saw during the holidays before the 2008 financial crisis. Already in
the first 20 days of November, online shoppers have spent $9.7 billion, up 14
percent from last year.

Forrester Research, a technology research firm, also predicted that online sales
would increase 15 percent over the holidays. Offline stores, meanwhile, are on
track to see only a 2.8 percent increase in sales, less than the 5.2 percent
increase last year, according to the National Retail Federation.

More shoppers are going online in large part because of convenience and
competitive pricing, said Gian Fulgoni, chairman of comScore.

"The fact that this economy isn't getting better is increasing the shift from
in-store to online," Mr. Fulgoni said. "Basically you can get better prices on
the Internet. Price comparison is part of it, a lot of retailers are pricing
products lower on the Internet and in many places shoppers are not paying state
sales tax."

Last year, half of shoppers told Forrester they shopped less offline over
Thanksgiving weekend in favor of shopping online, and half said they found
better deals online. Free shipping is crucial: 40 percent of shoppers told
comScore they would abandon an online purchase without it.

Mobile phones and tabletsare also driving online spending this year. People are
increasingly relying on them for browsing and researching items before going to
stores. But once in stores, they are also using them to compare prices and
making purchases on their mobile devices if they find a better deal.

"It's been called a retailer's worst nightmare," Mr. Fulgoni said.


     ·    Mobile Deals Set to Lure Shoppers Stuck in Line
     ·    Flipboard Adds Its First iPad Catalog for Gilt Taste
     ·    Is Black Friday Becoming the New Cyber Monday?
     ·    Online Shoppers Spend Over the Weekend, but Will It Last?
     ·    Online Sales Spiked 15 Percent on Cyber Monday


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Media Decoder)

                            November 25, 2011 Friday

Breakfast Meeting, Nov. 25

BYLINE: NOAM COHEN

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 928 words



HIGHLIGHT: Journalists report being assaulted covering protests in Egypt, Black
Friday becomes a media event and J.K. Rowling testifies about British press
practices.


The Egyptian-American journalist Mona Eltahawy took to Twitter on Thursday to
say that she had been sexually assaulted by security forces after being arrested
at the protests in Cairo's Tahrir Square. Her Tweeted reporting on the attacks
she suffered during her 12 hours inside the Interior Ministry building has been
collected at The Guardian. Her account includes a photo of her arms in a cast,
after X-rays showed they had been broken, and her recollection, "The whole time
I was thinking about article I would write." [The Guardian]


     ·    Amid the public anger at the caretaker military government in Egypt,
          another journalist, Caroline Sinz, who works for a French public
          television channel, told Agence France-Presse that she had been
          violently beaten and sexually assaulted near the square; her
          cameraman, Salah Agrabi, was also beaten. Also, the prominent
          documentary filmmaker, Jehane Noujaim, who made the film "Control
          Room" about Al Jazeera, was taken into custody, The Times reported,
          along wither her camerman, Magdy Ashour. The advocacy group Reporters
          Without Borders issued a statement on the abuses, which it said were
          "as bad as in the darkest hours of the revolution's earlier phase."
          The concern is that conditions were making it impossible for
          journalists to cover what is supposed to be a peaceful transition to
          civilian rule. [AFP, NYT, Reporters Without Borders]



     ·    In another echo of the earlier protests in Tahrir Square, which became
          the centerpiece of the so-called Arab Spring, activists are turning to
          social media to keep the effort going, The Times reported. A Twitter
          account called @TahrirSupplies garnered more than 13,000 followers in
          three days, some of whom answered requests for food, transportation
          and blood donations. [NYT]


Black Friday, the bargain-hunting holiday that has been steadily encroaching on
Thanksgiving, has increasingly become a media event in its own right. Reuters
gave us a live blog of shopping frenzy. The Wall Street Journal was also
blogging Black Friday news. [Reuters, WSJ]


     ·    And in news about Cyber Monday - the day focused on online shopping -
          people in California are coming to terms that this holiday season is
          the last before they will pay state sales taxes on many of their
          online purchases. By next September, Internet retailers like
          Amazon.com will have begun collecting sales taxes on purchases made by
          their California customers. [NYT]


Appearing before the commission examining press practices in Britain, the author
J.K. Rowling (Joanne Kathleen Rowling) in her statement, told of feeling under
siege by the press, The Guardian reported. While some newspapers honored her
requests for privacy for her and her family, she said, "a significant section of
the press have regarded that almost as a challenge." Among other incidents she
testified to, she said a journalist had placed a letter addressed to her in a
schoolbag belonging to her 5-year-old child. (Her statement to the commission is
here.) [The Guardian]

The New York police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, issued an internal message
"ordering officers in New York City not to interfere unreasonably with
journalists' access during news media coverage," The Associated Press reported.
The message, which was read at police precinct station houses on Wednesday,
warned that those who failed to follow the order would be subject to
disciplinary action. It followed a letter from a coalition of news organizations
complaining about the treatment of reporters trying to cover the removal of
Occupy Wall Street protesters at Zuccotti Park. [AP, NYT]


     ·    With the dismantling of dozens of Occupy Wall Street encampments from
          New York to Oakland, Calif., the role of social media as an organizing
          toolhas become even more strained, Jennifer Preston reports. There is
          no longer a physical presence to be the focal point of  daily images
          and live streaming video for the 24-hour news cycle; the movement,
          experts says, isn't likely to be sustained only through Internet-based
          tools. [NYT]


Senator Joseph I. Lieberman wrote to Google on Tuesday saying it should
implement at terrorist-flagging system on its Blogger service that is akin to
what it has on its YouTube service, the news Web site Talking Points Memo
reported. Working off the news that terror suspect Jose Pimentel operated a
blog, Mr. Lieberman addressed Larry Page, the chief executive of Google:
"Through your updated YouTube standards, Google has affirmatively stated that
terrorist content will not be permitted on  of your sites. I strongly believe
that Google should expand that standard to include your other platforms."
[Talking Points Memo]


     ·    The social-networking news site Mashable noted that the campaign of
          President Obama has joined Google+. This prompted Chris Taylor to
          write on Mashable: "We're looking forward to the President's first
          Google+ hangout, which may supplant the meeting of Desmond Tutu and
          the Dalai Llama as the most historic hangout in Google+'s young life."
          [Mashable]


Hollywood is hoping to tap the growing Asian movie market with kung-fu, The Wall
Street Journal reported, "gearing up with bigger-budget films, with better
scripts, more-accomplished directors, and bigger stars than Chuck Norris, Steven
Seagal and Jean Claude Van Damme." (Ouch!) The stars mentioned include Ryan
Gosling, who has been training in Muay Thai, Leonardo DiCaprio, Keanu Reeves and
Russell Crowe. [WSJ]


     ·    News Organizations Complain About Treatment During Protests
     ·    Breakfast Meeting, Nov. 16
     ·    Reporters Say Police Denied Access to Protest Site
     ·    Breakfast Meeting, Nov. 21
     ·    Breakfast Meeting, Nov. 18


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 26, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Grading a Teacher Evaluation System

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 596 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Tennessee's Push to Transform Schools'' (editorial, Nov. 12):

A meaningful evaluation system that identifies and supports great teaching is a
cornerstone of Tennessee's work to improve public education. Stakeholders
outside of government and the education establishment have a special role to
play in this transformative work. One such statewide entity is the citizen-led
State Collaborative on Reforming Education, or Score.

Research shows that an effective teacher is the No. 1 school-based factor in
improving student achievement. In 2009, Score recommended that Tennessee
develop, pilot and roll out a statewide teacher evaluation system based on
multiple measures, including student achievement and growth, to identify and
support effective teaching. With the system now being put in place, our
commitment to its implementation with fidelity must not waver.

Driving reform in both the State Capitol and the local schoolhouse is no easy
task. Working to improve and shape the evaluation system through robust feedback
from teachers and administrators is critical, and Tennessee's leaders have shown
a willingness to learn from this feedback. Our children deserve our continued
dedication to the important work at hand.

WILLIAM H. FRIST Nashville, Nov. 15, 2011

The writer, the United States Senate majority leader from 2003 to 2007, is the
chairman of Score.

To the Editor:

As a Democratic member of the Tennessee Legislature, I read with interest your
editorial describing Tennessee as ''a laboratory for education reform'' and
calling on state lawmakers to ''resist any backsliding'' with respect to
Tennessee's teacher evaluation system.

Under Gov. Bill Haslam, a Republican, Tennessee has also become a laboratory for
every conceivable scheme to defund public schools and disempower teachers, who
are central to school success. Republican lawmakers banned teacher collective
bargaining, eliminated tenure for many future teachers, eliminated local control
over charter schools and authorized for-profit cyber-schools that are already
siphoning off millions of local education tax dollars.

These ''reforms'' reflect a national Republican attack on public institutions;
there is no evidence that they will positively affect our schools. The damage
caused by these policies will make it all but impossible to determine whether
any aspect of our new evaluation system has merit.

MIKE STEWART Nashville, Nov. 12, 2011

To the Editor:

Teacher evaluations will help improve teaching only when they focus on how
teachers help students prepare for living in the 21st century. Unfortunately,
the Tennessee teacher evaluations, aside from their bureaucratic burdens and
inadequate criteria, equate successful achievement with increased test scores
that measure the wrong things.

The learning of really important skills -- building student curiosity through
interesting questions, searching for and processing information, thinking deeply
and creatively, solving messy problems, drawing conclusions and applying
results, communicating effectively in many different formats, working
collaboratively -- is generally ignored or minimized.

Successful teacher evaluations will improve teaching and learning only when they
concentrate on assessing how teachers go about improving important skills,
attitudes and behaviors necessary for lifelong learning, and when schools
develop curricular and instructional support programs to improve these goals.

ELLIOTT SEIF Philadelphia, Nov. 12, 2011

The writer is an educational consultant and a former professor of education at
Temple University.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 28, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gilt Taste Catalog Now a Flipboard App

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 401 words


Flipboard's iPad app has made browsing social media feeds and magazines a lot
more attractive. Now it is doing the same thing for e-commerce sites.

On Tuesday, in time for Black Friday and Cyber Monday shopping, the first
catalog will arrive on Flipboard, for Gilt Taste, Gilt's food and wine
e-commerce site. Flipboard plans to add more catalogs next year.

When Flipboard readers click on the Gilt Taste catalog, they will see artful,
full-screen photographs of products like artisanal cheese, a juicy steak or
shiny chef's knives. They can flip through the pages with their fingers as if
they were reading a magazine, which Gilt Taste also is, with recipes and
articles by food writers. And they can make purchases from Gilt without leaving
the Flipboard app.

It is the first time that Gilt, which has its own iPad apps, has shown its
content or sold items in another app. The company became partners with Flipboard
in part because it has figured out how to make Web content attractive, said
Shan-Lyn Ma, the general manager of Gilt Taste.

''Our goal is to make people hungry and thirsty, and it's never been more the
case than when you look at the app,'' Ms. Ma said. Gilt Taste also wanted to
reach new shoppers who know about Flipboard but not about Gilt, she said.

Flipboard, which has so far teamed up with publishers and social networks, sees
catalogs as a new business opportunity, said Mike McCue, its chief executive and
co-founder. For retailers, he said, it offers an alternative to Web sites and
print catalogs and a way to turn their Twitter and Facebook feeds into sales by
offering the ability to make purchases within Flipboard.

''Beauty has been highly underrated'' on the Web, he said, showing a big Gilt
Taste picture of a hunk of cheese on Flipboard. He added that he would be more
likely to buy it from the app than on a typical Web site.

Gilt Taste becomes one of many retailers, from Wal-Mart to Saks Fifth Avenue,
that are taking advantage of the iPad's unique characteristics - like its touch
screen, its video and the ease of using it while relaxing on a couch - to give
catalogs a new spin.

''We believe that usage of the iPad and Flipboard will really spike during
Thanksgiving, when people are at home and have more time on their hands to read
and really have the lean-back iPad experience,'' Ms. Ma said.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gilt Taste and Flipboard teamed up to build a catalog app.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Bucks)

                            November 28, 2011 Monday

The 'Just This Once' Money Trap

BYLINE: CARL RICHARDS

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 618 words



HIGHLIGHT: It's easy to justify all sorts of spending as a one-time treat. But
just how often are you treating yourself?


1:04 p.m. | Updated with sketch.


When we make financial plans or build a family budget, there's no way to predict
one-time financial events, like the car's breaking down, the furnace's going on
the fritz or a hospital stay.

So we save as much as we can in the hope that it will be enough to cushion
ourselves against these financial shocks. But given all of the uncertainty that
already exists, why is it that we let ourselves get sucked into other, supposed
one-time events that are totally within our control?

Friday was one of the biggest shopping days of the year, and today, Cyber
Monday, is another big one. And what is pulling us in? The idea that we're
somehow getting a deal.

Think about how crazy this is. We try to spend "11 months living frugally,"
focused on our goals, as Adam Davidson put it in The New York Times Magazine.
And then we blow the whole thing in "four crazy weeks buying tons of stuff we
don't need." Often the discipline that is required to stay on track results in
frugality fatigue, and we crack.

The crackup isn't always at this time of year. But as Mr. Davidson noted:
"Holiday binge-buying has deep roots in American culture: department stores have
been associating turkey gluttony with its spending equivalent since they began
sponsoring Thanksgiving Day parades in the early 20th century. And to goose the
numbers, they've always offered huge promotions too."

Now we may very well have holiday budgets that we've planned and saved for, and
that's great. But there's a trap around these big shopping days that pops up at
other times during the year too. It's the idea that it's just this one time.
Like the excuse we might have heard from a friend in high school as
justification to do something stupid, "just this once" is almost always a sign
of trouble.

It often starts with a promotion of some sort. Two-for-one. Free prize with
purchase. No money down. You've seen the ads and heard the pitch. Whatever the
angle, the perceived consequence is the same: If we fail to act now, we'll
regret it for the rest of our lives. I'm exaggerating a bit, but there's no
getting away from the fact that marketers know how to get us to act on impulse.

Then there are the days when we tell ourselves we need a special treat, a
pick-me-up to make a bad day better. It's not a big deal; it's just this once,
and we've been so good the rest of the time that an extra latte won't make a big
difference to our budgets. But what about the next time, and the time after that
one?

We're tempted all the time to use this "logic" to rationalize bad money
behavior. Gifts, vacations, clothes and anything else that's extra on top of our
budgets often gets justified with that notion that we'll do it one time and then
never again, or at least not that often. Yet it keeps happening.

I'm not saying that we should never do something special that requires some
financial maneuvering. But we need to be honest about why we're doing it and the
consequences that may follow.

And if the spending happens often enough, we have to stop referring to the these
things as one-time events. Instead, account for that extra something in a budget
when it starts happening on a regular basis.

By continuing to allow these optional, one-time events to in fact be regular,
they can be the very thing that stops us from achieving our dreams and goals.
And the last thing we want to do is look back and wonder if that trinket was
really such a good deal after all.

An earlier version of this post carried an incorrect byline.


     ·    It's Time to Occupy Your Checkbook
     ·    Some Help Getting Reimbursed for OTC Drugs
     ·    Lemon Makes Digital Copies of Paper Receipts
     ·    Kidding Ourselves About Our Financial Reality
     ·    The Struggle to Define What We Truly Need


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            November 28, 2011 Monday

Guardians of the Peace, and Guardians in the Press

BYLINE: CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 998 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Day: Dealing with reporters and photographers (doing their
constitutionally protected work) produces police overreactions time and again.
Also, what City Room is reading in other newspapers and blogs.


Antigovernment demonstrators took to the streets of Manhattan, marching
helter-skelter from the Battery to the United Nations. Several hundred were
arrested.

This may sound like a recent event, but it took place on a December morning in
1967. The issue then was the widening war in Vietnam.

In those days, New York police officers didn't wear name tags. The only way to
identify them was by their shield numbers. Protesters were urged by their
leaders to record those numbers if they felt officers were being abusive. Not
surprisingly, the police hated the idea.

Back then, I was a kid reporter at The New York Post. I stood that morning on a
street corner opposite the United Nations, taking notes on the arrests. My press
credentials, issued then as now by the Police Department, were prominently
displayed on my jacket. Suddenly, a uniformed officer on a horse rode up and
yelled to two plainclothes men on the sidewalk, "He's taking down badge numbers.
Get his notes."

Before I realized what was happening, the men grabbed my notepad, announced that
I had indeed written down badge numbers, and ripped out the pages. So much for
press freedom.

Frankly, even if I had been recording shield numbers, I was within my rights.
But the reality is that I had done no such thing. The thought never entered my
mind. The officers were, plain and simple, on a tear - and way out of line.

I protested to the department's chief spokesman, Deputy Commissioner Jacques
Nevard, who was once a New York Times reporter. "I'll give special
instructions," Mr. Nevard told me, "so that this will not happen again."

But, of course, comparable police abuses, many of them far more severe than my
long-ago experience, have kept happening again. And again. And again. Most
recent was the arrest and manhandling of journalists who were doing their jobs
covering the breakup of the Occupy Wall Street encampment in Zuccotti Park. It
led this newspaper and other news organizations to send the department a letter
protesting behavior that they called "more hostile to the press than any other
event in recent memory."

Some may see this discussion as unseemly pleading in behalf of an aggrieved
group that happens to be my own. But there are sound reasons, blessed by no less
by the Constitution, for letting reporters and photographers be the eyes and
ears for their fellow citizens.

A watchful press is a guardian, imperfect though it may be, against official
misconduct. All too often, though, the police impose more restrictions on
journalists than they do on the general public. The press card has become "a
scarlet letter," as a photo editor at The Daily News said to me.

This streak of police wildness is especially striking when you consider how
restrained officers can be in the face of true menace. I have written several
columns over the years about how, far from being the trigger-happy lot that some
agenda-driven politicians would have you believe, New York officers almost
always keep their guns holstered. Over the long Thanksgiving weekend, newly
issued figures reinforced that point mightily. In 2010, the police shot and
killed 8 people and wounded 16 - record lows.

Given that, you have to wonder how it is that dealing with a bunch of reporters
and photographers (doing their constitutionally protected work) can produce
police overreactions time and again. Apparently, Raymond W. Kelly, the police
commissioner, now agrees. Just before the holiday, he sent a memo to station
houses ordering officers not to interfere unreasonably with journalists' access.
Sounds very much like what Mr. Nevard told me back in 1967.

Then, on Thanksgiving Day, a fire broke out on President Street in Park Slope,
Brooklyn. A photographer for The News, Joe Marino, shot a terrific picture of a
firefighter . On Sunday, Jimmy Breslin noted in his News column that Mr. Marino
managed to take the photo after a police sergeant "pushed him away, then yanked
his press card off."

It would seem that the department continues to have a problem making sure
everyone gets the memo.


Here is what City Room is reading in other newspapers and blogs.

Baruch College restricted access and canceled classes in anticipation of student
protests after last week's clash with campus police. [DNAinfo]

Syracuse University fired an assistant basketball coach amid child sex abuse
allegations. [NBC New York]

A top adviser to Comptroller John C. Liu is considering joining the Republican
Party and running for the State Senate in a new district in Brooklyn. [Daily
News]

The corruption trial of City Councilman Larry Seabrook of the Bronx is winding
down. [WNYC]

After Black Friday, online retailers geared up for cyber Monday. [DNAinfo]

Senator Charles E. Schumer warned against the practice of retailers tracking
customers' movements through personal cellphones. [NY1 and New York Post]

Stuyvesant Town is on edge after two elderly men were attacked. [NY1]

A Brooklyn woman was stabbed to death in the presence of her grandchildren.
[Associated Press via Wall Street Journal]

A student from Italy was fatally stabbed in East Harlem. [Daily News]

A woman who had been surviving on a ventilator died after power failed in a
Bronx rehabilitation center . [New York Post]

Two years after Columbia University brokered deal to expand its campus, West
Harlem residents complained that there had been no results. [ Wall Street
Journal]

A vacationing police officer on a flight home arrested a passenger who he said
attacked a flight attendant. [Daily News]

A retiring police officer who is battling advanced cancer foiled an iPhone theft
on his last day on the job. [DNAinfo and Daily News]

A city worker was charged with driving while intoxicated after his car crashed
into a van in Lower Manhattan, the police said. [DNAinfo]


     ·    A Sullen March Toward Winter
     ·    Police Stops Rise, but Complaints About Them Fall
     ·    Detectives' Union Punishes Daily News
     ·    Toy Guns Upset Bronx Parents
     ·    City Green Space May Go Subterranean


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Bucks)

                            November 28, 2011 Monday

A New Web Portal Doubles a Product's Warranty

BYLINE: TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 739 words



HIGHLIGHT: FreeWarranty.com, a new shopping portal on the Web, says it will
double the original manufacturer's warranty -- up to a year -- on all purchases.



It's an age-old question: Should I buy the extended warranty?

With few exceptions, consumer advocates say extended warranties typically are
not worth the money. But what if you could double the free warranty coverage
that comes with the product, at no additional cost and without the nerve-grating
sales pitch?

The company FreeWarranty.com makes such a promise: It says it will double the
original manufacturer's warranty -- up to a year -- on anything consumers buy
through their Web portal, which then ushers you through to the actual merchant's
site where the purchase is completed.

The extended warranty essentially covers whatever the original manufacturer's
contract covers (and it doesn't cover accidental damage or normal wear). Tom
Forrest, the founder and chief executive of the site, says the extension is
similar to the ones provided by "premium credit cards but without the stringent
acceptance criteria or high annual fees."

Which raises a good point. Before you decide to shop through their site, you'll
want to make sure you're not replicating what your credit card already covers.
American Express, MasterCard and Visa, among others, offer similar benefits.

Before you get started, you need to set up an account that requires only an
e-mail and password. Remember to log on before you start to browse through
FreeWarranty.com's wares, which are heavily weighted toward electronics, with
items ranging from Apple's iPod to the Xbox 360. But the site also features
housewares, luggage, toys, games, watches and some other products that don't
exactly pop to mind when you think about warranties. Bird cage litter, anyone?

The maximum length of the site's extended warranty is listed next to each item.
So it might say, "up to six months" or "up to one year." That means if the
original warranty is one year, then the extended warranty will be for an
additional year.

But before you commit to buying anything through their site, you'll probably
want to do some comparison shopping around the Web. After quickly perusing the
site on Monday -- by coincidence, Cyber Monday --  I found two merchants on the
FreeWarranty.com site offering a 6th generation iPod Nano for $172.79 and
$126.30 (plus $3.99 for shipping). But I was also able to find comparable or
better deals elsewhere.

Amazon.com was selling the Nano for $119, and it offered three different
warranty options (for two and three years), ranging from $11.99 to $18.99.
Shipping was free. The total cost was about $131, with atwo-year warranty. Or
$138 with atwo-year warranty that included drops and spills.

Target was advertising the Nano for $114, though I'd have to go to my local
store to pick it up. It also offered a "two-year replacement service plan" for
$17.  Best Buy charged $119.99 with free shipping, but the protection pricing
was much more expensive, or $24.98 for aone-year accidental protection plan or
$44.99 for a two-year accidental plan.

On theApple site, the Nano was listed for $129 with free shipping. For another
$39, you could buy an AppleCare protection plan, which extends coverage to two
years from the purchase date.

Besides shopping around, you'll also need to consider what you may be giving up
by shopping through the portal. Several credit-card issuers offer extra points
for shopping through their own portals, while discount sites like Ebates and
FatWallet offer cash back or other rewards when you go through their Web sites.
The same goes for UPromise's portal, which provides cash back that can be
deposited into a 529 college savings plan, used to pay down student loans or put
toward other college expenses.

You also have to have faith that FreeWarranty.com will be around as long as your
warranty. Mr. Forrest said that for every item bought through the portal, a
proportional amount is accrued in a reserve account for repairs, replacements or
refunds. He said it has a similar business model to other shopping portals,
where the retailers pay advertising fees for sales generated through the site.

"Though new, our company is financially secure and has raised significant
capital to ensure that the company will satisfy consumers for a very long time,"
he added.

Readers, what do you think of FreeWarranty.com's Web site?


     ·    Read the Fine Print on Gift Return Policies
     ·    Lemon Makes Digital Copies of Paper Receipts
     ·    Kidding Ourselves About Our Financial Reality
     ·    How Much Do You Owe? Guess Again
     ·    Discover Cardholders Can Pay With Points at Amazon


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Shopping Day Invented for the Web Has Arrived, With Surging Sales Figures

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER; Stephanie Clifford contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1197 words


Cyber Monday may have started as a made-up occasion to give underdog e-commerce
sites jealous of Black Friday a day of their own, but it has become an
undeniably real thing -- surprising even the people who invented it.

Last year was the first time that the Monday after Thanksgiving was the biggest
online shopping day of the year by sales, and the first day that online spending
passed $1 billion, according to comScore, a research company that measures Web
use. On this Monday, early sales reports indicated that it could again be the
best day of the season for e-commerce companies.

Though comScore did not release official sales figures on Monday, it said it
expected e-commerce sites to reach $1.2 billion in sales, which would be a 17
percent increase over last year. IBM Benchmark, which tracks e-commerce sales,
said they were up 15 percent.

''We believe that Cyber Monday is definitely going to be the biggest shopping
day of 2011 online,'' said Eric Best, chief executive of Mercent, which does
online advertising and e-commerce on third-party marketplaces like Amazon.com
for 400 brands, including Zappos.com and HSN.

Still, e-commerce analysts cautioned that strong Cyber Monday sales did not
necessarily promise a merry online shopping season in a dreary economy. Instead,
shoppers could be seeking deals because they are financially struggling.

''I don't think that what happened is any telltale sign that people are breaking
out their wallets,'' said Sucharita Mulpuru, e-commerce analyst at Forrester
Research. ''A happy Web season doesn't mean the economy is improving, just that
people are becoming more mature from a technology standpoint and more savvy
about finding good deals.''

Some online retailers took a rosier view.

''I don't think we're just pulling sales forward,'' said Peter Cobb, co-founder
and senior vice president of eBags. ''I do think it's a sign of a long, extended
holiday season.''

Over all, online sales are expected to increase 15 percent this holiday season,
more than last year and significantly more than the 2.8 percent increase
expected offline. Shoppers spent about 38 percent of their total weekend budget
online, a slight increase over last year, according to the National Retail
Federation. On Black Friday, traditionally a bricks-and-mortar shopping day,
people spent $816 million online, 26 percent more than last year, comScore said.

But many shoppers held out for Monday, when they expected deep discounts online.
Seventy-eight percent of e-commerce sites offered promotions, according to
Shop.org, an industry group. Almost half offered discounts, and a third had free
shipping.

''We were all surprised last year when we saw it turned out to be the biggest
day of the season,'' said Gian Fulgoni, chairman of comScore and an e-commerce
expert. ''But more and more retailers have become a part of the Cyber Monday
kickoff, more and more consumers are aware of it and know there are special
deals coming -- and you put that together and you've got an important day.''

EBags, which offered 30 percent off handbags and luggage on Monday, said as of 7
p.m. Eastern time that sales were up 45 percent over last year, the biggest day
in its history. Wayfair, one of the biggest online home goods retailers,
reported a 30 percent increase in revenue midday, while sales at Ideeli, the
flash sale site, were up 40 percent. Etsy, the online marketplace for homemade
goods, said sales were up 80 percent.

Mobile shopping drove online sales on Monday, because people returning to work
after the holiday shopped on their lunch break or under the conference table in
a meeting, said Claudia Lombana, shopping specialist at eBay. As of 2 p.m.
Monday, PayPal recorded a sixfold increase in mobile sales compared with last
year.

''It shows the incredible lift of this day,'' said Mr. Cobb. ''This will be the
biggest day of the season, the year and actually the history of the company.''

Still, there are naysayers who view the day as more hype than reality. At Blue
Nile, the online jeweler, the last day for free shipping by Christmas remains
the biggest sales day, said Mark Vadon, Blue Nile's chairman.

''The majority of consumers are procrastinators and they'll wait as long as they
can,'' he said. ''Cyber Monday is the start of the wave, not the top of the
wave.''

The day is nevertheless important, Mr. Vadon said, because it is the first time
online retailers collect substantial data on where they will need more inventory
and where they should offer promotions during the crucial holiday season.

Many retailers had such high hopes for the day that they tried to expand it.
Toys ''R'' Us offered Cyber Monday deals on Sunday night and will continue them
through the week, as will Target, which went so far as to offer Cyber Monday
deals in September.

''We are pleased with the reaction to our online sales, and are excited about
the start of Cyber Week at Target.com,'' Lee Henderson, a Target spokesman, said
Monday.

Cyber Monday was dreamed up in 2005 by Shop.org as a marketing ploy to kick off
online holiday shopping. More people had high-speed Internet at work, the
thinking went, the easier to shop with. But the day was far from the biggest
shopping day of the holiday season, coming in at No. 12, according to comScore.

Still, by 2007, despite the prevalence of high-speed Internet in homes,
three-quarters of retailers were running Cyber Monday promotions, and shoppers
and the media had latched on to the day as a new tradition.

''It was crazy, not what we were expecting,'' said Ellen Davis, vice president
of the National Retail Federation, which includes Shop.org.

Now, retailers, hoping to stand out, are borrowing Shop.org's formula to invent
their own days.

You might have missed Sofa Sunday, which Catalog Spree, an iPad app with
retailers' catalogs, has nicknamed the Sunday after Thanksgiving, when it
predicted people would shop on tablets on their sofas. Coming soon are Mobile
Sunday, which PayPal christened the second Sunday in December, and Free Shipping
Day on Dec. 16, brought to you by FreeShipping.org. And beware of Red Tuesday,
which the Association of Independent Consumer Credit Counseling Agencies warns
will hit shoppers who go into debt on Black Friday and Cyber Monday.

At Amazon -- where Cyber Monday last year edged out the last day with free
shipping by Christmas as its busiest day -- deals included a $500 KitchenAid
mixer for $260, a $599 Panasonic Camcorder for $299 and a $299 Microsoft Xbox
360 with games for $199. Gilt, the flash sale site, had new sales every three
hours on Monday, including a chartered Virgin America flight for 145 friends for
$60,000.

''The retailers are driving a lot of this,'' said Mitch Spolan, senior vice
president for national sales at LivingSocial, which showed national television
and radio ads through Monday to push its promotions. ''Last year it was the
biggest day of the year, and as retailers know that, they compete. It's a
sport.''

And Ms. Mulpuru said: ''Just like Thanksgiving weekend shopping is a ritual in
America, when people go with their families to look for deals, as soon as they
go to the office on Monday they look online.'' She added, ''It's almost
ceremonial.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Amazon warehouse in Swansea, Wales, last week during
preparations for the big start to the holiday shopping season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MATT CARDY/GETTY IMAGES) CHARTS: Top Online Sales Days in 2010: Last year, for
the first time, the Monday after Thanksgiving became the largest online sales
day of the year, and the first time that more than $1 billion was spent in a
single day, according to figures from comScore. (Source: comScore.com)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 593 words


International

PAKISTANI PRIME MINISTER

DENOUNCES NATO STRIKE

Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani angrily protested the NATO strike that killed
two dozen Pakistani soldiers over the weekend. ''Business as usual will not be
there,'' Mr. Gilani said of the already frayed relationship with the United
States. Page A6

IRAN-BRITAIN TIES REDUCED

Iran enacted legislation to downgrade relations with Britain, in retaliation for
intensified sanctions imposed by Western nations last week. Page A10

NEW WAVE OF BOMBS IN IRAQ

A yellow taxi loaded with explosives detonated near a prison north of Baghdad,
killing at least 13 people. The bombing raised the recent death toll to 50,
adding to local fears as the United States withdraws its military from the
country. Page A8

National

ECONOMIC DOWNTURN

HITS BLACKS HARDEST

Jobless rates among blacks have consistently been about double those of whites.
Economists say there are probably a variety of reasons for the racial gap,
including generally lower educational levels for African-Americans, and the fact
that many live in areas that have been slow to recover economically.

Page A16

New York

GROUP ENDORSES NEW POWER

FOR HEALTH COMMISSIONER

A group appointed by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo recommended that the New York state
health commissioner should be given sweeping new powers to replace the
executives and board members of private hospitals. Page A20

Business

DIRE WARNINGS ARE BUILDING

ON EUROPEAN DEBT CRISIS

European leaders face mounting pressure to overcome divisions and move ahead
quickly with new plans to prevent the euro currency region from fracturing, as
warnings multiply that the crisis could endanger the global economy and cause
credit to dry up in the banking system. Page B1

CYBER MONDAY IS CLICKING

Cyber Monday may have started as a made-up occasion to give underdog e-commerce
sites jealous of Black Friday a day of their own, but it has become an
undeniably real thing -- surprising even the people who invented it. Page B2

PHOTO ALTERATIONS MEASURED

Photos of celebrities and models in fashion magazines are routinely retouched.
Hany Farid, a professor, and Eric Kee, a Ph.D. student in computer science, at
Dartmouth, are proposing a software tool for measuring the alterations..

Page B1

Sports

CHECHEN LEADER FACES HORSE RACING RESTRICTIONS

In an effort to protect the image of horse racing, racing board officials in New
York and Kentucky have taken steps to bar horses owned by President Ramzan A.
Kadyrov of Chechnya from races. Mr. Kadyrov has been accused of war crimes by
human rights groups. Page B12

N.B.A. SETS PRESEASON

It could be another week before the N.B.A. ratifies its new labor deal and
releases a 66-game schedule for the revived 2011-12 season. In the meantime, the
league is constructing a hurried preseason schedule. While pairings are being
still determined, each team will play two exhibition games -- one home and one
away -- against the same opponent. Page B16

Culture

CASANOVA MEMOIRS

DISPLAYED IN EXHIBITION

Giacomo Girolamo Casanova's checkered reputation forced him to flee Paris in
1760. The original manuscript of his memoirs, ''The Story of My Life,'' and
other writings of his are on display for the first time at the National Library
of France in the exhibition ''Casanova -- The Passion for Freedom.'' Page C1

Science

CERTAINTY OF MEMORY

HAS ITS DAY IN COURT

Witness testimony has been the gold standard of the criminal justice system. Yet
for scientists, memory has been on trial for decades, and courts and public
opinion are only now catching up with the verdict.

Page D1

Op-Ed

David Brooks PAGE A23

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday

A Shopping Day Invented for the Web Comes of Age

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 86 words



HIGHLIGHT: Cyber Monday may have started as a made-up occasion, but it has
become a real thing.


Cyber Monday may have started as an invented occasion to give underdog
e-commerce sites jealous of Black Friday a day of their own. But it has become
an undeniably real thing - surprising even the people who created it, writes
Claire Cain Miller in Tuesday's New York Times. Read the entire article.


     ·    Cyber Monday Shopping Surpasses Expectations
     ·    At Airports, Selling Gadgets on the Go
     ·    A Look at Apple's Spot-the-Shopper Technology
     ·    Shoppers Are Staying Home and Logging On This Season
     ·    Samsung Pokes Fun at Apple in Phone Ad


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday

Cyber Monday Shopping Surpasses Expectations

BYLINE: CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 595 words



HIGHLIGHT: Online sales on Cyber Monday -- once a made-up occasion and now the
biggest online shopping day of the year -- increased by as much as 33 percent
over last year. More people used mobile devices, particularly tablets like the
iPad, to shop this year, indicating that they have been trained to take
advantage of Cyber Monday deals but are not necessarily shopping from their
office computers.


The final numbers for holiday gift shopping on Cyber Monday  are rolling in, and
online sales beat early expectations, making Monday the biggest online shopping
day on record.

ComScore, which on Monday said it expected the day to end with $1.2 billion in
sales, said on Tuesday that online shoppers spent $1.3 billion, a 22 percent
increase from last year, at that time the biggest online shopping day of the
year. IBM Benchmark, which on Monday said sales were up 15 percent, said on
Tuesday that by the end of the day, online spending had climbed 33 percent.

Cyber Monday was invented by Shop.org, an industry association, in recognition
of the fact that people shop online when they are at work. But now that most
people carry computers in their pockets in the form of smartphones, they are
using those to make purchases, perhaps at lunch or under the conference table in
a meeting. Many also waited until they left work to buy, accounting for the
late-day spike in sales.

On PayPal, for instance, people shopped on their phones most heavily from  5
p.m. and 6 p.m. Eastern time -- most likely after they left work. IBM said
online shopping overall on Monday peaked around 2 p.m. Eastern time, around
lunch break for shoppers across the country.

Almost 90 percent of shoppers told the National Retail Federation they would use
their home computers to shop on Monday (though such results should be taken with
a grain of salt, since people might not want to acknowledge their in-office
shopping habits).  Fourteen percent said they would use mobile devices to shop,
up from 7 percent last year.

One reason that mobile shopping increased so much this year is that more
e-commerce companies haveembraced tablets like the iPad, which are better than
tiny phones for shopping. More e-commerce sales came from iPads than any other
mobile device on Monday, IBM Benchmark found, with 5.2 percent of iPad shoppers
making a purchase. At eBags, for instance, tablet shoppers on average spent $13
more than phone shoppers and $7 more than computer shoppers, said Peter Cobb,
its co-founder and senior vice president.

EBags finished Monday with sales up 49 percent over last year, a record. Nearly
8 percent of those sales came from mobile devices -- 6.5 percent from tablets
and 1.4 percent from smartphones. That compared to 3.9 percent of sales last
year. At Etsy, the marketplace for handmade goods, where Monday's sales
increased more than 80 percent over last year, people visited the site on mobile
phones over Thanksgiving weekend 4.5 times more than last year. PayPal processed
six times the volume of mobile payments Monday as it did in 2010, and mobile
shoppers spent 2.5 times as much on eBay.

But despite the increase in mobile shopping on Monday, people shopped more on
their mobile devices on Thanksgiving and on Black Friday -- when they were
probably  not near computers because they were with their families or   in line
at malls for sales.

On Monday, 10.8 percent of e-commerce sites' traffic came from mobile devices,
compared with 14.3 percent on Friday, and 6.6 percent of Monday's sales came
from mobile devices versus 9.8 percent on Friday, according to IBM Benchmark.
But over all, mobile shopping on Monday increased notably  over last year, when
just 3.9 percent of visits and 2.3 percent of sales came from mobile devices,
IBM said.


     ·    Mobile Deals Set to Lure Shoppers Stuck in Line
     ·    A Shopping Day Invented for the Web Comes of Age
     ·    Shoppers Are Staying Home and Logging On This Season
     ·    Flipboard Adds Its First iPad Catalog for Gilt Taste
     ·    Tech Talk: Mobile Shopping


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Motherlode)

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday

Christmas in the Family Car

BYLINE: KJ DELL'ANTONIA

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 518 words



HIGHLIGHT: The "60 Minutes" segment on homeless kids full of gratitude and hope
may have you rethinking your holiday budget.


Do we think "60 Minutes" intentionally aired its second  "Hard Times Generation"
segment, profiling kids living in cars, brushing their teeth at gas stations and
telling the reporter Scott Pelley that they just do what they have to do to get
by, on the Sunday between Black Friday and Cyber Monday? We do.

More than 15 million Americans watched as Arielle Metzger, a high school
freshman who has lived in a van for the past five months, declared her gratitude
for her father and brother and her intent - after she takes full advantage of
the education that's "everything" to her - to become a children's defense
lawyer. On the other hand, the National Retail Federation reports that 226
million of us shopped online or in stores over the weekend. That's not exactly a
contrast - there's no real connection between watching "60 Minutes" and consumer
spending - but I'm willing to bet that if 226 million people watched 8-year-old
Jade Wiley and her family paint hotel rooms in order to keep the one they're
staying in, or heard Marquis Gines talk about staying up all night to watch over
his mom and keep her safe, at least 200 million of us would at the very least
feel even more grateful that we had that money to spend.

The Annie E. Casey Foundation's Kids Count puts the number of kids living in
poverty in America at close to 25 percent. Nineteen percent live in homes that
are "food insecure" and 28 percent in homes without a parent who has full-time,
steady employment. What you think should be done to help those kids depends in
large part on your politics, but I hope that whether we need to help isn't a
question.

I don't think charity is in any way a full answer, but while we work toward
long-term change that will help prevent "60 Minutes" from filming "Hard Times
Generation" Segments 3 through 10, donating time or money to charitable
organizations working with homeless families is the best way to offer immediate
help. There are Florida charities, some mentioned in the "60 Minutes" story.
There are local charities, or The New York Times's Neediest Cases fund (which
recently featured a homeless teenager preparing for college). If you're so
moved, and capable, you could find one and donate.

But donations aside, what are we - as a nation - going to do, not only to help
the kids who are already homeless, but to keep others from joining their ranks?
These numbers, and these stories, beg for action. But if the answers were easy,
Arielle Metzger wouldn't be doing her homework in the front seat.

An earlier version of this post, citing "60 Minutes," erroneously stated that
one-third of homeless families in America live in Florida. According to The St.
Petersburg Times, while a third of all families without any kind of shelter at
all live in Florida, the state's share of all homeless families, including those
with and without shelter (for example, those staying in motels or with
relatives), is 10 percent.


     ·    Some Holiday Cheer for Homeless Families
     ·    'Layaway Angels' Pay Off Family Accounts
     ·    Should We 'Occupy' Education?
     ·    Cultivating Gratitude, Theirs and Mine
     ·    A Mother's Fear of Losing Everything


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Bucks)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday

Wednesday Reading: Tips on Earning and Spending Points

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 137 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tips for earning and spending points for travel, Skype can expose
your location, how exercise benefits the brain and other consumer focused news
from The New York Times.




     ·    More children qualify for free school lunches as parents' incomes
          fall. (National)
     ·    A call for urgency on lowering college costs. (National)
     ·    F.T.C. settles privacy issue at Facebook. (Business)
     ·    A new shot at mortgage relief. (Business)
     ·    When the chefs come home. (Dining)
     ·    States get grants for health care exchanges. (Prescriptions)
     ·    Cyber Monday shopping surpasses expectations. (Bits)
     ·    Siri draws a blank on abortion clinics. (Bits)
     ·    Skype can expose your location, researchers say. (Bits)
     ·    Good apps for kids with autism. (Gadgetwise)
     ·    Another tethering app bites the dust. (Gadgetwise)
     ·    How exercise benefits the brain. (Well)
     ·    More parents skip childhood vaccines. (Well)
     ·    How the American Airlines bankruptcy filing may affect you. (In
          Transit)
     ·    Tips on earning and spending points. (In Transit)
     ·    Palm Beach, no millions required. (Frugal Traveler)


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday

Another 'Special' Day, Another Retail Dollar

BYLINE: CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 919 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Day: Snappy sales gimmicks attached to specific days of the week
may be the country's best hope for climbing out of its economic doldrums. Also,
what City Room is reading in other newspapers and blogs.


 It has become increasingly clear that the country's best hope to climb out of
its economic doldrums may be to keep coming up with snappy sales gimmicks
attached to specific days of the week. That's what now passes for a recovery
plan. New York, with its many retailers, hardly stands apart from the trend.

We've emerged from Black Friday, when most shoppers did their best not to
trample one another, and nearly all managed to pursue bargains without firing
sprays of pepper gas. That traditional post-Thanksgiving buying frenzy was
followed by a relative newcomer, Cyber Monday, devoted to e-commerce and not to
the stuffy old brick-and-mortar variety.

Spending was reported to have been brisk both days, certainly enough to warm the
cockles of Wall Street's heart. The Dow Jones industrial average closed on
Tuesday at 11,555.63, which was nearly 300 points higher than where it stood
just before the holiday. In the absence of much good news from any other
discernible source, one must assume that all that shopping helped do the trick.

Nor are we done with special days.

You probably missed something called Sofa Sunday, which came just before Cyber
Monday. The creation of an iPad app called Catalog Spree, it offered a chance to
shop while you dropped on the couch.

But looming is Super Saturday, which by tradition is the last Saturday before
Christmas and falls this year on Christmas Eve. "Historically, it has been the
busiest day of the year for retailers," said Kathy Grannis, a spokeswoman for
the National Retail Federation. But that, Ms. Grannis added, was "before Black
Friday took over the title in recent years."

Even sooner than Super Saturday is Free Shipping Day, Dec. 16, when many
merchants pledge to provide, duh, free shipping, in time for their goods to
arrive before Christmas. Sooner yet is Mobile Sunday, the second Sunday in
December (this year Dec. 11), when people are encouraged to shop using their
mobile devices.

All these attention-grabbing days seem unlikely to bail out an economy burdened
with stubborn unemployment and hobbled by useless gamesmanship in Washington.
But since the politicians are in no rush to find a way out of the crisis, other
than perhaps to pray that Americans spend like mad, the only recourse may be to
create still more of these days.

We could encourage jewelry purchases - with breakfast at Tiffany's? - and call
it Ruby Tuesday. There might be a copyright matter to discuss with the Rolling
Stones and maybe also with the restaurant chain of that name. But surely
something could be worked out.

Or perhaps designate it Fat Tuesday, not to be confused with Mardi Gras. This
could be a device to get people to eat out, the name meant as a whimsical touch,
not a slight. The more expensive the restaurant, the better - for the economy's
sake, of course. Matinee Wednesday, a Broadway fixture, could become Martini
Wednesday as yet another way to shake or stir spending.

Since Thursday can be traced to the Norse god Thor, it could be a day when
people are urged to shop at stores that carry Scandinavian merchandise bearing
really hefty price tags. "Big Wednesday," the title of a 1970s movie, could
describe the selling of just about anything. So could "Freaky Friday," come to
think of it. Saturday is already well spoken for. Surely, on any given Sunday,
there are possible gimmicks that wouldn't offend the religious sensibilities of
Americans for whom it is a day of rest.

You get the idea.

If all this sounds a bit forced, ask yourself if it's any more strained than
creations like Sofa Sunday and Mobile Sunday.

In New York, we might not even be talking about desperate measures like these if
the city were still the powerful manufacturing center it once was. But that's an
era long gone. We need these Black and Cyber and Super and Sofa days as much as
anyone else.

That's how it goes when your economy is built on getting hard-working people to
empty their wallets.


Here is what City Room is reading in other newspapers and blogs.

A teenager pepper-sprayed her classmates at a school in Harlem, education
officials said. [Daily News]

A city worker has been accused of breaking workers' compensation rules by
working elsewhere while he received disability payments. [New York Post]

The New York Civil Liberties Union spoke out against the Police Department's
record number of stop-and-frisk episodes this year. [Daily News]

The body of a dead fetus was found in a trash can in Washington Heights in
Manhattan, according to the authorities. [Daily News]

After taking proposals for its redesign, the city has decided to delay the
rebuilding of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway. [Brooklyn Paper]

Columbia University deans explained a recent increase in bias complaints as a
result of more vocal and aware students, not more instances. [Columbia
Spectator]

Cabdrivers attending an Upper West Side mosque face a conundrum: Don't pray, or
break parking rules. [DNAinfo]

A Staten Island job fair attracted hundreds of people holding on to hope to find
some kind of employment. [SI Live]

Andre Balazs Properties had workers remove the artist Shepard Fairey's East
Village mural of a monk. [The Local, East Village]

The gay sports bar Boxers is still trying to open in its new Hell's Kitchen
location. [DNAinfo]


     ·    Ranting About Shopping Before It's Time
     ·    Complaint Box | Shopping Ahead
     ·    Barron's Heroes, Felder's Ambitions and Other Bits of Politics
     ·    Guardians of the Peace, and Guardians in the Press
     ·    Toy Guns Upset Bronx Parents


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday

Tech Talk Podcast: Altered Photos and Shopping Apps

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 323 words



HIGHLIGHT: In this week's Tech Talk podcast, Steve Lohr of The New York Times
discusses the software tools that can detect excessive retouching to digital
photos seen in magazines and Patrick Carter of Digital Folio explains how his
company's price-comparison application works.


Fashion, beauty and entertainment magazines have been retouching photographs for
decades, but picture-editing software like Adobe Photoshop makes it so quick and
easy that some photos bear no resemblance to the real person. Steve Lohr, a
technology reporter with The New York Times, talks about a recent article he
wrote about computer scientists at Dartmouth who developed software tools that
can objectively measure the amount of alterations that have been applied to
photos.

With the holiday shopping season in full swing, many people are prowling the Web
in search of the lowest prices for cameras, TVs and other popular gift items.
Designed for serious bargain-hunters, the Digital Folio comparison-shopping
application allows for drag-and-drop lists (right in the Web browser) that
constantly track prices from major retailers. Patrick Carter of Digital Folio
outlines how the application works.

The weekly news roundup includes a look at Cyber Monday; Verizon FiOS TV
arriving on the Microsoft Xbox; the release of Linux Mint 12; Facebook's
settlement with the Federal Trade Commission; and the new British Newspaper
Archive, an online repository featuring 300 years (and more than three million
pages) of first-draft history.

The Tip of the Week outlines the voice-search options in Google's mobile apps
and Chrome browser.

To find out more about the show and links to topics that were discussed, go to
the Tech Talk page.

You can download the show by subscribing from the New York Times podcast page or
directly from iTunes.

For help finding specific segments of the Bits: Tech Talk podcast, use these
time codes:

News - 31:24
Steve Lohr  - 17:49
Digital Folio app - 11:15
Tip of the Week - 3:46


     ·    Tech Talk Podcast: App Design and Cloud Work
     ·    App Store Will Increase Competition in Mac Software
     ·    Media Decoder: Spotify Introduces Apps to Point Listeners to Music
     ·    Path Tries Again With a Wider Network
     ·    Is Microsoft Running Out of Time for Tablets?


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday

Michael Bublé and Nickleback in Photo Finish Atop the Charts

BYLINE: BEN SISARIO

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 396 words



HIGHLIGHT: The margin was 419 copies.


In a rare photo finish at the top of the Billboard charts, Michael Buble's
holiday record squeezed past a new album by Nickelback to clinch the No. 1 spot
by a margin of only 419 copies.

Mr. Buble's "Christmas" (143/Reprise) sold 227,133 copies in its fifth week out,
while Nickelback's "Here and Now" (Roadrunner) sold 226,714, to open at No. 2,
according to data from Nielsen SoundScan reported by the artists' record labels.

Also this week, Rihanna's  "Talk That Talk" (Island Def Jam) opened at No. 3
with 197,000 copies sold, according to SoundScan, and Drake's "Take Care" (Young
Money/Cash Money/Universal Republic), which opened at No. 1 last week with a
whopping 631,000 sales, fell to No. 4 with  173,000 in its second week, a 73
percent drop.

Mary J. Blige's "My Life II ... The Journey Continues (Act 1)" (Geffen), the
sequel to her 1994 hit "My Life," opened at No. 5 with 156,000 copies sold, and
Daughtry, the band led by the "American Idol" contestant Chris Daughtry, opened
at No. 8 with 129,000 sales of "Break the Spell" (19/RCA). And amid competition
from new releases and Black Friday shopping, Adele's "21" (XL/Columbia) fell out
of the Top 5 for the first time in its 40 weeks of release; it landed at No. 7,
even though its 140,000 sales represented a 24 percent gain from the week
before.

Next week's chart faces a kink thanks to a recent change in Billboard's chart
policy. As a result of some retailers' extreme discounts on digital music --
most conspicuously Amazon's 99 cent sale of Lady Gaga's latest album -- the
magazine decided to disqualify from its charts any sales under $3.49 during an
album's first four weeks of release. That will affect some titles, but not all,
that were part of a Cyber Monday price war this week between Google and Amazon.

Google, which opened a download store two weeks ago, on Monday sold albums by
Lady Gaga, Drake, Ms. Blige, Coldplay and others for $1.99, and Amazon quickly
followed suit on its MP3 store. Those promotions may have helped sales of the
albums, but because of Billboard's four-week rule, most of them will not count
toward the artists' chart standing. One that will: Lady Gaga, whose album came
out in May.


     ·    Drake's Rise and Adele's Record on the Album Charts
     ·    Young Rapper Rides Internet to the Top of the Chart
     ·    Coldplay Rules the World
     ·    Adele Is No.1, Yet Again
     ·    Evanescence Lands Atop Chart With New Album


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 1, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

It's Buble by a Nose

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 397 words


5:33 p.m. Updated In a rare photo finish at the top of the Billboard charts,
Michael Buble's holiday record squeezed past a new album by Nickelback to clinch
the No. 1 spot by a margin of only 419 copies.

Mr. Buble's ''Christmas'' (143/Reprise) sold 227,133 copies in its fifth week
out, while Nickelback's ''Here and Now'' (Roadrunner) sold 226,714, to open at
No. 2, according to data from Nielsen SoundScan reported by the artists' record
labels.

Also this week, Rihanna's ''Talk That Talk'' (Island Def Jam) opened at No. 3
with 197,000 copies sold, according to SoundScan, and Drake's ''Take Care''
(Young Money/Cash Money/Universal Republic), which opened at No. 1 last week
with a whopping 631,000 sales, fell to No. 4 with 173,000 in its second week, a
73 percent drop.

Mary J. Blige's ''My Life II ... The Journey Continues (Act 1)'' (Geffen), the
sequel to her 1994 hit ''My Life,'' opened at No. 5 with 156,000 copies sold,
and Daughtry, the band led by the ''American Idol'' contestant Chris Daughtry,
opened at No. 8 with 129,000 sales of ''Break the Spell'' (19/RCA). And amid
competition from new releases and Black Friday shopping, Adele's ''21''
(XL/Columbia) fell out of the Top 5 for the first time in its 40 weeks of
release; it landed at No. 7, even though its 140,000 sales represented a 24
percent gain from the week before.

Next week's chart faces a kink thanks to a recent change in Billboard's chart
policy. As a result of some retailers' extreme discounts on digital music --
most conspicuously Amazon's 99 cent sale of Lady Gaga's latest album -- the
magazine decided to disqualify from its charts any sales under $3.49 during an
album's first four weeks of release. That will affect some titles, but not all,
that were part of a Cyber Monday price war this week between Google and Amazon.

Google, which opened a download store two weeks ago, on Monday sold albums by
Lady Gaga, Drake, Ms. Blige, Coldplay and others for $1.99, and Amazon quickly
followed suit on its MP3 store. Those promotions may have helped sales of the
albums, but because of Billboard's four-week rule, most of them will not count
toward the artists' chart standing. One that will: Lady Gaga, whose album came
out in May.

The headline in an earlier version of this post misspelled Nickelback as
Nickleback.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                           December 1, 2011 Thursday

Kindles! iPads! Bid Now! (By Fax or Mail Only!)

BYLINE: CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 517 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Metropolitan Transportation Authority's auction site will remind
no one of eBay.


The Metropolitan Transportation Authority has tried to keep up with its
tech-inclined riders by posting helpful Twitter messages like how to get to the
Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, updating its Facebook page as reliably as some
teenagers, and creating a contest to let riders vote on their favorite apps.

But when it comes to its online auctions, the agency will never be confused with
eBay.

Kindles, iPods, old-school headphones - all were available in the agency's
latest online surplus material auction, along with other things passengers left
behind, like clarinets and bicycles, or items the agency no longer uses, like
old copiers and a snow blower.

But the auction, which ended Wednesday, offered no last-second bidding frenzy,
and no Buy It Now button to hit. There were photos of the items, but little more
than that.  Customers could not buy just one portable DVD player; they had to
buy a lot of seven. And the pictures were not catalog-friendly: the photo of the
10 Kindles and one Nook showed them lying haphazardly on the floor, evoking
handbags hawked on a street corner.

To add insult to cyber shopping injury, the department required bidders to
download a submission form. Then the buyer had to fax or send the bid request in
by mail.

Michael G. Zacchea, New York City Transit's assistant chief operations officer,
who is responsible for getting rid of all unwanted transit property, said the
agency lacked the resources to improve its sales process. The transit agency
used to hold a formal live auction where buyers bid on items left on subways,
like trumpets and jewelry. About five years ago, the department moved the
auctions to the Internet to cut costs.

The agency sells items like Kindles in bulk, Mr. Zacchea said, "because we know
it's distressed material - it's not going to command a great price."

Mr. Zacchea added that the agency could not run its sales like traditional
auction sites because it does not always sell items to the highest bidder and
has to monitor who buys what. Since he is also responsible for selling the
agency's memorabilia and collectibles, like old subway doors and train seats, he
has to make sure some items wind up with buyers who can care for them. For
example, he cannot sell an old train car to a buyer who cannot deal with the
potential asbestos contamination.

"We take the deal that is best for New York City Transit in terms of economics
and when we need to get it off the property," he said.

The unpolished presentation did not keep away shoppers. Kevin Ortiz, a spokesman
for the transportation authority, said that by Thursday morning, the agency had
multiple offers on all of the items, worth about $18,000. The agency was still
determining the winning bidders.

"It's not utilizing the most up-to-date technology," Mr. Ortiz said of the
auction. "But we really don't have a problem selling this stuff."


     ·    He Says He's a Conductor, Conducting a Q. and A.
     ·    Soon, L Will Mean Less Crowded, Subway Officials Say
     ·    Making It Easier to Navigate by Subway in Queens
     ·    Paying More to Wait Longer for the Subway
     ·    Numbered Subways Found to Be Pokier Than Lettered Ones


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kindles! iPods! Bid Now! (Fax or Mail Only)

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 491 words


The Metropolitan Transportation Authority has tried to keep up with its
tech-inclined riders by posting helpful Twitter messages like how to get to the
Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, updating its Facebook page as reliably as some
teenagers, and creating a contest to let riders vote on their favorite apps.

But when it comes to its online auctions, the agency will never be confused with
eBay.

Kindles, iPods, old-school headphones - all were available in the agency's
latest online surplus material auction, along with other things passengers left
behind, like clarinets and bicycles, or items the agency no longer uses, like
old copiers and a snow blower.

But the auction, which ended Wednesday, offered no last-second bidding frenzy,
and no Buy It Now button to hit. There were photos of the items, but little more
than that. Customers could not buy just one portable DVD player; they had to buy
a lot of seven. And the pictures were not catalog-friendly: the photo of the 10
Kindles and one Nook showed them lying haphazardly on the floor, evoking
handbags hawked on a street corner.

To add insult to cyber shopping injury, the department required bidders to
download a submission form. Then the buyer had to fax or send the bid request in
by mail.

Michael G. Zacchea, New York City Transit's assistant chief operations officer,
who is responsible for getting rid of all unwanted transit property, said the
agency lacked the resources to improve its sales process. The transit agency
used to hold a formal live auction where buyers bid on items left on subways,
like trumpets and jewelry. About five years ago, the department moved the
auctions to the Internet to cut costs.

The agency sells items like Kindles in bulk, Mr. Zacchea said, ''because we know
it's distressed material - it's not going to command a great price.''

Mr. Zacchea added that the agency could not run its sales like traditional
auction sites because it does not always sell items to the highest bidder and
has to monitor who buys what. Since he is also responsible for selling the
agency's memorabilia and collectibles, like old subway doors and train seats, he
has to make sure some items wind up with buyers who can care for them. For
example, he cannot sell an old train car to a buyer who cannot deal with the
potential asbestos contamination.

''We take the deal that is best for New York City Transit in terms of economics
and when we need to get it off the property,'' he said.

The unpolished presentation did not keep away shoppers. Kevin Ortiz, a spokesman
for the transportation authority, said that by Thursday morning, the agency had
multiple offers on all of the items, worth about $18,000. The agency was still
determining the winning bidders.

''It's not utilizing the most up-to-date technology,'' Mr. Ortiz said of the
auction. ''But we really don't have a problem selling this stuff.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

November Retail Sales Are on Target, but Expect More Discounts

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 754 words


Retailers' midnight openings last week brought in customers, most big chains
said they were pleased with their Black Friday sales and the November revenue
increases at stores open at least a year came in just where analysts had
expected, reports showed Thursday.

But the important question -- how retailers' profit margins were affected by
their Thanksgiving weekend promotions -- remained unanswered. And several
retailers said that they would discount even more in December.

The figures released Thursday showed just the sales performance of stores open
at least a year, ''so what we aren't seeing is the impact on those retailers'
bottom lines, and we all saw how promotional last weekend was,'' said Megan
Donadio, a retail strategist at the consulting firm Kurt Salmon.

Adding to concerns, she said, even those deep discounts ''were not able to
sustain the crowds through the entire weekend -- even from Friday morning,
through the end of the day Friday, the number of people making purchases in the
stores declined.''

Sales at stores open at least a year rose 3.1 percent in November, according to
a Thomson Reuters tally. The results included sales through Saturday, so the
Sunday after Thanksgiving and Cyber Monday results were not included.

But several stores that relied heavily on Black Friday momentum, including
Target, Kohl's and J. C. Penney, did worse than analysts had expected. Wal-Mart
Stores is to blame for that, said Craig Johnson, president of Customer Growth
Partners.

Even as Target and Kohl's decided to open at midnight on Thanksgiving, Wal-Mart
was more extreme, leaving most of its stores open all day Thanksgiving and
starting its holiday discounts at 10 that night.

Mr. Johnson said that tactic ''crushed'' the comparable sales of its most direct
competitors, according to his estimates, as Wal-Mart does not announce monthly
sales figures.

''Next time around, expect a lot more midnight, if not 10 p.m., Thanksgiving
openings,'' he wrote in an e-mail.

Target, for instance, said its comparable-store sales rose just 1.8 percent,
while analysts expected a 2.8 percent increase.

Target seemed to be especially challenged in holiday categories. While
comparable-store sales in food and household essentials rose, apparel and
accessories sales were flat for the month. And ''hard lines'' -- nonapparel
items like electronics and toys -- declined in the low single digits, with
particular weakness in toys, movies, music and books.

''November sales were near the low end of our expectations,'' Gregg W.
Steinhafel, chairman and chief executive officer of Target, said in a statement,
telling investors to expect a ''promotional environment'' in December.

Kohl's, which also missed forecasts, said that though the company had ''improved
performance'' over Thanksgiving weekend, ''a majority of our planned incremental
marketing investment is in December,'' meaning lots of promotions. Its
comparable-store sales dropped 6.2 percent, while analysts had expected an
increase of 2 percent. The company said sales in bread-and-butter categories
like women's clothing, accessories and children's apparel were lower for the
month.

J. C. Penney said its after-Thanksgiving sales were not very strong. Unlike
competitors like Kohl's, Macy's and Target, which opened at midnight on
Thanksgiving, Penney elected to open early on Friday.

''The company's decision to respect Thanksgiving Day for families and open at 4
a.m. on Friday, as we have in prior years, adversely impacted our Black Friday
sales,'' the company said in a statement, and ''sales in-store remained soft
throughout the holiday weekend.''

Penney's comparable-store sales declined 2 percent, a little worse than analysts
had expected and sharply worse from November 2010, when they increased 9.2
percent.

Saks Fifth Avenue and Nordstrom, the two high-end department stores that report
monthly sales, continued their tear. Neither relies heavily on Black Friday, and
neither did big promotions that weekend. Still, November same-store sales at
Nordstrom increased 5.6 percent, above analysts' projections of 5 percent, and
at Saks Incorporated they shot up 9.3 percent, bypassing analysts' expectations
of 6.1 percent.

Macy's said its midnight openings had worked very well, and had ''attracted
millennial customers.''

''Black Friday punctuated our very positive sales performance throughout
November,'' said Terry Lundgren, Macy's chairman and chief executive, in a
statement. Macy's same-store sales rose 4.8 percent, ahead of analysts' 3.9
percent estimate.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers waited outside Macy's in Midtown Manhattan for its
midnight opening Thanksgiving night. Macy's sales at stores open at least a year
rose 4.8 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS:
Retail Sales for November: THOMSON REUTERS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX: Year-to-year
change based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.
SALES: Results are for the four weeks that ended Nov. 26, except as noted,
compared with the period a year earlier. (Sources: Company reports
 Thomson Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            December 2, 2011 Friday

#trendingnyc: The Week on Twitter

BYLINE: MATT FLEGENHEIMER

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 496 words



HIGHLIGHT: #Cybermonday, the N.B.A. lockout, the death of Patrice O'Neal  and
World AIDS Day were among the topics trending this week on Twitter.


There were no madcap stampedes to the cash register. But at the symbolic start
of the online holiday shopping season, consumers encountered a far more sinister
scourge.

@Snooki, the pint-size starlet of "Jersey Shore," posted:

@Sn00ki NiC0LE P0LiZZi

Ok, tweedos! #cybermonday deals on snooki slippers, handbags, crocodilly and
more. FREE shipping & get up to 15% off! http://t.co/2x4Yoexh

Mon Nov 28 11:49:51 via NiC0LE P0LiZZi

It was Cyber Monday, and a few users took a break from shopping on their
computers and smartphones to start talking about it on their computers and
smartphones.

A comedian and author, @karenbergreen, seemed to miss the intensity of
in-the-flesh competitive shopping:

@karenbergreen Karen Bergreen

It's #CyberMonday: I just pepper sprayed myself while shopping at Amazon

Mon Nov 28 10:04:06 via Karen Bergreen

Basketball fans also spent much of the week dealing in rumor. After the N.B.A.
lifted its lockout last week, the city's Twitter users turned their attention to
Chris Paul, an All-Star point guard said to be desired by the Knicks. Would he
request a trade? Could the team afford him? Where could fans order their 2012
championship gear?

A former SLAM Magazine editor, @russbengtson, assured hyperventilating users
that the Paul Watch had not gotten out of control:

@russbengtson Russ Bengtson

Source: Chris Paul has not taken hostages.

Thu Dec 1 16:42:03 via Russ Bengtson

Many people, meanwhile, posted tributes to the comedian Patrice O'Neal, who died
on Tuesday after complications from a stroke. Seth Meyers, the anchor of
"Weekend Update" on "Saturday Night Live," aka @sethmeyers21, wrote:

@sethmeyers21 Seth Meyers

RIP Patrice O'Neal.  A day spent watching clips of him on-line is a day well
spent.

Tue Nov 29 14:11:20 via Seth Meyers

New Yorkers also noted World AIDS Day, observed on Dec. 1, and Mark Twain's
birthday, one day earlier. For the former, @EugeneMirman struggled to identify
an appropriate way to spread awareness:

@EugeneMirman Eugene Mirman

I'm probably not supposed to wish people happy #WorldAIDSDay, right? I think I
just made some people at Target feel weird.

Thu Dec 1 10:52:40 via Eugene Mirman

Celebrations of Twain's birthday turned on a sunnier kind of uncertainty, as
users unearthed a series of quotations he may or may not have said. There was a
warning against oversimplification ("All generalizations are false, including
this one") and a defense of silence ("It's best to be quiet and thought a fool
than to open your mouth and relieve all doubt").

One user, @lunatiquex, even used a well-worn Twain line to defend excessive
shopping:

@lunatiquex Luna

"Clothes make the man. naked people have little or no influence on society"-Mark
Twain #retailtherapyjustification

Thu Dec 1 22:50:42 via Luna


     ·    Another 'Special' Day, Another Retail Dollar
     ·    It's More Than Holiday Spirit; It's Having a Place to Call Home
     ·    The Handwriting on the Wall Says, 'GiGi Young Originals'
     ·    #trendingnyc: The Week on Twitter
     ·    Readers Share Their #SundayRoutine


LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 3, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Spending We Control

BYLINE: By CARL RICHARDS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 622 words



1:04 p.m. Updated with sketch.

Carl Richards is a certified financial planner in Park City, Utah. His sketches
are archived here on the Bucks blog. His new book, ''The Behavior Gap,'' will be
out in January.

When we make financial plans or build a family budget, there's no way to predict
one-time financial events, like the car's breaking down, the furnace's going on
the fritz or a hospital stay.

So we save as much as we can in the hope that it will be enough to cushion
ourselves against these financial shocks. But given all of the uncertainty that
already exists, why is it that we let ourselves get sucked into other, supposed
one-time events that are totally within our control?

Friday was one of the biggest shopping days of the year, and today, Cyber
Monday, is another big one. And what is pulling us in? The idea that we're
somehow getting a deal.

Think about how crazy this is. We try to spend ''11 months living frugally,''
focused on our goals, as Adam Davidson put it in The New York Times Magazine.
And then we blow the whole thing in ''four crazy weeks buying tons of stuff we
don't need.'' Often the discipline that is required to stay on track results in
frugality fatigue, and we crack. The crackup isn't always at this time of year.
But as Mr. Davidson noted: ''Holiday binge-buying has deep roots in American
culture: department stores have been associating turkey gluttony with its
spending equivalent since they began sponsoring Thanksgiving Day parades in the
early 20th century. And to goose the numbers, they've always offered huge
promotions too.''

Now we may very well have holiday budgets that we've planned and saved for, and
that's great. But there's a trap around these big shopping days that pops up at
other times during the year too. It's the idea that it's just this one time.
Like the excuse we might have heard from a friend in high school as
justification to do something stupid, ''just this once'' is almost always a sign
of trouble.

It often starts with a promotion of some sort. Two-for-one. Free prize with
purchase. No money down. You've seen the ads and heard the pitch. Whatever the
angle, the perceived consequence is the same: If we fail to act now, we'll
regret it for the rest of our lives. I'm exaggerating a bit, but there's no
getting away from the fact that marketers know how to get us to act on impulse.

Then there are the days when we tell ourselves we need a special treat, a
pick-me-up to make a bad day better. It's not a big deal; it's just this once,
and we've been so good the rest of the time that an extra latte won't make a big
difference to our budgets. But what about the next time, and the time after that
one?

We're tempted all the time to use this ''logic'' to rationalize bad money
behavior. Gifts, vacations, clothes and anything else that's extra on top of our
budgets often gets justified with that notion that we'll do it one time and then
never again, or at least not that often. Yet it keeps happening.

I'm not saying that we should never do something special that requires some
financial maneuvering. But we need to be honest about why we're doing it and the
consequences that may follow.

And if the spending happens often enough, we have to stop referring to the these
things as one-time events. Instead, account for that extra something in a budget
when it starts happening on a regular basis.

By continuing to allow these optional, one-time events to in fact be regular,
they can be the very thing that stops us from achieving our dreams and goals.
And the last thing we want to do is look back and wonder if that trinket was
really such a good deal after all.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 3, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Go Online, Beat a Puzzle, And Become A British Spy

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1153 words


LONDON -- Psst! Wanna be a spy?

Back in the cloak-and-dagger days of secret intelligence work, Britain's
espionage agencies liked to recruit in the ivied colleges of Oxford and
Cambridge, even if that brought them some of the most notorious turncoats of the
20th century, men like Kim Philby and other Cambridge spies who handed atom bomb
secrets to the Soviet Union in the 1940s and 1950s before defecting to Moscow.

In the Internet age, the spy catchers have been forced to go digital, democratic
and, old-timers might say, outright pop. Their latest whiz, causing a buzz on
the Internet -- and stirring a torrent of Web chat among people identifying
themselves as hackers -- is an online cryptographic puzzle that promises a fast
track to recruitment as spies for those who solve it before the challenge
expires on Dec. 11.

According to traffic on Twitter, Facebook and scores of other Web sites, at
least 50 people have solved the puzzle since it was posted unobtrusively last
month. To all but practiced cryptographers, it looks baffling: a rectangular
display of 160 letters and numbers, grouped in twos in blue against a black
background, under the overline, ''Can you crack it?'' Beneath it, a digital
clock ticks down the seconds left until the competition closes.

The agency that posted the puzzle at www.canyoucrackit.co.uk is one of the
oldest, and, espionage experts say, most successful eavesdropping organizations
anywhere, Government Communications Headquarters, or GCHQ, located in a vast
doughnut-shaped building surrounded by huge satellite dishes in parkland near
Cheltenham, 120 miles west of London.

Helped by a hand-in-glove relationship with its American counterpart, the
National Security Agency, which provides access to data downloaded from a
pervasive network of American spy satellites, GCHQ can hack into phone calls,
e-mails and computers virtually anywhere in the world. With language experts
speaking everything from Amharic to Kazakh and 70 tongues besides, it has played
a crucial role in cracking some of the biggest terror plots against the West in
recent years.

Once decrypted, the agency's online puzzle, through a process experts call
steganography, yields a hidden message in the form of a keyword. Those who enter
the keyword are led to a Web address, where they are greeted with a
congratulatory note. It is signed by a group calling itself Cyber Security
Specialists, a newly formed unit within the British agency that is responsible
for combating the cyberespionage threat that British officials have listed
alongside terrorism, organized crime, and drug and weapons smuggling among the
nation's biggest security threats.

''So you did it,'' says the congratulatory message. ''Now this is where it gets
interesting. Could you use your skills and ingenuity to combat terrorism and
cyberthreats? As one of our experts, you'll help protect our nation's security
and the lives of thousands.'' Those interested are then invited to submit a
formal job application, leading to interviews for a total of 35 jobs next
spring.

Some skeptics, believing there is nothing particularly innovative in the new
world of spycraft beyond updated technologies, have noted that recruiting
techniques used by the World War II code-breaking agency that was GCHQ's
predecessor included presenting candidates, many of them from Oxford and
Cambridge, with cryptographic crossword puzzles. Other skeptics on the Internet
have dismissed the GCHQ puzzle as too easy.

One cyberenthusiast, Dave Neal, writing on the Web site theinquirer.net,
dismissed the puzzle as ''not cool, and not very professional.'' He said that he
and others working with him at the Web site ''asked GCHQ if this was a hoax.''

The spy agency has insisted it is not. A spokesman described the puzzle as a
follow-up on unusual methods it has used in the past to reach potential
computer-age recruits who might escape traditional methods, which have included
discreet advertisements in high-end magazines and newspapers. The newer tactics
have included posting video content and downloadable information about the
agency on the Web, and cyberpuzzles on popular video games like Call of Duty and
Assassin's Creed.

''Code-cracking skills are vital to secure the very best talent and to support
the GCHQ mission in its fight against cyberthreats,'' the spokesman told The
Daily Telegraph. ''Our target audience is not typically attracted to traditional
advertising methods. Their skills may be ideally suited to our work, and yet
they may not understand how they could apply them to the working environment.''

Many computer experts writing for British newspapers and Web sites suggested
that the spy agency's message, at least implicitly, was that it was looking for
accomplished hackers, a community that has been bruised lately in the backwash
from the scandal enveloping Rupert Murdoch's newspaper empire.

The agency, in listing the qualifications it requires of recruits, said it would
accept only British citizens and would rule out anyone who had engaged in
illegal hacking. But some of its other specifications suggested that it might
not look askance at candidates who have trodden close to the legal line. While
saying it was looking for ''good people'' with a strong sense of fairmindedness,
it also emphasized the value of a buccaneering spirit.

''In a game where our adversaries operate with no known rules and unknown
boundary lines, you will be exploring the possibilities and inventing the
seemingly impossible,'' the agency said on its Web site.

Those pressing the agency to lift its game have included Prime Minister David
Cameron, whose government has noted GCHQ's past inability to recruit and retain
''a suitable cadre of Internet specialists,'' partly because its entry salaries
-- averaging about $48,000, far less than what private companies offer for the
same skills -- are uncompetitive. William Hague, the foreign secretary, said
recently that the government was the target of as many as 600 attacks on its
computer systems every day.

But judging by the response to the spy agency's puzzle, the government faces an
uphill struggle, partly because in the community of hackers, government itself
is uncool, if not the enemy. One hacker going by the name Ady who entered a
comment on the BBC's Web site urged the agency to ''stick to employing
upper-class twits from Oxford and Cambridge.'' Hackers, called ''hobbyists'' in
the post, know that ''governments are not really the sort of people you want to
get involved with,'' Ady said.

Another contributor put the government's problem -- finding hackers to combat
hackers -- in a nutshell. ''Hire Gary McKinnon,'' the person wrote, referring to
a Scottish hacker accused of intruding into nearly 100 Pentagon computer
networks a decade ago. He is fighting extradition to the United States for what
American officials have described as ''the biggest military computer hack of all
time.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Government Communications Headquarters, a British spy agency, is
using a game to recruit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 4, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; #TRENDING N.Y.C.; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 454 words


THERE were no madcap stampedes to the cash register. But at the symbolic start
of the online holiday shopping season, consumers encountered a far more sinister
scourge. ''Ok, tweedos!'' @Snooki, the pint-size starlet of ''Jersey Shore,''
posted on Twitter. ''Deals on snooki slippers, handbags, crocodilly and more.''

It was Cyber Monday, and a few users took a break from shopping on their
computers and smartphones to start talking about it on their computers and
smartphones.

A comedian and author, @karenbergreen, seemed to miss the intensity of
in-the-flesh competitive shopping, posting: ''It's #CyberMonday: I just pepper
sprayed myself while shopping at Amazon.''

Basketball fans also spent much of the week dealing in rumor. After the N.B.A.
lifted its lockout last week, the city's Twitter users turned their attention to
Chris Paul, an All-Star point guard said to be desired by the Knicks. Would he
request a trade? Could the team afford him? Where could fans order their 2012
championship gear?

A former SLAM Magazine editor, @russbengtson, assured hyperventilating users
that the Paul Watch had not gotten out of control: ''Source: Chris Paul has not
taken hostages.''

Many people, meanwhile, posted tributes to the comedian Patrice O'Neal, who died
at on Tuesday after complications from a stroke. Seth Meyers, the anchor of
''Weekend Update'' on ''Saturday Night Live,'' a k a @sethmeyers21, wrote: ''RIP
Patrice O'Neal. A day spent watching clips of him on-line is a day well spent.''

New Yorkers also noted World AIDS Day, observed on Dec. 1, and Mark Twain's
birthday, one day earlier. For the former, @EugeneMirman struggled to identify
an appropriate way to spread awareness, writing: ''I'm probably not supposed to
wish people happy #WorldAIDSDay, right? I think I just made some people at
Target feel weird.''

Celebrations of Twain's birthday turned on a sunnier kind of uncertainty, as
users unearthed a series of quotations he may or may not have said. There was a
warning against oversimplification (''All generalizations are false, including
this one'') and a defense of silence (''It's best to be quiet and thought a fool
than to open your mouth and relieve all doubt'').

One user, @lunatiquex, even used a well-worn Twain line to defend excessive
shopping: '' 'Clothes make the man. naked people have little or no influence on
society'-Mark Twain #retailtherapyjustification''

THIS WEEK ON TWITTER: #CyberMonday Chris Paul Knicks RIP Patrice #WorldAIDSDay
Mark Twain; Trending topics are drawn from a periodic sampling by The New York
Times of locally trending popular terms reported by Twitter in the past week,
with posts of specific New York interest highlighted. Follow and send comments
to @mattfleg.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 4, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The New Digital Divide

BYLINE: By SUSAN P. CRAWFORD.

A professor at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law and a former special
assistant to President Obama for science, technology and innovation policy.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2066 words



FOR the second year in a row, the Monday after Thanksgiving -- so-called Cyber
Monday, when online retailers offer discounts to lure holiday shoppers -- was
the biggest online sales day of the year, totaling some $1.25 billion and
overwhelming the sales figures racked up by brick-and-mortar stores three days
before, on Black Friday, the former perennial record-holder.

Such numbers may seem proof that America is, indeed, online. But they mask an
emerging division, one that has worrisome implications for our economy and
society. Increasingly, we are a country in which only the urban and suburban
well-off have truly high-speed Internet access, while the rest -- the poor and
the working class -- either cannot afford access or use restricted wireless
access as their only connection to the Internet. As our jobs, entertainment,
politics and even health care move online, millions are at risk of being left
behind.

Telecommunications, which in theory should bind us together, has often divided
us in practice. Until the late 20th century, the divide split those with phone
access and those without it. Then it was the Web: in 1995 the Commerce
Department published its first look at the ''digital divide,'' finding stark
racial, economic and geographic gaps between those who could get online and
those who could not.

''While a standard telephone line can be an individual's pathway to the riches
of the Information Age,'' the report said, ''a personal computer and modem are
rapidly becoming the keys to the vault.'' If you were white, middle-class and
urban, the Internet was opening untold doors of information and opportunity. If
you were poor, rural or a member of a minority group, you were fast being left
behind.

Over the last decade, cheap Web access over phone lines brought millions to the
Internet. But in recent years the emergence of services like video-on-demand,
online medicine and Internet classrooms have redefined the state of the art:
they require reliable, truly high-speed connections, the kind available almost
exclusively from the nation's small number of very powerful cable companies.
Such access means expensive contracts, which many Americans simply cannot
afford.

While we still talk about ''the'' Internet, we increasingly have two separate
access marketplaces: high-speed wired and second-class wireless. High-speed
access is a superhighway for those who can afford it, while racial minorities
and poorer and rural Americans must make do with a bike path.

Just over 200 million Americans have high-speed, wired Internet access at home,
and almost two-thirds of them get it through their local cable company. The
connections are truly high-speed: based on a technological standard called
Docsis 2.0 or 3.0, they can reach up to 105 megabits per second, fast enough to
download a music album in three seconds.

These customers are the targets for the next generation of Internet services,
technology that will greatly enhance their careers, education and quality of
life. Within a decade, patients at home will be able to speak with their doctors
online and thus get access to lower-cost, higher-quality care. High-speed
connections will also allow for distance education through real-time
videoconferencing; already, thousands of high school students are earning
diplomas via virtual classrooms.

Households will soon be able to monitor their energy use via smart-grid
technology to keep costs and carbon dioxide emissions down. Even the way that
wired America works will change: many job applications are already possible only
online; soon, job interviews will be held by way of videoconference, saving cost
and time.

But the rest of America will most likely be left out of all this. Millions are
still offline completely, while others can afford only connections over their
phone lines or via wireless smartphones. They can thus expect even lower-quality
health services, career opportunities, education and entertainment options than
they already receive. True, Americans of all stripes are adopting smartphones at
breakneck speeds; in just over four years the number has jumped from about 10
percent to about 35 percent; among Hispanics and African-Americans, it's roughly
44 percent. Most of the time, smartphone owners also have wired access at home:
the Pew Internet and American Life Project recently reported that 59 percent of
American adults with incomes above $75,000 had a smartphone, and a 2010 study by
the Federal Communications Commission found that more than 90 percent of people
at that income level had wired high-speed Internet access at home.

But that is not true for lower-income and minority Americans. According to
numbers released last month by the Department of Commerce, a mere 4 out of every
10 households with annual household incomes below $25,000 in 2010 reported
having wired Internet access at home, compared with the vast majority -- 93
percent -- of households with incomes exceeding $100,000. Only slightly more
than half of all African-American and Hispanic households (55 percent and 57
percent, respectively) have wired Internet access at home, compared with 72
percent of whites.

These numbers are likely to grow even starker as the 30 percent of Americans
without any kind of Internet access come online. When they do, particularly if
the next several years deliver subpar growth in personal income, they will
probably go for the only option that is at all within their reach: wireless
smartphones. A wired high-speed Internet plan might cost $100 a month; a
smartphone plan might cost half that, often with a free or heavily discounted
phone thrown in.

The problem is that smartphone access is not a substitute for wired. The vast
majority of jobs require online applications, but it is hard to type up a resume
on a hand-held device; it is hard to get a college degree from a remote location
using wireless. Few people would start a business using only a wireless
connection.

It is not just inconvenient -- many of these activities are physically
impossible via a wireless connection. By their nature, the airwaves suffer from
severe capacity limitations: the same five gigabytes of data that might take
nine minutes to download over a high-speed cable connection would take an hour
and 15 minutes to travel over a wireless connection.

Even if a smartphone had the technical potential to compete with wired, users
would still be hampered by the monthly data caps put in place by AT&T and
Verizon, by far the largest wireless carriers in America. For example, well
before finishing the download of a single two-hour, high-definition movie from
iTunes over a 4G wireless network, a typical subscriber would hit his or her
monthly cap and start incurring $10 per gigabyte in overage charges. If you
think this is a frivolous concern, for ''movie'' insert an equally large data
stream, like ''business meeting.''

Public libraries are taking up the slack and buckling under the strain. Nearly
half of librarians say that their connections are insufficient to meet patrons'
needs. And it is hard to imagine conducting a job interview in a library.

IN the past, the cost of new technologies has dropped over time, and eventually
many Americans could afford a computer and a modem to access a standard phone
line. Phone service -- something 96 percent of Americans have -- was sold at
regulated rates and the phone companies were forced to allow competing Internet
access providers to share their lines.

But there is reason to believe this time is different. Today, the problem is
about affording unregulated high-speed Internet service -- provided, in the case
of cable, by a few for-profit companies with very little local competition and
almost no check on their prices. They have to bear all the cost of
infrastructure and so have no incentive to expand into rural areas, where
potential customers are relatively few and far between. (The Federal
Communications Commission recently announced a plan to convert subsidies that
once supported basic rural telephone services into subsidies for basic Internet
access.)

The bigger problem is the lack of competition in cable markets. Though there are
several large cable companies nationwide, each dominates its own fragmented
kingdom of local markets: Comcast is the only game in Philadelphia, while Time
Warner dominates Cleveland. That is partly because it is so expensive to lay
down the physical cables, and companies, having paid for those networks, guard
them jealously, clustering their operations and spending tens of millions of
dollars to lobby against laws that might oblige them to share their
infrastructure.

Cable's only real competition comes from Verizon's FiOS fiber-optic service,
which can provide speeds up to 150 megabits per second. But FiOS is available to
only about 10 percent of households. AT&T's U-verse, which has about 4 percent
of the market, cannot provide comparable speeds because, while it uses
fiber-optic cable to reach neighborhoods, the signal switches to slower copper
lines to connect to houses. And don't even think about DSL, which carries just a
fraction of the data needed to handle the services that cable users take for
granted.

Lacking competition from other cable companies or alternate delivery
technologies, each of the country's large cable distributors has the ability to
raise prices in its region for high-speed Internet services. Those who can still
afford it are paying higher and higher rates for the same quality of service,
while those who cannot are turning to wireless.

IT doesn't have to be this way, as a growing number of countries demonstrate.
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ranks America 12th
among developed nations for wired Internet access, and it is safe to assume that
high prices have played a role in lowering our standing. So America, the country
that invented the Internet and still leads the world in telecommunications
innovation, is lagging far behind in actual use of that technology.

The answer to this puzzle is regulatory policy. Over the last 10 years, we have
deregulated high-speed Internet access in the hope that competition among
providers would protect consumers. The result? We now have neither a functioning
competitive market for high-speed wired Internet access nor government
oversight.

By contrast, governments that have intervened in high-speed Internet markets
have seen higher numbers of people adopting the technology, doing so earlier and
at lower subscription charges. Many of these countries have required
telecommunications providers to sell access to parts of their networks to
competitors at regulated rates, so that competition can lower prices.

Meanwhile, they are working toward, or already have, fiber-optic networks that
will be inexpensive, standardized, ubiquitous and equally fast for uploading and
downloading. Many of those countries, not only advanced ones like Sweden and
Japan but also less-developed ones like Portugal and Russia, are already well on
their way to wholly replacing their standard telephone connections with
state-of-the-art fiber-optic connections that will even further reduce the cost
to users, while significantly improving access speeds.

The only thing close is FiOS. But, according to Diffraction Analysis, a research
firm, it costs six times as much as comparable service in Hong Kong, five times
as much as in Paris and two and a half times as much as in Amsterdam. When it
comes to the retail cost of fiber access in America, we do about as well as
Istanbul.

The new digital divide raises important questions about social equity in an
information-driven world. But it is also a matter of protecting our economic
future. Thirty years from now, African-Americans and Latinos, who are at the
greatest risk of being left behind in the Internet revolution, will be more than
half of our work force. If we want to be competitive in the global economy, we
need to make sure every American has truly high-speed wired access to the
Internet for a reasonable cost.

Correction: December 11, 2011, Sunday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An opinion
essay on Dec. 4 about the emergence of a new digital divide erroneously
attributed a distinction to the Monday after Thanksgiving, sometimes called
Cyber Monday. It was the biggest online sales day of the year, not the biggest
overall sales day.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRENDAN MONROE)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 5, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Popular Demand

BYLINE: By SHELLY FREIERMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 92 words


Retailers eager for sales offered shoppers many options on the big shopping
weekend. For Target, Black Friday began on Thanksgiving Thursday and occurred
online as well as in stores, and for Wal-Mart, Cyber Monday expanded into Cyber
Week.

According to Experian Hitwise, the top 500 retailers had an increase in visits
of 24 percent on Cyber Monday compared to last year. Total shopping visits in
the four-day period from Friday through Monday reached 285.3 million, which
averages out to 49,538 visits a minute for the top 10 retailers. SHELLY
FREIERMAN

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL DWYER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: SHOPPING
SPREES
MAGAZINES
BROADCAST TELEVISION
MOVIE BOX OFFICE
MUSIC ALBUMS
CABLE TELEVISION
DVD RENTALS
MUSIC DOWNLOADS (Sources: Nielsen Company (television)
Experian Hitwise (Popular Demand)
Screenline (movies)
Home Media Magazine (DVDs)
min/min online (magazines)
 Billboard/Nielsen (music))

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

Big Brother in the Home Office

BYLINE: QUENTIN HARDY

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 805 words



HIGHLIGHT: Tens of thousands of programmers, writers, accountants and other
workers labor at home doing contract work for companies like Google,
Hewlett-Packard and NBC. The computers they use contain software that takes
snapshots of what they are doing six times an hour. The growing popularity of
contract work at large companies means such practices are now commonplace.


Tens of thousands of programmers, writers, accountants and other workers labor
at home doing contract work for companies like Google, Hewlett-Packard and NBC.
The computers they use contain software that takes snapshots of what they are
doing six times an hour. The snooping occurs randomly, making it impossible for
the computer user to game the system.

It is probably more invasive than what happens to those working in offices,
where scooting through Facebook entries, shopping on Cyber Monday, and peeping
at N.S.F.W. ("Not Safe for Work") Web sites on corporate computers is both
normal and rarely observed by managers.

Almost certainly, such surveillance is likely to be an increasing aspect of
modern work, where remote software manages time worked, Web sites visited,
keystrokes logged, and observes the informational networks established among
employees.

ODesk, an outsourcing company offering screen shot software, has 1.4 million
contractors registered in dozens of countries. Those contractors vie for work
from 250,000 buyers, ranging from small companies to large multinationals.
Typically companies post jobs, from working at a call center to constructing an
elaborate database, and workers bid on the work by naming an hourly fee.

The hours are verified by the screen shots, which workers can see before their
employers do. Untoward images, like a Skype conversation with a spouse or
something worse, can be blanked out, at a cost to the employee of one-sixth of
the hourly wage. The software can also drill deeper, looking at things like
individual key strokes and where someone moved the computer mouse. Employers who
see something they do not like can likewise dispute that portion of the work.

Gary Swart, oDesk's chief executive, figures his company will run about $225
million in jobs through his company's marketplace this year, double last year's
sum. By his reckoning, that's about one-quarter of the $1 billion in
remote-contracted work done this year. ODesk collects a commission of about 10
percent for the service.

"There are big trends here: globalization, labor as a service over the Internet,
and companies trying to do more with less," says Mr. Swart. "Everyone is
struggling to find good talent."

Most of the work goes to a relatively small number of those total registered
employees, and the top-rated talent can push their wages up. A programmer on the
site using the name Evgeny M. in Omsk, Russia, is currently engaged by four
different employers, at $24 to $34 an hour before oDesk takes its cut. "I know
for a fact that he was making $7 an hour before he signed up," Mr. Swart says.

Newcomers looking to make a reputation, along with workers with poorer ratings,
make significantly less. A "social media concierge" in the Philippines, who
encourages others to interact with a Web site, is currently charging $5.56 an
hour. Writers on blogs, based both in the United States and overseas, are
charging anywhere from $24 to $77 an hour.

American workers still have certain native talents and skills that make them
relatively valuable, including an understanding of American slang and pop
culture. Knowing how to insert those terms correctly can make a Web site more
attractive to a search engine, giving it a higher ranking on Google or Bing.

An internal survey done by oDesk says that 80 percent of the hiring was for new
work and not to replace existing workers.

Most work contracted over the cloud is typically paid by the task, not the hour.
Outfits like TaskRabbit and Amazon's Mechanical Turk handle little jobs like
wrapping presents or cleaning up the grammar on Web pages. Newcomers like Coffee
and Power enable people to list talents that others can bid for, in addition to
posting jobs.

As remote work moves from the exotic to the mainstream, however, traditional
measures make a comeback. ELance, a company similar to oDesk, currently has a
half-million contractors vying for 55,000 jobs. ELance also uses a model of
hourly payments, and irregular screen shots for verification. LiveOps, which
builds virtual call centers of people working from their homes, signs up people
in half-hour increments and monitors quality by screening calls and listening to
what workers say about each other in internal forums.

Even away from the labor marketplaces, software like Tahometer, Hyperhour, Time
Doctor and Work Snaps lets employers track the doings of at-home workers,
freelancers and dispersed teams.

The real valuable skill, Mr. Swart says, may be in knowing how to run a virtual
team, including when to monitor closely and when to let an idle Facebook page
slide. "All of the challenges you have in an office, things like communication,
collaboration, common standards, clarity, setting expectations -- they're all
compounded online," he says.


     ·    Spot Pornography on Facebook for a Quarter-Cent an Image


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Well)

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

Sexting Among Teenagers Not as Common as Thought

BYLINE: ANAHAD O'CONNOR

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 342 words



HIGHLIGHT: Sexting among teenagers and adolescents may not be quite as common as
many people believe.


Despite perceptions, sexting among teenagers and adolescents may not be quite as
common as many people believe.

So says a large new study published today in the journal Pediatrics, which found
that about one in 10 minors between the ages of 10 and 17 have used a cell phone
in the past year to send or receive nude suggestive images.

Previous studies had put the figure as high as one in five, and a series of high
profile law enforcement casesinvolving teenagers and nude cell phone pictures in
recent years had raised the specter of a growing problem.

The latest study suggests that sexting may be more common among adults than
teenagers.

"It only takes one or two cases to make people think this is very prevalent
behavior," said Janis Wolak, an author of the new paper and a senior researcher
at the Crimes Against Children Research Center at the University of New
Hampshire. "This has been reported as if it were something that everyone was
doing, not just in the teen population, but in the young adult population. It's
really not the case."

Over all, the new report found, 149 youths interviewed for the study, or 9.6
percent, said they had sent or received images that included full or partial
nudity in the previous year. Just over 2 percent of those who engaged in sexting
said they had appeared in the pictures or had taken them themselves, and 7.1
percent said they received sexual images from someone else.

In most cases, the motivations for sending or forwarding sexual texts were not
malicious. Most of the youths who sent such messages said that they did so with
someone they were involved in a relationship with, or that their messages were
flirtatious gestures to someone they had a romantic interest in.

To learn more read the full report, "Sending of Sexual Images by Minors Not as
Prevalent as Thought, Study Finds," and then please join the discussion below.


     ·    Texting Until Their Thumbs Hurt
     ·    Teens Exposing Themselves in Cyberspace
     ·    Sexual Harassment at School
     ·    More Teens Victimized by Cyber-Bullies
     ·    Soda Bans in Schools Have Limited Impact


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

Spot Pornography on Facebook for a Quarter-Cent an Image

BYLINE: QUENTIN HARDY

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 379 words



HIGHLIGHT: Google, Facebook and Travelocity outsource a surprising number of
jobs, not all of them menial, to contract workers who can be paid very little.
At Google, it is translating, at Facebook it is spotting pornography and at
Travelocity it is writing articles. A look at some of those jobs presents an
interesting picture of where work is going.


Companies like Google, Facebook and Travelocity have plenty of money and armadas
of smart people. There are plenty of tasks they do not mind outsourcing,
however, and a look at some of those jobs presents an interesting picture of
where work is going.

ODesk, which runs marketplaces that match people with jobs, currently has all
three companies signed up, along with Hewlett-Packard, AOL and others.

Google, though it uses software to do translations, also hires individuals to
check translated words and phrases. The company recently hired a bunch of people
in Belgium who were fluent in both Flemish and French. Google requires that the
outsiders translate about 250 words an hour. By outsourcing the work, oDesk
says, Google cut its average human-checked translation costs from 21 cents a
word to 11 cents a word.

Like Facebook and Travelocity, Google did not comment on the specifics of the
work done though oDesk.

Google also hires outsiders to write the pitches in its Google Offers daily
deals. This probably lowers its costs relative to Groupon, the leader in the
field. Groupon has a large staff of humanities graduates in its Chicago
headquarters crafting catchy pitches.

Facebook hires contract workers to look for wayward speech and images. While
this pays about $10 an hour for a good moderator, according to an oDesk
official, Facebook lists the work at a remarkably low rate: spotting and weeding
out suspected spam, pornography, hate speech and cyber bullying pay about
one-quarter of a penny an item. They are usually looked at in batches of nine
posts at once, which speeds the process. Images pop up on a grid of 12 pictures,
and the reviewer flags anything sketchy before moving to the next set.

Travelocity uses the service for creating features, like "the three to five best
places to photograph in Cancun," or what the must-eat dishes are in some exotic
locale. After the writers are screened, they select their assignments from a
list of fantasy topics for a locale.

You didn't think the people actually went to these places, did you?


     ·    Big Brother in the Home Office
     ·    India Ink: India Asks Google, Facebook to Screen User Content
     ·    Daily Report: Google Keeps Pushing at Microsoft's Windows
     ·    Google+ Isn't Going Away
     ·    A Start-Up Offers Help With Advertising on Facebook


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

India Asks Google, Facebook to Screen User Content

BYLINE: HEATHER TIMMONS

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 681 words



HIGHLIGHT: Companies plan to rebuff the Indian government&#8217;s latest attempt
to tighten the leash on free speech on the Internet.


The Indian government has asked Internet companies and social media sites like
Facebook to prescreen user content from India and to remove disparaging,
inflammatory or defamatory content before it goes online, three executives in
the information technology industry say.

Top officials from the Indian units of Google, Microsoft, Yahoo and Facebook are
meeting with Kapil Sibal, India's acting telecommunications minister, on Monday
afternoon to discuss the issue, say two executives of Internet companies. The
executives asked not to be identified because they are not authorized to speak
to the media on the issue.

Mr. Sibal's office confirmed that he would meet with Internet service providers
Monday but did not provide more information about the content of the meeting.

About six weeks ago, Mr. Sibal called legal representatives from the top
Internet service providers and Facebook into his New Delhi office, said one of
the executives who was briefed on the meeting.

At the meeting, Mr. Sibal showed attendees a Facebook page that maligned the
Congress Party's president, Sonia Gandhi.  "This is unacceptable," he told
attendees, the executive said, and he asked them to find a way to monitor what
is posted on their sites.

In the second meeting with the same executives in late November, Mr. Sibal told
them that he expected them to use human beings to screen content, not
technology, the executive said.

The three executives said Mr. Sibal has told these companies that he expects
them to set up a proactive pre-screening system, with staffers looking for
objectionable content and deleting it before it is posted.

The executives said representatives from these companies will tell Mr. Sibal at
the meeting on Monday that his demand is impossible, given the volume of
user-generated content coming from India, and that they cannot be responsible
for determining what is and isn't defamatory or disparaging.

"If there's a law and there's a court order, we can follow up on it," said an
executive from one of the companies attending the meeting. But these companies
can't be in the business of deciding what is and isn't legal to post, he said.

Yahoo, Facebook and Microsoft did not respond immediately to calls for comment,
and a Google spokeswoman said the company had no comment on the issue. Facebook
said earlier this year it has more than 25 million users in India. Google has
over 100 million Internet users in India.

The demand is the Indian government's latest attempt to monitor and control
electronic information. In April, the ministry issued rules demanding Internet
service providers delete information posted on Web sites that officials or
private citizens deemed disparaging or harassing. Last year, the government
battled with Blackberry's manufacturer, Research In Motion, threatening to shut
the company's service off in India if it did not allow government officials
greater access to users' messages.

The Indian government also plans to set up its own unit to monitor information
posted on Web sites and social media sites, executives said, which will report
to Gulshan Rai, the director general of India's cyber-security monitor.

A man who answered the phone in Mr. Rai's office said he did not talk to the
press and hung up when a reporter asked for a press contact.

Some Indian cities like Mumbai have already set up special units to monitor
Internet sites like Facebook and Orkut, the social networking site operated by
Google, for content considered disparaging or obscene. India has made nearly 70
requests to Google to remove content between January and June of this year, one
of the highest request rates of any country, though less than the United States
with 92 and Brazil's 224, according to Google's transparency report.

Vikas Bajaj contributed reporting from Mumbai.


     ·    Five Ways Indian Internet Users Are Fighting for Free Speech
     ·    Conceived in Haste, India's Internet Law Now Targeted for Change
     ·    Allegations of War Crimes in Sri Lanka Shake Indian Government
     ·    India's Supreme Court Extends Restrictions on Italian Ambassador
     ·    Are India and Italy on a Collision Course?


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

This Week in Small Business: Are Consumers (and Jobs) Back?

BYLINE: GENE MARKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1711 words



HIGHLIGHT: Plus: Are you making enough of an effort to sell to your existing
customers?


What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.

The Big Story: Consumer Confidence

Consumer confidence surges in November. Cyber Monday sales were up 33 percent
over 2010, and up 29.3 percent over Black Friday. Retail e-mail volume also hit
a record on Cyber Monday. President Obama supports a very successful Small
Business Saturday. Black Friday increased car sales to their best rate since
"cash for clunkers." Consumer debt fell in the third quarter. But Nathan A.
Martin doesn't believe that retail sales rose as much as reported: "sales are
measured in dollars, not units, thus the outrageous production of money creates
inflation - inflation does not equal growth in sales, it equals growth in money
production!"

The Data: Job Numbers Improve

Unemployment falls to 8.6 percent. Non-farm private business sector employment
increased by 206,000 from October to November. Small businesses created 55,000
jobs in November. The Restaurant Performance Index stayed unchanged in October.
New home sales increased in October but home prices weakened. More than 10
million properties now have negative equity. American Airlines files for Chapter
11, and Caitlin Kenney explains why airlines keep going bankrupt - but no one
can explain why we have to turn off our devices upon takeoff and landing. Fun
fact of the week: engineered avian flu could kill half the world's humans.

The Economy: Central Banks Get Involved

Shares jump as central banks try to ease Europe's financial woes. Here are five
things to know about the deal. But Nigam Arora says the intervention raises
questions:"The only explanation for the massive action is that central banks
were concerned about a pending failure that is not publicly known." Peter
Boockvar says another round of quantitative easing is "all but guaranteed."
Meanwhile, our money supply goes through the roof. Extensions of unemployment
benefitsand the payroll tax reduction are likely. And this guy wins cubicle of
the year.

The Economy 2: Are Small Businesses Surging? Or Dwindling?

Entrepreneur reveals its 10 leading business sectors for 2012 amid "the
strongest entrepreneurial surge in 15 years." Meanwhile, small businesses
dwindle in 97 of 100 markets, but Madeline Schnapp says pockets of strength
remain. Marijuana.com sells for $4.2 million. A Web site lists 10 huge
engineering projects that could help turn our economic and environmental crises
around. The Economist says that shale gas has turned the American energy market
on its head, and the United States becomes a net energy exporter for the first
time since World War II. Salon explains why this small bookstore matters.

Finance: Wait! Barney, Come Back!

Trendcentral discusses trends in banking that will affect small businesses. Wall
Street executives are bracing for the possibility that Maxine Waters will take
over for Barney Frank as the senior Democrat on the House Financial Services
Committee. The Empire State Building plans an initial public offering. A Wall
Street executive says the financial services industry faces "a paradigm shift."
Booz Allen Hamilton lists 10 cybersecurity trends for financial services in
2012. NASA selects 300 small-business research and technology projects. American
Express and some online merchants are giving away $20 million.

Marketing: It's All About Mobile

Jonathan Farrington offers advice on generating referrals. Heinz Marketing
suggests 10 best practices for cold calling, including: "get comfortable with
rejection and have a short memory." Online ad spending is up 22 percent over
last year. Ad-ology 2012 says mobile is the next advertising frontier, and more
than 20 percent of small-business owners say they plan to commit more resources
to mobile marketing in 2012. A Tech Trends columnist reviews two services that
convert regular Web sites into mobile sites. Wordpress introduces an alternative
to Google AdSense. Lucy Waweru gives advice for getting the best rank in Google
places. Matt Zoller Seitz explains why he hates "I Hate My Teenage Daughter."

Managing: Do Not Micromanage

Dave Thomas discusses what makes a good manager: "You hired your respective
manager/s for a reason, let them do their job." Carol Tice shares a
small-business owner's guide to year-end sales success with advice like "get
smart about pricing." David R. Butcher believes that starting a "lean
initiative"from the position that it's all about cost reduction is often a
recipe for failure. Consultants explain the image theory of decision-making. The
Dumb Little Man names 27 productivity killers. Terry Starbucker suggests 10
essential steps to leadership excellence, including: "Your first three to six
months on the job should be more listening than talking. Period."

Ideas: Dunder Mifflin Makes a Comeback

Chris Burch, founder of J. Christopher Capital, explains how anyone can turn an
idea into a business. Now you can buy Dunder Mifflin paper. The Outsourcing
Institute plans a Dec. 12 webinar on optimizing your outsourcing relationships.
Fred Wilson explains why he hates reception desk nondisclosure agreements: "They
don't offer you a call to your lawyer to find out what the hell you are signing.
It is just sign this or don't come into our offices." A man is shot by his own
dog.

Start-Up: Bypassing Unemployment

A 27-year-old builds one of the fastest growing apps without spending a dime on
marketing. Participants at a Washington  Start-Up Weekend develop start-up
plans. Millennial entrepreneurs bypass the unemployment line by starting their
own companies. Chapman University introduces an eVillage facility with dedicated
resources for entrepreneurs and start-up companies. Monica Mehta says that
before you start your business you should organize your own finances.

Red Tape: Is the I.R.S. Looking for You?

The United States ranks 69 of 183 nations in tax compliance. Paul Krugman
suggests a few things we could tax. Cigar lovers and the industry unite to
againstthe Food and Drug Administration's regulatory agenda. Health care's
auto-enrollment for smaller companies faces an indefinite delay. Here's a house
made entirely of plastic bottles. One hundred and fifty Web sites are seized in
a counterfeit crackdown. The Internal Revenue Service can't find 100,000
taxpayers who are owed refunds. Bow Wow owes a little money to the I.R.S.

Around the Country: Brooklyn Gets Its Groove Back

Texas manufacturing output declines as Startup Texas rises. Nebraska is seeing
more cash for start-ups. North Carolina's Small Business Taxpayer Recovery
Program claims to have helped more than 1,000 small businesses get back on their
feet. Kay S. Hymowitz explains how Brooklyn got its groove back. Small
businesses in Tennessee are increasing revenue with their smartphones. Cleveland
finishes a six-month experiment with food trucks and puts them on the menu for
good. A New York City small-business owner helps combat modern-day slavery. This
hotel may have the pinkest Christmas tree ever. More people are leaving
California than are moving in.

Around the World: Need Credit? Try Cuba!

China's factory output shrinks for the first time in three years. Zhixing Xiao
says that the country has a small-town problem: "Law is unevenly applied, while
schools and medical services don't stack up the way they do in Bentonville or
Blagnac." An Australian guy explains why a movie about American baseball is
important for business owners. Cuba decides to start a small-business loan
program. A British man finds a live frog in his chicken sandwich.

Technology: A Taste of Tech

The jetman flies alongside fighter jets. Salesforce.com introduces a new social
search product. Google offers a history of search. LifeHacker explains how to
build a smartphone projector for a dollar -- and how to get more pages out of
your printer when the toner is low. A Harvard professor says the personal
computer is dead. Microsoft claims 90 percent of Office 365 subscribers are
small businesses with 50 or fewer employees. Ramon Ray introduces his Taste of
Tech" video series. David F. Carr reports that Google's powerful, free
video-chat service may be a business meeting alternative to GoToMeeting or
Skype. Om Malik reflects on 10 years of tech blogging. This year, Americans
viewed 42.6 billion videos, an all-time high (here's one of a very excited cat).

The Week's Bests

Ways to improve your e-mail marketing. John Jantsch offers five suggestions,
including "Serve snacks": "Currently, my newsletter format is designed to offer
several compelling article abstracts grouped into a set of topics that I believe
my readers expect from me. ... When I switched to this snack-sized, scanable
format, I immediately noted that my response and engagement increased
dramatically."

Analysis of the financial crisis. Matt Yglesias says: "Having ensured the basic
stability of the banking system, monetary policy makers in America proceeded to
forget all about their go-getter attitude and ability to reach deep into the
practical and legal toolkit in order to get what they want. ... If in a time of
crisis, the right thing to do is to get 'crazy,' then there's plenty more crazy
stuff the Fed could be doing to boost overall spending in the American economy.
Or if the right thing to do is to stay orthodox and ignore the human
consequences, then there was no reason not to stay orthodox three years ago and
refuse to lend at anything other than a penalty rate."

Reason to sell to your existing customers. Karl Stark and Bill Stewart say, "The
problem is that as the management team's growth expectations increase, it gets
increasingly harder to acquire more customers. ... To solve this growth dilemma,
(we) need to ask three key questions: What revenue growth will we achieve if we
keep our existing customers for just one additional month, on average? What will
it cost us to do this by, say, improving customer service or adding customer
benefits? How does this growth compare, both in magnitude and cost, to acquiring
new customers?

This Week's Question: Are you making enough of an effort to sell to your
existing customers?

Marks GroupTwitter


     ·    This Week In Small Business: What Would Canada Do?
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Everything Is Super!
     ·    This Week in Small Business: Focus!
     ·    The Case for Optimism
     ·    This Week in Small Business: The Backlash


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            December 6, 2011 Tuesday

E-Commerce Sales Are Booming, Thanks to Discounts and Free Shipping

BYLINE: CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 482 words



HIGHLIGHT: Shoppers have spent $18.7 billion online this holiday season, a 15
percent increase over last year, while offline sales have grown just a few
percentage points. But e-commerce sites are paying for it; free shipping and
deep discounts are contributing heavily to spending.


 Online, at least, shoppers are spending money. Lots of it.

People have spent $18.7 billion on e-commerce sites so far this holiday shopping
season, 15 percent more than last year during the corresponding days, according
to comScore. They spent $6 billion the week that ended Dec. 2, including Black
Friday and Cyber Monday, and spent more than $1 billion on three separate days
that week, after breaking the billion-dollar mark for the first time on Cyber
Monday last year.

But retailers are paying for the surge in spending by offering discounts and
free shipping.

They have offered free shipping, which Web shoppers have grown accustomed to, at
record levels, comScore said. Almost two-thirds of holiday purchases during the
heavy shopping weeks before and after Thanksgiving included free shipping, about
10 percentage points higher than last year.

And many retailers extended their deals beyond Cyber Monday. Target.com called
its week of sales Cyber Week, and Amazon.com started a week of deals on Sunday.

RetailMeNot.com, which collects coupons for e-commerce sites, said that visits
to the site over Thanksgiving weekend increased 50 percent over last year, and
that purchases by people who sought coupons on RetailMeNot increased 70 percent
over last year. The average discounts were about 20 percent.

Analysts caution that strong sales might not mean that shoppers will spend
freely this year. Instead, they could be saving their shopping for days when
they receive discounts. Meanwhile, retailers' profit margins will suffer if they
continue to discount deeply.

"As the deals from this week expire, it will be important to see the degree to
which consumers return to the same retailers to continue their holiday shopping,
thereby helping improve retailers' profit margins, or if we experience a
pullback in consumer spending, which has occurred in previous years," said Gian
M. Fulgoni, chairman of comScore.

Though people are spending more money offline, sales at bricks-and-mortar
retailers are not growing nearly as quickly. Sales were up about 3 percent
during Thanksgiving week.

Part of the reason is that consumers are quickly realizing that prices are
generally lower online, even including tax and shipping, said Mike Fridgen,
chief executive of Decide.com, a price comparison and tracking Web site and app.

Prices of popular electronics items can be 44 percent lower online and beat
in-store prices 94 percent of the time for many gadgets, according to
Decide.com. The prices for GPS devices, for instance, are generally 24 percent
lower online, though some products, like video game consoles and Canon digital
cameras, are less expensive in stores.


     ·    Late-Coming Shipping Promotions Drive Online Shopping
     ·    More Shoppers Go Online, Hungry for Deals
     ·    Holiday E-Commerce Sales Increased 5 Percent
     ·    Is Black Friday Becoming the New Cyber Monday?
     ·    Shoppers Are Staying Home and Logging On This Season


LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday

Whimsical Emojis Get a Shot at Success

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 106 words



HIGHLIGHT: Emoji, the more elaborate cousins of emoticons, are available to
in-the-know smartphone owners via apps, but Apple's update to its iPhone
software paves the way for them to go mainstream.


Outside their native Japan, emoji have been available to in-the-know smartphone
owners for some time via add-on applications. But now the whimsical cousins of
the emoticons may be on the verge of going mainstream in the United States,
thanks in part to Apple's latest update to its iPhone software, reports Jenna
Wortham in The New York Times.
Read the entire article on the Times Technology page.


     ·    Flipboard Introduces an iPhone App for Killing Time Standing in Line
     ·    Oh, for the Good Old Days of Rude Cellphone Gabbers
     ·    Path Tries Again With a Wider Network
     ·    Cyber Monday Shopping Surpasses Expectations
     ·    Is Microsoft Running Out of Time for Tablets?


LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday

Newswallah: Censorship

BYLINE: NEHA THIRANI

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1024 words



HIGHLIGHT: Censorship is nothing new in India.


The Indian government's most recent attempt at censorship may be mired in
controversy, but it is hardly unusual.

As  India Ink reported, over the last few months top executives from Google,
Microsoft, Yahoo and Facebook have been meeting with Kapil Sibal, the federal
minister for telecommunications and human resources development, to discuss the
possibility of pre-screening user content from India to delete disparaging,
inflammatory or defamatory content before it goes online. At a news conference
held in response to the piece on Tuesday, Mr. Sibal said that the move was an
attempt to protect the 'sensibilities' of the Indian people, as there was some
content on the Internet that "any normal human being would be offended by."

The announcement incited an outpouring of outrage on social media sites such as
Facebook and Twitter, where many accused the minister of gagging free speech in
the name of screening content. Kafila, a blog on Indian media has started a
campaign in response asking people to write "Kapil Sibal is an Idiot" on their
Facebook status or use the hasthag #IdiotKapilSibal on Twitter. While Mr. Sibal
argues that his proposal does not amount to censorship, commentators feel that
"self-regulation" is tantamount to an "ultimately outrageous gag order."
Although cyber law experts say that Internet censorship is unnecessary and
impractical, Sibal said that if the Internet companies did not cooperate the
government would create guidelines to prevent "blasphemous" material from
appearing online.

This is not the Indian government's first attempt at monitoring and controlling
electronic information. Earlier this year, the Department of Information
Technology issued guidelines that demand Internet sites and service providers to
delete content that officials or private citizens consider objectionable.
According to Google's latest Transparency Report, Indian law enforcement
agencies asked Google to remove content that was critical of the government.
However, Google did not comply.

Several recent contentious cases of censorship in India evince the lack of
tolerance for dissent in what is often celebrated as a deeply pluralistic
society. The much-disputed banning of Salman Rushdie's novel "The Satanic
Verses''  in 1989, gave India the dubious honor of being the first country to do
so. "The Polyester Prince," Hamish McDonald's unauthorized biography of
Dhirubhai Ambani, the Reliance Industries' founder, was never published in
India, although promptly appeared at traffic signals or intersections across the
country. Earlier this year, "Aarakshan,"a Bollywood film based on affirmative
action in education, was banned in three Indian states.

The banning of cultural works - whether books, paintings, films or music - has
long been used as a strategic tool to bolster powerful political and corporate
interests. Earlier this year, an essay entitled "Three Hundred Ramayanas: Five
Examples and Three Thoughts on Translation" written by the late A.K. Ramanujan,
provoked a potent reaction from Hindu nationalists who asked that the essay be
withdrawn from the undergraduate syllabus at Delhi University. Mint newspaper
asks why the essay is inappropriate for students, citing the academic value of
the piece, the misuse of the notion of blasphemy and the need for alternate
viewpoints to create meaningful dialogue.

The death in June 2011 of M.F. Hussain, one of India's leading artists, inspired
a fresh round of criticism for the intolerance he suffered. The Guardian writes
that the campaign by Hindu extremists to defame and destroy his work in the name
of religion, which resulted in his exile in London, "had no rational cause
beyond the need of Hindu extremists to keep their followers in a politically
useful state of rolling sectarian rage". This was not the only time an artist
had to take refuge outside of India. In November 2007 the Muslim All-India
Minority Forum called for blockades across Calcutta and demanded that the
Bangladeshi feminist writer Taslima Nasreen leave India, as her writing had
"seriously hurt Muslim sentiments." Amit Varma wrote in the Mint that Section
295(a) of the Indian Penal Code, meant to protect religious sentiments, was
being used at random to exercise political clout.

In October 2010, Aditya Thackeray led a successful campaign to remove Rohinton
Mistry's novel "Such a Long Journey"  from the syllabus of Mumbai University
because of the unflattering portrayal of his grandfather, Balasaheb Thackeray,
the patriarch of the Shiv Sena, a right-wing political party in Maharashtra.
Prayaag Akbar wrote in The Sunday Guardianthat the move was engineered to
project Thackeray as a defender of the nationalist movement the party promotes.
Similarly, the 2004 banning of James Laine's historical account of the Maratha
emperor Shivaji, which was later rescinded, suited the interests of the radical
nationalist movement in Maharashtra.

In April 2011 the Gujarat government banned Joseph Lelyveld's biography "Great
Soul: Mahatma Gandhi and His Struggle with India," for allegedly insulting the
national icon with its depiction of his sexual conduct and lifestyle choices.
The book became a center of controversy on the basis of reviews in newspapers in
Britain and the United States though it has yet to be published in India. In an
interview with The New York Times Mr. Lelyveld (who is a former executive editor
of the paper) said that, having lived in India, he understood that it was a
delicate issue and had "treaded very carefully." Salil Tripathi, writing in
Mint, argues that while other democracies such as the United States allow the
publication of honest accounts of former leaders, India does not. Anuj Puri, in
The Wall Street Journal, writes of India's "addiction to the monochromatic
narrative" which plagues public life.

India's acceptance of this singularity of thought in public discourse, manifest
in censorship practices, is unsettling to many. Foreign policy analyst Nitin Pai
writes that while we must seek a balance between "freedom of expression and
maintenance of law and order" the latter usually trumps the former, at the
writer's expense.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

Fill-In | Code-Cracking

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 839 words



HIGHLIGHT: Fill in the blanks in several paragraphs in this article from the
World section, "Go Online, Beat a Puzzle and Become a British Spy." Use your own
words and phrases, or choose from a scrambled list of the words or phrases that
were removed.


Directions: Fill in the blanks in several paragraphs in this article from the
World section, "Go Online, Beat a Puzzle and Become a British Spy."

Use your own words and phrases, or scroll to the end of the post to choose from
a scrambled list of the words or phrases that were removed. Another option?
Read, or listen to someone read, the original article first, then fill in the
blanks from memory.

LONDON - Psst! Wanna be a spy?

Back in the cloak-and-_________ days of secret intelligence work, Britain's
espionage agencies liked to recruit in the ivied colleges of Oxford and
Cambridge, even if that brought them some of the most notorious _________ of the
20th century, men like Kim Philby and other Cambridge spies who handed atom bomb
secrets to the _________ in the 1940s and 1950s before defecting to Moscow.

In the Internet age, the spy catchers have been forced to go _________,
democratic and, old-timers might say, outright pop. Their latest wheeze, causing
a buzz on the Internet - and stirring a torrent of Web chat among people
identifying themselves as hackers - is an online cryptographic puzzle that
promises a fast track to recruitment as spies for those who _________ it before
the challenge expires on Dec. 11.

According to traffic on Twitter, Facebook and scores of other Web sites, at
least 50 people have solved the puzzle since it was posted unobtrusively last
month. To all but practiced _________, it looks _________: a rectangular display
of 160 letters and numbers, grouped in twos in blue against a black background,
under the overline, "Can you crack it?" Beneath it, a digital clock _________
down the seconds left until the competition closes.

The agency that posted the puzzle at www.canyoucrackit.co.uk is one of the
oldest, and, espionage experts say, most successful _________ organizations
anywhere, Government Communications Headquarters, or GCHQ, located in a vast
doughnut-shaped building surrounded by huge satellite dishes in parkland near
Cheltenham, 120 miles west of London.

Helped by a hand-in-glove relationship with its American counterpart, the
National Security Agency, which provides access to data downloaded from a
pervasive network of American spy satellites, GCHQ can _________ into phone
calls, e-mails and computers virtually anywhere in the _________. With language
experts speaking everything from Amharic to Kazakh and 70 tongues besides, it
has played a crucial role in cracking some of the biggest _________ plots
against the West in recent years.

Once decrypted, the agency's online puzzle, through a process experts call
steganography, yields a hidden _________ in the form of a keyword. Those who
enter the keyword are led to a Web address, where they are greeted with a
congratulatory note. It is signed by a group calling itself Cyber Security
Specialists, a newly formed unit within the British agency that is responsible
for combating the _________  threat that British officials have listed alongside
terrorism, organized crime, and drug and weapons smuggling among the nation's
biggest security _________.

"So you did it," says the congratulatory message. "Now this is where it gets
_________. Could you use your skills and ingenuity to combat terrorism and
cyberthreats? As one of our experts, you'll help protect our nation's security
and the lives of thousands." Those interested are then invited to submit a
formal job application, leading to _________ for a total of 35 jobs next spring.

Some skeptics, believing there is nothing particularly _________ in the new
world of spycraft beyond updated technologies, have noted that recruiting
techniques used by the World War II code-breaking agency that was GCHQ's
predecessor included presenting candidates, many of them from Oxford and
Cambridge, with cryptographic crossword puzzles. Other skeptics on the Internet
have dismissed the GCHQ puzzle as too _________.

One cyberenthusiast, Dave Neal, writing on the Web site theinquirer.net,
dismissed the puzzle as "not cool, and not very professional." He said that he
and others working with him at the Web site "asked GCHQ if this was a hoax."

The spy agency has insisted it is not. A spokesman described the puzzle as a
follow-up on unusual methods it has used in the past to reach potential
computer-age recruits who might escape _________ methods, which have included
discreet advertisements in high-end magazines and newspapers. The newer tactics
have included posting video content and downloadable information about the
agency on the Web, and cyberpuzzles on popular video games like Call of
_________ and Assassin's _________.

Soviet Unioncyberespionagecryptographersdigitaldaggereavesdroppingbaffling
turncoatsCreedinterviewssolvehackterrorinterestingtickseasyworldmessagetradition
alDutyinnovativethreats

For answers, go to the original review.

To find more Times fill-ins, visit our Fill-In category page.


     ·    Test Yourself | Math, Nov. 29, 2010
     ·    Dec. 9, 1992 | Charles and Diana Announce Royal Separation
     ·    Fill-In | Corn Mazes
     ·    Riots in London
     ·    Got Game? Learning With Puzzles


LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 11, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; CORRECTIONS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 42 words


An opinion essay on Dec. 4 about the emergence of a new digital divide
erroneously attributed a distinction to the Monday after Thanksgiving, sometimes
called Cyber Monday. It was the biggest online sales day of the year, not the
biggest overall sales day.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Motherlode)

                            December 12, 2011 Monday

Some Holiday Cheer for Homeless Families

BYLINE: KJ DELL'ANTONIA

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 357 words



HIGHLIGHT: Viewers of a "60 Minutes" segment on homeless families donated more
than $1 million, which is heartwarming but not wholly satisfying.


On the Sunday between Black Friday and Cyber Monday, "60 Minutes" broadcast a
story called "Hard Times Generation." Homeless teens Arielle and Austin Metzger
described living in their dad's van, brushing their teeth in service stations
and "doing what they can to get by" with touching self-possession and gratitude
for what they did have - school, their dad, and one another. Younger kids,
gathered in small forum at a local school, discussed living without a permanent
home - staying up all night in the back seat to watch over a sleeping mother to
"keep her safe"; moving into a hotel (and agreeing to repaint all of its rooms)
for shelter.

Viewers of "60 Minutes" responded with an outpouring of donations for Florida's
homeless families, and for these families in particular: Florida's State
ImpactWeb site reported that the Metzgers received three offers of scholarships
to college, and "60 Minutes"  updated the story Sunday night, reporting that all
the parents featured in the story have been offered jobs, and that more than $1
million had been donated.

Which is heartwarming, but not wholly satisfying. After I  about the story that
weekend, my personal response was a check to a local charity supporting homeless
families. Watching the Metzger kids take their day's clothes out of a storage
bin (and you should) would push nearly any Scrooge to open his wallet - but as
many readers here agreed, we can't rely on personal appeals to help every child.
What of the families in communities where "60 Minutes" reporters haven't
traveled, or those who are too proud or too cautious to make their desperation
so public? Charitable donations are wonderful, but temporary. Stories like "Hard
Times Generation" need to provoke a conversation about how so many families
(about 80,000 nationwide, according to federal housing statistics) find
themselves in such straits, and how we can not just help them out, but help
prevent other families from ever getting there.


     ·    Christmas in the Family Car
     ·    'Layaway Angels' Pay Off Family Accounts
     ·    'Mom, Are We the 1 Percent?'
     ·    Should We 'Occupy' Education?
     ·    More Children Need a Free Breakfast, Lunch - and Dinner


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Profits and Questions at Online Charter Schools

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SAUL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5310 words


By almost every educational measure, the Agora Cyber Charter School is failing.

Nearly 60 percent of its students are behind grade level in math. Nearly 50
percent trail in reading. A third do not graduate on time. And hundreds of
children, from kindergartners to seniors, withdraw within months after they
enroll.

By Wall Street standards, though, Agora is a remarkable success that has helped
enrich K12 Inc., the publicly traded company that manages the school. And the
entire enterprise is paid for by taxpayers.

Agora is one of the largest in a portfolio of similar public schools across the
country run by K12. Eight other for-profit companies also run online public
elementary and high schools, enrolling a large chunk of the more than 200,000
full-time cyberpupils in the United States.

The pupils work from their homes, in some cases hundreds of miles from their
teachers. There is no cafeteria, no gym and no playground. Teachers communicate
with students by phone or in simulated classrooms on the Web. But while the
notion of an online school evokes cutting-edge methods, much of the work is
completed the old-fashioned way, with a pencil and paper while seated at a desk.

Kids mean money. Agora is expecting income of $72 million this school year,
accounting for more than 10 percent of the total anticipated revenues of K12,
the biggest player in the online-school business. The second-largest,
Connections Education, with revenues estimated at $190 million, was bought this
year by the education and publishing giant Pearson for $400 million.

The business taps into a formidable coalition of private groups and officials
promoting nontraditional forms of public education. The growth of for-profit
online schools, one of the more overtly commercial segments of the school choice
movement, is rooted in the theory that corporate efficiencies combined with the
Internet can revolutionize public education, offering high quality at reduced
cost.

The New York Times has spent several months examining this idea, focusing on K12
Inc. A look at the company's operations, based on interviews and a review of
school finances and performance records, raises serious questions about whether
K12 schools -- and full-time online schools in general -- benefit children or
taxpayers, particularly as state education budgets are being slashed.

Instead, a portrait emerges of a company that tries to squeeze profits from
public school dollars by raising enrollment, increasing teacher workload and
lowering standards.

Current and former staff members of K12 Inc. schools say problems begin with
intense recruitment efforts that fail to filter out students who are not suited
for the program, which requires strong parental commitment and self-motivated
students. Online schools typically are characterized by high rates of
withdrawal.

Teachers have had to take on more and more students, relaxing rigor and
achievement along the way, according to interviews. While teachers do not have
the burden of a full day of classes, they field questions from families, monitor
students' progress and review and grade schoolwork. Complaints about low pay and
high class loads -- with some high school teachers managing more than 250
students -- have prompted a unionization battle at Agora, which has offices in
Wayne, Pa.

A look at a forthcoming study by researchers at Western Michigan University and
the National Education Policy Center shows that only a third of K12's schools
achieved adequate yearly progress, the measurement mandated by federal No Child
Left Behind legislation.

Some teachers at K12 schools said they felt pressured to pass students who did
little work. Teachers have also questioned why some students who did no class
work were allowed to remain on school rosters, potentially allowing the company
to continue receiving public money for them. State auditors found that the
K12-run Colorado Virtual Academy counted about 120 students for state
reimbursement whose enrollment could not be verified or who did not meet
Colorado residency requirements. Some had never logged in.

''What we're talking about here is the financialization of public education,''
said Alex Molnar, a research professor at the University of Colorado Boulder
School of Education who is affiliated with the education policy center. ''These
folks are fundamentally trying to do to public education what the banks did with
home mortgages.''

The online companies can tailor their programs by reducing curriculum and
teachers. During a presentation at the Virginia legislature this year, a
representative of Connections explained that its services were available at
three price points per student:

Option A: $7,500, a student-teacher ratio of 35-40 to 1, and an average teacher
salary of $45,000.

Option B: $6,500, a student-teacher ratio of 50 to 1, with less experienced
teachers paid $40,000.

Option C: $4,800 and a student-teacher ratio of 60 to 1, as well as a narrower
curriculum.

Despite lower operating costs, the online companies collect nearly as much
taxpayer money in some states as brick-and-mortar charter schools. In
Pennsylvania, about 30,000 students are enrolled in online schools at an average
cost of about $10,000 per student. The state auditor general, Jack Wagner, said
that is double or more what it costs the companies to educate those children
online.

''It's extremely unfair for the taxpayer to be paying for additional expenses,
such as advertising,'' Mr. Wagner said. Much of the public money also goes
toward lobbying state officials, an activity that Ronald J. Packard, chief
executive of K12, has called a ''core competency'' of the company.

In all, for-profit educational management companies run 79 online schools around
the country, according to the study by researchers at Western Michigan
University.

Many educators believe there is a place for full-time virtual learning for
children whose pace is extremely accelerated or those with behavioral or other
issues, like teenage mothers who need to stay home with their babies. But for
most children, particularly in the elementary grades, the school experience
should not be replaced with online learning, they say.

''The early development of children requires lots of interaction with other
children for purposes of socialization, developing collaboration and teamwork,
and self-definition,'' said Irving Hamer Jr., deputy superintendent of Memphis
city schools.

In an interview at K12's headquarters in Herndon, Va., Mr. Packard said, ''We're
here to help children, and that is our overriding purpose and we want to do it
as well and efficiently as possible.''

He acknowledged what he called a ''degradation'' in K12's test scores, but he
argued that they are an inaccurate measure because many students are already
behind when they arrive. ''The type of child now coming to an online school, 75
percent of those kids coming in are behind more than one grade level,'' Mr.
Packard said.

He said K12 continues to invest in its curriculum and has developed
interventions, like a remedial math program, to help struggling students.

''Kids have been shackled to their brick-and-mortar school down the block for
too long,'' Mr. Packard has said repeatedly, adding that for the first time,
every child, regardless of where he or she lives, has a choice.

Some educators are questioning its value. ''It's choice,'' said Thomas L.
Seidenberger, superintendent of the East Penn School District in Pennsylvania,
which is outperforming Agora and other online schools its students attend.
''What about a bad choice?'''

The Cost

The original pitchman for K12 was William J. Bennett, the former education
secretary who helped found the company in 2000. At the time, Mr. Bennett said he
viewed online schools as a haven for shy children, those worried about being
exposed to drugs and even those with ''terrible acne.''

The company planned to sell an education package directly to parents who wanted
to home-school their children. But within months, K12 had decided to tap into
public education dollars.

As the company's product has become more popular, the cost has soared.

Mr. Bennett, who left the company in 2005, originally said a home-schooling
package would cost about $1,000 per student per year. Parents who wanted teacher
support would pay more.

Today, K12 receives an average of $5,500 to $6,000 per student from state and
local governments. The schools also receive money for federal programs.

Because online schools do not collect every type of financing that goes to
traditional public schools, Mr. Packard contends that his company's schools, on
a national average, cost taxpayers 40 percent less per student.

But online schools have negligible building costs and cheaper labor costs,
partly because they pay teachers low wages, records and interviews show.
Parents, called ''learning coaches,'' do much of the teaching, prompting critics
to argue that states are essentially subsidizing home schooling.

''Any high school student taking economics could immediately recognize the
fundamental flaws in their pricing structure,'' said John E. Freund III, a
Pennsylvania lawyer who represents a number of districts who are losing students
to the online schools and the public financing that goes with them.

Because many states prohibit for-profit public education, the management
companies for virtual schools run schools under contract with public districts
or nonprofit charter schools, which also receive public money. But companies
like K12 are almost fully in charge -- devising curriculum, hiring teachers and
principals and evaluating student performance.

Another way K12 maximizes its income is to establish schools in poor districts,
which receive larger subsidies in some states. The company administers one of
K12's newest schools from Union County, Tenn., a mountainous Appalachian enclave
where nearly a quarter of the residents live in poverty.

The Tennessee Virtual Academy is technically part of the local school district,
which receives more per pupil from the state than most other districts in
Tennessee. But of the school's 1,800 pupils, few are actually from Union County.

Out of the state money, the Union County schools will get an administrative fee
of about $400,000. K12 stands to collect almost $10 million to staff and manage
the school. Dozens of other Tennessee counties, however, lost state financing
when some of their students elected to go to the virtual school.

The online schools have enabled entrepreneurs like Michael R. Milken, whose
company Knowledge Universe started K12 a decade ago and who remains an investor,
to use education as a source of government-financed business, much as military
contractors have capitalized on Pentagon spending.

Mr. Packard reports to investors every year with higher enrollment numbers and
sales. On Nov. 15, he announced that the company's online schools had enrolled
more than 94,000 students. ''I think online schools are becoming more
mainstream,'' said Mr. Packard, who was paid $5 million this year.

A sizable portion of the public money collected by K12 is rolled back into
generating more business, a common practice by for-profit companies that
nevertheless raises questions when the money is intended to educate
schoolchildren. K12 spent $26.5 million on advertising in 2010, according to an
analysis prepared for The New York Times by Kantar Media.

''Some of the cyber charter schools have fairly aggressive recruitment
campaigns,'' said Jim Buckheit, executive director of the Pennsylvania
Association of School Administrators. ''They have vans, billboards, TV and radio
ads. They set up recruitment meetings in area hotels and invite parents to
come.''

K12 has run thousands of the sessions, where part of the pitch is supplying
computers and subsidized Internet connections for qualifying families. Dr.
Seidenberger said he was surprised to see ads for online schools in the outfield
at Coca-Cola Park, the stadium of the Lehigh Valley IronPigs minor league
baseball team.

The Churn

Parents who become interested in K12's schools can follow up by calling 866
numbers, which connect them to a call center in Herndon.

School employees who have visited the center have described a high-pressured
sales environment aimed at one thing: enrollment.

Some workers, called ''enrollment pals,'' are paid bonuses based on the number
of students they sign up, according to former employees knowledgeable of the
operations. Mr. Packard's annual bonus is also partly tied to enrollment.

Because the online schools are public, students cannot legally be denied
enrollment. But former K12 employees said the aggressive and impersonal
enrollment process lures students who are not a good fit.

''When you have the television and the Xbox and no parental figure at home,
sometimes it's hard to do your schoolwork,'' said one Agora teacher, who asked
not to be identified because of concerns over job safety.

The constant cycle of enrollment and withdrawal, called the churn rate, appears
to be a problem at many schools. Records Agora filed with Pennsylvania reveal
that 2,688 students withdrew during the 2009-10 school year. At the same time,
K12 continued to sign up new students. Enrollment at the end of the year --
4,890 -- was 170 students more than at the beginning, obscuring the high number
of withdrawals.

Gary Miron, a professor of education at Western Michigan University who
researches for-profit school management companies, called the turnover
troubling. ''The kids enroll. You get the money, the kids disappear,'' he said.

A review of K12 management contracts reveals that the company may still benefit
from students who end up leaving. Under its contracts with some charter schools,
K12 charges ''upfront'' fees for books and other supplies.

According to an Agora price list for the 2009-10 school year, K12's upfront
billings for elementary and middle school students were $60 a course for online
services, $75 a course for materials and $75 per student for computers. With
students frequently enrolled in six courses, the fees could surpass $800.

Under some of K12's contracts, only a portion of the fees would be returned if
students withdrew quickly. Mr. Packard has said the company does not make money
if students leave because of the cost of the materials and shipping.

The state audit of the Colorado Virtual Academy, which found that the state paid
for students who were not attending the school, ordered the reimbursement of
more than $800,000.

With retention a problem, some teachers said they were under pressure to pass
students with marginal performance and attendance.

Students need simply to log in to be marked present for the day, according to
Agora teachers and administrators.

For most students, attendance is recommended but not mandatory at what are
called synchronous sessions -- when they can interact online with the teacher. A
new grading policy states that students who do not turn in work will be given a
''50'' rather than a zero. Several teachers said assignments were frequently
open for unlimited retakes.

Agora records from last year show that failing students were told they could
make up their work. ''All students with a course average of 40 to 59 percent
were called and told all assignments past due could be made up without
penalty,'' according to minutes from a school board meeting. Similar calls were
going out to students with averages of 0 to 39 percent.

Theresa Henderson, an Agora teacher until June 2010 and the mother of four of
its students, said she was among faculty members who requested a stronger policy
to dismiss students who were not doing their work.

Several current and former staff members said that a lax policy had allowed
students to remain on the rolls even when they failed to log in for days.
Officials of the Elizabeth Forward School District in western Pennsylvania
complained that Agora had billed the district for students who were not
attending.

One of them was a girl who had missed 55 days but was still on the school's
roster, according to Margaret Boucher, assistant business manager at Elizabeth
Forward.

The school has cracked down on disengaged students, according to a statement by
its director, Sharon Williams, who said a policy adopted last December mandates
attendance at online classes for those students who do not log in, repeatedly
fail to complete lessons or are failing three courses. She said the school
follows state law by removing students who are absent for 10 consecutive days.

Poor attendance and disengaged students have been such a problem that Agora
dismissed 600 students last year for nonattendance, 149 of them just before
state tests were administered, according to school board minutes.

The Students and Parents

With K12 estimating the market for its schools as high as $15 billion, the
company's manifest destiny is to expand across the United States. Its newest
conquest is Tennessee, where the company got legislative approval last May and
began holding information sessions in July.

By fall, 1,800 students had enrolled in the Tennessee Virtual Academy.

About 75 of them came from the struggling Memphis city school system, including
the children of Denita Alhammadi.

In a neighborhood teetering on the edge of middle class, Ms. Alhammadi has
converted her living room into a classroom. Two desks are for her children,
Romeo, 13, and Yasmine, 8. Another is for Ms. Alhammadi, a former Army supply
officer who is also studying online, through Kaplan University.

Within weeks of attending a K12 information session, Ms. Alhammadi had become
parent and teacher, wrapped into one. She spends as much as six hours a day as
the official ''learning coach'' for her children.

Like many parents who move their children to online schools, she had worried
about violence. But no single reason leads families to make the switch. The
students are a broadly diverse group, ranging from entertainers and athletes in
training to children with cancer, seizure disorders, peanut allergies or
behavioral problems. Some have been expelled from regular schools. In many cases
their parents are simply dissatisfied.

Kathryn Ubiarco, whose son and daughter are also enrolled in Tennessee, said
that her daughter's school in Memphis had not been teaching her to read.
''There's no way to come up with the B that she got in reading last year,'' Ms.
Ubiarco said. ''The child can't read.'' She believes the virtual school
curriculum is more rigorous.

A lesson from a middle school world history class focuses on the history of the
calendar and the recording of time. Intended to take one hour, the lesson opens
online with an illustrated introduction. A video explains how time zones vary
around the globe. After reading from a textbook, students define terms in a
written journal. Then, the parent helps chart a timeline of the student's own
life.

The student can click on other online resources -- flashcards, three timelines,
two games and links to more than 20 other Web sites.

Students say the games are fun. They may encounter problems, though, when
navigating the links. Of more than 20 links in the history lesson, five were not
working on a recent day. Several linked to commercial sites including the
History Channel and Yahoo Kids.

Students must score an 80 on an online assessment to move to the next lesson.

Some teachers have complained that it can be difficult to determine whether
students are actually doing the work, or getting help from their parents or
others. ''Virtual schools offer much greater opportunity for students to obtain
credit for work they did not do themselves,'' said a report in October from the
National Education Policy Center, which receives financing from the National
Education Association.

Ms. Alhammadi, who runs her tiny school like boot camp, has hidden Romeo's
computer login so she has control. Otherwise, he would skip the lessons and move
straight to the online test -- a habit cited by critics of K12's curriculum.

As two frisky cats run back and forth, Romeo raises his hand -- a formality
required by his mother -- and asks to leave the room. He returns with headphones
and plugs them into his computer. As he lip syncs Rihanna's hit ''Umbrella'' it
becomes clear that Romeo is not listening to any lesson. ''I concentrate better
with my music,'' he says.

On his computer screen, a series of multiple choice questions ask him to select
the correct answer to algebraic equations using negative numbers. Romeo scores a
67 percent.

When Romeo moves to science, he misses a question on the definition of matter.

''Romeo, Romeo,'' his mother says. ''If you had been studying appropriately, you
would have found out that there are lots of properties of matter. And you got to
take all those elements to build matter. Because elements are gas, solids,
liquid.''

Romeo is scheduled for a virtual session with his assigned teacher and class at
1 p.m. But when he signs into the class, no one else is there. ''Wow, the room
is completely empty,'' he says. He types, ''Anyone here?'' There is no response.

The Teachers

The monthly meeting of the Agora Cyber Charter School board of trustees is live
on Blackboard, the same platform students and teachers use for class. During the
November meeting, an elementary teacher, Jessica Long, placed a checkmark by her
name, indicating she wanted to speak. Then she challenged school figures showing
its student-to-teacher ratio is 49 to 1.

''I know on the elementary level we have anywhere from 70 to 100,'' Ms. Long
said. ''I don't know anyone who has 50 students.''

Some teachers said they were initially attracted to K12 by the flexibility of
working from home, in some cases allowing them to take care of their own
children while teaching.

Gwen Schwartz, an Indiana University graduate who teaches for the Tennessee
Virtual Academy, works from her home in a remote area of eastern Tennessee while
her children are next door with their grandparents. In addition to saving on
child care, Ms. Schwartz can save on commuting costs and clothing.

But many teachers said the job had become less desirable as the company
increased enrollment, particularly because pay at many K12 schools starts in the
low 30s -- low even for online schools. Some class sizes have become unwieldy,
they said, requiring 60-hour weeks and compromising instruction.

At Agora, enrollment has reached 8,836, up from 6,323 in May, according to
figures released by the school. As of late November, the total number of staff
members -- 408 -- was lower than last year. Some high school teachers said they
were managing as many as 270 students, even though they had been told they would
have 150. Agora officials said last week that they hired 25 teachers in the past
couple of weeks.

Some Agora teachers have been asked to take on extra students at the rate of $1
per student, per day, according to a newsletter from the Pennsylvania State
Education Association.

In interviews, former teachers at Ohio Virtual Academy and Colorado Virtual
Academy also complained of bigger class loads, with elementary teachers who once
handled 40 to 50 pupils now supervising 75. A teacher with an elementary class
that size and a 40-hour workweek could devote little more than 30 minutes a week
to each student.

Mary Ravanelli, a former teacher at Ohio Virtual Academy, said she oversaw more
than 70 students at a time, answering calls from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., updating
parents on students' progress and attending various school outings. ''We'd
actually meet our students several times a year,'' she said.

With teacher salaries and benefits the biggest cost to K12, increasing
student-to-teacher ratios is an easy way for the company to increase profits.
Ms. Henderson, the former Agora teacher and mother of four students, said the
ultimate losers are the children.

''What has happened now in honors literature courses, the teachers are not able
to keep up with 300 students, so they'll just cut curriculum. The kids are
losing out,'' she said. ''This past week my son was exempted from 'The Great
Gatsby' because of the workload of the teacher.''

Politics

''Choice'' is a mantra of the charter school movement, which promotes
competition as a way of compelling traditional public schools to improve. The
for-profit companies that operate some charter and online schools take the idea
a step further by arguing that private business models are more efficient than
public school systems.

Together, the groups have formed a lobbying juggernaut in state capitals.

In Pennsylvania, where K12 Inc. collects about 10 percent of its revenues, the
company has spent $681,000 on lobbying since 2007. The company also has friends
in high places. Charles Zogby, the state's budget secretary, had been senior
vice president of education and policy for K12. In a statement, Mr. Zogby said
he still owned a small number of K12 shares, but did not make decisions
specifically affecting online schools.

An analysis by the National Institute on Money in State Politics concluded that
K12 and its employees had also contributed nearly $500,000 to state political
candidates across the country from 2004 to 2010.

One of the industry's most persuasive promotional tools has been the young
children who show up en masse at hearings to support online-school legislation.
They are mobilized by groups tied to online schools. Records show that at least
some receive industry funding.

When Karen Beyer, then a Pennsylvania state representative, sponsored a bill in
2007 to cut financing to online schools, about 700 people turned out for one
hearing. Mr. Freund, the Pennsylvania education lawyer, said the room was
''packed with kids.''

''They had on different colored T-shirts representing their cyber schools,'' he
added.

One of the organizers of such turnouts has been the Pennsylvania Families for
Public Cyber Schools. Records show that the group, which gets money both from
K12 and Connections Education, has spent about $250,000 on lobbying in the past
five years.

Similar family organizations have cropped up across the country.

Former State Representative Stephen Dyer became suspicious when members of the
benignly named organization My School, My Choice paraded through his
northeastern Ohio district carrying signs attacking him: ''Why Won't Rep.
Stephen Dyer let parents choose the best education for their kids?''

The protest was prompted by questions Mr. Dyer had raised over the state's
financing formula for charter and online schools. The group describes itself as
a coalition of parents, teachers and employees of the schools. But Mr. Dyer said
that his wife questioned the people carrying the signs and found out they were
paid temp agency workers.

A telephone call to a toll-free number on the Web site for My School, My Choice
was returned by Mark Weaver, a Columbus lawyer and political consultant with
Republican ties dating back to the Reagan administration.

Mr. Weaver said the group's crowning achievement was a 2009 rally against
legislation in Ohio that would limit school choice. ''We put 4,500 people on the
statehouse lawn,'' he said. But he declined to answer questions about the
group's leadership and financing.

Documents incorporating the organization provide clues. The forms name one of
the group's founders as Tim Dirrim, a Huntington National Bank employee who
serves as board president of the Ohio Virtual Academy, which is managed by K-12
and receives more than $60 million a year from the state. Mr. Dirrim said he
knew little about My School, My Choice and was not aware of the campaign against
Mr. Dyer.

Much of the Ohio Virtual Academy's money goes through an account at Huntington
National, according to the Ohio auditor's office. Mr. Dirrim said the banking
arrangement was made before he joined the board and that he did not make
decisions relating to the bank's account with the school.

The Results

Mr. Packard has repeatedly delivered upbeat assessments to Wall Street about the
progress of K12 Inc. students, even as many schools were performing poorly on
state tests.

In a conference in March sponsored by the investment firm Morgan Stanley, Mr.
Packard said that ''our kids are doing as well or better than the average child
in a brick-and-mortar school.''

During an investment analysts call in October, Mr. Packard boasted about results
at Agora, calling them ''significantly higher than a typical school on state
administered tests for growth.'' Weeks earlier, data had been released showing
that 42 percent of Agora students tested on grade level or better in math,
compared with 75 percent of students statewide. And 52 percent of Agora students
had hit the mark in reading, compared with 72 percent statewide. The school was
losing ground, not gaining it.

Mr. Packard said in a recent interview that he was not aware of the data at the
time he made the comments. A spokesman said Mr. Packard was relying on older
data.

A Stanford University group, the Center for Research on Education Outcomes,
tracked students in eight virtual schools in Pennsylvania, including Agora,
comparing them with similar students in regular schools. The study found that
''in every subgroup, with significant effects, cyber charter performance is
lower.''

Devora Davis, the center's research manager, said the group's analysis of
Pennsylvania online schools showed that students were slipping. ''If they were
paired with a traditional public schools student, the public school student kept
their place in line, and the cyberstudent moved back five spots,'' she said.

An analysis by the Carroll County Public School District in Virginia shows that
the 400 students in the virtual program there performed worse than the regular
students in 19 of 26 categories on the state assessment test.

The Carroll County superintendent, James Greg Smith, said he was particularly
concerned about scores in middle school math, history and social sciences. In
seventh-grade math, for example, only 35 percent of the online students passed a
state assessment; 68 percent of the traditional students did.

It will be a while before test results are available for students at the new
virtual school in Tennessee. Back in Memphis, Ms. Alhammadi is worried that her
daughter, Yasmine, is moving too quickly. A computerized analysis shows that, at
the rate she is going, Yasmine will be finished with all but one of her classes
by March.

Red flags go up if a student is ''zapping through like a rocket, lesson by
lesson,'' according to Tom DiGiovanni, K12's senior director of product
planning. ''The teachers are instructed to drop in (by phone) and do a little
quiz to kind of test students'' to make sure they understand the concepts.

Five miles from Ms. Alhammadi's home, Ms. Ubiarco has also turned her living
room into a classroom. Her daughter Sabrina, 10, is in the fifth grade and her
son, K.C., 6, is in kindergarten at the Tennessee Virtual Academy.

Ms. Ubiarco is giving Sabrina a math lesson -- about the distributive property
-- on a white board in the family's living room.

While his mother focuses on his sister, K.C. is doing his own thing -- lying on
the carpet crashing cars into Spider-Man and Batman action figures.

For the most part, Mrs. Ubiarco said the switch to online had gone smoothly,
although she was initially stumped when she first got the K12 curriculum.

''I called the teacher the other day to find out what a simple predicate is,''
she said. ''She said it's the verb. I said why don't they just say that?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 14, 2011



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A
picture caption on Tuesday with an article about the operations behind the
online-school business K12 Inc. misidentified, in some editions, the woman
seated between her two children, both students at the K12 program Tennessee
Virtual Academy. She is Denita Alhammadi -- not Kathryn Ubiarco, another mother
whose children are also enrolled in the Tennessee program.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RONALD J. PACKARD, center, chief executive of K12 Inc., the
leading company in the online school business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BUSINESS WIRE)
Theresa Henderson, her husband and children at the Pennsylvania Capitol in 2007.
She used to teach for the Agora Cyber Charter School but has grown
disillusioned. The children are still students. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SENATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA REPUBLICAN COMMUNICATIONS) (A24)
ROMEO ALHAMMADI, who often studies while listening on headphones while his
mother, Denita Alhammadi, and sister, Jasmine, are busy.
Kathryn Ubiarco with her son, K.C., and daughter Sabrina outside their home in
Memphis. Both children are now students at the Tennessee Virtual Academy, their
living room doubling as a classroom. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LANCE MURPHEY FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)
Gwen Schwartz teaches for the Tennessee Virtual Academy in an arrangement that
saves on child care and commuting costs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN POYNTER FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (A25) CHARTS: Lagging in Performance, a Case Study: Pennsylvania
was one of the first states to allow full-time online schools and it now has the
third-largest enrollment in such schools. Education costs per student in online
schools are lower than in traditional schools, which have significant overhead
costs. But test scores at online schools lag. (Sources: Pennsylvania Department
of Education
 Commonwealth Foundation) (A24)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                    (Bucks)

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday

Holiday Shipping Dates, Free and Otherwise

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 243 words



HIGHLIGHT: Many merchants offer delivery at no charge for purchases made on Free
Shipping Day.


If you sat out Black Friday and Cyber Monday, there's one more
holiday-shopping-related date you may want to mark on your calendar: Free
Shipping Day.

This year, it's Friday, Dec. 16. A number of merchants large and small - more
than 2,000 are listed on the event's Web site - have pledged to offer free
shipping, with delivery by Christmas Eve, for online purchases made on that day.
(Details of the offers vary.) Ordering gifts on that day can save you some money
- assuming that you can still find what you want in stock.

If you would rather not wait, some retailers offer free shipping year-round,
although sometimes a minimum order amount is required. L.L. Bean made a
splashearlier this year when it began offering free shipping with no minimum
purchase. According to Bean's Web site, you can order as late as noon on Dec. 21
and still get free shipping with delivery by Dec. 24 (for items in stock, of
course).

That is helpful if (like me) you tend to procrastinate. To help you figure out
just how late you can wait at other outlets, there is a handy list of standard
and express holiday shipping deadlines by store on FreeShipping.org.

How important is free shipping to you during the holiday season?


     ·    Many Consumers Plan to Spend Less This Holiday Season
     ·    Early Holiday Spending Comes Despite Tight Consumer Budgets
     ·    Holiday Shipping Deadlines Approaching
     ·    Shopping for a Better Deal on Home Services With WhiteFence
     ·    More Americans Planning Holiday Travel This Year


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday

E-Commerce Sites Cater to Procrastinators by Extending Free Shipping

BYLINE: CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 458 words



HIGHLIGHT: Many online retailers are extending their offers of free shipping in
time for delivery before Christmas, in some cases as late as Dec. 22. Though
free shipping cuts into retailers' margins, it has become a necessary evil,
especially to lure holiday shoppers hunting for bargains this year.


 Free shipping has become a necessary evil for online retailers, and this year
many are extending their free shipping cut-off dates for Christmas gifts.

Nine out of 10 online retailers will offer free shipping at some point this
holiday season, and many retailers will extend the offer through Dec. 20,
according to Shop.org, part of the National Retail Federation. Eighty-six
percent of those offering free overnight or two-day shipping have extended those
offers to Dec. 22.

For many retailers, the last day for free shipping by Christmas Eve - called
Free Shipping Day - had been Friday, Dec. 16.   For others, it was Monday, Dec.
12, called Green Monday. Free Shipping Day used to be the biggest online
shopping day of the year until Cyber Monday outdid it.

But a third of online holiday shoppers say they will spend more if shipping is
free, according to Shop.org, and retailers are paying attention. Fifty-six
percent of e-commerce companies said their budget for free shipping promotions
was significantly higher than it was last year.

"As consumers shop around for the perfect gifts, express and standard free
shipping offers could be the deciding factor for many procrastinators this
holiday season," Vicki Cantrell, executive director of Shop.org, said in a
statement.

On Tuesday, Amazon.com announced that it extended its deadline for free shipping
in time for Christmas on orders $25 and higher to Dec. 19. Amazon Prime members,
who pay an annual fee of $79, get free Christmas shipping through Dec. 21. And
for the true procrastinators, items ordered on Dec. 24 will be delivered the
same day for $3.99 for Prime members in certain cities, including Boston,
Chicago, New York, Seattle and Washington.

At Zappos.com this season, gift buyers who order on Dec. 22 will receive free
overnight delivery on Dec. 23. Zappos is promoting its offer on Twitter with a
campaign called 12 Days of Zappos. Each day through Dec. 23, it will give a free
gift to someone who writes a Twitter post about it.

"Zappos considers itself anti-Green Monday because free shipping both ways, 365
days a year is the norm - even during the busiest shopping season," the company
said in a statement.

Blue Nile, the online jeweler, is offer free FedEx shipping in time for
Christmas on most jewelry through Dec. 23, though the company originally thought
that day would be Dec. 19.

"Your biggest day is going to be the last day you can ship and have it arrive in
time for the holidays," said Mark Vadon, chairman of Blue Nile.


     ·    Late-Coming Shipping Promotions Drive Online Shopping
     ·    Amazon Extends Holiday Free Shipping Deadline
     ·    E-Commerce Sales Are Booming, Thanks to Discounts and Free Shipping
     ·    More Shoppers Go Online, Hungry for Deals
     ·    Holiday E-Commerce Sales Increased 5 Percent


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                           December 15, 2011 Thursday

Amid Claims of More Captured Drones, a Report on Their Vulnerability

BYLINE: J. DAVID GOODMAN

LENGTH: 1055 words



HIGHLIGHT: An Iranian newspaper reported plans for an "exhibition" of seven
captured drones as an American military report warned of vulnerabilities in
their communication systems.


After flaunting its capture of a sophisticated American spy drone on national
television last week, Iran is said to be planning to invite local reporters and
foreign diplomats to an even more spectacular display of pilotless hardware in
the near future.

The Tehran Times, an English-language newspaper supported by Iran's government,
reported the impending "exhibition" of seven drones, three from the United
States and four from Israel, along with the electronic equipment that is said to
have been used to bring them down.

The report, from a single anonymous source, was originally published online on
Wednesday but  was picked up on Thursday by the semiofficial Mehr News Agency,
indicating that at the very least there is interest in Tehran in spreading the
news more widely.

Iran has frequently accused the United States and Israel of running covert
programs to spy on Iran and sabotage its nuclear facilities.

The paper said each of the drones had violated the country's airspace, and while
it did not elaborate on how or when the drones had fallen into Iranian
possession, it did include quotes from a January interview with an Iranian
military commander who asserted that at least two "highly advanced spy planes"
had been "shot down" by Iran.

If a public display of multiple American and Israeli drones occurs, it would be
the first confirmation of such Iranian assertions before the most recent capture
of an advanced American RQ-170 drone in eastern Iran, which was announced last
week.

American officials dismissed the notion that more drones were held by Iran.

"One would wonder if Iran has drones why they haven't trotted them out before
now," said one United States official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because of the sensitive nature of the subject. The official added that the
Iranian government appeared to be "in full propaganda blast mode right now."

It still remains unclear how the RQ-170, one of the American military's most
sophisticated spy drones, came into the possession of the Iranian military, let
alone how several more could have ended up there.

The Iranian military has said it had staged a cyberattack against the RQ-170
that enabled it to guide the remotely piloted aircraft to a safe landing.
Footage shown on Iranian television last week of what appeared to be an intact
stealth drone, though discoloration along one of the wings indicated possible
damage and repair work.

Another possible explanation is simple malfunction.

But an Air Force report that surfaced online this week points to deficiencies in
the communication network that could put drones at greater risk in hostile
areas.

Dated April 2011, the report from the United States Air Force Scientific
Advisory Board was published on Tuesday by Public Intelligence, a whistle-blower
Web site that describes itself as a "repository of information in the public
interest" and allows for the anonymous disclosure of documents.

"We did receive the report last week approximately one to two days after Iran
said it had the RQ-170," said Michael Haynes, the site's administrator.

The timing of the disclosure interested the cybersecurity analyst Jeffrey Carr.
"Clearly someone with FOUO access wanted this information to be made public to
inform the controversy surrounding the incident," he wrote on his blog on
Thursday, using the acronym for the report's classification as "for official use
only." He said the report outlines drone vulnerabilities that should be taken
seriously:

With this report as background, the capture of the RQ-170 by Iranian forces
needs to be evaluated fairly and not dismissed as some kind of Iranian scam for
reasons that have more to do with embarrassment than a rational assessment of
the facts.

Among the key findings of the drily written report, entitled "Operating
Next-Generation Remotely Piloted Aircraft for Irregular Warfare," is that
American drones -- also called remotely piloted aircraft or RPAs -- are hampered
by their communications systems:

Limited communications systems result in communications latency, link
vulnerabilities, and lost-link events, which limits mission roles assigned to
RPAs, operational flexibility, and resiliency in the face of unanticipated
events.

The report, a full version of which is included at the bottom of this post,
lists several ways in which drones can come under attacks targeting their
communications:

There is a wide range of methods that a determined adversary can use for
attacking RPA guidance and navigation systems. The report mentions here only
three categories of threats without going into the details:

- Small, simple GPS noise jammers can be easily constructed and employed by an
unsophisticated adversary and would be effective over a limited RPA operating
area.

- GPS repeaters are also available for corrupting navigation capabilities of
RPAs.

- Cyber threats represent a major challenge for future RPA operations. Cyber
attacks can affect both on-board and ground systems, and exploits may range from
asymmetric CNO attacks to highly sophisticated electronic systems and software
attacks.

The report also found that the "spoofing or hijacking" of communication links
could also lead to "platform loss" -- i.e., a missing drone.

An Iranian engineer said to be involved in working on the captured RQ-170 told
The Christian Science Monitor on Thursday that it had been just those sorts of
weaknesses in the communication network that allowed Iran to get the drone:

"The GPS navigation is the weakest point," the Iranian engineer told The
Monitor, giving the most detailed description yet published of Iran's
"electronic ambush" of the highly classified US drone. "By putting noise
[jamming] on the communications, you force the bird into autopilot. This is
where the bird loses its brain."

The "spoofing" technique that the Iranians used - which took into account
precise landing altitudes, as well as latitudinal and longitudinal data - made
the drone "land on its own where we wanted it to, without having to crack the
remote-control signals and communications" from the US control center, says the
engineer.


     ·    Iran's Shooting Star Enters, Stage Left
     ·    State Dept. Counters Latest Report About Iran
     ·    Another Rumor on Attacking Iran Bites the Dust
     ·    Storm of Blog Criticism Follows Fallon Resignation
     ·    Q & A: Keeping Score on U.S.-Iran Confrontation


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 16, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Sales Lag, Stores Shuffle The Calendar

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1064 words


When is the final Saturday before Christmas? Don't bother consulting a calendar
if you're shopping at Macy's, Sears or J. C. Penney.

They've moved it forward a week.

A sharp drop in shopping since Thanksgiving weekend has prompted worried
retailers to slash prices, extend specials, stay open later -- and rewrite the
calendar.

Usually one of the most heavily discounted shopping days of the year, the
Saturday before Christmas -- it falls on Dec. 24 this year -- is too crucial to
retailers' holiday sales to be left in the hands of procrastinating Christmas
Eve shoppers. Instead, many of the promotions pegged to ''Super Saturday,'' as
the day is known in the retail industry, are now scheduled for this Saturday --
a full eight days before Christmas.

''If you wait until the 24th, you have no time to recover,'' said Michael
McNamara, vice president of research and analysis for MasterCard Advisors
SpendingPulse, which tracks consumer spending.

But not all stores are making the switch. And that is creating a good amount of
confusion in the retail world.

''It's chaotic,'' said Dan Biederman, president of the 34th Street Partnership,
an organization in Midtown Manhattan that will help market the Saturday
promotions for retailers. ''The world seems to be split.''

Mr. Biederman's organization was set to do its marketing on Dec. 24, including
putting up an oversize digital sign that counts the number of shopping bags
people in the area carry on the all-important Saturday. Then the group learned
that about half of the national chains represented on 34th Street, like Macy's,
J. C. Penney and Aeropostale, would hold their big sales this Saturday, while
the other half, including Skechers, Victoria's Secret and Mango, were leaning
toward Dec. 24, said Tricia Lewis, director of digital media for the
partnership.

Even within companies, there is discord: Gap Inc. said its Old Navy and Gap
stores would do their big promotions this weekend, with its Banana Republic
division focusing on the 24th. ''It obviously confuses a bag count,'' Mr.
Biederman said.

Martine Reardon, executive vice president of marketing at Macy's, said the 17th
''just happens to fall on the calendar very nicely.'' Like other retailers,
Macy's will be open on the 24th, but its major promotional push will occur a
week earlier.

The dueling Saturdays might seem like a lot of consternation about nothing to
consumers weary of faux shopping events: Black Friday, Sofa Sunday, Cyber
Monday, Red Tuesday, Mobile Sunday, Green Monday and Free Shipping Day (Friday
this year, for those keeping track).

But the worries are real for retailers who are seeing the season slip away from
them, and the potential effects on the economy are considerable.

After a Thanksgiving weekend that set records in terms of sales, in-store
shopping has dropped significantly in the two weeks that followed. The
cumulative drop from Thanksgiving-week sales in those weeks, of 2.4 percent, was
the biggest since 2000, according to the International Council of Shopping
Centers. The Commerce Department said this week that retail sales in November,
including online sales, came in lower than analysts had expected, rising just
0.2 percent to $399.3 billion, the smallest increase in five months.

''That suggests we may not get quite as much momentum in the holiday-sales
season as people were expecting,'' said Peter Buchanan, an economist at CIBC
World Markets. Given that consumer spending makes up the majority of the gross
domestic product, he said, ''the chances of having a really decent recovery are
rather limited if consumers continue to hold back.''Almost 40 percent of
Americans said they were done with their holiday shopping as of last week,
according to a survey from America's Research Group and UBS, suggesting there
may not be too much spending left to do. Still, the National Retail Federation,
the main retail industry group, remains optimistic, and on Thursday raised its
holiday forecast to 3.8 percent growth for the season, up from 2.8.

''With a stronger emphasis on Black Friday, the more the industry pushes, it
works, but the price of that is this lull,'' said Michael P. Niemira, chief
economist for the International Council of Shopping Centers.

That lull makes the final days before Christmas especially important this year.
Stores including Sears and Target are staying open until midnight in some
markets in the run-up to Christmas. Toys ''R'' Us is staying open for 112
consecutive hours in the days leading up to Christmas, and Macy's will keep more
than a dozen stores open for 83 hours straight.

And all Saturdays are important. ''December Saturdays are the highest volume
days of the year,'' Mr. McNamara said. But none more so than the last Saturday
before Christmas -- or, this year, the competing last Saturdays -- which is
sometimes bigger in overall revenue than the Friday after Thanksgiving.
Retailers tend to offer deep, cross-category discounts on that day, rather than
the limited-quantity specials they offer after Thanksgiving.

J. C. Penney, for instance, plans to offer 60 percent off toys, women's and
men's coats and luggage sets, and 65 percent off fine jewelry. Sears will give
away diamond earrings with $199 jewelry purchases, along with offering 75
percent off most of its jewelry and 65 percent off sweaters. Adding to the
confusion, Wal-Mart, which will run a Dec. 17 sale with its lowest prices of the
season on items like toys and bikes, says it will not call the day ''Super
Saturday'' -- it used that term back in November.

The goal of the Saturday discounts is to get as much Christmas merchandise as
possible out the door. And by moving the promotions back a week, retailers will
have more time to sell languishing inventory when there is still some demand for
it. ''The discounts will be deeper, because as they draw nearer to the end of
the season, there is merchandise they have to move,'' said Kathy Grannis, a
spokeswoman for the National Retail Federation.

As for the 34th Street Partnership, it will be out in full force this Saturday
-- in addition to the digital sign, it will blog about deals and coordinate
security and sanitation crews. Mr. Biederman said his staff would also provide
the security and cleaning help on Dec. 24, but it was still puzzling over
whether its shopping bag count could be compared to Super Saturday of last year.

''What's the real day?'' he asked.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A reflection in a display window on 34th Street, where a retail
partnership group will be torn between two Saturdays. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE
BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ''The world seems to be split,'' said Dan Biederman, president of the 34th
Street Partnership, of the competing Saturdays. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO
ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 18, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Panning Salon

BYLINE: By JIM WINDOLF.

Jim Windolf is a contributing editor at Vanity Fair.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; LOOSE ENDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 518 words


The record $52.4 billion spree shoppers went on from Black Friday through Cyber
Monday was really just for show. Beneath the holiday spending, consumers are
grouchy. You can sense their mood just by scanning the posts at consumer-review
sites like Trip Advisor and Yelp.

''Produce59'' at Trip Advisor had this to say about a room at the Comfort Inn &
Suites in Fredericksburg, Va.: ''The heating/AC unit was nice and quiet;
however, the thermostat is on the wall, so turning the knobs directly on the
unit will not get you any results.'' We'll keep that in mind. (''ExArmyRN'' had
this nit to pick: ''It would have been nice if the mini-refrigerator had a small
freezer section.'')

Viaggio Ristorante and Lounge in Chicago is positively reviewed, but ''Johnny
T.'' logged in at Yelp to say this:

''The salad was passable ... The orecchiette was ... a little less than a-ok.
Serviceable, perhaps... I enjoyed the white beans but there was no heat to the
dish ... This was bland. I added red pepper flakes to the dish in search of some
sort of seasoning. At the end of the meal, I was left feeling confused.''

Who are these people? I'm not sure, but they are more exacting than professional
critics.

If you're staying at, say, the Econo Lodge in Cave City, Ky., what do you expect
at breakfast time? ''Tropicanadan'' weighed in at Trip Advisor: ''The breakfast
was adequate but unremarkable.'' Really? At an Econo Lodge? In Kentucky?

If the consumer-review Web sites are any indication, the American consumer has
become a pain in the neck. Maybe we were spoiled in the blinged-out 1990s and
early '00s and have yet to adjust to hard times. Take ''Lisa C.,'' of Millbrae,
Calif., posting as follows at Yelp after having visited a Starbucks with her
boyfriend:

''the barista ... looked at me confused when i said 'grande hot apple chai' as
if he didn't know what it was ... then he said 'apple juice infused into chai
tea?' i responded, 'yeah...' my bf usually gets that 'ice vanilla latte with
restretto (sp?)' and they stared at him too ... my drink didn't taste that well
... something was off balance and i ended up tossing it...''

We used to understand that convenience comes at a price. The food you get at
McDonald's or Burger King is not meant to be a major culinary event. But now the
chains, perhaps in response to customers hopped up on Food Network shows, have
gone upscale. McDonald's plans a $1 billion, Starbucks-like makeover of its
restaurants, and Burger King has Whopper Bar restaurants. With the new frills
come new expectations. After visiting a McDonald's in San Diego, a Yelp
contributor, ''Caroline B.,'' wrote:

''The Gelato was some of the worst I have ever had in my entire life. The
'Watermelon' looks like pink colored wall putty and had no discernible flavor of
fruit of any kind. No one in our group was able to stomach it. I actually threw
it away.''

She went on to say that she was no fan of the restrooms. Not because they were
dirty. Because of their ''faux marble and faux flowers.''

You can't help wondering whether a full-fledged depression might be the only
real cure for what ails us.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RAND RENFROW)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Media Decoder)

                            December 18, 2011 Sunday

A New Children's Book Parodies a Beloved Classic

BYLINE: JULIE BOSMAN

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 340 words



HIGHLIGHT: "Goodnight iPad" is a bedtime tour of our electronic lives, mimicking
the tone of the classic "Goodnight Moon."


Was 2011 the year of the irreverent picture book?

In the spring, there was "Go the - to Sleep," the foulmouthed book that spoke to
weary parents everywhere and became an instant best seller. (A G-rated version,
"Seriously, Just Go to Sleep," is scheduled for release next year.)

And now there is another sleeper hit, "Goodnight iPad," a parody by David
Milgrim , the children's book author and illustrator responsible for "Time to
Get Up, Time to Go" and "Another Day in the Milky Way."

Mr. Milgrim first dreamed up the book with his agent, Brenda Bowen, who was
"inspired by all the glowing power lights that shine in our modern homes after
the overheads go out," Mr. Milgrim, who wrote the book under a pseudonym, Ann
Droyd, said in an e-mail.

"The thing that really inspired me about the idea was my fascination with how
much things have changed since the world depicted in 'Goodnight Moon,' " Mr.
Milgrim said. "Our homes are really nothing like that anymore. The contrast
between that quiet book and our noisy, buzzing lives seemed ripe for exploration
and humor."

"Goodnight iPad" leads the reader through a home whose inhabitants are plugged
in in every way imaginable, typing on laptops with glowing screens, listening to
music, playing video games and watching television. Then the mother figure in
the house orders all of the devices shut down, wishing goodnight to "Nooks and
digital books," Eminem and Facebook friends, LOLs and MP3s, and "LCD Wi-Fi
HDTV."

There are now more than 120,000 copies of the book in print, said David
Rosenthal, the president and publisher of Blue Rider Press, an imprint of
Penguin Group USA, which released it in October.

Mr. Milgrim said he was interested in the question of whether high-tech gadgets
were "raising us up or ruining our lives."

"I can't help but wonder if we are falling deeper into isolation in our own
private cyber worlds," he said in an e-mail. "But on the other hand, I hesitate
to judge the things we are drawn to. If we want to power up, maybe that's all we
need to know. Who is to say?"

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 19, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New Children's Book Parodies a Beloved Classic

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 359 words


Was 2011 the year of the irreverent picture book?

In the spring, there was ''Go the - to Sleep,'' the foulmouthed book that spoke
to weary parents everywhere and became an instant best seller. (A G-rated
version, ''Seriously, Just Go to Sleep,'' is scheduled for release next year.)

And now there is another sleeper hit, ''Goodnight iPad,'' a parody by David
Milgrim , the children's book author and illustrator responsible for ''Time to
Get Up, Time to Go'' and ''Another Day in the Milky Way.''

Mr. Milgrim first dreamed up the book with his agent, Brenda Bowen, who was
''inspired by all the glowing power lights that shine in our modern homes after
the overheads go out,'' Mr. Milgrim, who wrote the book under a pseudonym, Ann
Droyd, said in an e-mail.

''The thing that really inspired me about the idea was my fascination with how
much things have changed since the world depicted in 'Goodnight Moon,' '' Mr.
Milgrim said. ''Our homes are really nothing like that anymore. The contrast
between that quiet book and our noisy, buzzing lives seemed ripe for exploration
and humor.''

''Goodnight iPad'' leads the reader through a home whose inhabitants are plugged
in in every way imaginable, typing on laptops with glowing screens, listening to
music, playing video games and watching television. Then the mother figure in
the house orders all of the devices shut down, wishing goodnight to ''Nooks and
digital books,'' Eminem and Facebook friends, LOLs and MP3s, and ''LCD Wi-Fi
HDTV.''

There are now more than 120,000 copies of the book in print, said David
Rosenthal, the president and publisher of Blue Rider Press, an imprint of
Penguin Group USA, which released it in October.

Mr. Milgrim said he was interested in the question of whether high-tech gadgets
were ''raising us up or ruining our lives.''

''I can't help but wonder if we are falling deeper into isolation in our own
private cyber worlds,'' he said in an e-mail. ''But on the other hand, I
hesitate to judge the things we are drawn to. If we want to power up, maybe
that's all we need to know. Who is to say?''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            December 19, 2011 Monday

Back at Work, and Catching Up on Online Shopping

BYLINE: CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 360 words



HIGHLIGHT: The last three Mondays have been the biggest online shopping days of
the year. But the trend is not confined to the holiday season; Monday is always
the biggest day for e-commerce companies. After a weekend away from their
computers, people apparently get to the office with shopping on their mind.


For online retailers, Monday could be another bonanza, as last-minute shoppers
place their orders in time to get free shipping by Christmas.

After all, the last three Mondays have been the three biggest online shopping
days of the year.

On Cyber Monday, as the Monday after Thanksgiving is often called, shoppers
spent $1.3 billion online, the record for a single day of online shopping,
according to comScore. The next Monday, they spent $1.2 billion, and last Monday
they spent $1.1 billion.

But why Monday, as opposed to any other day of the week?

It turns out that the trend isn't confined to the holidays. Monday is always the
biggest online shopping day.

"Not just during the holidays, but during the rest of the year, Monday is your
strongest day and your weekends are your quietest time," said Mark Vadon, a
founder of Blue Nile, the online jewelry retailer, and Zulily, a flash sale site
for kids' clothing and gear.

The reason, he said, is that people spend less time on their computers over
their weekend, but when they get to the office on Monday, they want to shop.

"In general, people shop from work," he said. "Your peak in any time zone is
around lunchtime, when people are sitting at their desk and they're taking a
little bit of a break and they're shopping."

Mondays, especially from noon to 1 p.m., are also the biggest day for mobile
shopping, said Claudia Lombana, a shopping specialist at eBay and PayPal.

"People are sitting at their desk at work, thinking about things they didn't get
done over the weekend, the errands they didn't get to run, the things they
didn't get to purchase," she said. "And sometimes they have that saying, a case
of the Mondays."

Perhaps unsurprisingly, Saturday is the biggest holiday shopping day at malls
and stores -- one reason that some retailers, desperate for sales this year, are
starting the promotions they usually run on the last Saturday before Christmas a
week early.


     ·    E-Commerce Sites Cater to Procrastinators by Extending Free Shipping
     ·    Amazon Backlash
     ·    E-Commerce Sales Are Booming, Thanks to Discounts and Free Shipping
     ·    Cyber Monday Shopping Surpasses Expectations
     ·    A Shopping Day Invented for the Web Comes of Age


LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 21, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Less Likelihood of War?

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 167 words


To the Editor:

For those who worry about future wars, the news seems to be good. Joshua S.
Goldstein and Steven Pinker (''War Really Is Going Out of Style,'' Sunday
Review, Dec. 18) have produced valid and welcome evidence. Some cautionary
points need to be made:

War has a way of morphing into different forms spurred by the development of new
weaponry or by the unforeseen crises that humanity faces. The search for new
weapons continues unabated -- for example, unmanned aircraft today or forms of
cyber- and biological warfare tomorrow.

Diminishing resources and loss of habitation because of rising seas and
temperatures from climate change, for example, suggest new conflicts in the
future. Our own military budget and the belligerent rhetoric of our political
candidates show that preparation for war doesn't slow down even as its
possibilities are lessened.

SAYRE SHELDON Natick, Mass., Dec. 19, 2011

The writer is president emerita of Women's Action for New Directions, a national
women's peace group.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                          December 21, 2011 Wednesday

Hacked Chamber of Commerce Opposed Cybersecurity Law

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 570 words



HIGHLIGHT: The breach at the Chamber of Commerce is, in some ways, a twist of
fate for the Chamber. It has been one of the more vocal critics of cybersecurity
legislation. Earlier this year, the Chamber criticized the White House's
legislative proposals on cybersecurity as "regulatory overreach" and cautioned
that "layering new regulations on critical infrastructure will harm
public-private partnerships."


The United States Chamber of Commerce has confirmed Chinese hackers last year
broke into internal networks.

The breach is, in some ways, a twist of fate for the Chamber. It has been one of
the more vocal critics of cybersecurity legislation. In an internal draft
document circulated earlier this year, the Chamber criticized the White House's
legislative proposals on cybersecurity as "regulatory overreach" and cautioned
that "layering new regulations on critical infrastructure will harm
public-private partnerships."

"This happens all the time," says Tom Kellermann, chief technology officer at
AirPatrol Corp. and a member of a Center for Strategic International Studies
panel set up to advise President Obama on cybersecurity. "This is essentially
the modus operandi of China's economic espionage campaign. Hackers use a trade
group as a beachhead to compromise the constituency. What intellectual property
does the Chamber have? They don't. But they're trusted."

The Federal Bureau of Investigation was the first to alert the business lobbying
group that servers in China were accessing the Chamber's internal network early
last year. A subsequent internal investigation found the hackers had zeroed in
on four of the lobbying group's Asia policy experts and that at least six week's
worth of e-mails had been pilfered. The Chamber shut down the operation in May
2010.

J.P. Fielder, a Chamber spokesman, emphasized that the breach was "limited in
scope" to the four employees, though an earlier report in the Wall Street
Journal  suggested that the breach had been going on for over a year before it
was discovered and that more than 300 Internet addresses may have been
compromised. The F.B.I. did not return calls seeking comment.

The Chamber represents businesses and trade groups in Washington and the breach
may affect its trusted relationship with its three million members, which
include some of the nation's largest corporations.

"Businesses are already worried about the cyber theft of their internal trade
secrets.  Now they have to worry that the sensitive information they've shared
with the Chamber is compromised," says Jacob Olcott, a principal with Good
Harbor Consulting's cybersecurity team.

The Chamber says it has taken greater steps to secure itself in the wake of the
breach. Mr. Fielder, the Chamber spokesman, said the Chamber had installed more
sophisticated detection equipment and updated its policies which now include
"barring employees from taking portable devices with them to certain countries,"
including China.

Despite these measures, the Chamber still shows signs of infiltration. The
Journal reported that the Chamber recently discovered a thermostat in a
Chamber-owned apartment was communicating with an Internet address in China and
that last March, one of its printers randomly started printing documents
containing Chinese characters.

An earlier version of this post referred imprecisely to a cybersecurity
committee that Tom Kellermann is a member of. The panel was set up by a private
policy research organization, the Center for Strategic International Studies, to
advise President Obama. It is not a presidential commission.


     ·    Traveling Light in Russia and China Because of Digital Thievery
     ·    Tim Cook: 'We Care About Every Worker'
     ·    Daily Report: Chinese Factories and the iEconomy
     ·    Hackers Step Up Attacks After Megaupload Shutdown
     ·    Videoconferences May Open Up the Board Room to Hackers


LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                           December 22, 2011 Thursday

A Conversation With: Sachin Pilot

BYLINE: HEATHER TIMMONS

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1826 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Internet should no longer reflect a 1950s view of the world, with
America making the rules, the Minister says.


In recent months the Indian government held meetings with Internet
intermediaries like Facebook and Google, and asked them to prescreen user
content and remove things that might be incendiary or objectionable, inspiring
an outpouring of complaint and a rebuff from these companies. On Dec. 15, the
government appeared to step down from that position, telling these companies in
a meeting that there would be no censorship of Internet content.

India Ink sat down with Sachin Pilot, the minister of State for Communications
and Information Technology, to discuss the Indian government's views on freedom
of speech on the Internet.

Q.

Can you clarify for us what the Indian government's position is on reviewing or
curbing content on the Internet?

A.

We do not believe or think that censorship is the way forward for any of the
issues on the table.

But clearly there has to be, and there is, a mechanism for the social media
companies and sites to address issues of individuals of companies and
individuals when they come about. We clearly have urged them to make the system
more robust, so that not just the well-known personalities and people who are
famous who have access can get to a position where their issues are resolved,
but the common user, the net citizen has a redressal mechanism.

Most Web sites have them but how robust and how functional they are that needs
to be looked into.

On objectionable content, that's a debate that has been going on not just in
India but around the world. In the last eight or nine years, we as a country we
have only shut down 14 Web sites.

Censorship has never been on the table. All of these companies were just asked
to become participative stakeholders to see how we can resolve these issues
because people have come up and said this is perhaps not appropriate or
appropriate.

We have guidelines and laws in place already, so there is nothing new that has
to be done about this.

Q.

*** Q: So you're not using the word pre-screen anymore? Is that something that
these companies will no longer be asked to do?

A.

I think there were many things talked about how to deal with this stuff and it
was just a discussion. We continue to have that discussion. Somehow the media
just really came out and perhaps it was not understood as well we hoped it would
be.

Q.

I think people understood what was being said, they just thought it was a
terrible idea.

A.

The attempt was never to have a curb on anything.

Don't forget we have 100 million-plus Internet users in this country, which is
still less than 10 percent of the population. In India, the Internet exposure is
going to grow exponentially. As we move into that space, people, youngsters,
everyone, must become responsible users of that space.

I think the Internet really offers you the best platform to say whatever you
want, and you've seen our media, it cannot be more robust. The same applies to
the Internet.

There were some complaints we received from some organizations and groups, and
we directed them to these companies. The companies are now a bit more sensitive
to the needs and expectations of users.

Q.

So do you think the rules that these companies themselves have are strong enough
and are well enough enforced?

A.

Well, we have a set of rules in this country.

Q.

Which go far beyond the rules these companies have.

A.

Right. These companies have to operate in this country, they have to abide like
any other company within the rules of the sovereign state. There is no ambiguity
on that front.

We have said that on the Internet there should be a redressal system, for a
thing like identity theft, things like online fraud - if someone is distressed,
how does he or she get her point across?

This involves combined issues, it isn't just about content.

Q.

People have argued that the rules passed in April are curbing free speech in
India. What would you say to that?

A.

I don't think that assessment is fair at all. We have free speech and we respect
it, I think it is one of the greatest things we have in this country. People are
allowed to say exactly what they want.

As I said at the beginning, though, if someone is doing something just with the
intent of causing harm, I think you've seen some of the photographs and other
content that is being made available, it is perhaps hurtful to someone, perhaps
not, but the fact is that whether it is the companies or the government or the
users, there needs to be some responsible learning curve for people who are
beginning to use the Internet this decade.

There is no question of putting curbs on it, I mean, it's impossible to do that,
this is the Internet.  It has helped this country more than it has most parts of
the world, when we're talking about e-commerce, electronic delivery of services.
Our country, our GDP, has the most to gain from it. A 10 percent increase in
broadband increase GDP by 1.4 percent, this from a U.N. study.

There is absolutely no intent of anyone to restrict or censor anything that's
available on the Internet. But, yes, we did pass a law about child pornography,
that's been made illegal.

Q.

But that's already illegal, and against these companies rules.

A.

Yes, a company can have its own guidelines and rules, but we as a country also
need to have our regulations. So we believe that child pornography is illegal
and should not be put on the 'net and we put that in the April rules.

Q.

Can we talk about jurisdiction? When Kapil Sibal held his Dec. 6 press
conference he did say, basically, "We will be looking at content on the Internet
no matter where it comes from, no matter who has written it, which might offend
Indian sensibilities."

A.

When he said we, I don't think he meant the government. I think we all, as users
of the Internet, whether companies, individuals, or officials or bureaucrats, we
as a country should just be more responsible in how we behave on the Internet.

There's nothing wrong with expecting people to be more responsible.

Q.

People who attended these meetings between Minister Sibal and Internet companies
got the impression that what really upset the government was people saying
things about Congress party members.

A.

That's not true, no. I was not there for the meetings, by the way, but if you
see the statements of all these companies, they seem very, very cooperative.
They understand the standpoint we projected.

I had a meeting with them afterwards, about how we can use these platforms for
the government to reach out to people, whether its Tweeting or Facebooking or
whatever it is.

These are instruments we must harness, even though everything has or perhaps
could have a downside to it. Everything in the world does. For us it is best to
have the power and foresight to leverage the good aspects of what is offered.

For us, cheap, easy, reliable access to the Internet is the way forward, and not
just in English. I have been pushing for the last two years to have regional
language content available on the Internet. Soon all languages in India will
have domain names.

Why would anyone want to kill the goose that lays the golden egg?

Q.

What has happened with the nodal agency that had been discussed, potentially to
be headed by (director general of India's cyber security agency) Gulshan Rai, to
look for content on the Internet that might be objectionable?

A.

There is no plan to set up a nodal agency to look for offensive content. No such
statement has ever been made by Minister Sibal or anyone in the government.
There is no proposal to regulate or monitor any content. The existing rules
provide adequate legal framework for dealing with such cases.

Can I just add - as a member of the government and an Indian citizen, if there
is a some wrongful depiction of the Indian map, parts of J&K, parts of the
northeast, now we're going to make sure that does not happen. An inaccurate
depiction of our boundaries is a serious issue, and no one should make the
mistake of thinking we're going to be O.K. with it.

I'm not saying just take my point of view, but what is the global accepted norms
of the borderline depiction, whether it's the U.N. or other agencies that is
what has to be followed.

Q.

Do you think the "sensibilities" of the Indian people are different than those
of, say, Americans? Is it easier to offend here?

A.

It is very difficult to categorize. The Chinese are different than the Russians
than the Japanese than the Americans than the Indians. But on the Internet it's
all zeros and ones - it's one of the great levelers. I think you're trying to
highlight the point that it's perhaps easier to get people to be sensitive, or
people are more sensitive in this part of the world. Is that the issue?

Q.

Well that seemed to be what Minister Sibal was saying.

A.

The point that Minister Sibal was making was also not factually incorrect. We
are 1.2 billion people with a whole variety of ethnicities and language and
culture and upbringing and 1,000 years of history, different castes, whatever.
People have a different view every 10 kilometers, yet we're all Indians as a
nation.

Does that necessarily mean that people are more sensitive? Maybe, maybe not.
That's open to judgment. But as far as the rules are concerned, as far as the
government is concerned, that is clear as day.

Q.

These Internet companies are all American, and they seem to rely on the American
definition of what is allowed, free speech-wise, and they're exporting that
around the world. Here in India and in other democracies, as well, that has been
running into friction recently.

A.

There is a difference. Singapore is a democracy, so is America, so is India, so
is Iraq. The good thing is that on the core issues there is unanimity of view,
as far as India and America are concerned, whether it is freedom or liberty or
democracy, there is no disparity in that.

But yes, in small, nuanced areas, some percentage of not having a common view,
that is possible.

By 2030 there will be 5 billion people on the planet who have access to the
Internet. Now that begs the question, where will these 5 billion people come
from? If they are going to come from India and China and Africa, I think a
larger question is also important:

The Internet, the governance structures of the space, should the stakeholdership
be equitably distributed or do we still go by the post-Second World War view of
the world?

The Internet should also break the barriers of the 1950s.

People from Africa, Asia and China are going to be using the Internet, their
aspirations, their expectations and their viewpoints also have to be kept in
mind.

Q.

So we might see in the future a mix between the American ideas and rules about
the Internet and what India might contribute and what China might contribute and
what African countries might contribute?

A.

I think that is the way forward. Like I said, the numbers are there. We are now
the third-largest Internet user in the world. It is going to grow exponentially,
and we need to create an ecosystem where it is a positive environment.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                           December 22, 2011 Thursday

How People Shopped Online This Holiday Season

BYLINE: CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 448 words



HIGHLIGHT: Despite the tough economy and struggles for offline retailers,
shoppers have spent $32 billion online this holiday season, an increase of 15
percent over last year. Though mobile shopping has contributed to online
spending this year, shoppers are more likely to browse and research e-commerce
sites from their cellphones and then turn to their tablets to make purchases,
especially in the evening.


Little time remains for online shoppers to have gifts delivered in time for
Christmas, and sales numbers for online shopping this season are arriving. The
trends are clear: shoppers spent much more money online this year than last
year, and they did a lot of their shopping on tablets like the iPad.

So far this holiday season, shoppers have spent $32 billion online, 15 percent
more than last year, according to comScore. Last week was the heaviest online
shopping week on record, and last weekend was the second-heaviest weekend.
Though most sales from now to Christmas will take place in physical stores, some
Web sites are still offering expedited shipping and online retailers will most
likely sell another $5 billion to $6 billion in goods through the end of
December, comScore said.

Gian Fulgoni, chairman of comScore and an e-commerce expert, called it "an
outstanding season for online retailers."

Shoppers are much more eager to use their mobile devices to browse and buy this
year, though the evidence shows that they are more likely to use their phones
for product research and turn to their tablets or computers when they are ready
to buy.

Twelve percent of online visits to retailers' Web sites came from mobile
devices, up from 5 percent a year ago, according to IBM Benchmark, which tracks
e-commerce. But just 9 percent of sales came from mobile phones.

While 79 percent of shoppers use their cellphones for research, just 58 percent
have made purchases on their phones, according to TechBargains.com, a deal
aggregation site. Meanwhile, 75 percent have made purchases on their tablets and
94 percent on their laptops.

Holiday sales at eBags.com show this behavior in action. Of the site's total
visits, 7 percent came from tablets and 5 percent from smartphones, but 7
percent of sales came from tablets while just 2 percent came from phones.

"Shopping via tablet picks up in the evenings, indicating consumers are coming
home from work and turning on their iPads and shopping as they watch TV," said
Peter Cobb, co-founder and senior vice president of eBags.

But when deals hang in the balance and computers aren't nearby, people are more
than willing to turn to their phones and type their shipping address and credit
card number on the tiny keyboard. Mobile commerce peaked at 10 p.m. on Cyber
Monday, accounting for 20 percent of all retail traffic in the last two hours
before online deals expired, according to Akamai, an Internet content delivery
company.


     ·    Retailers Enliven Catalog Offerings Through Apps
     ·    Back at Work, and Catching Up on Online Shopping
     ·    Cyber Monday Shopping Surpasses Expectations
     ·    Mobile Deals Set to Lure Shoppers Stuck in Line
     ·    Tech Talk: Mobile Shopping


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (DealBook)

                           December 22, 2011 Thursday

Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2309 words



HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter.


Finding Success in a Lifelong Passion for Fighting Monopolies  |  Albert A.
Foer, the president of the American Antitrust Institute, was enjoying a restful
Sunday last March when news broke that AT&T was seeking to buy T-Mobile USA.

Dismayed by the possible blockbuster cellphone merger, Mr. Foer rushed to the
institute's global headquarters - the first-floor study of his Washington home -
and swung into action.

He complained to a reporter that "AT&T was broken up and now it's back with a
vengeance." In the ensuing weeks, his organization would send a letter to the
Senate, submit a lengthy objection to the Federal Communications Commission and
issue a 38-page white paper arguing that the merger would "result in higher
prices, lower quality, less innovation and fewer choices for consumers and
businesses."

Faced with fierce opposition from the Obama administration, the two companies
scrapped their $39 billion deal on Tuesday, handing Mr. Foer and his fellow
antitrust-enforcement advocates a major victory.
DealBook »

DEAL NOTES

The Beauty Queen Who Fights the Big Banks  |  The Wall Street Journal writes
that Kathy Patrick, the lawyer who negotiated a $8.5 billion settlement with
Bank of America, was introduced to the legal system while still in college, when
she successfully sued to prevent the Miss USA pageant from stripping her Miss
New Mexico title.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

Hard Times for Swiss Bankers  |  With the average pay of Swiss private bankers
declining 6 percent this year from 2008, a promise once made by Oswald Gruebel,
now the chief executive of Credit Suisse, seems to ring hollow, Bloomberg News
reports.

"Ossie Gruebel told us: 'To serve a millionaire, you have to be a millionaire
and I promise you I will make you a millionaire,'" Werner Rueegg, a former
wealth manager at the bank, told Bloomberg.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

A Mistake Made Home Sales Look Better  |  The National Association of Realtors
corrected a rather significant error, saying sales of previously occupied homes
from 2007 to 2010 were a little more than 14 percent lower than previously
reported, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

Mergers & Acquisitions »

Yahoo Discussing Asian Asset Sale  |  On Thursday, Yahoo's board is expected to
meet to discuss selling its holdings in Alibaba Group and its Japanese affiliate
back to their majority holders in a complicated tax-free deal valued at about
$17 billion.
DealBook »

British Airways' Parent Wins Lufthansa's BMI  |  British Airways and the Spanish
carrier Iberia beat out Virgin Atlantic Airways on Thursday in the bidding for
British Midland International, the unprofitable airline being sold by Lufthansa
of Germany.
DealBook »

TeliaSonera of Sweden Raises Stake in GSM Kazakhstan  |  The Swedish
telecommunications company TeliaSonera agreed on Thursday to buy an additional
49 percent stake in GSM Kazakhstan for $1.52 billion, increases its stake to 62
percent.
DealBook »

RIM Shares Jump on Takeover Whispers  |  Research in Motion, maker of the
BlackBerry, has been the object of persistent deal speculation this year as a
result of a string of weak financial reports, service outages and worries over
lost market share.
DealBook »

Tokio Paying 71 Percent Premium for Delphi  |  The premium that the Japanese
casualty insurer is paying for the Delaware-based Delphi is the industry's third
largest for a cash takeover of more than $1 billion since at least 1995,
Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

Chicago Sun-Times Finds a Buyer  |  The newspaper is being bought by Wrapports,
an investment group led by Michael W. Ferro Jr., chief executive of Merrick
Ventures, and Timothy P. Knight, former chief of the Newsday Media Group, for a
price said to be about $20 million, The New York Times Media Decoder blog
reports.
NEW YORK TIMES

For Small Businesses, a Good Time to Sell  |  There is a pipeline of small
businesses that have delayed a sale because of the economy, and have now built
up enough profit to make them attractive to potential buyers, The New York Times
writes.
NEW YORK TIMES

Swiss Drugmaker Scouts for a Deal  |  The chief executive of Roche Holding said
the company is open to a deal as big as $3 billion, Bloomgerg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

Mumbai's Reliance Makes Nuclear Energy Investment  |  Reliance Industries, the
Mumbai-based oil refiner, made a minority investment of undisclosed size in
Terra Power, a nuclear engineering company partially funded by Bill Gates,
Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

TMX Group Buys Stake in Bermuda Stock Exchange  |  The TMX Group, owner of the
Toronto Stock Exchange, has announced the purchase of a 16 percent stake in the
Bermuda Stock Exchange.
DealBook »

INVESTMENT BANKING »

Banks' European Fees Fall to Record Low  |  Amid a punishing debt crisis,
investment banking fees in Europe hit the lowest quarterly level on record, as
deal activity nearly froze, Reuters reports. Deutsche Bank took the top spot for
European fees, followed by JPMorgan Chase.
REUTERS

UBS Tops Asia in Fees  |  The Swiss bank won the top spot for investment banking
fees in the Asia-Pacific region for the eighth year in a row, but potential
difficulties loom in its future, the Wall Street Journal's Deal Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

London Brokers Scale Back  |  In just the past month, Altium Capital shuttered
its securities unit, and the Evolution Group, the Merchant Securities Group,
Arbuthnot Securities and Collins Stewart Hawkpoint accepted takeover offers,
Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

Societe Generale Shuffles Management  |  The French bank announced the departure
of Michel Peretie, head of the investment banking division, saying he will be
replaced by Didier Valet, the bank's chief financial officer, the Financial
Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES

Former Lehman Official to Join Spanish Government  |  Spain's new prime
minister, Mariano Rajoy, named Luis de Guindos, the former head of Lehman
Brothers' office in that country, as Spain's economy minister.
DealBook »

Mortgage Headache Continues at JPMorgan  |  Frank Bisignano, the chief
administrative officer at JPMorgan Chase, has claimed success in his effort to
resolve the firm's mortgage troubles, but now faces a fresh legal challenge from
the investors who recently got an $8.5 billion settlement agreement from Bank of
America, the Wall Street Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

Gundlach Predicts European Woes  |  Jeffrey E. Gundlach, the bond fund manager
who recently battled a lawsuit from his former employer, said he expects
Europe's debt crisis to reach a pitch next year, the Financial Times reports.

"I really think this flower has got to bloom," he said.
FINANCIAL TIMES

PRIVATE EQUITY »

Silver Lake Said to Plan Management Shift  |  Glenn Hutchins, David Roux and Jim
Davidson, co-founders of the private equity firm Silver Lake, plan to reduce
their stakes in the company as it forms a new five-member management committee,
Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people briefed on the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

Leonard Green Raises $4 Billion  |  The private equity firm whose buyouts
include BJ's Wholesale (with CVC Capital Partners) and J. Crew (with TPG
Capital) has raised about $4 billion for its sixth fund, Bloomberg News reports,
citing two people with knowledge of the matter.
Bloomberg News

Romney Candidacy Continues to Stoke Debate  |  The Washington Post examines the
role of private equity in the broader economy, a debate inspired by Mitt
Romney's run for president.
WASHINGTON POST

HEDGE FUNDS »

Quiznos Is Said to Near Deal With Avenue Capital  |  Quiznos, home of toasted
sandwiches, is close to a deal with the hedge fund Avenue Capital Group that
would restructure its roughly $870 million debt load and give Avenue a majority
stake, the Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with
the matter.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

Deutsche Sued Over Madoff Claims  |  Two hedge funds, the Kingate Global Fund
and the Kingate Euro Fund, sued a unit of Deutsche Bank, accusing it of going
back on a deal to buy the funds' claims for losses in Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi
scheme, the Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

Asian Hedge Funds Sag  |  Hedge funds focused on Asia posted generally weak
results this year, with only macro funds managing a positive performance,
according to data from Deutsche Bank, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES

Night of the E.T.F. Dead  |  The number of exchange-traded funds on an "E.T.F.
Deathwatch," with less than $5 million in assets or fewer than $100,000 in
shares trading daily, has hit a record of 242, according to Ron Rowland,
president of Capital Cities Asset Management, the Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

I.P.O./OFFERINGS »

Facebook Tries to Grow Up  |  As it prepares for an initial offering next year,
Facebook is positioning itself to appear like a mature, blue-chip company, the
Wall Street Journal reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter who
say that executives have written dummy scripts for earnings calls and even
drafted an I.P.O. prospectus.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

TripAdvisor Closes With Valuation Near Expedia's  |  Shares of TripAdvisor,
which aggregates travel reviews, fell on the first day of trading, closing with
a market value of $3.69 billion, near the $3.72 billion value of Expedia, its
former parent, the Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES

TripAdvisor's Journey to an I.P.O.  |  Chris Dixon, the investor and
entrepreneur, tells the back story of TripAdvisor, which he writes is now the
second most valuable East Coast consumer internet company.
CHRIS DIXON

Deals May Be in TripAdvisor's Future  |  The Deal Pipeline spoke to Stephen
Kaufer, chief executive of TripAdvisor, who said "it's a fair bet" his company
will continue its strategy of acquisitions.
DEAL

VENTURE CAPITAL »

BP Exits Solar Business  |  A decade after announcing big plans for renewable
energy, BP finished shutting down its solar business on Wednesday, falling
victim to competition from China and lower government subsidies, Reuters
reports.
REUTERS

Information Security Company Gets Goldman investment  |  Cyber-Ark Software,
which offers information security services to financial institutions, raised $40
million in a funding round led by Goldman Sachs and Jerusalem Venture Partners,
TechCrunch reports.
TECHCRUNCH

Xerox Scientist Dies at 90  |  Jacob E. Goldman, a physicist who founded the
research center at Xerox that invented the modern personal computer, died from
congestive heart failure, The New York Times writes.
NEW YORK TIMES

Lionsgate in Asian Joint Venture  |  The movie studio and the Saban Capital
Group, an investment firm, are partnering with Celestial Pictures, based in Hong
Kong, to form Celestial Tiger Entertainment, which will offer pay television
channels in Asia, the Associated Press reports.
ASSOCIATED PRESS

Program Targets Women in Mobile Tech  |  Women Innovate Mobile, a start-up
"accelerator" program, is taking applications from young companies started by
women that deal in mobile technology, and is offering New York office space,
seed funding and access to venture capitalists, the Wall Street Journal reports.

WALL STREET JOURNAL

LEGAL/REGULATORY »

Bank of America Agrees to $335 Million Settlement  |  The bank agreed to settle
allegations by the Justice Department that its Countrywide Financial unit
discriminated against black and Hispanic borrowers, in the largest residential
fair-lending settlement in history, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES

An Inventory of Countrywide Woes  |  How expensive was Bank of America's
Countrywide deal? The Wall Street Journal lists the ways.
WALL STREET JOURNAL

European Central Bank Moves to Ease Credit  |  The European Central Bank pumped
nearly $640 billion into the Continent's banks, recalling the kind of force
Washington used to fight the 2008 financial crisis, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES

A Central Bank Doing Its Job  |  The cheap, three-year loans that the European
Central Bank offered to banks may be enough to stem the Continent's crisis for
at least a few years, writes Floyd Norris of The New York Times.
NEW YORK TIMES

Year-End Surprises in Deal Law  |  An eye-popping legal fee of $300 million, a
surprise second confidentiality agreement and an unusual proxy battle will make
some courtroom battles to come all the more interesting, Steven M. Davidoff
writes in the Deal Professor column.
DealBook »

Fortress Chief Takes Leave to Handle S.E.C. Lawsuit  |  Daniel H. Mudd, who
faces accusations that he misled investors while he was the top executive of
Fannie Mae, is taking a leave of absence from his role as chief executive of
Fortress Investment Group.
DealBook »

Greece Creditors Said to Resist Pressure to Take Losses  |  As the International
Monetary Fund urges Greece's creditors to accept a smaller coupon on bonds, the
creditors are resisting, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people with
direct knowledge of the discussions.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

Chevron and Transocean Officials Face Indictment in Brazil  |  In an action
unrelated to the recent civil suit against the companies, federal police in
Brazil recommended that several Chevron and Transocean officials be indicted,
for environmental crimes and withholding information, Reuters reports.
REUTERS

Two More Insider Trading Sentences  |  The latest to be sentenced in the
government's crackdown on insider trading at hedge funds were a French doctor
and a California sales manager, Reuters reports.
REUTERS

An Omission in Fannie and Freddie Suits?  |  Although former executives at
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were sued last week for allegedly false statements,
the government acted as an enabler, writes Jonathan Weil in a column in
Bloomberg News.
BLOOMBERG NEWS

Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 23, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Heyday for Bargain Hunters

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 758 words


Half off at the entire store at Ann Taylor. Sixty percent at Gap. Forty percent
off almost everything at Abercrombie & Fitch.

Aggressive last-minute deals in the days before Christmas are good for
procrastinators, but they could be an alarm bell for the retail industry.

While scattered markdowns are standard every year, discounts across entire
stores -- which analysts say are more widespread than last year -- suggest
merchants are stuck with too much merchandise.

''It's really a game of chicken,'' said David Bassuk, managing director and head
of the retail practice at the consultant firm AlixPartners.

Many retailers entered the season ''with pretty optimistic plans'' that shoppers
would rush into stores and pay full price, Mr. Bassuk said. But that did not pan
out, and the final days before Christmas have retailers being ''much more
aggressive in terms of promotions being offered,'' he said.

Shoppers are filling their holiday lists against the backdrop of an uncertain
year, with stubbornly high unemployment, increased food prices, volatile gas
prices and unpredictability for stocks and Europe's debt crisis. The government
on Thursday said that third-quarter economic growth had not been as brisk as it
previously estimated, because of a drop in consumer spending on services like
health care.

Toys ''R'' Us announced on Thursday new deals on dozens of items for Friday and
Saturday, including 'buy one, get one half off'' on popular toys like Legos. A
sampling of other promotions: Up to 70 percent off toys at Amazon; up to 50
percent off gifts at Restoration Hardware; 40 percent off almost everything at
American Eagle Outfitters, Talbots, Limited and Wet Seal; and 30 percent off
everything at J. Crew.

''There's been kind of a waiting game with retailers,'' Gerald L. Storch, the
chief executive of Toys ''R'' Us, told CNBC last week. ''And it looks like the
consumer wins.''

Paul Lejuez, an analyst at Nomura Equity Research, surveyed mall deals over the
weekend and said he was concerned. ''It looks like 40 percent is the new level
you have to be at, 40 percent off, to drive traffic. Those that weren't at that
level weren't getting their fair share,'' he said.

Going into the holiday season, inventories had grown more than three times as
fast as sales at several retailers, including American Eagle Outfitters,
Aeropostale, Gap Inc., Urban Outfitters, Chico's and Talbots. ''If inventory is
growing ahead of sales growth, there is a need to be more promotional to move
the goods,'' Mr. Lejuez said.

Although sales over Thanksgiving weekend were surprisingly strong, Mr. Lejuez
said they seemed to have cut into shopping that more typically would occur in
December. Sales were sluggish the first two weeks after Thanksgiving, though
they improved in the third week, according to the International Council of
Shopping Centers.

In e-mail inboxes, the promotional cadence is rapid. Retailers sent about 5.6
e-mails each last week on average, according to the e-mail marketer Responsys.
That was a 26 percent increase over the same week last year, and matched the
record high hit during the week of Cyber Monday this year.

Stores including Macy's and Toys ''R'' Us are offering 24-hour shopping in the
days before Christmas, and many stores moved ''Super Saturday,'' a promotion
that falls on the final Saturday before Christmas, back a week hoping to spur
sales.

The deals are a boon for people who have put off shopping.

''Last-minute Christmas shopping,'' posted a Twitter user named Samra Tekeste.
''Literally everything is on sale, LOL. Knew my procrastination would come in
handy some day.'' Another Twitter user with the handle BossNugget suggested that
the King of Prussia mall near Philadelphia hang up a sign saying ''It's Almost
Christmas, and Everything Is on Sale.''

The big discounts mean that retailers are willing to sacrifice profits for
revenue.

''More and more each year, sales become less of the issue, and it's more about
what retailers have to do to get those,'' Mr. Lejuez said. ''There's a little
more pressure on that out-the-door price than we would have thought, and, I
think, what the market would have anticipated.''

And, after Christmas, the value of most merchandise slides.

''The inventory is worth so much less in two weeks,'' said the chief executive
of a retailer, who asked not to be named because he did not want to reveal his
store's strategy. ''With that kind of inventory, you've got to get rid of it.
Whatever the margin is today, it's that much lower next week and the week after
when traffic stops.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gap is trying to appeal to holiday shopping procrastinators
with 60 percent discounts on some of its items. (B1)
Loft was among the retailers offering deep discounts in the last few days before
Christmas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Going into the holiday season, inventories had grown much faster than sales at
several retailers including Urban Outfitters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW
STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            December 23, 2011 Friday

Best Buy Cancels Some Online Orders

BYLINE: BRIAN X. CHEN

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 416 words



HIGHLIGHT: A number of online shoppers this week reported that BestBuy.com
orders placed in November or December were being canceled, just days before
Christmas. Some complained the retailer had ruined their Christmas, or even
suggested that it had committed fraud.


12/24/11 | Updated Adding new statement from Best Buy.
 This year's Black Friday was so overwhelming that even Best Buy couldn't handle
its own sales.

A number of online shoppers this week complained that some of their BestBuy.com
orders placed in November or December were being canceled, just days before
Christmas.

The electronics retail giant has apologized for the cancellations. Best Buy
cited overwhelming demand of hot product offerings, which led to less than 1
percent of orders' being canceled, according to Susan Busch, senior director of
Best Buy's public relations.

"What was wrong is that there was an unacceptable delay between order
confirmations and cancellations, and for that we are very sorry," said Ms.
Busch, in an e-mailed statement. "It's important to note that this was a rare
situation based on a high volume of orders over a short period of time." She
said that Best Buy was giving electronic gift cards to affected customers as a
goodwill gesture.

Customers expressed their frustration in Best Buy's online forums, with some
parents asserting that the retailer had ruined Christmas for their children.

Some customers in the forum accused Best Buy of committing fraud, as the
retailer's cancellations could be seen as a deliberate bait-and-switch tactic
designed to lure customers into its store with false promises of hot sales,
depriving them of the ability to buy the items from a rival store.

Such an action would constitute fraud, for example, under Section 17200 of the
California business and professions code, which states, "unfair competition
shall mean and include any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or
practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising."

However, it's unlikely consumers would have much of a fraud case against Best
Buy, said Andra Greene, a class-action defense lawyer with Irell & Manella
L.L.P.

Ms. Greene explained that it would be difficult to prove that Best Buy
deliberately put items up for sale that it did not intend to sell. She added
that it was unclear how Best Buy would benefit from canceling Black Friday items
retroactively, because it could instead hurt itself by losing customers.

"Based on just the facts as I know them, this would be a tough row to hoe," Ms.
Greene said.


     ·    Amazon and Best Buy: Uneasy Partners
     ·    Cyber Monday Shopping Surpasses Expectations
     ·    Shoppers Are Staying Home and Logging On This Season
     ·    Flipboard Adds Its First iPad Catalog for Gilt Taste
     ·    Mobile Deals Set to Lure Shoppers Stuck in Line


LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            December 23, 2011 Friday

Insurance Against Cyber Attacks Expected to Boom

BYLINE: NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 711 words



HIGHLIGHT: Despite high-profile cyber attacks at Sony, Google, Epsilon, RSA and
others this year, only a third of companies surveyed by Advisen, a research
group, say they have purchased a cyber insurance policy. Experts say that more
companies will get policies in the coming year because of Security and Exchange
Commission rules requiring companies to disclose cyber attacks and their costs
to shareholders.


 Dec. 29, 11:50 a.m. | Updated

Sony is still awaiting the final tally for losses related to its data breaches
earlier this year. At last count, it had 100 million compromised customer
accounts, and Sony anticipated the debacle would cost $200 million. With 58
class-action suits in the works, that may be wishful thinking.

But what about Sony's insurance coverage?

In a lawsuit filed in July, Sony's insurer, the Zurich American Insurance
Company, said the company did not have a cyber insurance policy. It said Sony's
policy only covered tangible losses like property damage, not cyber incidents.

Jim Kennedy, a Sony spokesman, said that Sony has coverage for "significant
portions" of the losses from the data breaches. "Sony's coverage includes
multiple cyber insurance policies for operations around the world, traditional
general liability policies, and property insurance policies that contain express
provisions covering damage or disruption to electronic data," Mr. Kennedy said
in a statement. "Sony has already received payments from some of its insurers,
and is actively pursuing claims for additional payments."

But despite high-profile cyber attacks at Sony, Google, Epsilon, RSA and others
this year, only a third of companies surveyed by Advisen, a research group, say
they have purchased a cyber insurance policy.

"That's cyber insurance in a nut shell," said Jacob Olcott, a principal with
Good Harbor Consulting's cybersecurity team. "Everybody needs it, and most
companies don't realize they don't have it until it's too late."

Experts say that more companies will buy policies in the coming year because of
new Security and Exchange Commission requirements. Last October, the S.E.C.
issued a new guidance requiring that companies disclose "material" cyber attacks
and their costs to shareholders. The guidance specifically requires companies to
disclose a "description of relevant insurance coverage."

That one S.E.C. bullet point could be a boon to the cyber insurance industry.

Cyber insurance has been around since the Clinton administration, but most
companies tended to "self insure" against cyber attacks, says Robert Ackerman, a
venture capitalist at Allegis Capital who specializes in cybersecurity.

"Companies don't want to talk about cyber attacks," Mr. Ackerman says. "All of a
sudden, breaches are now going to be more visible and people are going to have
to start estimating their costs."

There are no statistics on the size of the cyber insurance industry, but Peter
Foster, a senior vice president at Willis North America, an insurance broker,
estimates there may be $750 million worth of premiums placed. With the recent
S.E.C. measure and the frequency and severity of cyber attacks growing, Mr.
Foster predicts that figure could grow by 50 percent over the next 12 to 18
months.

The average cost of a data breach hit $7.2 million last year and cost companies
$214 per compromised data record, according to the Ponemon Institute. And that's
just for a data breach. If a company's intellectual property is stolen, it could
decimate an organization.

"It is now possible to suck all the information out of a company," said Scott
Borg, chief executive of the nonprofit United States Cyber Consequences Unit.

A comprehensive cyber insurance policy should cover intellectual property theft,
said Emily Freeman, a cyber insurance broker at Lockton. Most policies, Ms.
Freeman said, cover the "twin risks of privacy and security," which include the
cost of lost business, notification costs, credit-monitoring services, public
relations and legal and investigation expenses. It may also cover class-action
lawsuits, regulatory investigations, civil fines and even extortion demands.

"There's no one size fits all. It depends on the size of the company and their
exposure," Ms. Freeman said. "I've seen companies buy a million dollars of this
coverage with a small deductible. Others have bought $100 million of coverage
for a rainy day - the kind of rainy day you might have to disclose to the
S.E.C."



     ·    Hacked Chamber of Commerce Opposed Cybersecurity Law
     ·    Sony Keeps Its Wager on Game Consoles With Vita
     ·    Release Date in U.S. Set for New Sony Mobile Game Console
     ·    Sony Changes Gaming Policy to Thwart Future Lawsuits
     ·    Senator Introduces Online Security Bill


LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 24, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Teaching Students Online, for Profit

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 520 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Profits and Questions at Online Charter Schools'' (front page, Dec. 13):

Agora Cyber Charter School serves as an instructive case study of what happens
when schools are run like businesses. The profit motive always assures that the
education of students takes a back seat to the enrichment of investors.

Nevertheless, free market advocates have managed to exploit the frustration and
anger felt by taxpayers over the glacial progress of traditional public schools
to advance their agenda. In the end, it will become clear that it's impossible
to provide a quality education and show a profit at the same time.

WALT GARDNER Los Angeles, Dec. 13, 2011

The writer's Reality Check blog is published in Education Week.

To the Editor:

I was extremely disappointed in the negative view of online schools presented in
''Profits and Questions at Online Charter Schools.''

ESchools use innovative technology to tailor education to each individual
student's needs. Parents have chosen this option because it's working for their
children.

Time and time again the media push an agenda and imply that they know better
than parents. But it's parents who know what is best for their child's
education.

SARA DONLON President, Ohio eSchool Families and Friends Coalition Columbus,
Ohio, Dec. 13, 2011

To the Editor:

While your excellent article mentions the large number of students who withdraw
from online academies, it doesn't explain what happens to these children after
they leave and what effect they have on the brick and mortar systems they must
presumably re-enter.

When several thousand poorly prepared ex-virtual students flood public school
classrooms each year, those schools will inevitably suffer lowered aggregate
test scores.

Thus, with painful irony, the terrible performance of online charter schools
ends up bolstering reformers' claims that our public schools are failing -- and
that this failure is best addressed by offering parents more ''choices'' like
online charter schools.

ZARA KUBLIN Seattle, Dec. 14, 2011

To the Editor:

Teachers in physical schools supervise all students' work and behavior
throughout the school day. On a deeper level they modify and supplement
inadequate textbook lessons, expand and advance the curriculum for gifted
students, provide additional instruction for those who didn't ''get it'' the
first time, read the body language of kids who are bored, confused or hungry and
respond appropriately, assign leadership roles to quick learners, and know when
it's time to give the whole class a break.

With a virtual school, especially when a teacher has 70 or more students whose
faces she never sees, such high-quality management is impossible, and many
children fall through the cracks.

As your article shows, the only ones truly managing an at-home classroom are
those few parents with time and skill enough to oversee their children's work
full time. At the very least, those parents should be paid by their children's
virtual schools for doing the harder half of a teacher's job.

JOANNE YATVIN Portland, Ore., Dec. 13, 2011

The writer is a retired teacher and elementary school principal.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ELLIOT STOKES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 26, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hackers Breach the Web Site of Stratfor Global Intelligence

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 690 words


While the rest of the world engaged in merriment and good cheer, hackers used
the holidays to attack a United States research group that puts out a daily
newsletter on security issues.

On Saturday, hackers who say they are members of the collective known as
Anonymous claimed responsibility for crashing the Web site of the group,
Stratfor Global Intelligence Service, and pilfering its client list, e-mails and
credit card information in an operation they say is intended to steal $1 million
for donations to charity. The hackers posted a list online that they say
contains Stratfor's confidential client list as well as credit card details,
passwords and home addresses for some 4,000 Stratfor clients. The hackers also
said they had details for more than 90,000 credit card accounts. Among the
organizations listed as Stratfor clients: Bank of America, the Defense
Department, Doctors Without Borders, Lockheed Martin, Los Alamos National
Laboratory and the United Nations.

The group also posted five receipts online that it said were of donations made
with pilfered credit card details. One receipt showed a $180 donation from a
United States Homeland Security employee, Edmund H. Tupay, to the American Red
Cross. Another showed a $200 donation to the Red Cross from Allen Barr, a
recently retired employee from the Texas Department of Banking. Neither
responded to requests for comment.

Mr. Barr told The Associated Press that on Friday he discovered that $700 had
been transferred from his account to charities including the Red Cross, Save the
Children and CARE, but that he had not been aware that the transfer was tied to
a breach of Stratfor's site.

Stratfor executives did not return calls for comment on Sunday. In an e-mail to
subscribers Sunday morning, Stratfor's chief executive, George Friedman,
confirmed that the company's site had been hacked and said his company was
working with law enforcement to track down the parties responsible.

''We have reason to believe that the names of our corporate subscribers have
been posted on other Web sites,'' Mr. Friedman wrote in the e-mail. ''We are
diligently investigating the extent to which subscriber information may have
been obtained.''

The hackers took responsibility for the Stratfor attack on Twitter and said the
attack would be the beginning of a weeklong holiday hacking spree. The breach
was the latest in the online group's ongoing campaign of computer attacks which,
to date, has been aimed at MasterCard, Visa and PayPal as well as groups as
diverse as the Church of Scientology, the Motion Picture Association of America
and the Zetas, a Mexican crime syndicate.

The breach first surfaced on Saturday when hackers defaced Stratfor's Web site
with their own message. ''Merry Lulzxmas!'' the group wrote in a reference to
Lulz Security, a hacking group loosely affiliated with Anonymous. ''Are you
ready for a week of mayhem?'' By Sunday afternoon, the message had been replaced
with a banner message that said: ''Site is currently undergoing maintenance.
Please check back soon.''

According to the hackers' online postings, the group voted on what charities to
contribute to. Among their choices were cancer and AIDS research, the American
Red Cross, WikiLeaks and the Tor Project, a software that enables online
anonymity.

Also according to their postings, the breach appears to have been conducted in
retaliation for the arrest and imprisonment of Pfc. Bradley Manning, the Army
intelligence analyst on trial on charges of leaking classified intelligence
information and more than 250,000 diplomatic cables to WikiLeaks last year.

The attack was also likely intended to embarrass Stratfor, which specializes in
intelligence and security. The hackers said they were able to obtain the credit
card details because, they said, Stratfor had failed to encrypt them.

''The scary thing is that no matter what you do, every system has some level of
vulnerability,'' says Jerry Irvine, a member of the National Cyber Security Task
Force. ''The more you do from an advanced technical standpoint, the more common
things go unnoticed. Getting into a system is really not that difficult.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pfc. Bradley Manning, a suspect in information leaks.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK SEMANSKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 26, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chamber a Victim Of Security Breach

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 486 words


The United States Chamber of Commerce has confirmed Chinese hackers last year
broke into internal networks.

The breach is, in some ways, a twist of fate for the Chamber. It has been one of
the more vocal critics of cybersecurity legislation. In an internal draft
document circulated earlier this year, the Chamber criticized the White House's
legislative proposals on cybersecurity as ''regulatory overreach'' and cautioned
that ''layering new regulations on critical infrastructure will harm
public-private partnerships.''

''This happens all the time,'' says Tom Kellermann, chief technology officer at
AirPatrol Corp. and a member of President Barack Obama's commission on cyber
security. ''This is essentially the modus operandi of China's economic espionage
campaign. Hackers use a trade group as a beachhead to compromise the
constituency. What intellectual property does the Chamber have? They don't. But
they're trusted.''

The Federal Bureau of Investigation was the first to alert the business lobbying
group that servers in China were accessing the Chamber's internal network early
last year. A subsequent internal investigation found the hackers had zeroed in
on four of the lobbying group's Asia policy experts and that at least six week's
worth of e-mails had been pilfered. The Chamber shut down the operation in May
2010.

J.P. Fielder, a Chamber spokesman, emphasized that the breach was ''limited in
scope'' to the four employees, though an earlier report in the Wall Street
Journal suggested that the breach had been going on for over a year before it
was discovered and that more than 300 Internet addresses may have been
compromised. The F.B.I. did not return calls seeking comment.

The Chamber represents businesses and trade groups in Washington and the breach
may affect its trusted relationship with its three million members, which
include some of the nation's largest corporations.

''Businesses are already worried about the cyber theft of their internal trade
secrets. Now they have to worry that the sensitive information they've shared
with the Chamber is compromised,'' says Jacob Olcott, a principal with Good
Harbor Consulting's cybersecurity team.

The Chamber says it has taken greater steps to secure itself in the wake of the
breach. Mr. Fielder, the Chamber spokesman, said the Chamber had installed more
sophisticated detection equipment and updated its policies which now include
''barring employees from taking portable devices with them to certain
countries,'' including China.

Despite these measures, the Chamber still shows signs of infiltration. The
Journal reported that the Chamber recently discovered a thermostat in a
Chamber-owned apartment was communicating with an Internet address in China and
that last March, one of its printers randomly started printing documents
containing Chinese characters.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 173 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                          December 28, 2011 Wednesday

Daily Report: Clicking 'Checkout' While Under the Influence

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 182 words



HIGHLIGHT: In The New York Times on Wednesday, Stephanie Clifford  reports about
the phenomenon of alcohol-induced online shopping.


In The New York Times on Wednesday, Stephanie Clifford reports about the
phenomenon of alcohol-induced online shopping. Reliable data is scarce, but one
comparison-shopping site says that nearly half the people it surveyed in Britain
had shopped online after drinking.  And online retailers suspect that enough
shoppers buy online goods in the evening while they are drunk, or even just
tipsy, that they are aiming promotions for later hours, hoping to tempt buyers
after the bars close.

Here's an article on the survey, which was done in Britain. And on The Times's
Web site, readers are weighing in. JimO, from St. Petersburg, Fla., writes,
"Makes me wonder how much money I've spent on iTunes after Happy Hour." And
Sandra from Wilmington, Del., writes: "it's not just after drinking. i've done
some online shopping after taking ambien. i dont necessarily remember the next
day. kind of scary."


     ·    How People Shopped Online This Holiday Season
     ·    Back at Work, and Catching Up on Online Shopping
     ·    Amazon Backlash
     ·    Cyber Monday Shopping Surpasses Expectations
     ·    A Shopping Day Invented for the Web Comes of Age


LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
