LOD
                               1 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                             January 4, 2008 Friday

Let's Face It

BYLINE: MICHELLE SALE and YASMIN CHIN EISENHAUER

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2508 words



HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students consider how they want to be perceived by
others and create social networking profiles that could conceivably be posted
online by literary characters or historical figures.



Overview | In this lesson, students consider how they want to be perceived by
others and create social networking profiles that could conceivably be posted
online by literary characters or historical figures.

Author(s) | Michelle Sale, The New York Times Learning Network
Yasmin Chin Eisenhauer, Bank Street College of Education in New York

Suggested Time Allowance |  1 hour

Objectives |  Students will:


     ·    Analyze the personas they show to various people in their lives.
     ·    Learn about considerations made when creating an online profile for a
          social networking site by reading and discussing the article "Putting
          Your Best Cyberface Forward."
     ·     Develop notes for online profiles of literary characters or
          historical figures based on the various personas they use.
     ·    Complete thoughtful profiles for their respective literary characters
          or historical figures.


Materials


     ·    pens/pencils
     ·    blank paper
     ·    classroom board
     ·    copies of the article "Putting Your Best Cyberface Forward" (one per
          student)
     ·    resources about online networking sites, especially user profiles
          (computers with Internet access, etc.)


Activities / Procedures


     ·    Warm-Up/Do-Now: Before class, place a blank sheet of paper on each
          desk. Students respond to the following prompt (written on the board
          or copied into a handout before class for easier student access):
           "Divide the paper on your desk into four equal parts. Label each of
          the four sections with one of the following headings: 'Parents,'
          'Friends,' 'Teachers' and 'Strangers.' It is normal for us to shape
          behaviors and appearances to try and control how we are perceived by
          others. Under each heading, write or draw the aspects of your
          personality that you show this audience on a regular basis. What
          character traits, habits, interests, sayings, activities, likes,
          dislikes, dreams, goals, etc. do you show each group of people?"
            After a few minutes, allow volunteers time to share their answers.
          Discuss why people have different "faces" for different people and why
          it may not be appropriate or necessary for everyone to be privy to all
          aspects of an individual.
     ·    As a class, read and discuss the article, ("Putting Your Best
          Cyberface Forward"), focusing on the following questions:


What is "impression management"?What dilemma do people face when creating
profiles for social networking Web sites?How seriously did you consider the
questions addressed in the article when developing your profiles? If you do not
have any profiles, how might you respond to these types of questions?What
correlation has Joseph B. Walther made between the attractiveness of a person's
friends on Facebook and how that person is perceived?What do you think about Mr.
Walther's findings? Explain your answer.What considerations do online daters
make to ensure that they appear "desirable" to others?According to the article,
why do the existing sites inadvertently promote misrepresentation?What
improvement does Keith N. Hampton recommend for making impression management
online more honest and useful?How accurate is your profile?Explain to students
that they will each be developing online profiles for a literary character or
historical figure. This activity will provide an opportunity for students to
examine these personalities more deeply. They will have to determine which
aspects of persona to highlight when composing their online profiles. Briefly
discuss with students (and list on the board) features they have on their own
social networking profiles.Assign or have each student choose a character or
historical figure. Subjects may be assigned using a novel, short story, play,
event, country or era that is part of the current curriculum. Teachers may want
to include characters from movies, if that is relevant to the curriculum. To
study their characters or historical figures in depth, students should research
and brainstorm answers to as many of the following questions and tasks that
apply. Encourage students to expand or alter questions and tasks as they see
fit. Remind students that online profiles are only as creative and thoughtful as
the author's ideas and expertise allow. For each item offered, students will
want to consider if their character or historical figure would tell the truth or
make something up for the profile. Students should have rational support for
each choice they make. (The following should be written on the board or copied
into a handout for easier student access):

General Information


     ·    Who is your character?
     ·    What is your character's screen name?
     ·    Would this character list his or her birth date or age range? If so,
          what would he or she state?
     ·    What type of picture would this character or personality post as a
          main image? Would it be a recent photo, an old photo, an icon, etc.?
     ·    What political or religious views might be conveyed in the profile?
     ·    Is this character or person married, single or divorced? Would he or
          she tell the truth or lie about his or her status?
     ·    What privacy settings would this character or person use to control
          this profile? Would he or she allow open access or require selective
          availability? (IMPORTANT: The answer to this question will shape the
          development of the profile.)


Details


     ·    What adjectives would you use to describe this person's behavior? How
          might this subject's personality affect the information found in this
          profile?
     ·    What are this person's strengths and weaknesses? How might these
          weaknesses be recast as strengths for an online networking profile?
     ·    What education, if any, would this character or person list?
     ·    How might this character or person describe his or her work, if
          applicable?
     ·    What might be listed under the "What are you doing right now?" prompt?


Networks and Groups


     ·    What characters or people would be part of this subject's networks or
          groups?
     ·    To what networks or groups might this character or personality belong?
     ·    What would other characters write on the "wall" or in the inbox of
          this figure?  (For example, what would an antagonist write on a
          protagonist's "wall"?)


Just for Fun


     ·    What personal information would be listed? Include activities,
          interests, favorite music, television shows, movies and books,
          favorite quotations, etc.
     ·    What photographs or videos that would be posted to the profile?
          (Explanations can be written, or, if time allows, they can be drawn or
          printed or storyboarded.)
     ·    What applications would this character or person use to create his or
          her profile? For each application, consider what would be posted.
          Possible applications include events calendars, classified listings,
          notes, blog postings, virtual gifts, etc.


Once the notes have been completed, students will share their ideas with a
partner and get feedback. Have the students take turns explaining their
subject's profile and talking about who is meant to see that profile based on
online privacy settings. Listening partners should consider how each item in the
profile adds depth and meaning to the character or historical figure. To guide
their comments and feedback, students should use sentence starters like:


     ·    "What this character shows this group is..."
     ·    "What I don't understand about this character is"
     ·    "What I would like to know more about is..."


After getting feedback, students should begin working on their online networking
profiles.
In the last five minutes of class, students should discuss how this activity has
helped them better understand a character or historical person, as well as this
subject's contextual existence.

Wrap-Up/Homework: Students will complete online social networking profiles for
their characters using the notes and feedback generated during class. In a
future class, students can share their work and create electronic profiles to be
posted on the school's official Web site.

Further Questions for Discussion


     ·    Do you think most people your age are self-conscious? Do you feel this
          will change with maturity? Why or why not and how?
     ·    What quality do you admire and would like to develop? Why?
     ·    How does an online networking site allow you to develop relationships
          you would not normally have?
     ·    How important is social networking to your current social life? Why or
          why not?
     ·    What are the benefits and drawbacks of social networking?


Evaluation / Assessment | Students will be evaluated based on completion of
charts, participation in class and peer editing discussions, detailed and
plausible notes, and thoughtfully composed online profiles.

Vocabulary | Emblazoned, tweak, demographic, pretentious, nefarious, culpable,
imperviousness.

Extension Activities


     ·    Explore the history and importance of the Proust Questionnaire. Who
          was Marcel Proust? What does he have to do with a survey? How did he
          become so famous? What pop culture medium employs this survey? Prepare
          an oral report on your findings, along with a sample questionnaire for
          students to fill out and discuss.
     ·    Prepare a series of diary entries from the point of view of the
          character or historical figure that you analyzed in class.
     ·    Research how the character or historical figure from your online
          networking profile really communicated at the time in which he or she
          lived. Create a poster illustrating your findings.



Interdisciplinary Connections | Civics: Research social predator laws that
protect minors from inappropriate encounters or from people who misrepresent
themselves. Write a report explaining your findings.
  Health: Research Internet addiction. What is it? What are the symptoms? How is
it treated? Explore tips for cyber-wellness and present your findings to the
class.
  Mathematics: Develop a community poll which surveys the use and frequency of
social networking Web sites like Facebook or MySpace among your peers. Analyze
the results and create a series of charts or graphs.
  Teaching With The Times: Examine the paper to see how the hard copy compares
with cyberspace. What information does the newspaper provide readers with to
entice them to go online? Prepare a list of examples and prompts. To order The
New York Times for your classroom, click here.

Background | Online networking sites offer people with computer access new
opportunities to communicate with others from across the globe. A variety of
tools can be used to personalize the experience, like photographs, videos,
blogs, etc.

Other Information on the Web | Social networking sites like Facebook and MySpace
provide opportunities for people to communicate online through postings,
photographs, videos, music clips, etc.

Academic Content Standards
Grades 6 to 8

Technology Standard 3: Understands the relationships among science, technology,
society and the individual. Benchmarks: Knows that science cannot answer all
questions and technology cannot solve all human problems or meet all human
needs; knows ways in which technology and society influence each other; knows
examples of copyright violations and computer fraud and possible penalties.
 Geography Standard 6: Understands that culture and experience influence
people's perceptions of places and regions. Benchmarks: Knows how places and
regions serve as cultural symbols; knows the ways in which culture influences
the perception of places and regions.

Geography Standard 10: Understands the nature and complexity of Earth's cultural
mosaics. Benchmark: Knows ways in which communities reflect the cultural
background of their inhabitants.

Language Arts Standard 1: Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing
process. Benchmarks: Uses a variety of prewriting strategies; uses a variety of
strategies to draft and revise written work; uses a variety of strategies to
edit and publish written work; evaluates own and others' writing; uses content,
style, and structure appropriate for specific audiences and purposes; writes
narrative accounts; writes compositions about autobiographical incidents; writes
business letters and letters of request and response.
 Language Arts Standard 3: Uses grammatical and mechanical conventions in
written compositions. Benchmarks: Uses conventions of spelling in written
compositions; uses conventions of capitalization in written compositions; uses
conventions of punctuation in written compositions; uses appropriate format in
written compositions.
Grades 9 to 12
 Geography Standard 6: Understands that culture and experience influence
people's perceptions of places and regions. Benchmarks: Understands why places
and regions are important to individual human identity and as symbols for
unifying or fragmenting society; knows ways in which people's changing views of
places and regions reflect cultural change.
 Geography Standard 10: Understands the nature and complexity of Earth's
cultural mosaics. Benchmarks: Knows how cultures influence the characteristics
of regions; understands how human characteristics make specific regions of the
world distinctive; knows the role culture plays in incidents of cooperation and
conflict in the present-day world.

Language Arts Standard 1: Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing
process. Benchmarks: Uses a variety of prewriting strategies; uses a variety of
strategies to draft and revise written work; uses a variety of strategies to
edit and publish written work; evaluates own and others' writing; uses
strategies to address writing to different audiences; uses strategies to adapt
writing for different purposes; writes fictional, biographical, autobiographical
and observational narrative compositions; writes descriptive compositions;
writes reflective compositions; uses appropriate strategies to write personal
and business correspondence.

Language Arts Standard 2: Uses the stylistic and rhetorical aspects of writing.
Benchmarks: Uses precise and descriptive language that clarifies and enhances
ideas and supports different purposes; uses paragraph form in writing; uses a
variety of sentence structures and lengths; uses a variety of transitional
devices; uses a variety of techniques to provide supporting detail; organizes
ideas to achieve cohesion in writing; uses a variety of techniques to convey a
personal style and voice.

Language Arts Standard 2: Uses the stylistic and rhetorical aspects of writing.
Benchmarks: Uses descriptive language that clarifies and enhances ideas; uses
paragraph form in writing; uses a variety of sentence structures to expand and
embed ideas; uses explicit transitional devices.

Language Arts Standard 3: Uses grammatical and mechanical conventions in written
compositions. Benchmarks: Uses conventions of spelling in written compositions;
uses conventions of capitalization in written compositions; uses conventions of
punctuation in written compositions; uses appropriate format in written
compositions.

Technology Standard 3: Understands the relationships among science, technology,
society, and the individual. Benchmarks: Knows ways in which social and economic
forces influence which technologies will be developed and used; knows that
alternatives, risks, costs, and benefits must be considered when deciding on
proposals to introduce new technologies or to curtail existing ones; knows
examples of advanced and emerging technologies and how they could impact
society.


     ·    Putting Your Best Cyberface Forward


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 11, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

'SCREEN TEST'

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 337 words


'SCREEN TEST' For six years in the 1990s Rob Roth, a downtown video director and
designer, promoted a ''cyber-fetish-nightlife spectacle'' called Click + Drag at
the Chelsea club Mother. The party was famous for its over-the-top costumed
crowd and raunchy attitude. When the club closed, Mr. Roth didn't pack up his
latex and strobe lights. He simply went legit.

One result is ''Screen Test,'' a rock opera starring Theo Kogan, formerly of the
all-female punk group Lunachicks. Ms. Kogan, above, and her new band, the
Skyscrapers, composed the music for the show, which blends theater, performance
art, dance and video installation as a meditation on artifice, old-school
Hollywood glamour and new-school politics. ''It's a statement about facade,
about what's real,'' Mr. Roth said. ''A lot of the dialogue is about submerging
yourself in a fantasy world. Especially in a political climate like today, I
just feel like we have to create our own fantasy world; it's a survival
mechanism to guard against the ugliness that's outside.'' The hourlong show had
its premiere last year as part of Performance Space 122's multimedia Coil
Festival, and is featured this year as well.

For its second run this weekend Mr. Roth has made some changes, including amping
up a section in which video is projected on a Butoh dancer, like a moving
screen. Ms. Kogan's body too is used as a canvas; at one point a videotaped
monologue she gives is beamed onto her, so she is conversing with (and on)
herself. ''It's sort of video as a puppet,'' Mr. Roth said. ''I like the
hallucination it creates. It's like an acid trip.'' Naturally, Mr. Roth, who has
worked with downtown artists like Debbie Harry and Justin Bond, credits his
nightlife past with inspiration: ''I felt like it was graduate school for me,''
he said. Who needs an M.F.A.? (Saturday and Sunday at 8:30 p.m., Abrons Art
Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, 212-352-3101,
ps122.org; $20; $15 for students; $10 for members of P.S. 122.)

MELENA RYZIK

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GAETANO SALVADORE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 11, 2008 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Spare Times

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 2945 words


AROUND TOWN

Museums and Sites

'SCREEN TEST' For six years in the 1990s Rob Roth, a downtown video director and
designer, promoted a ''cyber-fetish-nightlife spectacle'' called Click + Drag at
the Chelsea club Mother. The party was famous for its over-the-top costumed
crowd and raunchy attitude. When the club closed, Mr. Roth didn't pack up his
latex and strobe lights. He simply went legit.

One result is ''Screen Test,'' a rock opera starring Theo Kogan, formerly of the
all-female punk group Lunachicks. Ms. Kogan, above, and her new band, the
Skyscrapers, composed the music for the show, which blends theater, performance
art, dance and video installation as a meditation on artifice, old-school
Hollywood glamour and new-school politics. ''It's a statement about facade,
about what's real,'' Mr. Roth said. ''A lot of the dialogue is about submerging
yourself in a fantasy world. Especially in a political climate like today, I
just feel like we have to create our own fantasy world; it's a survival
mechanism to guard against the ugliness that's outside.'' The hourlong show had
its premiere last year as part of Performance Space 122's multimedia Coil
Festival, and is featured this year as well.

For its second run this weekend Mr. Roth has made some changes, including amping
up a section in which video is projected on a Butoh dancer, like a moving
screen. Ms. Kogan's body too is used as a canvas; at one point a videotaped
monologue she gives is beamed onto her, so she is conversing with (and on)
herself. ''It's sort of video as a puppet,'' Mr. Roth said. ''I like the
hallucination it creates. It's like an acid trip.'' Naturally, Mr. Roth, who has
worked with downtown artists like Debbie Harry and Justin Bond, credits his
nightlife past with inspiration: ''I felt like it was graduate school for me,''
he said. Who needs an M.F.A.? (Saturday and Sunday at 8:30 p.m., Abrons Art
Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, 212-352-3101,
ps122.org; $20; $15 for students; $10 for members of P.S. 122.)

MELENA RYZIK

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West and 79th Street. Through
May 26, ''Water: H2O = Life'' and ''The Butterfly Conservatory: Tropical
Butterflies Alive in Winter.'' Saturday, noon to 4:30 p.m., ''Living in America:
Rivers of Life,'' a performance series in conjunction with ''Water: H2O =
Life,'' featuring music, dances, demonstrations, films and discussions.  Timed
tickets to ''Water: H20 = Life,'' ''Mythic Creatures'' and ''The Butterfly
Conservatory,'' as well as tickets to Imax movies, include museum admission.
(212) 769-5100 or (212) 769-5200. Tickets: $22; $16.50 for students and 60+; $13
for 12 and younger. Suggested general admission: $15; $11 for students and 60+;
$8.50 for children. Supersaver tickets, including museum and Rose Center
admission, the Hayden Planetarium space show (''Cosmic Collisions'') and all
special exhibitions: $30; $23 for students and 60+; $19 for 12 and younger.
Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. The Rose Center is open until 8:45 p.m. for
''Starry Nights: Fridays Under the Sphere,'' with jazz, a cash bar and tapas, on
the first Friday of every month. amnh.org.

HISTORIC RICHMOND TOWN, Staten Island Historical Society, 441 Clarke Avenue,
Richmond Town. Wednesday, 7:30 to 9 p.m., English Country Dancing; $5; every
Wednesday through April 23 (except Jan. 23). (718) 351-1611, Ext. 281. Hours:
Wednesdays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Tours offered on weekdays at 2:30 p.m.
and weekends at 2 p.m. and 3:30 p.m. $5; $3.50 for students and children ages 5
to 17; free for members and children under 5.

MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. Through March 16,
''Manhattan Noon,'' photographs by Gus Powell, featuring 30 color images taken
during his lunch hour. Saturday at noon, a discussion with Mr. Powell. Saturday
at 3 p.m., a screening of the documentary ''Forgotten Ellis Island: The
Extraordinary Story of America's Immigrant Hospital,'' based on the book by
Lorie Conway, who will be present. Sunday at noon, the actress Estelle Parsons
will read from Frank O'Hara's ''Lunch Poems''; free with museum admission, but
reservations required: (212) 534-1672, Ext. 3395. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10
a.m. to 5 p.m.; (212) 534-1672; mcny.org. Suggested admission: $9; $5 for
students and 62+; free for children under 12 and for everyone on Sundays, 10
a.m. to noon; $20 for families. Through Feb. 10, admission is free for those
with a paid receipt from a visit to the New-York Historical Society.

NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street. Through
Sunday, ''Nature and the American Vision: The Hudson River School at the
New-York Historical Society'' includes more than 100 oil paintings by artists of
the Hudson River School. Tuesday at 6 p.m., ''How Green is My City? New York
Today and 2030,'' a discussion with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg; Elizabeth Barlow
Rogers, president of the Foundation for Landscape Studies; Daniel L. Doctoroff,
the former deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding; Adrian Benepe,
commissioner of parks and recreation; Douglas Blonsky, president of the Central
Park Conservancy; and Jonathan Rose, president of a development company; $18;
$12 for students, educators and 65+; $10 for members. Through Aug. 10, ''French
Founding Father: Lafayette's Return to Washington's America,'' a multimedia
exhibition with a video display and items associated with Lafayette. Through
April 13, ''Here Is New York: Remembering 9/11/01,'' an exhibition of
photographs, artifacts and oral histories documenting the terrorist attack.
Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; to 8 p.m. on Fridays. (212)
873-3400; nyhistory.org. $10; $7 for educators and 65+; $6 for students; free
from 6 to 8 p.m. on Fridays; free at all times for children under 12. Through
Feb. 10, admission is free for those with a paid receipt from a visit to the
Museum of the City of New York.

NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY, Humanities and Social Sciences Research Library, Fifth
Avenue at 42nd Street. Through Feb. 24, then March 1 to March 16, ''Beatific
Soul: Jack Kerouac on the Road,'' featuring his diaries, manuscripts,
photographs and personal items. Mondays, and Thursdays through Saturdays, 11
a.m. to 6 p.m.; Tuesdays, 11 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.; Wednesdays, 1 to 7:30 p.m. (212)
592-7730; nypl.org. Free.

NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM, Gallery Annex, Grand Central Terminal, adjacent to the
stationmaster's office. Through Sunday, the sixth annual Grand Central Holiday
Train Show. Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 8
p.m.; Sundays, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.; (212) 878-0106. Free.

Gardens

NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN, Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road,
Bedford Park, the Bronx.  Through Sunday,  the Holiday Train Show, which
includes more than 140 replicas of New York City landmarks; admission to the
train show  is $20; $18 for students and 62+; $7 for 2 to 12; free for under 2.
Also through Sunday,  ''Plants of Japan in Illustrated Books and Prints,'' a
display of rare items. Open Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tram
tours daily, every 20 minutes. (718) 817-8700. nybg.org.

WAVE HILL, Independence Avenue and West 249th Street, Riverdale, the Bronx.
Saturday at 2 p.m., a Conservatory walk through the cactus and succulent house.
Saturday and Sunday at 1 p.m., a family art project in sketching and painting
inhabitants of the cactus house. Sunday at 9 a.m., a nature walk in search of
woodland birds; $18, $10 for members; registration required: (718) 549-3200,
Ext. 305. Sunday at 2 p.m., a concert of popular music by Lumiri Tubo and her
trio; $24, $21 for 65+ and students, $15 for members; advance tickets
recommended. Through Feb. 10, ''Ornamental Instincts,'' an installation that
showcases natural habitats. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
wavehill.org. $6; $3 for students and 65+; $2 for children six and older; free
for members and under 6; Tuesdays, free all day; Saturdays, free 9 a.m. to noon.

Events

BROOKLYN HISTORICAL SOCIETY,  128 Pierrepont Street, Brooklyn Heights. Through
April 27, ''Lost in Transition: South Brooklyn, Williamsburg & Coney Island,''
an exhibition of photographs by high school students documenting changes in the
neighborhoods as well as works by the photographer Eugene Armbruster. Through
December, ''In Our Own Words: Portraits of Brooklyn's Vietnam Veterans,'' an
exhibition of life-size portraits and audio clips. Wednesdays through Sundays,
noon to 5 p.m. $6; $4 for students with ID and 62+; free for children under 12
and members. (718) 222-4111; brooklynhistory.org.

AMERICAN AIRLINES WINTER CELEBRATION AT THE POND AT BRYANT PARK, Saturday, 2 to
5 p.m., Avenue of the Americas at 42nd Street. Beginning at 2:30 p.m., the first
100 visitors to the American Airlines Pavilion will receive a free ice-skate
rental; otherwise, rentals are $10. Admission is free. Taking to the ice with
visitors will be the former professional hockey players Rod Gilbert, Clark
Gillies, Bobby Nystrom and Benoit Hogue. Pond hours are Friday and Saturday, 8
a.m. to midnight; Sunday through Tuesday, 8 a.m. to 10 p.m.; the last day of
skating is Tuesday. thepondatbryantpark.com.

INSIDE THE CATHEDRAL OF ST. JOHN THE DIVINE, Sunday at 2 p.m., includes stops at
the Nave, the Baptistery and the Chapel of the Tongues, meeting on the northwest
corner of Amsterdam Avenue and 112th Street, Morningside Heights. Sponsored by
Bernie's New York. (718) 655-1883. $10.

NEW YORK JEWISH FILM FESTIVAL, Walter Reade Theater, at Lincoln Center and the
Jewish Museum, Fifth Avenue at 92nd Street. Screenings this weekend at the
Walter Reade Theater: Saturday at 6 and 9 p.m. and Sunday at 1, 3:30, 6 and 8:30
p.m. Through Jan. 24. (212) 875-5600; filmlinc.com. $11; $7 for students,
members of the Film Society and the Jewish Museum and for 65+ at weekday
screenings.

PROSPECT PARK, Brooklyn. Saturdays at noon, an introduction to birding;
binoculars provided. Saturdays and Sundays at 3 p.m., nature tours. Both meet at
the Audubon Center at the Boathouse, reachable from the entrances at Lincoln
Road and Ocean Avenue, Parkside and Ocean Avenues and Flatbush Avenue and Empire
Boulevard. (718) 287-3400, Ext. 114. Both are free.

SIXTH ANNUAL CHRISTMAS TREE RECYCLING AND WOOD CHIP MULCH GIVEAWAY, at
Green-Wood Cemetery, Fifth Avenue and 25th Street, Brooklyn. On Friday and
Saturday from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., trees can be dropped off for mulching. Mulch
will be distributed on Saturday, beginning at 8 a.m., with staff members from
the Brooklyn Botanic Garden on hand from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. to discuss its uses
and benefits. Mulch is available at the cemetery year-round, daily, 8 a.m. to
4:30 p.m. (718) 768-7300. Free.

WATSON ADVENTURES Friday at 6 p.m., ''The Murder at the Met Scavenger Hunt,'' a
search for a curator's murderer through the Metropolitan Museum of Art. $41.50.
Saturday at 3 p.m., ''The Murder at the Museum of Natural History Scavenger
Hunt.'' $38. Both include museum admission. Meeting places and reservations:
(877) 946-4868.

Spoken Word

EXPLORERS CLUB, 46 East 70th Street, Manhattan. Monday at 7 p.m., ''Sperm Whales
of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge: In Search of Melville's Moby Dick,'' a discussion
with Wade and Robyn Hughes, husband-and-wife explorers, who have led whale
expeditions. Reservations: (212) 628-8383. $20; $5, students.

IVY STAND-UP: THE SMARTEST YOU'LL EVER LAUGH, Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Gotham
Comedy Club, 208 West 23rd Street, Manhattan. Featuring comedians who graduated
from Ivy League colleges. (212) 367-9000. $20, plus two-beverage minimum.

92ND STREET Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., ''The Tang and Song:
Golden Years of Classical Chinese Poetry,'' a lecture by Ben Wang, a staff
member of the China Institute; $25. Tuesday at 7 p.m., ''TV Dinners: Famous
Television Food Scenes and Tasting,'' a lecture on food in situation comedies
and the development of television cooking shows, by Francine Segan, a food
historian and author; $35. Tuesday at 8:15 p.m., the comedians and actors Jerry
Stiller and Anne Meara will discuss their careers; $26. Wednesday at 7 p.m., a
discussion on Nigerian literature with scholars and writers; $25. Wednesday at 8
p.m., a discussion with Carl Bernstein, the journalist and author of ''A Woman
in Charge: The Life of Hillary Rodham Clinton''; $26. (212) 415-5500; 92y.org.

SECOND SUNDAY, Noguchi Museum, 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island
City, Queens. Sunday at 3 p.m., ''The Market for Mid-20th Century Modern Design:
An Insider's View,'' a panel discussion with representatives from auction houses
and galleries. Presented in conjunction with the exhibition ''Design: Isamu
Noguchi and Isamu Kenmochi,'' on view through May 25. The museum will be closed
from Jan. 23 to Jan. 30 for the beginning of a renovation project and will
reopen on Jan. 31. (718)  204-7088. $10; $5 for students and 60+; free for
children under 12.

BROOKLYN PUBLIC LIBRARY, Grand Army Plaza, Flatbush Avenue and Eastern Parkway.
Saturday at 4 p.m., ''Disease in a World Without Boundaries,'' a discussion with
Denise Grady, a science reporter for The New York Times, and Daniel W.
Fitzgerald, an assistant professor of medicine at NewYork-Presbyterian
Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center. (718) 230-2100;
brooklynpubliclibrary.org. Free.

Walking Tours

ADVENTURE ON A SHOESTRING  Saturday at 2 p.m., ''The World of Edith Wharton,''
features a walk in Gramercy Park, meeting on the southwest corner of Lexington
Avenue and 23rd Street. (212) 265-2663. $10.

ART GALLERY WALKING TOUR IN CHELSEA Saturday at 1 p.m., visits eight modern-art
galleries, meeting at 526 West 26th Street. Sponsored by nygallerytours.com.
(212) 946-1548. $20.

BIG ONION WALKING TOURS  Two Lower Manhattan tours. Friday at 1 p.m., a tour of
the financial district, meeting in front of Trinity Church, Wall Street and
Broadway. Monday at 1 p.m., ''The 'Official' Gangs of New York Tour,'' stopping
at sites associated with the 1928 book by Herbert Asbury and the 2002 film
directed by Martin Scorsese, meeting at City Hall Park, on the southeast corner
of Broadway and Chambers Street. (212)  439-1090; bigonion.com. Each, $15; $12
for 63+; $10 for students and New-York Historical Society members.

CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCY Weekend tours of Central Park.  Saturday at 1 p.m., the
''Cross Park Promenade'' explores the sites along the east-to-west walk through
the park, meeting inside the park by the statue of Samuel F. B. Morse, Fifth
Avenue and 72nd Street.  Sunday at 11 a.m., ''The Castle and Its Kingdom,''
meeting at Belvedere Castle, midpark at 79th Street. Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Views
From the Past,'' the early days of the park, meeting at the Dairy, midpark at
65th Street. centralparknyc.org. Free.

EAST VILLAGE TOURS.COM Saturday and Tuesday at 11 a.m., ''East Village 101,''
meeting at the Astor Place Cube at East Eighth Street, between Lafayette Street
and Fourth Avenue. Saturday at 1 p.m., ''Gangsters, Murderers and Weirdos,''
meeting at the northwest corner of Second Avenue and Houston Street, Lower East
Side.(917) 215-2575; eastvillagetours.com. $15.

HARLEM HERITAGE TOURS  Friday at 1 p.m., a ''Harlem Renaissance Walking Tour,''
meeting on the northwest corner of 135th Street and Malcolm X Boulevard; $25.
Sunday at 10 a.m., the ''Harlem Gospel Walking Tour'' will begin with a gospel
church service, meeting at the Harlem Heritage Tourism and Cultural Center, 104
Malcolm X Boulevard, at 116th Street. (212) 280-7888 for reservations;
harlemheritage.com.

MANSIONS, MILLIONS AND MAGNIFICENCE Saturday at 1 p.m., a walking tour of the
Fifth Avenue Millionaires' Mile, meeting at the statue of General Sherman, Fifth
Avenue and 59th Street. Sponsored by I'll Take Manhattan Tours. (732) 270-5559.
$15.

METRO TOUR SERVICE Friday through Sunday at 2 p.m., visiting Brooklyn Heights,
Fort Greene and Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, meeting in front of the Marriott Hotel,
Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn; (718) 789-0430. $25.

MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETYSaturday at 11 a.m., ''Along Park Avenue: Modern Materials,
Modern Icons,'' covers the history and restoration of some noted buildings,
meeting on the southwest corner of Vanderbilt Avenue and 43rd Street. Sunday at
1 p.m., ''Downtown: New Connections,'' examines the new development amid the
historic buildings in Lower Manhattan, meeting outside St. Paul's Chapel,
Broadway at Fulton Street. (212) 439-1049. Each, $15; $12 for members.

NYC DISCOVERY TOURS Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m., ''The U.S. Customs House and
Titanic History Tour,'' an architectural tour of the inside and outside of the
United States Customs House, as well as a look at nearby buildings that were
associated with the vessel. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331. $15.

STREET SMARTS N.Y. Saturday at 2 p.m., ''Walks in Old Chelsea,'' meeting in
front of the Flatiron Building at the intersection of Broadway, Fifth Avenue and
23rd Street. (212) 969-8262. $10.

URBAN TRAIL CONFERENCE Sunday, a four-to-six mile walk in the Staten Island
Greenbelt. Participants from Manhattan should take the 10:30 a.m. ferry and meet
on Staten Island near the steps of the rear entrance to the Ferry Terminal.
(718) 612-6284. $3, plus $4 MetroCard.

Recreation

NEW YORK ROAD RUNNERS Saturday at 9 a.m., the Fred Lebow Classic, a five-mile
run through Central Park, beginning on the East Drive, north of 99th Street.
(212) 860-4455; nyrr.org. Advance registration free: $30, $20 for members; $14
for 18 and younger and 62+. Race day, $35, $25 and $15.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 31, 2008 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Sony's Income Rose 25% in Quarter

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 240 words

DATELINE: TOKYO


The Sony Corporation, the electronic products maker, said Thursday that its net
income in the third quarter rose 25 percent to 200.2 billion yen ($1.9 billion).

Sales increased 9.6 percent, while profit topped expectations.

The company cited strong digital camera sales for part of the growth.

Sony also cut its sales goal for PlayStation 3 game console to 9.5 million units
for the year from 11 million.  The fiscal year ends in March.  On the other
hand, Sony said it was raising its PlayStation Portable sales target to 13
million units from 10 million. Sony sold 4.9 million units of the PlayStation 3
in October-December quarter. In that same period, a rival Nintendo sold about 7
million units of the Wii.

Sony enjoyed robust holiday demand for its Cyber-shot digital cameras, Handycam
camcorders and Vaio PCs, while cutting production costs of its loss-making
PlayStation 3 game console and broadening its game software lineup.

Its game business swung to a profit after Sony cut production costs and retail
prices of the PlayStation 3 game console and broadened its game software lineup
in a bid to catch up with Nintendo's Wii and Microsoft's Xbox 360.

Sony has shed 10,000 jobs and a wide range of non-core assets over the past few
years in a turnaround effort. The company said last year it would sell its
production facilities for making key microchips used in the PlayStation 3 to
Toshiba and stop making rear-projection TVs.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 15, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Says Use of MySpace May Violate a Court Order

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 546 words


In one of the first rulings of its kind, a Staten Island judge has said that a
teenage girl could be charged with violating a restraining order by using
MySpace.com to reach out to people she was told not to contact.

The girl, Melisa Fernino, 16, of West Brighton, Staten Island, was charged with
three counts of criminal contempt in September after she was accused of sending
a MySpace ''friend request'' to Sandra Delgrosso and her two daughters on Aug.
23. The order was put in place after Ms. Fernino made several violent threats
against Ms. Delgrosso, who had dated her father, and against her two daughters,
said a Staten Island official who insisted on anonymity because the case
originated in Family Court, where proceedings are private.

On Wednesday, Judge Matthew A. Sciarrino Jr. of Staten Island Criminal Court
turned down Ms. Fernino's request to dismiss the contempt charges, ruling that
MySpace was a form of contact just like speaking in person or by telephone and
that the order of restraint had barred any sort of contact with the Delgrossos.
The judge's decision was reported on Thursday in The Staten Island Advance.

''The defendant should not be exculpated because she, instead of contacting her
victims directly, used MySpace,'' Judge Sciarrino wrote.

According to the Staten Island district attorney's office and other prosecutors
who specialize in cyber crimes, it was one of the first cases in which a judge
in the United States had ruled that a restraining order had been violated by
contact made through MySpace, a social networking Web site. According to the
News Corporation, which bought the site in 2005, MySpace has more than 70
million members, who can initiate contact with one another by sending ''friend
requests.'' The Delgrossos had MySpace accounts.

Joseph DeMarco, an adjunct professor at Columbia Law School and the former chief
of the computer crimes unit at the United States attorney's office in Manhattan,
said that as technology advances, judges will have to determine whether various
forms of online contact violate restraining orders.

Mr. DeMarco said that a spectrum could emerge with, say, direct e-mail messages
from one person to another being prohibited, but a post to a bulletin board or
blog that both people frequent causing less concern.

He added that a MySpace ''friend request'' seemed to him more like direct
contact by e-mail.

''This does not seem to me to be pushing the court's jurisdiction or twisting
settled points of law out of shape,'' he said.

Ms. Fernino faces up to a year in prison if convicted on the contempt charges.
Her lawyer did not return calls on Thursday seeking comment.

Judge Sciarrino's order, which managed to quote both Wikipedia and ''Hamlet,''
meanwhile served as something of a primer for the technologically challenged.

''Those friends thou hast and their adoption tried, Grapple them unto thy soul
with hoops of steel,'' the judge wrote, adding: ''But not when an order of
protection prohibits someone from communicating with another.''

''While it is true,'' he also wrote, ''that the person who receives the 'friend
request' could simply deny the request to become 'friends,' that request was
still a contact and 'no contact' was allowed by the order of the protection.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 17, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Whom Do You Believe, G.P.S. or Your Own Eyes?

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER.

E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 826 words

DATELINE: BEDFORD HILLS


''TURN right! Turn right!'' it barks at you, like a grumpy father-in-law in the
back seat frustrated by the blundering of the man who married his daughter.

But the Global Positioning System device, which is popping up in more and more
cars, is actually the kind of trustworthy, erudite father-in-law who knows the
way to your destination. Except when he -- or it -- doesn't.

Relying on the device as infallible is what almost killed a Silicon Valley man
last month at a railroad crossing here.

The 32-year-old man, a computer maven, was on temporary assignment for an I.B.M.
contractor in New York and wandered through the rolling hills here one evening,
trusting in the cyber-driven intelligence of his car's G.P.S. device  rather
than his own. As a result, according to Metro-North, he ended up making a right
turn onto the railroad tracks and getting the undercarriage of his rented Ford
Focus wedged between the rails. The man calmly hauled out his suitcase, called
911 and waited to wave the train to a stop. But the train couldn't brake in time
and ended up dragging the car for 100 feet until it burst into a fireball.

According to Metro-North, the train's 500 passengers were stranded for two
hours, another 10 trains were delayed, three trains out of Grand Central Station
were canceled and 250 feet of third rail was damaged. All for want of some
common sense. The G.P.S. device meant for the driver to turn right onto the
northern lanes of the Saw Mill Parkway a few yards farther up, not onto the
railroad tracks, but maybe some people put more faith in the inerrancy of a
device rather than what their eyes tell them.

''One computer brain communicating with another computer brain,'' said Dan
Brucker, the human positioning system who speaks for Metro-North. ''The two of
them together couldn't manage a Ford Focus across a pair of tracks.''

The phenomenon of G.P.S. devices misleading drivers they were meant to help is
not new. These satellite-guided efficiency gizmos were introduced in the late
1990s and ever since, the Westchester County police -- and no doubt the police
elsewhere -- have been coping with the unintended consequences.

Truck drivers, obeying G.P.S. instructions, have been straying onto parkways
whose bridges were deliberately designed by Robert Moses's minions to be low
enough to keep trucks out. Sometimes the roofs of the trucks get sheared off,
sometimes the trucks get wedged beneath the underpass and the police have to pry
them out after letting air out of the tires. Those drivers have such trust in
the device's reliability that they seem to be ignoring the signs at parkway
entrances with a large red slash through the silhouette of a truck.

''The G.P.S. is a new wrinkle on an old problem,'' said Kieran O'Leary, a
spokesman for the Westchester County Department of Public Safety. ''Years ago
the cops would have encountered a bewildered truck driver with an atlas on his
lap. Today increasingly they're more likely to find a driver who says, 'I was
just following my G.P.S.' ''

Some G.P.S. devices come equipped with software for commercial vehicles that
spell out where trucks are banned, although Mr. O'Leary told of one truck driver
with such software who was stopped on a parkway six months ago and defended
himself by claiming his device had somehow defaulted into passenger-vehicle
mode.

There is no doubt that G.P.S. devices and low-tech cousins like MapQuest help
navigate alien terrain. This writer, trying to find the railroad crossing where
the crash occurred, used Google Maps to guide him flawlessly through a series of
mystifying country roads. Plotting a course on a road atlas would have taken
more time and not necessarily been as precise.

But savvy drivers have realized that obeying artificial intelligence to the
letter can get you into big trouble. MapQuest will tell you that the shortest
route to New Jersey from Westchester is the Cross Bronx Expressway, but anyone
with even a few months' familiarity with area roads can tell you that obeying
these directions in the morning or evening rush -- well, actually, almost any
time of day or night -- can lead you into a peat bog of traffic.

Eric J. Sinrod, a California lawyer who writes on information technology issues
for CNET News.com, tried out his new G.P.S. gift on a route from Palo Alto to
San Francisco and ended up in highway gridlock that doubled the normal length of
the trip. Once, Mr. Sinrod said, a G.P.S. device in a rented car told him, ''You
have reached your destination,'' even though he was in the middle of a highway a
half-mile from his hotel.

He predicts the devices, despite their disclaimers, could provide a fertile
field for liability lawsuits.

The basic rule, he and others and even the device manufacturers say, is to
remember not to surrender your brain to a machine. Such advice is a digital-age
version of that old war chestnut:  Put your trust in the Lord, but keep your
powder dry.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 17, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Through an Error, F.B.I. Gained Unauthorized Access to E-Mail

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A technical glitch gave the F.B.I. access to the e-mail messages from an entire
computer network -- perhaps hundreds of accounts or more -- instead of simply
the lone e-mail address that was approved by a secret intelligence court as part
of a national security investigation, according to an internal report of the
2006 episode.

F.B.I. officials blamed an ''apparent miscommunication'' with the unnamed
Internet provider, which mistakenly turned over all the e-mail from a small
e-mail domain for which it served as host. The records were ultimately
destroyed, officials said.

Bureau officials noticed a ''surge'' in the e-mail activity they were monitoring
and realized that the provider had mistakenly set its  filtering equipment to
trap far more data than a judge had actually authorized.

The episode is an unusual example of what has become a regular if little-noticed
occurrence, as American officials have expanded their technological tools:
government officials, or the private companies they rely on for surveillance
operations, sometimes foul up their instructions about what they can and cannot
collect.

The problem has received no discussion as part of the fierce debate in Congress
about whether to expand the government's wiretapping authorities and give legal
immunity to private telecommunications companies that have helped in those
operations.

But an intelligence official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because
surveillance operations are classified, said: ''It's inevitable that these
things will happen. It's not weekly, but it's common.''

A report in 2006 by the Justice Department inspector general found more than 100
violations of federal wiretap law in the two prior years by the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, many of them considered technical and inadvertent.

Bureau officials said they did not have updated public figures but were
preparing them as part of a wider-ranging review by the inspector general into
misuses of the bureau's authority to use so-called national security letters in
gathering phone records and financial documents in intelligence investigations.

In the warrantless wiretapping program approved by President Bush after the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, technical errors led officials at the National
Security Agency on some occasions to monitor communications entirely within the
United States -- in apparent violation of the program's protocols -- because
communications problems made it difficult to tell initially whether the targets
were in the country or not.

Past violations by the government have also included continuing a wiretap for
days or weeks beyond what was authorized by a court, or seeking records beyond
what were authorized. The 2006 case appears to be a particularly egregious
example of what intelligence officials refer to as ''overproduction'' -- in
which a telecommunications provider gives the government more data than it was
ordered to provide.

The problem of overproduction is particularly common, F.B.I. officials said. In
testimony before Congress in March 2007 regarding   abuses of national security
letters, Valerie E. Caproni, the bureau's general counsel, said that in one
small sample, 10 out of 20 violations were a result of ''third-party error,'' in
which a private company ''provided the F.B.I. information we did not seek.''

The 2006 episode was disclosed as part of a new batch of internal documents that
the F.B.I. turned over to the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit group
in San Francisco that advocates for greater digital privacy protections, as part
of a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit the group has brought. The group
provided the documents on the 2006 episode to The New York Times.

Marcia Hofmann, a lawyer for the privacy foundation, said the episode raised
troubling questions about the technical and policy controls that the F.B.I. had
in place to guard against civil liberties abuses.

''How do we know what the F.B.I. does with all these documents when a problem
like this comes up?'' Ms. Hofmann asked.

In the cyber era, the incident is the equivalent of law enforcement officials
getting a subpoena to search a single apartment, but instead having the landlord
give them the keys to every apartment in the building. In February 2006, an
F.B.I. technical unit noticed ''a surge in data being collected'' as part of a
national security investigation, according to an internal bureau report. An
Internet provider was supposed to be providing access to the e-mail of a single
target of that investigation, but the F.B.I. soon realized that the filtering
controls used by the company ''were improperly set and appeared to be collecting
data on the entire e-mail domain'' used by the individual, according to the
report.

The bureau had first gotten authorization from the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court to monitor the e-mail of the individual target 10 months
earlier, in April 2005, according to the internal F.B.I. document. But Michael
Kortan, an F.B.I. spokesman, said in an interview that the problem with the
unfiltered e-mail went on for just a few days before it was discovered and
fixed. ''It was unintentional on their part,'' he said.

Mr. Kortan would not disclose the name of the Internet provider or the network
domain because the national security investigation, which is classified, is
continuing. The improperly collected e-mail was first segregated from the
court-authorized data and later was destroyed through unspecified means. The
individuals whose e-mail was collected apparently were never informed of the
problem. Mr. Kortan said he could not say how much e-mail was mistakenly
collected as a result of the error, but he said the volume ''was enough to get
our attention.'' Peter Eckersley, a staff technologist for the Electronic
Frontier Foundation who reviewed the documents, said it would most likely have
taken hundreds or perhaps thousands of extra messages to produce the type of
''surge'' described in the F.B.I.'s internal reports.

Mr. Kortan said that once the problem was detected the foreign intelligence
court was notified, along with the Intelligence Oversight Board, which receives
reports of possible wiretapping violations.

''This was a technical glitch in an area of evolving tools and technology and
fast-paced investigations,'' Mr. Kortan said. ''We moved quickly to resolve it
and stop it. The system worked exactly the way it's designed.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 21, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Brakes on a Foreign Deal

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN; Michael J. de la Merced in New York and Eric
Lipton in Washington contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Does  the ''America for Sale'' sign require a warning label?

That would seem to be the case in light of the apparent collapse on Wednesday of
a Chinese company's effort to purchase a stake in 3Com, an American maker of
Internet router and networking equipment, in the face of Bush administration
questions about the deal's national security risks.

The proposed $2.2 billion deal had called for Bain Capital, a private equity
firm based in Boston, to join with a Chinese company, Huawei Technologies, to
acquire 3Com. The snag was that 3Com makes antihacking computer software for the
military, among other things, and Huawei Technologies has ties to the Chinese
military.

A special federal panel, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United
States, or Cfius, had been examining the national security risks of the deal. A
person briefed on the talks said that at one point, 3Com offered to divest
itself of the antihacking software unit, known as TippingPoint, but that the
Bush administration was unswayed.

The concern in Washington was that the Chinese company would be able to alter
the electronic equipment and computer software sold to the military in a way
that made it less than 100 percent effective. ''It is easier to hide than it is
to find,'' a United States official said about problems in software.

Despite the collapse of the 3Com deal,  American officials and specialists in
the field said it would be premature to conclude that the United States had
decided it needed to crack down on foreign investments, even in delicate
technology areas.

Last year, for example, there were nearly 2,000 mergers and acquisitions of
foreign and American companies in transactions involving more than $400 billion,
according to Thomson Financial.

Yet Cfius examined only 147 of the transactions for possible security
violations. In nine cases, the companies  withdrew from the process once
concerns were raised, as 3Com did on Wednesday, though it hinted that it might
still try to win approval down the road.

The person with knowledge of the 3Com talks, who was not authorized to comment,
said that given the concerns of the Pentagon and the Department of Homeland
Security, it was doubtful that 3Com could arrive at what is called a
''mitigation agreement'' to let the deal go through. Such accords usually
involve safeguards, pledges and internal separation walls.

''We are very disappointed that we were unable to reach a mitigation agreement
with Cfius for this transaction,'' said Edgar Masri, 3Com's chief executive, in
a statement. He added that 3Com would seek ''alternatives that would address
Cfius's concerns'' and continue to try to build its global networking business.

The troubles of the 3Com deal cast new light on the committee, which consists of
representative of 12  agencies and is led by the Treasury Department. The
panel's mandate to block foreign investments was bolstered  last year after
criticism of its handling of the 2006 purchase of a company that operates
American ports by a company in Dubai.

The withdrawal of the bid by Dubai Ports World occurred not because the foreign
investment committee rejected it but because of a torrent of criticism from
Capitol Hill, around the same time that  similar criticism of a deal by the
Chinese state energy company to buy Unocal also led China to withdraw.

The activities of the little-known committee  have multiplied since 2006, in
part because there are more foreign acquisitions and mergers involving American
properties and companies and also  because the buyers and sellers are
increasingly alert to the fallout and choose voluntarily to submit their deals
to the review process.

''There's no question that Dubai Ports World led to an increase in filings of
transactions with Cfius,'' Clay Lowery, assistant secretary of Treasury for
international affairs, said in an interview last week before the 3Com
withdrawal.

''Cfius is a voluntary process,'' Mr. Lowery added. ''Any of the agencies that
sit on the committee can request a filing, but most companies recognize that
it's in their interest to file if the transaction might raise national security
questions.''

The Treasury Department would not comment on the 3Com situation.

Meanwhile, the problems of the 3Com deal are sure to aggravate tensions with
China.

This month, federal officials charged a Defense Department official with passing
classified documents to China. In a separate case, the Justice Department
arrested a former Boeing engineer in California on charges of economic espionage
for the Chinese.

Members of Congress have also asked the Bush administration to defend its
decision last year to allow certain Chinese companies to import crucial
military technologies without licenses, after a report by the Wisconsin Project
on Nuclear Arms Control, an independent research group, charging that the
companies have ties to the military.

The 3Com deal had  already drawn criticism in Congress from Republicans and
Democrats, who cited a study by the RAND Corporation a few years ago outlining
the ties between Huawei Technologies and the Chinese military.

The RAND study said that  the Chinese company had been founded by the man who is
now its  chief, Ren Zhengfei, a former senior figure in the People's Liberation
Army.

American officials said his identity had led to particular concerns at  homeland
security, which began  a cyber-security initiative recently.

The questions being raised  in Congress over the deal  --  led by Representative
Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of Florida and Senator John Kyl of Arizona, both
Republicans, as well as many prominent Democrats  --  made some people wary of
another firestorm like the Dubai Ports deal of two years ago.

''It's hard to conceive that, at some senior levels in the administration, there
wasn't an appreciation that if this were concluded favorably, there might be an
adverse political reaction,'' said a Republican aide, who was authorized to
speak as long as he remained anonymous.  ''There are growing concerns about
cyber-security, and it's a presidential election year.''

China's increasing involvement in the United States economy,  including the
recent purchase by  a Chinese government investment fund of  stakes in the
private equity firm Blackstone and in the investment banker Morgan Stanley,  has
aggravated concerns in Congress. But the Bush administration does not view these
as threats to national security.

In addition, foreign investors have been careful to make sure their investments
are below the 10 percent threshold that would lead to questions of whether a
foreign government would control the American-owned entity. The 3Com deal
involved a stake of more than 16 percent by the Chinese company.

Some lawmakers like Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of  New York, have
suggested that the federal law should be expanded to allow the United States
government to block foreign acquisition of companies in economically strategic
areas, especially when the investors are foreign governments.

But the Treasury Department adamantly opposes extending the curbs on foreign
investments into areas  that affect economic security as opposed to national
security, though it says it will monitor growing foreign investments in whole
sectors of the economy, even in the financial sector.

The major deals of the last several months in which sovereign wealth funds owned
by foreign governments  have bought sizable stakes in Morgan Stanley, Merrill
Lynch, Citigroup, Blackstone, the Carlyle Group and others are thus not likely
to be blocked by Cfius, accordingto most experts.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Clay Lowery, an assistant secretary at the Treasury.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY J.CARRIER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) ILLUSTRATION (ILLUSTRATION BY THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 4, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Seeking a Spot, a Mets Pitcher Has to Be Creative

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 852 words

DATELINE: PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla.


Pitcher Nelson Figueroa Jr. likes to go headhunting. It is one of his favorite
ways to unwind when he is not trying to nail down a roster spot with the Mets.

At home in front of his computer, Figueroa will manipulate photos, taking the
heads of his teammates and superimposing them on the bodies of actors or models.
He prints out the photographs and then tapes them up in the clubhouse, picking
his spots as carefully as he locates his pitches.

Baseball and the graphic arts afford Figueroa twin canvases for his craftiness.
As a pitcher, he does not  possess overwhelming power or a money pitch,  so he
has to mix up the speed of his delivery and vary his release point to stay ahead
of hitters. As an artist, he likes to change up images to keep people off guard.

''I like to be creative,'' he said Monday after pitching two scoreless innings
in the Mets' 3-2 extra-innings exhibition victory against the Atlanta Braves.
''I like to try new things. That's always with me, whether or not I'm playing
baseball.''

Figueroa, a 33-year-old right-hander, is an impressionist painter trying to
survive in a black-and-white world. A 30th-round draft pick of the Mets in 1995,
he has a 7-17 record in the major leagues. His last big-league appearance was in
2004, with the Pittsburgh Pirates.

Since then he has had two operations on his throwing shoulder and traveled the
world auditioning for his next major league opportunity. This past year he
played in Mexico, Taiwan and the Dominican Republic, pitching enough innings to
be noticed by the  Mets, who signed him to a minor league contract.

Figueroa, who is trying to earn a roster spot as a long reliever, has looked
solid in two spring training appearances. On Monday, he faced eight Atlanta
hitters and gave up two hits and struck  out one. He threw a wild pitch in his
second inning, the sixth, but then came back and forced two groundouts.

''From Day 1 I've liked him,'' Manager Willie Randolph said. ''He's got a real
rubber arm.'' Randolph also praised Figueroa's poise and said, ''He has a real
feel for pitching.''

That feel is putty in the hands of the Mets' pitching coach, Rick Peterson, a
virtuoso when it comes to the art of throwing. Peterson has talked to Figueroa
at length about unleashing his creativity the way a flamethrower does his power.

''We've talked about the different ways of being creative,'' Peterson said. One
way is by changing one's tempo, something Figueroa tried a couple of times
Monday by throwing quickly to a hitter. It is the pitching equivalent of a
no-huddle offense, trying to throw off a  batter's rhythm.

''By changing the tempo, you create the illusion that your fastball is faster
than the actual velocity,'' Peterson said. ''You also create the illusion that
your off-speed stuff is slower than what it actually is.''

Figueroa, a Brooklyn native, went to Abraham Lincoln High School, as did the
former Met Lee Mazzilli. Figueroa later became the first student at Brandeis
University to make it to the major leagues. But he is not one of those creative
types completely lacking common sense. ''All I can do is all I can do,'' he
said. ''It's not like all of the sudden I'm going to invent a 95-mile-an-hour
fastball.''

His personality is that of someone whose smile never gets lost behind the
clouds, his sunny disposition belying the dark junctures in his journey. ''There
were definitely times when I thought that maybe my career was done,'' Figueroa
said.

In 2006, he recalled, he contacted every major league team to offer his
services. ''And nobody had any interest,'' he said.

Figueroa toiled in baseball's backwoods, filling up his passport. ''As long as
someone was going to give me a jersey, I was going to play,'' he said. ''It may
not have been big-league baseball, but I was getting to travel the world. It was
an opportunity to go outside the box and reinvent myself.''

With every new program Figueroa installs on his computer, the horizon for his
flights of fancy grow ever broader. He has become, in his words, ''the Cyber
geek.''

''Some guys, when they're done here, they go golfing,'' he said. ''Some guys go
fishing. I go home on the computer and see what I can do. It gives me some time
away from the game. I get to sit there and be creative.''

His artistic forays are fairly versatile. When he is not manipulating photos,
Figueroa makes business cards and invitations for weddings, birthdays, bar
mitzvahs -- you name it, he designs it. In Mexico last year, he designed the
computerized scoreboard graphics for himself and about half-a-dozen teammates.
He gets steady work from word-of-mouth recommendations.

''When you get the final product and they love it, it's a great feeling,''
Figueroa said.

The one invitation Figueroa cannot wait to design is for a party celebrating his
success with the Mets this season. He can see that one clearly in his mind.

INSIDE PITCH

The Mets won their third consecutive game of the exhibition season Monday in the
bottom of the 10th inning when Michel Abreu walked and scored on a double by
Ruben Tejada, a nonroster invitee.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nelson Figueroa Jr., who is trying to earn a roster spot as a
long reliever, has looked solid in two spring training appearances.(PHOTOGRAPH
BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 When Figueroa played for Dorados of Chihuahua in Mexico, he designed
computerized scoreboard illustrations of his teammates that were displayed on
the scoreboard when they came to bat.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NELSON FIGUEROA JR.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               10 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cyber-Rebels In Cuba Defy State's Limits

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words

DATELINE: HAVANA


A growing underground network of young people armed with computer memory sticks,
digital cameras and clandestine Internet hookups has been mounting some
challenges to the Cuban government in recent months, spreading news that the
official state media try to suppress.

Last month, students at a prestigious computer science university videotaped an
ugly confrontation they had with Ricardo Alarcon, the president of the National
Assembly.

Mr. Alarcon seemed flummoxed when students grilled him on why they could not
travel abroad, stay at hotels, earn better wages or use search engines like
Google. The video spread like wildfire through Havana, passed from person to
person, and seriously damaged Mr. Alarcon's reputation in some circles.

Something similar happened in late January when officials tried to impose a tax
on the tips and wages of employees of foreign companies. Workers erupted in
jeers and shouts when told about the new tax, a moment caught on a cellphone
camera and passed along by memory sticks.

''It passes from flash drive to flash drive,'' said Ariel, 33, a computer
programmer, who, like almost everyone else interviewed for this article, asked
that his last name not be used for fear of political persecution. ''This is
going to get out of the government's hands because the technology is moving so
rapidly.''

Cuban officials have long limited the public's access to the Internet and
digital videos, tearing down unauthorized satellite dishes and keeping down the
number of Internet cafes open to Cubans. Only one Internet cafe remains open in
Old Havana, down from three a few years ago.

Hidden in a small room in the depths of the Capitol building, the state-owned
cafe charges a third of the average Cuban's monthly salary -- about $5 -- to use
a computer for an hour. The other two former Internet cafes in central Havana
have been converted into ''postal services'' that let Cubans send e-mail
messages over a closed network on the island with no links to the Internet.

''It's a sort of telegraph service,'' said one young man, shrugging as he waited
in line to use the computers at a former Internet cafe on O'Reilly Street.

Yet the government's attempts to control access are increasingly ineffective.
Young people here say there is a thriving black market giving thousands of
people an underground connection to the world outside the Communist country.

People who have smuggled in satellite dishes provide illegal connections to the
Internet for a fee or download movies to sell on discs. Others exploit the
connections to the Web of foreign businesses and state-run enterprises.
Employees with the ability to connect to the Internet often sell their passwords
and identification numbers for use in the middle of the night.

Hotels catering to tourists provide Internet services, and Cubans also exploit
those conduits to the Web.

Even the country's top computer science school, the University of Information
Sciences, set in a campus once used by Cuba's spy services, has become a hotbed
of cyber-rebels. Students download everything from the latest American
television shows to articles and videos criticizing the government, and pass
them  quickly around the island.

''There is a whole underground market of this stuff,'' Ariel said.

The video of Mr. Alarcon's clash with students was leaked to the BBC and CNN,
giving the world a rare glimpse of the discontent among the young with the
system. His answers to the questions seemed evasive. Asked about the ban on
travel, Mr. Alarcon suggested that if everyone who wished to were allowed to
travel, there would not be enough airspace for the planes.

Another event many people witnessed through the digital underground was the
arrival in the United States of Carlos Otero, a popular television personality
and humorist in Cuba who defected in December while on a trip to Toronto.

Illegal antennas caught signals from Miami television stations, which youths
turned into digital videos and shared. Though the event smacked more of
celebrity news than politics, it would never have been shown on the official
media.

Some young journalists have also started blogs and Internet news sites, using
servers in other countries, and their reports are reaching people through the
digital underground.

Yoani Sanchez, 32, and her husband, Reinaldo Escobar, 60, established Consenso
desde Cuba , a Web site based in Germany. Ms. Sanchez has attracted a
considerable following with her blog,  Generacion Y,  in which she has artfully
written gentle critiques of the government by describing her daily life in Cuba.
Ms. Sanchez and her husband said they believed strongly in using their names
with articles despite the possible political repercussions.

Shortly before Raul Castro was elected president last week to replace his ailing
brother, Fidel, Ms. Sanchez wrote a piece describing what sort of president she
wanted. She said the country did not need a soldier, a charismatic leader or a
great speaker, but ''a pragmatic housewife'' who favored freedom of speech and
open elections.

Writing later about Raul Castro's first speech as president, she criticized his
vague promises of change, saying they were as clear as the Rosetta Stone was
when it was first found. Both essays would be impossible to publish in Cuba.

''The Internet has become the only terrain that is not regulated,'' she said in
an interview.

Because Ms. Sanchez, like most Cubans, can get online for only a few minutes at
a time, she writes almost all her essays beforehand, then goes to the one
Internet cafe, signs on, updates her Web site, copies some key pages that
interest her and walks out with everything on a memory stick. Friends copy the
information, and it passes from hand to hand. ''It's a solid underground,'' she
said. ''The government cannot control the information.''

It is spread by readers like Ricardo, 28, a philosophy student at the University
of Havana who sells memory sticks to other students. European friends buy blank
flash drives, and others carry them into Cuba, where the drives available
through normal channels are very expensive and scarce.

Like many young Cubans, Ricardo plays a game of cat and mouse with the
authorities. He doubts that the government will ever let ordinary citizens have
access to the Internet in their homes. ''That's far too dangerous,'' he said.
''Daddy State doesn't want you to get informed, so it preventively keeps you
from surfing.''

Pedro, a midlevel official with a government agency, said he often surfed Web
sites like the BBC and The Miami Herald at work, searching for another view of
the news besides the ones presented in the state-controlled media. He predicted
that the 10,000 students studying the Internet and programming at the University
of Information Sciences would transform the country over time, opening up more
and more avenues of information.

''We are training an army of information specialists,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At an e-mail center in Havana, customers work under an
employee's watchful eye. Old Havana has only one true Internet cafe, down from
three a few years ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE GOITIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Yoani Sanchez at her home in Havana, where she writes a blog about daily life
that gently critiques Cuba's government. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARA CERRI/ST.
PETERSBURG TIMES) (pg.A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               11 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Boldface in Cyberspace: It's a Woman's Domain

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1458 words


IT was another season of fashion runway shows  and a group of friends, chatting
about the revival of Halston, were reminiscing about their personal encounters
with the  designer. Candice Bergen shared how he had lent her a white mink bunny
mask and strapless gown for Truman Capote's 1966 Black and White Ball. Liz Smith
spoke of how cocaine had destroyed the man during the disco era. Joni Evans
admitted to attending a party and gushing to ''Calvin Klein'' about how she
adored his designs, only to realize that she was gushing to Halston.

Their conversation might have taken place over lunch at Le Cirque. Only this was
a virtual Le Cirque: the memories spilled forth not from lipstick-ringed mouths,
but from BlackBerrys, iPhones and laptops before being posted on wowowow.com, a
new Web site aimed at women 40 and older.

The site's five founders, also women of a certain age, are longtime friends and
media live-wires: Ms. Evans, formerly the president of Simon & Schuster and an
ex-publisher at Random House; Ms. Smith, the gossip columnist; Mary Wells, the
advertising executive behind memorable campaigns like ''I Love New York''; Peggy
Noonan, the political columnist and former presidential speechwriter; and Lesley
Stahl, the television news reporter. In addition, the founders have signed up
some boldface friends to contribute to the site, including Ms. Bergen, Joan
Juliet Buck, Whoopi Goldberg, Marlo Thomas, Lily Tomlin, Joan Cooney, Judith
Martin, Sheila Nevins, Julia Reed and Jane Wagner. Wowowow, which is to make its
debut Saturday, was but a pixel of an idea a year ago. Ms. Evans was struck by
what she considered a dearth of online content provocative enough to hook sharp,
driven women like herself. Weary of shopping and travel sites, she reached out
to a klatch of women friends who are as blond as Jayne Mansfield and better
connected than the most determined  Facebook users. Turns out, they were game
for shaking up the digital status quo, even though most were cyberneophytes. Web
culture, from the technicalities of uploading content to the verbal nakedness
that is blogging, was unfamiliar. Even acquiring a domain name was, as Ms. Smith
put it at a gathering of some of the founders the other day, an uphill battle.

''I wanted to call the site AllTheGoodNamesAreTaken.com,'' she said. (Actually,
she wanted to call it Hot Voodoo, after the Marlene Dietrich song, but the other
women shot it down.)

Ms. Stahl suggested adopting a name that incorporated the word ''broad,'' like
broad-minded, but there were objections to that too.

''I went through a period where I really thought 'After all we have done in our
lives and accomplished -- to call ourselves broads?' '' said Ms. Wells, the
founder of the advertising and marketing agency Wells Rich Greene.

Somewhere Ms. Evans has a long list of thumbs-down domain names (i.e.,
HerTube.com). ''I remember how innocent we were,'' she said. The name they
settled on is a play on ''Women on the Web.''

''We actually bought out a porn site to get this name,'' Ms. Evans said.
(Technically, they didn't buy a porn business, just womenontheweb.com.) Now,
''when anyone looks for that porn site, they're directed to us,'' said Ms.
Evans, who became chief executive of the site after retiring last year as a
senior vice president at the William Morris Agency's literary department.

The fare on the new PG-13 Wowowow is in some ways no different than that of
other women-focused community Web sites like iVillage: horoscopes and  posts
about love and marriage, health and fashion.    Wowowow  also has political
commentary, but what is particularly distinctive are the conversations, like the
Halston dialogue, which read like deeper and more intimate versions of the ''hot
topics'' segment of the television gabfest ''The View.''

''It was very loose and fun and intimate,'' Ms. Bergen said of participating in
the discussions, which the women have practiced while the site is in beta mode.
The cozy tone of the exchanges, the participants say, reflects their
decades-long overlapping friendships, stretching back to the 1960s and 70s when
many were among the first women pioneering their media and entertainment fields.

''It's like when I used to live in a women's dormitory 50 years ago,'' said Ms.
Martin, a.k.a. the advice columnist Miss Manners.

Going up against  thriving well-established destinations  like iVillage or More
will be no small task. Wowowow's chief appeal may be the glimpse it promises
into the personal lives and beliefs of a group of businesswomen who broke
through glass ceilings. The site fundamentally trades on their celebrity and
sophistication. ''IVillage has always puzzled me,'' said Ms. Buck, a
contributing editor to Vogue and a consulting editor to Wowowow.  ''I love the
idea but it's like Macy's or something.''

The group conversations posted on Wowowow are conducted over the telephone,
transcribed and edited. The ''question of the day'' portion of the site is the
result of the women sending e-mail responses to questions funneled through Ms.
Buck about everything from envy to female presidential candidates.   ''As soon
as we finish one batch they have another,'' said Ms. Wagner, the playwright
perhaps best known for ''The Search for Signs of Intelligent Life in the
Universe.''

The women also contribute their own blog posts or musings whenever the mood
strikes. Most send e-mail messages although Ms. Smith has been known to call in
or fax her contributions. ''Well, I still write with a feather you know,'' she
said.

Wowowow also hopes to be shaped by readers, who can post comments if  they
register. The ''Intuitive'' who writes the horoscopes will take daily questions.
There are plans for a philanthropic section of the site and a social networking
component where readers can create personal home pages and interact with one
another.

Statistics show there is a market for such a site. A comScore Media Metrix study
of the growth in visitors among the top 100 United States Internet properties
found that women's community sites were, along with political sites, the top
gaining Internet category last year. Unique visitors to women's community sites
reached nearly 70 million in December 2007, a gain of 35 percent over December
2006. Glam Media and iVillage, the reigning properties in this category, both
benefited from the increased traffic.

The start-up investment in Wowowow is $1 million; the five founders, who are
equal partners, backed it with their own money. They have also secured some
advertisers, Tiffany, Citi and Sony, and hired five full-time employees who, as
Ms. Buck put it, ''speak cyber.''

Still, Ms. Evans and company are not necessarily an Internet dream team. They
may be coming a bit late to the party. And they have large public personas,
which may make it challenging for them to be uninhibited enough to lure readers
accustomed to bloggers who never censor themselves.

''In that way, it's a little bit hard on me,'' said Ms. Cooney, who co-founded
''Sesame Street'' and is now the chairwoman of the executive committee of Sesame
Workshop. ''I'm very private even though I've been written about because of
'Sesame Street.' I still am not used to talking about myself.''

The medium is alluring to her and other Wowowow writers, they say, because it
offers a respite from their more structured assignments. Even so, why migrate to
cyberspace after long, successful and lucrative careers in other fields?

''It is a young world on that Web, and it's time that a mature or seasoned or
empowered generation had a strong presence,'' Ms. Evans said, ''and not one
about finding a man or about matchmaking or about taking care of your
daughter.''

Ms. Evans, 65,  feels as if she and her friends have been in training for this
enterprise their entire careers, from the contacts they have amassed to their
various skill sets. Though she has been a top executive of publishing companies,
she has never been an owner. Both she and Ms. Stahl, a correspondent on CBS's
''60 Minutes,'' say they derive satisfaction from being entrepreneurs and
working with other women. Ms. Stahl said she was also drawn to the project
because the Web is still ''the future.'' Ms. Smith, on the other hand, sees the
site as her ''encore'' after decades as a syndicated gossip columnist.

For some of the women, Wowowow is about more than a new business venture; it's
about speaking their minds.

''Women who are not kids, who are not in their 20s, we've been the object of
more suppression over these decades,'' said Ms. Tomlin, the actress and
comedian.  ''I think it could be incredibly liberating on a lot of levels,'' she
said, referring to the site. ''If not for anyone else, then for us.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A DIFFERENT FACEBOOK: From left, Liz Smith, Lesley Stahl, Mary
Wells and Joni Evans, four founders of wowowow.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE FORNABAIO
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.G1)
 AND SOME CONTRIBUTORS ARE: Lily Tomlin, left, Jane Wagner and Candice Bergen
are among the list of luminaries who will add their two or more cents to the new
Web venture, which is scheduled to open for business on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
HARRY BENSON) (pg.G6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               12 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 21, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Officer Adds Charges To Lawsuit Against City

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 648 words


When an Egyptian-born correction officer working in an elite antiterrorism unit
of the New York Police Department sued the city in 2006, he said that although
members of the unit had been subjected to hundreds of virulent anti-Arab and
anti-Muslim e-mail messages by a city contractor, the police had done too little
to stop the slurs.

Now, with that lawsuit wending its way through a federal court in Manhattan, the
officer has added new charges. Identified in court papers only as ''John Doe
Anti-Terrorism Officer,'' he maintains in amendments to the original suit that
the police have retaliated, removing him from his sensitive and highly skilled
undercover assignment and transferring him ''back to a dead-end position'' with
the Department of Correction.

The amendments also name two senior police officials -- David Cohen, the deputy
commissioner for intelligence, and Inspector Matthew V. Pontillo -- as
defendants. The suit maintains that Mr. Cohen, a former C.I.A. official,
received the same offensive e-mail messages that were sent to members of the
antiterrorism unit, and took no action. It says both officials are responsible
for the unwanted transfer of the officer who filed suit.

City officials offered little comment on the case on Thursday. Paul J. Browne, a
police spokesman, acknowledged that the officer who sued had been transferred
out of the antiterrorism unit, but said that the move ''was not retaliation.''
He declined to comment further.

Connie Pankratz, a spokeswoman for the city's corporation counsel, said that
city lawyers would not comment because the suit was pending in federal court.

In papers submitted on Thursday to Judge Barbara S. Jones of Federal District
Court in Manhattan, Ilann M. Maazel, a lawyer for the correction officer, said
that ''unlawful acts of harassment and retaliation'' by the police had resulted
in such severe duress and depression that his client had been on sick leave
since his transfer to the Department of Correction on Nov. 7.

''There is a culture of retaliation within the N.Y.P.D.,'' Mr. Maazel said in an
interview. ''The plaintiff was performing extremely important work, he was very
good at it, and this demotion is a loss to the city.''

The officer is a 48-year-old captain who had been assigned to work with the
Police Department's Intelligence Division in 1998. Working with a group of about
a dozen officers of Middle Eastern and Asian descent, who speak those regional
languages, he had worked undercover as a cyber investigator, communicating
online with extremists around the world who were thought to have ties to Al
Qaeda or other terrorist groups.

Mr. Maazel said his client had chosen to remain anonymous for fear of
retaliation against members of his family in Egypt. He said the risk had been
increased by the officer's transfer to the Department of Correction, where his
identity and former ties to the intelligence unit could be exposed.

In his original lawsuit, filed before Judge Jones in December 2006, the officer
charged that a former C.I.A. official working as an adviser to the antiterrorism
unit routinely attached offensive messages to e-mail that was read by members of
the unit and others. The suit said that the adviser, Bruce Tefft, had made
statements like, ''Burning the hate-filled Koran should be viewed as a public
service,'' and, ''This is not a war against terrorism, it is a war against
Islam.''

Regarding the transfer, Mr. Maazel said that his client had retained the rank of
captain and the same salary, and that throughout his tenure as an undercover
intelligence operative had remained a member of the Department of Correction.
Nonetheless, Mr. Maazel said, the officer had been unwilling to return there.

''The plaintiff has been emotionally devastated,'' he said. ''His sudden
demotion after all those years of service, I think, was the final blow for
him.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               13 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 30, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cracking Down on the Cyberbully

BYLINE: By JULI S. CHARKES

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; SCHOOLS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1394 words

DATELINE: DOBBS FERRY


THE instant messages that Sonya Sackner-Bernstein received in eighth grade were
mostly from friends wanting to deconstruct the day's events or make plans to
hang out. But they also included something far less appealing: provocative prose
meant to embarrass her.

''It was mostly boys who would make sexual comments or just type the same
inappropriate word over and over and over again,''  Sonya, now 17, said.

Those episodes were annoying, but what really made her uncomfortable was the
realization that a classmate had intentionally created a screen name nearly
identical to that of a close friend of Sonya's. Believing she was corresponding
with someone she could trust, Sonya recalled her chagrin  after discovering she
had shared intimate details with someone else.

''There are so many ways they can drive you crazy with this stuff,'' she said.

Peggy Hoare, 13, an eighth grader at Pelham Middle School, knows. She said she
had been on the receiving end of cyber-insults -- comments posted by a classmate
on Peggy's MySpace page last year about her feelings toward a boy at school.
''That happens all the time; it can get very dramatic,'' Peggy said.

School  officials do not want to ignore  such behavior. But how best to thwart
bullying, which has grown from schoolyard aggressors to include an electronic
incarnation of e-mail, text messaging  and postings on social networking sites,
is a challenge that administrators in Westchester say they are working to
address. ''How do we help these kids understand how to use technology to enhance
their growth, but at the same time not use it as something that can be a hurtful
tool? That's the challenge,'' said Debra Kaplan, superintendent for the Dobbs
Ferry school district.

Cyberbullying  is on the rise, said a special issue last fall of the Journal of
Adolescent Health, which the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
sponsors.  In the report, researchers said that while overall incidents of
electronic aggression remain relatively rare compared with traditional bullying,
the number of adolescent victims of online harassment increased by 50 percent
between 2000  and 2005.  The report estimated that from 9 percent to 34 percent
of adolescents nationwide   were cyberbullying victims within the previous two
months.

Those numbers are even greater in areas like Westchester, where many adolescents
have the means to buy electronic devices and are unencumbered by after-school
jobs, leaving plenty of time to be online, said Parry Aftab, executive director
of WiredSafety, an Internet-safety help group. She is also the author of ''The
Parent's Guide to Protecting Your Children in Cyberspace'' (McGraw-Hill, 1999).

Two years ago, Ms. Aftab, based in Fort Lee, N.J.,  interviewed 200 Westchester
seventh and eighth graders as part of a county-sponsored conference on
cyberbullying. She said 97 percent of the youngsters said they had experienced
some type of online bullying.  Westchester has ''one of the highest incidents of
cyberbullying I have ever experienced,''  Ms. Aftab said.

Much electronic harassment can seem fairly banal. Name-calling, popularity
contests and general mean-spiritedness have long been a part of adolescence. But
today's electronic version provides anonymity and a breadth of distribution that
can imbue seemingly innocuous remarks with a far more potent impact; the Journal
of Adolescent Health report said electronic aggression is directly linked to a
range of difficulties, including behavioral problems at home and at school.

''This type of relationship aggression -- the inclusion, exclusion and cliqueing
-- is given a more powerful vehicle platform in the technical world,'' said
Karyn Figlen Schorr, a therapist from Ardsley who has worked with her local
middle school to counter cyberbullying.

Youngsters years ago would say mean things, she said, ''but never did we have
the ability to almost instantly spread aggression in the way you see today, and
in many cases with no accountability whatsoever.''

New York law includes statutes on harassment, but protection afforded under the
First Amendment can make it difficult to prosecute electronic aggression, said
Audrey Rogers, an associate professor at Pace Law School who has written on
Internet-related crime.

Dr. Kaplan, the Dobbs Ferry superintendent, said  there used to be a distinction
between what took place inside and outside school,  ''but we can't separate that
anymore with the type of online harassment we are seeing.''

A cyberbullying incident  this year involving comments on a middle school
student's Facebook page served as a turning point for her district, Dr. Kaplan
said. In response, Dobbs Ferry middle and high schools have been  surveying
students this month to determine how widespread online aggression has become.

Online taunts and misbehavior begin as early as fourth grade, even when couched
on seemingly innocuous Web sites like Webkinz and Club Penguin, Ms. Aftab said.
''That's when the kids first learn that technology can be an empowering tool,''
she said. But  cyberbullying appears to peak in  middle school, administrators
say.

Three middle schools, in Yonkers, Harrison and Pelham, are in a second year of
joining forces with the Joe Torre Safe at Home Foundation and Westchester Jewish
Community Services to  set up safe rooms in the schools where problems like
cyberbullying can be addressed,  said Janet Younkin, a spokeswoman for the
community services group. The program is also in place at White Plains High
School.

Known as Margaret's Place, these areas provide a haven where adolescents can
speak with a counselor during lunch or free periods. Increasingly, the
conversations are related to the cyberworld, said Sharon Charles, a  social
worker who runs Margaret's Place at Pelham Middle School.

During a recent lunchtime session, half a dozen seventh- and eighth-grade girls
curled up on brightly colored bean bags to talk with Ms. Charles. Among the
issues causing the most anxiety was an old problem  --  girls fighting over a
boy --  but in this  version the two girls' insulting comments  were posted on
MySpace.

Peggy Hoare's parents, Louise and William Hoare, had her MySpace page taken down
after the comments about her were posted there last year. They wanted to limit
her access to social networking sites to avoid harassment from peers and for
safety reasons, Mr. Hoare said.

''I have to believe that most of what's being sent back and forth is harmless
and just part of how these kids communicate,'' he said, ''but it's the small
percentage that represents something much more harmful that bothers me. And for
someone like my daughter, they simply don't have the maturity to distinguish
between what is just inane banter between teens and what could be posing an
actual threat.''

Creating a school forum for dialogue is  important,  experts say, but they also
stressed supervision by parents, even when they are in an unfamiliar world.

''Parents need to be computer savvy and stay as technologically advanced as they
can be,'' said Sgt. Martin Koster, the Dobbs Ferry Police Department's youth
officer, who has been called to intervene in cyberbullying cases.

Ms. Schorr, the therapist in Ardsley, said she had  tried to stay on top of her
12-year-old daughter's online activities by learning about computer use.

''These kids have so much going on -- hormonally, socially -- the job of the
parent is to provide protection,'' she said. ''This is essential.''

Still, some parents questioned how different today's version of bullying is
compared with that experienced by past generations.

''Is the end result of today's cyberbullying any different from what we were
dealing with growing up?'' asked Audrey Sackner-Bernstein, 50, mother of Sonya
and a photography professor at Long Island University. ''Yes, there is an access
to material that we never had, but I wonder if a lot of the anxiety over
cyberbullying is from parents who are intimidated by the technology of today.''

This year Ms. Schorr suggested an old-fashioned method of communication to her
daughter and offered her a diary with a lock, encouraging her daughter ''to
write her heart out'' on anything she wanted to be private.

''Because when it comes to the computer, I tell her the truth,'' Ms. Schorr
said.  ''There is no such thing as privacy.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SEEKING ANSWERS: Debra Kaplan, Dobbs Ferry superintendent, with
students who just completed a cyberbullying survey. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOYCE
DOPKEEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. WE6)
 SAFETY FIRST: Peggy Hoare's  parents had her MySpace page  taken down after  a
classmate posted comments about her feelings toward a boy at school. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY JOYCE DOPKEEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. WE1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               14 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 6, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Diversity in Unlikely Spot: Iranian Blogosphere Tests Government's Limits

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1277 words

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.


Troll through the Iranian blogosphere and you can find all manner of
unexpectedly harsh critiques denouncing the government of the Islamic Republic,
from  reformists who revile it as well as  conservatives who  support it.

One conservative blogger deplored the rampant inflation undermining the middle
class, saying it forced girls into prostitution to support their families.
Others identified themselves as fans of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, yet they
condemned government corruption and what they called arbitrary arrests. A fourth
declared that government statistics were a lot of nonsense.

What gets filtered out is not entirely predictable either. Even some religious
topics are deemed unacceptable. The government blocked the site of a blogger
advocating the Shiite Muslim custom of temporary marriage, which is legal and
considered a way for the young to relieve their sexual frustration without
breaking religious laws.

Over all, a new study by the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard
Law School shows that Iran's blogosphere mirrors the erratic, fickle and often
startling qualities of life in the Islamic republic itself. The rules of what is
permissible fluctuate with maddening imprecision, so people test the limits.

Like women who inch their head scarves back to see how much hair they can show
or people who flout the ban on alcohol by drinking at home, bloggers seem to be
testing just how far they can push. And, like Iran's other rule breakers, some
pay a price.

In 2004, according to Human Rights Watch, 21 bloggers or people who worked at
Internet news sites critical of the government were arrested, and some of them
were tortured. Periodic arrests since then have ended with jail terms.

The study, conducted over the last year by the Berkman Center, was financed by
the State Department and is part of a larger and longer project on the impact
new communications media are having on democracy and democratization in several
countries. The research being released Sunday documents what types of blogs are
being posted in Iran.

Researchers used computer software to analyze more than 6,000 blogs by subject
matter to get a general sense of what issues Iranians were discussing; then the
team, which included Persian-speaking students, read more than 500 of the
postings.

To build a fuller picture of the Iranian blogosphere, the researchers also used
the results of a parallel study that documents what blogs were being blocked by
the authorities in 60 countries, including Iran. That study is also being done
at the Berkman Center in collaboration with universities in Canada and Britain.

The researchers' general conclusion was that, ''despite periodic persecution,''
many Iranians are able to use blogs to express ''viewpoints challenging the
ruling ideology of the Islamic Republic.''

The study found, for instance, that fewer than a quarter of blogs pushing for
change, including those written by expatriates,  were blocked.  In addition,
conservatives of all stripes maintain a lively debate about President
Ahmadinejad.

''Arguing about stuff, arguing about public affairs, is taking root in the
blogosphere on the conservative side, on the reformist side, all over,'' said
John Kelly, the founder of Morningside Analytics, a New York company that took
part in the study and created the software that helped researchers group blogs
together by subject  and social networks.

''We don't know if the government is not trying or not able to block as much as
we thought,'' said Mr. Kelly, who wrote the study with Bruce Etling, the
director of the project at Berkman. ''They may allow a certain amount of online
discourse to be there because it seems to underline the legitimacy of the
system.''

Political groups bash each other with gusto from both sides of the political
divide. One conservative blogger mocked reformists for pretending to care about
economic matters. ''The nature of the reformists is actually extremism,'' wrote
a blogger under the name Shahrahedalat or the Highway of Justice, adding that
the Iranian people would not be deceived.

Reformist supporters give back as good as they get. Even if supporting reformist
politicians is nearly futile, wrote a blogger under the name Inharfha or These
Talks, it is ''much better that sitting back and watching how our country is
being taken back to the ruins of Medieval times.''

Iran seems to handpick which blogs it blocks, but researchers admit that Iran's
filtering policy and techniques remain opaque.

''Our sense is that the government in Iran doesn't see the blogosphere as bad as
a whole,'' Mr. Kelly said, noting that Iranian exiles have alleged that the
government organizes and pays bloggers to put out the party line. ''What they
are trying to do is to promote more young religious voices, to pile as many
conservatives into the network as they can.''

Researchers said many of the religious sites they found used the same artwork
and linked to one another. During last month's parliamentary elections, for
example, many religious blogs displayed a banner encouraging Iranians to vote
and a picture of President Ahmadinejad.

Blocked blogs discussed topics as varied as erotic poetry and computer coding.
The blog of an Iranian woman who wrote about the joys of working in a relaxed,
nonsegregated environment with men was blocked, as was that of a poet who used
curse words.

The map of the Iranian blogosphere that the Internet and Democracy Project
produced (available Sunday at cyber.
law.harvard.edu/publications/2008/Mapping--Irans--Online--Public) resembles the
night sky, with each dot representing one blog and the main constellations
indicating groups of blogs that share common interests and attitudes.

Sprays of yellow and green represent secular/reformist blogs. More women and
expatriates appear here than anywhere else. The points colored red, turquoise
and orange show all the blogs on the religious/conservative pole.

The study found that the next largest group of bloggers, hundreds of them,
concentrated on romantic poetry. So many blogging bards might be uncommon in
many other countries, but in Iran it is simply a reflection of a culture that so
reveres poetry, where many children grow up dreaming of becoming great poets in
the way many young Americans dream of a future in sports.

The mapping program assigns each dot its place through factors  including lists
of words that it checks for and that indicate the likely focus of the blog:
reformist, conservative or other.

For example, Masoud Dehnamaki is a conservative who helped found the Basiji, a
hard-core group notorious for its bloody attacks against antigovernment
demonstrators. In recent years he has become a documentary filmmaker, focusing
on social problems like prostitution.

The large dot representing his blog sits almost at the middle of the map,
indicating that it is popular among both conservatives and reformists. The dot
representing the Web site of former President Mohammad Khatami, a moderate
leader, sits to his left, deeper into the reformist field.

Mehrangiz Kar, an Iranian dissident in Boston who is aware of the project but
not directly involved, said that over the long run the blogosphere would bring
change within certain limits.

Bloggers are not permitted to criticize the Islamic system itself, Ms. Kar said,
but they are far freer than writers for newspapers or other news media.

''These Web logs are very effective,'' she said. ''They create conversation. Not
just about elections or democracy, but about cinema, theater, arts, literature.
These fields are very important for changing that society.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mehrangiz Kar discusses the blogs of her native Iran at the
Berkman Center at Harvard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               15 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 10, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Googling Me and Finding You: Names That Match Forge a Bond

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1408 words


From time to time Sam Blackman, a pediatric oncologist in Philadelphia, checks
up on people other than patients. Namely, other Sam Blackmans.

No stethoscope is needed to take the pulse of his namesakes, though -- just a
Google search. And while he has never met the men he refers to as Sam 2.0 and
Sam 3.0, when one of those other Sam Blackmans posted a photograph of his wife
on the Internet, Dr. Blackman, 39, couldn't help but feel a twinge of pleasure.

''I'm like 'Oh! Sam Blackman got married,' '' he said. ''I felt like I should
send a card or check his registry on Amazon.''

Now that the telephone book has been all but replaced by the minutiae-rich Web,
searching out, even stalking, the people who share one's name has become a
common pastime. Bloggers muse about their multiple digital selves, known as
Google twins or Googlegangers (a term that was the American Dialect Society's
''most creative'' word last year).

In ''Finding Angela Shelton,'' a book published this month, a writer named
Angela Shelton describes her meetings with 40 other Angela Sheltons. Keri Smith,
an illustrator, has posted drawings of six of her Googlegangers on her blog.
There are name-tally Web sites like SameNameAsMe, and Facebook coalitions
including nearly 200 people named Ritz (their insignia is a cracker box logo)
and a group aiming to break a world record by gathering together more than 1,224
Mohammed Hassans.

But while many people are familiar with Googlegangers, a fundamental question
has gone unanswered: Why do so many feel a connection -- be it kinship or
competition -- with utter strangers just because they share a name?

Social science, it turns out, has an answer. It is because human beings are
unconsciously drawn to people and things that remind us of ourselves.

A psychological theory called the name-letter effect maintains that people like
the letters in their own names (particularly their initials) better than other
letters of the alphabet.

In studies involving Internet telephone directories, Social Security death index
records and clinical experiments, Brett Pelham, a social psychologist, and
colleagues have found in the past six years that Johnsons are more likely to wed
Johnsons, women named Virginia are more likely to live in (and move to)
Virginia, and people whose surname is Lane tend to have addresses that include
the word ''lane,'' not ''street.''

During the 2000 presidential campaign, people whose surnames began with B were
more likely to contribute to George Bush, while those whose surnames began with
G were more likely to contribute to Al Gore.

''It's what we call implicit egotism,'' Dr. Pelham, who is now a writer and
researcher for the Gallup Organization, said. ''We've shown time and time again
that people are attracted to people, places and things that resemble their
names, without a doubt.''

Jason Rodriguez, 30, an editor of comic and graphic novels in Arlington, Va.,
feels connected to another Jason Rodriguez, a stuntman who has worked on films
(some inspired by graphic novels) including sequels to ''Spider-Man'' and
''Pirates of the Caribbean.''

''He's a really good stuntman,'' Mr. Rodriguez said with a hint of pride. He
likens himself and the stuntman -- whom he has never met -- to the physically
incongruous brothers in the comedy ''Twins'' played by Danny DeVito and Arnold
Schwarzenegger.

''We both sort of have this connection,'' said Mr. Rodriguez, who casts himself
in the Danny DeVito role. ''We both support this nerd world.''

A photo editor named Tim Connor, who saw a photograph of another man with his
name, wrote on his blog that the image ''made him intensely real to me. I felt
in some way I already knew him.''

Mr. Connor's Googleganger also provoked comparison and self-reflection. ''I
don't feel the usual mixture of rage & shame knowing that my father would have
understood and been comfortable with my Googleganger's career,'' Mr. Connor
wrote on Timconnor.blogspot.com, ''and he never was with mine.''

In studies that make believers in free will squirm, Dr. Pelham's team asserts
that names and the letters in them are surprisingly influential in people's
lives. In one experiment, participants of both sexes evaluated a young woman
more favorably when the number on the jersey she was wearing had been
subliminally paired with their own names on a computer screen.

A feeling of connection between people with the same name is, in a way, little
more than sharing an affinity for a brand -- like two car owners who give each
other friendly toots because they both drive Mini Coopers.

''Self-similarity is really one of the largest driving forces of behavior of
social beings,'' said Jeremy Bailenson, the director of Stanford University's
Virtual Human Interaction Lab. ''When someone is similar to you, you give them
special privileges,'' like buying something from them or voting for them.

Social psychologists have found that people are more attracted to others with
similar faces or identical birth dates. James Bruning, a trustee professor of
psychology at Ohio University, said that people's fascination with their
Googlegangers might be an adult expression of the common childhood wish to be an
identical twin.

There are more prosaic reasons that people may feel connected to their
Googlegangers, though. They may share a name because they belong to the same
ethnic group, or their families may have had similar aspirations for them.
''There's a lot of soft evidence out there that parents largely give names based
on a set of expectations,'' Dr. Bruning said. ''Parents who name a boy Bronco
versus naming the child Cecil, you would expect one would be more likely to get
a football on his next birthday and the other would get a book. That might be a
starting point for one's identity being associated with a name.''

Skeptics of the name-letter effect question how strong the affinity really is
between a person's name and his or her destiny. ''I'm willing to believe that
such patterns exist,'' said Stanton Wortham, a professor of education and
anthropology at the University of Pennsylvania. ''But I'm not willing to grant
that those sorts of patterns are going to explain or drive a substantial amount
of behavior.''

''Even Georgia who moved to Georgia,'' he added, ''she moved to Georgia for
other reasons too.''

For each of the studies Dr. Pelham and colleagues conducted showing a connection
between names and behavior, they compared their results with random chance. The
number of Virginias who move to Virginia, for example, is 36 percent higher than
could be expected by chance.

Of the 40 Angela Sheltons that Ms. Shelton, the writer, met with in researching
her book, many of them were nurses. Only one voted for George W. Bush. Seventy
percent, she said, reported they had been raped, sexually assaulted or abused.
(Ms. Shelton's book, subtitled ''The True Story of One Woman's Triumph Over
Sexual Abuse,'' was based on a documentary she made in 2001.)

''I've always wanted to be more empowered,'' Ms. Shelton said. ''And searching
for my name made me grow into my name. It introduced me to myself.''

In addition to such feelings, there is also plenty of sibling, er, cyber,
rivalry. People are increasingly aware of how to manage their identity online.
As Jon Lee, a student and a Web developer who wants to be the first Jon Lee to
turn up in a Google search, explained on his blog, ''I have to top a recruitment
firm, a washed-up pop star, a dead drummer and an I.B.M. guy.''

Maureen Johnson, a writer of young adult fiction in New York, acknowledges on
her Web site several Googlegangers, including a self-taught marine biologist
known to some as ''the Crab Lady of Cape Cod.'' But for a while Ms. Johnson was
''very annoyed'' that another Googleganger, a  real estate agent, owned the
domain name MaureenJohnson. Now, however, she's just exasperated by the stream
of ''Rentheads'' who send e-mail messages asking if she has anything to do with
Maureen Johnson, the provocative performance artist character in the musical
''Rent.'' Children wonder if in fact she is the ''Rent'' character.

''This is the bane of my existence,'' said Ms. Johnson, the non-fiction version.
'' 'Are you a performance artist? Are you a bisexual performance artist? Are you
a bisexual performance artist who lives on 11th Street?' ''

''On principle,'' she said of the Tony-award-winning show, ''I won't go and see
it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Angela Shelton of Detroit, left, with her namesake, a writer.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GALLO) (pg. A1)
 Angela Shelton, the writer and filmmaker, second from right, with some of the
Angela Sheltons she found around the country. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABE SHELTON) (pg.
A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               16 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 10, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Watering the Lawn by Letting Your PC Talk to Your Sprinkler System

BYLINE: By J. D. BIERSDORFER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CIRCUITS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 181 words


The name may sound like science fiction meets the Weather Channel, but Cyber
-Rain XCI is actually a control system for outdoor sprinklers that turns the
chore of watering the lawn over to the home computer.

The Cyber-Rain kit includes a wireless controller (for your existing sprinkler
system) that can irrigate up to eight lawn zones, and a wireless access point
that lets the controller communicate with the PC. Software to configure the
zones and set a sprinkling schedule is also included. The controller checks the
weather through the PC's Internet connection and modulates the watering cycle
based on forecasts.

The company says the system can save 30 percent to 70 percent on the water bill
by sprinkling only when needed.

Cyber-Rain sells for about $350 and works with Windows XP or Vista and a
broadband connection. More details are at www.cyber-rain.com, and the system can
also be purchased at www.smarthome.com. The PC does not need to be on all the
time to control the sprinklers and, thanks to the wireless connectivity, it
stays nice and dry indoors.

J. D. BIERSDORFER

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               17 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 13, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

It Takes a Cyber Village To Catch an Auto Thief

BYLINE: By RICHARD S. CHANG

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; WHEELSPIN; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1363 words


EARLY on the afternoon of March 26, two young men visited Heritage Auto Sales, a
specialty dealership in Calgary, Alberta. They asked to test-drive a dark gray
1991 Nissan Skyline GT-R, a performance model made primarily for the Japanese
market and rarely seen in North America.

The car had been imported from Japan by Shaun Ironside for his dealership.
Despite its reserved appearance, the Skyline GT-R is something of a performance
icon to car enthusiasts and video gamers; it fit well among the Porsches and
Mercedes-Benzes in Mr. Ironside's inventory.

One of the men had been to the dealership a week earlier for a ride, but he and
Mr. Ironside didn't get far. The car, with an engine modified for extra
horsepower, began to act up. When the man returned with a friend for another
try, Mr. Ironside was juggling two customers, so he just handed them the keys,
explaining that there was only enough gas in the tank for a drive around the
block.

But 15 minutes later Mr. Ironside noticed that the Skyline still hadn't returned
-- and that the car that the two men had arrived in was gone. A bad feeling
swelled in his gut; still, he reasoned, sometimes a buyer will take a car to
have it inspected.

''It's kind of hard to report a vehicle stolen 15 minutes after it's not come
back from a test drive,'' he said in a telephone interview last Sunday.

The car never returned. That night, after reporting its disappearance to the
police, Mr. Ironside posted a message on Beyond.ca, a Web site for Canadian auto
enthusiasts, to spread the word.

10:28 p.m., March 26Unfortunately I have to post this as one of my first posts
my 1991 Skyline GT-R is officially STOLEN.

The forum posting went on to describe the afternoon's events, repeating
information that was included in the police report. He described the driver as a
white male in his early 20s, heavy-set, around 5-foot-6, with a distinguishing
feature: missing ring and middle fingers on his left hand.

The post included several photos of the missing car and offered a cash reward,
though as he typed, Mr. Ironside had little expectation of getting the car back,
he said later. But his post set off a cyberworld dragnet -- a process definitely
not recommended by the police -- in a case the arresting officer called ''a
bizarre file.''

Results came quickly. The next day, James Lynch, a forum moderator, was leaving
the Chinook Center mall in Calgary in his BMW M3 when he noticed a Nissan
Skyline close behind him.

Having seen the photos of the missing Skyline online earlier in the day, Mr.
Lynch immediately recognized the black wheels. He pulled alongside the Skyline
at the next light, he said, and gave the driver a ''rock out'' sign, holding up
a hand with pinkie and index finger extended and his other fingers clenched.

''He was dumb enough to do it back to me -- and I got a picture right when he
did it,'' Mr. Lynch said.

When Mr. Ironside checked the Skyline message thread that afternoon, he scrolled
through messages from dozens of members. At the bottom of the first page, he
reached a surprising post by Mr. Lynch, whom he knew only by his forum handle,
JAYMEZ.

4:19 p.m., MARCH 27I FOUUUNNNDDDDD THEM =) And I have pictures Called the police
and chased them, also talked to them.

Five minutes later, the photo, with the driver looking straight into the camera,
appeared on the thread. He fit the description in Mr. Ironside's police report,
down to the white and black New York Yankees baseball cap. The photo wasn't
entirely clear, but the driver appeared to be missing two fingers.

Mr. Ironside forwarded the photo to the police, who told him, ''The picture is
as solid evidence as you'd ever find.''

Online auto forums have helped unravel crimes before. Two years ago, a detective
in Los Angeles used the forum on FreshAlloy.com, a Nissan enthusiast site, to
track down victims of an elaborate fraud scheme. (That case, too, involved
Nissan Skylines.)

The Beyond.ca site had also played a role in earlier cases of what might be
called open-source crime solving. A year ago one of its members saw a
hit-and-run accident a block in front of him, said Shelton Kwan, who co-founded
the site with his cousin Ken Chan in 2002. ''He took pictures. And the guy who
got hit was another member of ours.''

The victim posted a message about the incident an hour later. The witness with
the camera followed up with clear shots of the suspect's face and license plate
-- and it made the local news.

''We sent all of that to the cops,'' Mr. Kwan said. ''And that one was handled
basically by the end of the day.''

Two hours after the photo taken by Mr. Lynch was posted, Allan Thomson, known on
the forum as Numi, reported a Skyline sighting the previous night and gave
directions to the area. The forum exploded with vigilante fervor; members living
close by proposed a search.

Four hours later, Mr. Thomson posted again, this time to say that he had sent
out a personal message pinpointing the car's position.

10:23 PM, March 27FOUND!!! PMED with exact location. Guy drives it like he owns
it. Idiot parks outside his house backed in so you cant see his plate.

Exactly 15 minutes later, a forum member added a link to a Google map with
directions to the house. Other members scrambled to narrow their Facebook
searches for the suspect to the closest high school. At about 11 p.m., a link to
the Facebook profile appeared online. The photos seemed to show the same person
in the picture taken by Mr. Lynch.

In a little more than 24 hours from the time of Mr. Ironside's first post on the
stolen Skyline, members of the forum had spotted the car and assembled a name,
photo, home address and Facebook profile for the person seen behind the wheel of
the Skyline.

That night, Mr. Ironside joined a handful of forum members at the address where
the car had been parked earlier. After midnight, he posted again.

12:30 a.m, March 28There was a older body style 94-01 Dodge Ram 1500 Pickup Red
in color acting suspicious in the area. If it wasn't anybody here I would be
willing to bet that this guy got a little spooked from all the activity and is
just riding around in another vehicle. Anyways, I had to book out and switch up
vehicles to a less obvious ride.

Mr. Ironside returned home at 2:30 a.m. and went to sleep.

Punit Patel, known as Dj-Stylz on Beyond.ca, followed the busy thread through
the night. He saw that other forum members had searched the area to no avail and
decided to leave for work early the next day to swing by the house. He didn't
think about what he would do if the Skyline was there.

When Mr. Patel found the Skyline parked between two pickups, he blocked the
driveway with his Acura and asked a friend to post his discovery. Then he called
the police and waited.

Mr. Ironside was surprised by the latest development when he checked the forum
in the morning. He jumped into his car and arrived at the house at 8:45 a.m.
Then he called 911 with his case number. The police arrived in minutes.

Mr. Patel's next post detailed the events.

11:26 A.M., MARCH 28 The owner arrived and he called the cops because no one
came for more then 2 hours. Cops came within 5 minutes after the owner called. I
got pictures just give me a little time to upload. Also got a video of the guy
getting arrested.

For Mr. Ironside, it was the best possible outcome. His car was dirty but in
good shape. He would need to replace the tires and fix a few rock chips.

''Basically this guy thought the car was his, from what I could tell,'' he said.
''There were receipts in the car for premium car washes. He had all his music
collection in there.''

Less than 48 hours after Mr. Ironside's initial post, photos of the house and
videos of the arrest appeared on the thread. The shaky video showed a single
police officer escorting the suspect, confirmed by the Calgary police as
18-year-old Jamie Glen Jacobson, to an unmarked police car. He was charged with
theft over $5,000. He is free on bail pending a court appearance on April 16.

''This guy has worldwide recognition for being a car thief for the rest of his
life,'' Mr. Ironside said. ''The Internet is not going away.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE BLOG SQUAD: From left, Shaun Ironside, whose Nissan Skyline
was recovered with help from Punit Patel, Shelton Kwan and James Lynch. Members
of an Internet forum, they all met in person the first time for this
photograph.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JENELLE SCHNEIDER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               18 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 18, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

SuperSonics Are Moving. Or Are They?

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR.

E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 811 words


It is a clash of the quixotic with the bottom line.

Howard D. Schultz, who recently took back control of the Starbucks coffee
empire, wants to unravel his sale of the Seattle SuperSonics in 2006 to a group
led by Clay Bennett.

Schultz's lawyer said he was planning to sue Bennett on grounds that he did not
make a good-faith (or good-enough-faith) effort to keep the team in Seattle.

Meanwhile, the N.B.A. Board of Governors is expected Friday to vote to approve
Bennett's application to move the team to Oklahoma City.

David Stern, the N.B.A. commissioner, said in an interview Thursday that the
vote would proceed despite pleas to delay it from local, state and federal
officials in Washington.

''The relocation committee has given us its approval,'' he said, ''and we will
act lawfully subject to their lease arrangements at the KeyArena.''

Mark Cuban, who owns the Dallas Mavericks, sees no benefit to the Sonics'
leaving the 14th-largest market for one 62 percent smaller. ''I think Oklahoma
City is a better market than some others we are in now,'' he said by e-mail
message, ''but it's not better than Seattle.''

The Sonics' relocation is developing as the ugliest since Art Modell stunned
Cleveland in 1995 with his plan to move the Browns to Baltimore.

The Sonics want out of the KeyArena lease because they claim the building cannot
financially support the team (which has lost 51 and 62 games in the Bennett era
and seen attendance fall 17.5 percent). The city has sued to force the Sonics to
abide by the lease, which expires in 2009-10. The team claims KeyArena is the
engine for its losses of $55 million dating to 1999; the city says it wouldn't
have spent $75 million to renovate KeyArena in 1994 if it didn't expect the team
to stay until 2010.

Since the Bennett group alighted in Seattle, its assumed intention was moving
the Sonics to Oklahoma City, where Bennett is in the investment business. His
group includes other rich Sooners.

In e-mail messages that form the basis for bad faith argued in the city's
lawsuit against Bennett, they seem eager to get out of Schultz's town.

''Is there any way to move here for next season or are we doomed to have another
lame-duck season in Seattle?'' Tom Ward, a co-owner, wrote to Bennett in April
2007.

''I am a man possessed!'' Bennett responded. ''Will do everything we can.''

''I am willing to help any way I can to watch ball here next year,'' Ward said.

Last August, another investor, Aubrey McClendon, publicly voiced a view that led
Stern to fine him $250,000. ''We didn't buy the team to keep it in Seattle,'' he
said.

Bennett then sent an e-mail message to Stern in which he distanced himself from
McClendon -- ''As absolutely remarkable as it may seem, Aubrey and I have never
discussed moving the Sonics to Oklahoma City.'' He also kissed the
commissioner's ring (with imperfect usage): ''You are among a very few,
notwithstanding our relative brief actual physical time together that have
significantly affected my life. I view you as a role model, as an
extraordinarily gifted executive, a deep and compassionate thinker, and a person
with a rare and unique charisma that brings out the best in everyone you touch.
You are just one of my favorite people on earth. And I so cherish our
relationship.''

His obsequiousness is surpassed only by the blithe ignorance that e-mail
messages showing a private yen for prairie hoops might become public in a legal
action.

''David Stern is obviously committed to this scoundrel,'' said Brian Robinson,
of the fan group Save Our Sonics.

Stern sloughed off the Bennett cyber-file as demonstrating a ''dichotomy''
between Bennett and his shareholders, but nothing sinister. He said Bennett has
shown him all the good faith required in a failed pursuit of an arena deal in
Renton, a city southeast of Seattle. That plan would have required public money
to cover most of the arena's cost. ''The Legislature, despite funding baseball
and football stadiums, wouldn't fund a basketball arena,''  Stern said. ''It was
their choice.''

Once in Oklahoma (in the fall or in 2010-11), the Sonics will face the prospect
of a cable deal smaller than the one they have now. They will likely be denied
funds from a league revenue-sharing pool for needy, money-losing franchises
through the end of the labor agreement in 2011 (as the price for swapping a big
market for a smaller one).

Those shortfalls could be countered by a sweetheart lease at the Ford Center
(which will get a $121.6 million renovation courtesy of Oklahoma City voters)
and rebates on payroll taxes being considered by state lawmakers.

Marc Ganis, a sports industry consultant, said the league would not be inclined
to return to Seattle as the N.F.L. did to Cleveland. ''It's highly unlikely the
N.B.A. would expand to Seattle,'' he said. ''They're looking internationally.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               19 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 20, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Parents, a New Concern: Teenagers and Laptops

BYLINE: By MARGARET FARLEY STEELE

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; CYBERWORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1206 words

DATELINE: Darien


WHEN her son was in middle school, Loretta Goeller had a rule that for every
hour Robbie spent playing computer games, he would spend an hour reading.

Now a sophomore in high school, the Darien teenager has a laptop computer, and
his mother doesn't really know whether he is playing games or not. Robbie, 15,
puts two screens up at once, one behind the other, and can change them with one
keystroke so it appears he is doing homework. Or he takes the laptop  into his
bedroom, where she can't see what he is up to.

''We have no rules and it's a problem,''  his  mother said.

Robbie's public school, the Academy of Information Technology and Engineering
in Stamford, provides its students with laptops. Other schools are requiring
students to  buy  their own laptops. Because he needs it for his homework, Ms.
Goeller resists setting time restrictions. ''It's hard to put limits on it,''
she said.

Virtual parenting was never easy, but the ease with which laptops travel to
bedrooms, basements and even bathrooms makes it especially challenging for
adults to monitor children's cyber antics. As laptops proliferate in their
children's everyday lives, parents are wrestling with how best to regulate their
use.

''I have to make a conscious effort to exert control,'' said Sally Cordovano of
Rowayton, whose three teenage daughters share a laptop and have occasional use
of their father's.

''The rule is laptops aren't allowed upstairs in the bedrooms,'' she said.
Downstairs, she makes a point of walking by frequently. ''They never know when
I'm going to look over their shoulder,'' she said.

No one knows for sure how many teenagers have laptops. But certainly the number
is growing, especially as many independent schools  require laptops, said
Douglas Lyons, director of the Connecticut Association of Independent Schools in
Mystic. The 2006 Parents and Teens Survey by Pew Internet and American Life
Project found that 25 percent of 935 teenagers  interviewed had laptops.

With computers in general, parents worry about cyberbullying, cybersex and their
children communicating with the wrong people who hide behind the  anonymity of
the Internet. But those concerns are multiplied  as more young people   own
laptops.

''This is fabulous technology,''  Dr. Lyons said.  Still, it is ''potentially a
dangerous tool and we need to have a lot of conversations'' about privacy issues
and appropriate content, he said. Heads of school realize they need to do more
to educate parents and students, he said.

Mental health experts are hearing more complaints from parents.

''Parents are pulling their hair out,'' said Dr. Tami Amiri, a Westport
psychiatrist specializing in adolescents, who has seen computer-related issues
rise with  laptop use  at area private schools, although the behaviors are not
exclusive to laptop users. For a certain type of child, because of biology or
genetics, unrestricted laptop use ''is the conduit to trouble,'' she said.

She isn't surprised to hear of a boy obsessively downloading pornography,
teenagers getting hooked on social networking sites to the exclusion of other
activities or girls sending boyfriends pictures of themselves naked, sometimes
as birthday presents.

''Then they are devastated when he sends them on to his friends and cousins,''
Dr. Amiri said.

Like many other child care professionals, Dr. Amiri advocates keeping all
computers on the dining room table or other public spot, with the screen in view
of an adult, and limiting time spent on nonacademic subjects. But some parents
living in busy households said that was unrealistic, especially with laptops,
which are designed for mobility.

A 2006 survey of 10- to 17-year-olds by the National Center for Missing and
Exploited Children found that one in seven youths surfing the Internet received
an online sexual proposition the previous year. More than one-third viewed
unwanted sexual material despite the use of filtering and blocking devices used
by more than half the parents surveyed, and 9 percent had been bullied or
harassed online.

Ms. Goeller urged Robbie  not to create Facebook or My Space pages because of
the potential for being bullied.

A child's absorption with social networking sites causes friction in many
families new to laptops, experts say.

''It's the single most stressful subject in our home,'' said Lynn Koorbusch of
Darien. Required school supplies for her son, Wes, 15, a freshman at  Brunswick,
a private school  in Greenwich, included a MacBook this year. ''The Internet is
the only thing we argue about,'' said Mrs. Koorbusch, who said she worried that
Wes spent too much time socializing online.

''Homework is taking a lot longer than it should, so something is distracting
him,'' she said.

Rachel Stern, 15, of Stamford, watches movies in bed on her laptop when she
should be sleeping, said her mother, Carol Stern. Rachel's private school, King
& Low-Heywood Thomas in Stamford, requires upper school students to buy
MacBooks, and since Rachel has had hers, she watches less TV but spends more
time on Facebook, her mother said.

The video-chat feature enables Rachel to work on a school project with
classmates who live miles away. But, ''sometimes at bedtime it sounds like a
party,'' her mother said.

Some parents install software to shut down  laptops at a set time or to track
their  children's  movements online. Mrs. Koorbusch hired a technician to enable
her to sever Wes's WiFi connection from her computer, barring his Internet
access. Others unplug the router, but in some places laptops pick up neighboring
wireless signals.

Ms. Stern knows of parents who confiscate the laptops at 10 or 10:30 p.m., she
said, but because Rachel likes to listen to music at night, she is allowed to
keep it in her bedroom. ''There comes a time that you have to trust them to some
extent,'' she said.

Technologically savvy teenagers always seem to be a step ahead of adults. ''The
kids find ways of getting around the restrictions,''  Robbie said.

Fairfield Country Day, the all-male, kindergarten through ninth grade  school in
Fairfield, was the first independent school in the state to require laptops. In
the ensuing 12 years, the school has worked hard ''ensuring that the boys are
well-educated about what is appropriate and what is not,'' said Christian G.
Sullivan, the headmaster. This includes an orientation program for sixth
graders, the first pupils to receive laptops. Among the lessons they emphasize
is ''what is written never goes away,'' he said. ''The boys have begun to
understand that.''

Parents must be vigilant, Dr. Lyons said. But he conceded that as  children grow
older, monitoring their screen time is a challenge. ''Quite frankly, a lot of
parents go to bed at 10, and the kids are still doing homework,'' he said.

Maturity helps, said Karen Gartin, a Darien mother of four. Her youngest, Ryan,
a freshman at Brunswick, still needs some laptop limits during exam week. But
having watched her older teenagers' computer  obsession wane with time, she is
confident Ryan will successfully manage his online time in a year or two.

For now,  it's not worth getting crazy over, she said. ''Basically you can't
control it,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PRIVATE SPACE: Robbie Goeller on his laptop in his Darien home.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.CT1)
 TO RESTRICT OR NOT: Above, Sally Cordovano with her daughters, Marianna, front,
and Carly,  at their Rowayton home. Left, Robbie Goeller, rear, with friends at
their home.  (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.CT6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               20 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Status: Looking for Work on Facebook

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1428 words


AS anyone who has ever received a virtual Jagerbomb or fought off intergalactic
cyber chickens knows, social-networking sites are designed to be entertaining.
If there wasn't so much fun to be had, there wouldn't be so many articles
warning that what you post on your profile -- i.e., photos of you in a beer
helmet and a tequila bandolier -- could one day cost you a job.

Yet sites like Facebook, Friendster and MySpace are evolving beyond their
reputations as procrastinators' Xanadus.

With American consumer confidence at a 26-year low and one in seven workers
telling the Pew Research Center that they fear they will be laid off,
social-networking sites are becoming, for some users, platforms from which to
network for job leads, to forge professional contacts or even to announce to
friends that you are out of work.

Landing a job through a social network not designed for that purpose appears to
be a rarity. But savvy users say the sites can be effective tools for promoting
one's job skills and all-around business networking. Even human resource
professionals are encouraging people to log on.

In a survey by the National Association of Colleges and Employers published in
March, employers indicated that whereas in the past they used social-networking
sites ''to check profiles of potential hires,'' said Marilyn Mackes, the group's
executive director, today ''more than half will use the sites to network with
potential candidates.''

CareerBuilder.com, the job search site, officially introduced a Facebook
application last month that enables companies to find candidates. It joins other
job-oriented Facebook applications, including one by Jobster that has more than
26,000 members.

Christine Pon Chin, a real estate agent with Bellmarc Realty in Manhattan, uses
Facebook for both social and professional networking. ''It's helping me get
additional buyers and sellers for the future,'' said Ms. Chin, who began posting
some of her exclusive property listings on Facebook a couple of months ago, when
business slowed.

Since then she has corresponded with potential buyers. ''On Facebook I'm getting
in touch with people I haven't seen in years and who don't necessarily know what
I do -- so it puts the word out,'' she said.

Steve Biegel, the creative director of Scarlet Heifer, a small Manhattan
advertising agency, also uses his Facebook profile for professional ends. ''You
can share your entire portfolio, which is a nice way to network,'' he said.

''My partner and I are constantly on these sites mingling with prospective
clients or people we can hire for our company,'' he added. ''It's like
pollination. You just go from flower to flower.''

Sonia Meertins, 32, who relocated to Los Angeles when her husband accepted a
job, went virtual with her own job hunt about six weeks ago. A recruiter
suggested she create profiles on Facebook and LinkedIn (designed expressly for
business networking).

But Ms. Meertins, who is looking for work in sales and marketing, has been taken
aback by the strangers and ghosts of classmates past who have ''friended'' her
on Facebook. ''You have absolutely no idea why they want to be connected to
you,'' she said, adding that LinkedIn feels more appropriate for job hunting.
Still, she said: ''Every resource that's available, you try to use it. You see
what washes out.''

Even recent college graduates who have had Facebook profiles for years are
refining them into business tools. Take Melissa Gilmore, Shanna Allen and Shani
Alston, research assistants at the Center for Family Planning Research at
Magee-Womens Hospital in Pittsburgh, whose task is to recruit women for a birth
control study. About a month ago, the researchers, all 23, created a Facebook
group for the center and took the creative step of linking to it on their own
personal Facebook profiles to enlist friends for the study.

Ms. Gilmore, a graduate of Duke University with more than 1,000 Facebook
friends, said she hopes eventually to pay a finder's fee to online friends who
refer people to the study.

Last year, Facebook itself began facilitating professional networking with the
introduction of ''pages'' (profiles for businesses or professionals that other
Facebook users can become ''fans'' of and receive updates about).

''When somebody joins your group on Facebook, they're much more likely to be
receptive to your message,'' said Dustin Luther of Calabasas, Calif., who leads
real estate seminars for sales agents and is the founder of the popular Seattle
blog RainCityGuide.com. ''My last seminar, a group of us all went out to dinner
and we were able to post photos and videos. It kind of keeps everybody engaged
in what you're doing in an informal way.''

Yes, plenty of people think social-networking sites are incompatible with the
formality of the workplace. Those who professionally network on Facebook and
MySpace respond that all business is personal, and that it's the informality of
the social sites that makes them useful.

Leila Hebden, who said that when she began her career in music management she
could not have lived without networking on MySpace, likes the site's casualness
and lack of hierarchy. Music industry executives have long seen the advantage of
scouring social-networking sites to find new talent, make professional
connections and promote their work. One could argue that most other industries
are simply coming late to the party.

Still, Ms. Hebden said, if she were in serious economic trouble, MySpace would
not be a life raft. ''In the face of 'upheaval,' '' she said in an e-mail
message, ''I still think 9 out of 10 people would drag their contacts list out
of their Outlook work e-mail than turn to their MySpace community.''

Or not. When Ryan Kuder, 34, of San Jose, Calif., was among the hundreds of
people laid off from Yahoo in February, he gave a real-time play-by-play of what
it was like by using Twitter, a service that enables subscribers to
electronically (and almost instantaneously) broadcast what they're doing. ''The
H.R. guy is on his way over to confiscate my laptop,'' Mr. Kuder wrote. To
network with other Yahoos, as employees call themselves, he also created a
Facebook group: ''I Worked at Yahoo! Until Today.''

Two days later, he said, he got a call from a Microsoft recruiter.

Ultimately, Mr. Kuder (who became the subject of news articles for broadcasting
the details of his layoff) went into business with a man who had followed his
''tweets,'' as the terse, lickety-split updates are called. The duo have
founded, what else, an Internet company.

Certainly, social-networking sites have always been used for self-promotion. And
since the deluge of attention about the perils of posting too much or wearing
too little, many users have become more discrete. More people make their
profiles private, or benign enough to be read by colleagues in their employee
networks. Even so, some job recruiters are leery of mining the sites for talent.

Lars Asbjornsen, the vice president of online marketing for Robert Half
International, a staffing service, said he saw the most potential for recruiting
on a business site like LinkedIn. A survey published this month by Robert Half,
based on interviews with 150 senior executives from 1,000 of the country's
largest companies, found that while executives were interested in recruiting
from social-networking sites, more were interested in doing so through
''professional networking'' sites.

Chuck Hester, 49, of Raleigh, N.C., has profiles on both Facebook and LinkedIn
but it was his connections on LinkedIn (more than 500) that helped him land his
current job. After relocating his family to Raleigh from California, Mr. Hester
began using LinkedIn to reach out to marketing professionals in the area. Among
them was the chief executive of iContact, an e-mail software company where Mr.
Hester is now the corporate communications director.

When he travels, he sends messages to members of his LinkedIn network suggesting
that they meet for a meal or drink. A recent gathering in San Francisco brought
together more than 20 members of his network. Every other month, Mr. Hester
organizes ''LinkedIn Live'' meetings, where job candidates, recruiters and
executives who have connected on the Web site can connect in person. The first
meeting, in July, drew about 50 people; the last had about 200. ''We can trace
for a fact 20 to 30 people who got jobs from this,'' said Mr. Hester, who is
happy in his position but continues to live by a networking credo: ''Dig your
well before you're thirsty.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CAREER TOOLS: Ryan Kuder, above, and Chuck Hester, left, used
social-networking sites for business purposes.  (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DASILVA
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               21 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 4, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Blame the Messager

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA JACOBS

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Living Magazine; THE RULES; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 773 words


Not too long ago, Jeff Ryan, the managing editor of Contemporary Pediatrics, a
medical journal, received an invitation to a naming ceremony for the baby of two
friends, Tristan and Marla. ''It was a paper invitation, not just an Evite,''
said Ryan, 32, referring to the cyber-summons that is both de rigueur among and
despised by his generation. ''Which should have been my clue that this was an
actual event.''

Fully intending to convey his desire to attend, Ryan began an e-mail message to
Tristan that included some absent-minded prattle about the television show
''24.'' ''We bounced back theories about plot developments for a while,'' he
said. ''I never got around to saying that we were coming.''

The blessed day arrived. Ryan and his wife, who live in Bloomfield, N.J., drove
to the charming colonial restaurant specified on the invitation and encountered
an unexpected hurdle: a row of some 20 seating cards. ''We pawed through, not
finding ours,'' he recalled. ''Marla gave me a kind, exasperated look, which was
much better than the look my wife gave me. But it turned out two people flaked
last-minute, so we sat where they would have.''

Say bonjour to the botched R.S.V.P. The practice of replying to invitations, let
alone actually showing up to parties as promised, has become as antiquated as
the chimney sweep, and much messier. We can blame this, like practically
everything else bad in the modern world, on the rise of electronic
communication.

There is the dreaded, inertia-triggering Evite. ''You can see who's viewed it
but not responded,'' fumed one popular Park Slope hostess -- via e-mail, of
course. ''Would it kill you to just put 'Maybe'? Are you waiting to see what
better Evites will come along?'' She signed off with a grimacing emoticon.

There is the dastardly text-message reply, like the creative one a college
friend sent the morning of a dim sum gathering to which he'd previously pledged
attendance, claiming that he was trapped under collapsing bookshelves. (Followed
by an anxious e-mail message later: ''Did you get my text?'')

''In my profession, I really need to plan ahead,'' said Mimi Yang, 29, a
reluctant BlackBerry-toting corporate litigator. ''A lot of my friends will text
me something like 'Meet us at this place,' and I won't get it until the next
day, and they'll be like, 'Why didn't you show up?'

And I'll be like, 'No, I'm not 13 years old. I didn't get your text.' ''

Many seem to be too busy gaily texting and e-mailing to commit to a gathering in
the real world. ''You start to feel that maybe you're from Mars,'' said Emily
White, a concert pianist in her early 40s who lives in Washington Heights and
still occasionally attempts, God bless her, old-fashioned dinners with heirloom
china. For parties, she'll routinely invite twice as many friends as she expects
to show up. ''People are super busy and don't consider the social thing
important anymore,'' she said. ''It's like when they cut the arts in public
school.''

There is the disturbing trend of the ''partial'' R.S.V.P.: invitees letting you
know they're available for merely a fraction of the evening, perhaps texting
midway through the meal to find out if things are ''still going on,'' or simply
tromping off when the mood strikes, like the couple that ruined White's intimate
holiday supper. ''After the hors d'oeuvre, they announced they had other plans
and left,'' she said. ''My husband was about to bring out the goose, and it made
me want to cry.''

Ah, yes, the old holiday hedge. Last year, a bachelor friend e-mailed a
''Maybe'' to a Thanksgiving invitation issued by my parents, because he had
another option with ''supposedly a lot of single women.''

Not that couples are any more polite. I still shudder with shame thinking of
how, in an effort to maximize the number of loved ones

at my wedding while minimizing costs, I discouraged single pals from bringing
dates that weren't well-established ''significant others'' -- an absolute no-no,
scold the etiquette books. Though a friend of Yang's might have taken the
guest's prerogative a bit too far when he invited a girl he had a crush on to
Yang's wedding -- cc'ing the bride-to-be. ''Here's the clincher: She was the
ex-girlfriend of a mutual friend of ours, who was also at the wedding,'' Yang
said. ''The breakup was not exactly amicable. But somehow he still thought it
would be O.K.''

If you want a decent R.S.V.P., you may have to resort to the tactic of a British
friend of White's: ''Print engraved invitations, on the thickest stock,'' she
suggested, her voice dropping to an awe-struck whisper. ''The regrets were
handwritten.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENS MORTENSEN
 PRINTING BY SESAME LETTERPRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               22 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 4, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

I Take This Cyberpal to Be My Bridesmaid

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 964 words


WHEN the time came to pare down her guest list to 50 people, Brigitte Aleman had
firm instructions.

''Look at some of these friends,'' she remembers telling her fiance. ''If we
haven't spoken to them in the last year or six months, they're off the list.''

Space was tight at the Miami restaurant where the wedding and reception were to
take place, and Ms. Aleman, 24, had several guests she desperately wanted to
squeeze in. They were not relatives, childhood friends or even acquaintances.

They were her point-and-click partners, gal pals she had met at theknot.com  --
her ''knotties.''

The online boyfriend or girlfriend, soccer pal or basketball buddy are all
common relationships in our virtual society. But the online bridesmaid? What
remains a novelty to most has become a part of life for some brides-to-be, who,
while using the Internet to plan their weddings, make virtual friends who in
mere weeks become drinking companions, gym partners, trusted confidantes and --
finally -- wedding guests.

''It's good just having somebody you can talk to who isn't going to be, like,
'Yeah, whatever, it's not a big deal,' '' said Justine Rojas, 24, one of the
women Ms. Aleman met on theknot.com. ''On the Knot you find someone who is as
excited about it as you. You finally order your cocktail napkins, your girls on
the Knot will think it's a big accomplishment.''

These circles of friends can become cyber bridal parties. They fill in the
emotional gaps that real-life bridesmaids sometimes leave -- listening to
complaints about a fiance, giving opinions on tablecloth colors, sharing a
''yay'' when the perfect floral arrangement is found.

Before Ms. Rojas's wedding last November, it was her knotties, not her
bridesmaids, who held   a bachelorette party for her.

''You think your bridesmaids are always going to be excited for you and going to
want to do everything for you,'' said Ms. Rojas, who lives near Miami in
Kendall, Fla. ''It wasn't like that. That's why the knotties ended up being such
a very big part of everything.''

Theknot.com is just one of several popular bridal Web sites. Others include
brides.com and weddingchannel.com. Involvement often starts with a simple
inquiry about a banquet hall or a video photographer. But as message boards turn
into forums to discuss in-laws or to snipe at tacky boudoir pictures, women
become dependent on them.

Some brides chat from their desks at work, others can't go to bed before signing
in one more time, some even tune out their fiance's voice while riveted to the
computer.

Like any social set, the various bridal chat rooms have their defenders and
detractors.

''It's kind of a cliquey thing,'' said Amy Grunlien, 34, a habitue of brides.com
who said she avoids the Knot. ''We're the Brides girls. The girls on the Knot,
they cause more drama.''

Some of these cyberspace friendships can move as quickly as a flying bouquet. It
takes some women only a few months to go from exchanging an ''lol'' or ''ttyl''
to exchanging wedding invitations.

But why? One explanation is that the rapid arc of these friendships mirrors the
accelerating pace of putting together a wedding.

''There's a very finite planning time when you're planning your wedding,'' said
Susan Rerat, the vice president of brides.com,  which started nearly two years
ago as the online arm of Bride, Modern Bride and  Elegant Bride, all Conde Nast
publications. ''Brides clearly have this almost insatiable need for real-life
wedding advice. They obviously want to talk to people who have been through it.
You quickly are revealing intimate details about your relationship.''

Jennifer Calkin and Tara Ellis had been friends for barely three months when Ms.
Ellis decided to invite Ms. Calkin to her wedding. They had started chatting
online in the spring of 2006. They eventually met for barbecue in downtown
Brooklyn and formed a bond as they discussed family issues, future in-laws and
growing up in the same Brooklyn neighborhood.

''I figured why not just invite her, since I speak to her every day and we're so
close,'' Ms. Ellis said.

For all Liza Beam knew, the woman she invited to crash her wedding last
September was a 14-year-old boy or a 400-pound man. Ms. Beam, 39, had
communicated with the woman only by e-mail and message-board posts on
brides.com. They had never spoken over the telephone. They became friends
because they were getting married at the same place in Seaside, Ore.

''I thought, if anything, she would just peek in and see how everything
looked,'' said Ms. Beam, who lives in Richland, Wash. ''I can't explain why I
felt that level of comfort.''

The woman, Ms. Grunlien, was unable to attend Ms. Beam's wedding, but said she
was flattered by the invitation.

''I was surprised, especially when I realized it wasn't just joking-around
talk,'' said Ms. Grunlien, who lives in Beaverton, Ore. ''She doesn't know me
from anybody. For her to extend that, I thought, was really big of her.''

But a sudden infusion of knotties into the bosom of the family may lead to
awkward moments.

Ms. Aleman had a table for four knotties and their fiances at her wedding. At
one point her mother tapped her on the shoulder and demanded to know who they
were.

''My mom had never met any of those girls,'' Ms. Aleman said. ''She was a little
weirded out.''

Elizabeth Salom, 22, said her best friend from childhood sometimes becomes
jealous when she hangs out with friends from the Knot. ''She'll put on a face
and say something like, 'Oh, your knottie friends are more important than I am,'
'' said Ms. Salom, who also lives in Kendall.

She added: ''Many times, we have a hard time explaining our friendships to other
people. You say you've made some of your best friends on the Internet and people
think you're crazy.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WEDDING PLANNERS: Brigitte Aleman, left, and Justine Rojas
became friends through theknot.com.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               23 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 9, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

F.B.I. Says the Military Had Bogus Computer Gear

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 834 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Counterfeit products are a routine threat for the electronics industry. However,
the more sinister specter of an electronic Trojan horse, lurking in the
circuitry of a computer or a network router and allowing attackers clandestine
access or control, was raised again recentlyby the F.B.I. and the Pentagon.

The new law enforcement and national security concerns were prompted by
Operation Cisco Raider, which has led to 15 criminal cases involving counterfeit
products bought in part by military agencies, military contractors and electric
power companies in the United States. Over the two-year operation,  36 search
warrants have been executed, resulting in the discovery of  3,500 counterfeit
Cisco network components with an estimated retail value of more than $3.5
million, the F.B.I. said in a statement.

The F.B.I. is still not certain whether the ring's actions were for profit or
part of a state-sponsored intelligence effort. The potential threat, according
to the F.B.I. agents who gave a briefing at the Office of Management and Budget
on Jan. 11,   includes the remote jamming of supposedly secure computer networks
and gaining access to supposedly highly secure systems. Contents of the briefing
were contained in a  PowerPoint presentation leaked to a Web site, Above Top
Secret.

A Cisco spokesman said that the company had investigated the counterfeit gear
seized by law enforcement agencies and had not found any secret back door.

''We did not find any evidence of re-engineering in the manner that was
described in the F.B.I. presentation,'' said John Noh, a Cisco spokesman. He
added that the company believed the counterfeiters were interested in copying
high volume products to make a quick profit. ''We know what these counterfeiters
are about.''

An F.B.I. spokeswoman,  Catherine L. Milhoan, said the agency was not suggesting
that the Chinese government was involved in the counterfeiting ring. ''We worked
very closely with the Chinese government,'' she said.  Arrests have been made in
China as part of the investigation, she said. ''The existence of this document
shows that the cyber division of the F.B.I. has growing concerns about the
production and distribution of counterfeit network hardware.''

Despite Cisco's reassurance, a number of industry executives and technologists
said that the threat of secretly added circuitry intended to subvert computer
and network gear is real.

''There are enormous vulnerabilities in our defense and national security
infrastructure,'' said Peter Levin, a former Clinton administration official who
is chief executive of DAFCA, a Framingham, Mass., company that designs systems
to prevent malicious tampering with computer chips. ''We outsource the
manufacturing of computer integrated circuits to places that can manufacture
these devices cheaply.''

Last month, the Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency began
distributing chips with hidden Trojan horse circuitry to military contractors
who are participating in the agency's Trusted Integrated Circuits program. The
goal is to test forensic techniques for finding hidden electronic trap doors,
which can be maddeningly elusive. The agency is not yet ready to announce the
results of the test, according to Jan Walker, a spokeswoman for the agency.

The threat was demonstrated in April when a team of computer scientists from the
University of Illinois presented a paper at a technical conference in San
Francisco detailing how they had modified a Sun Microsystems SPARC
microprocessor by altering the data file on a chip  with nearly 1.8 million
circuits used in automated manufacturing equipment.

The researchers were able to  create a stealth system that would allow them to
automatically log in to a computer and steal passwords. The danger of such
hidden circuitry is that it could potentially undermine the strongest computer
security protections by essentially giving an attacker a secret key to gain
access to a network or a computer.

''It's very difficult to detect and discover these issues,'' said Ted
Vucurevich, the chief technology officer of Cadence Design Systems, a company
that provides design tools for chip makers. ''That was one of the reasons'' for
the testing program.

Modern integrated circuits have billions of components, he said: ''Adding a
small number that do particular functions in particular cases is incredibly hard
to detect.''

The potential threat of secret hardware-based backdoors or kill switches has
been discussed for several decades. For example, the issue came up during the
1980s with a Swiss cryptography company, Crypto, which has been under suspicion
of having installed back doors in its systems to give the National Security
Agency access to encoded messages.

The issue was raised again during the first Iraq war and more recently in the
Israeli bombing of a suspected Syrian nuclear plant. In both cases there has
been speculation that booby-trapped antiaircraft equipment had been remotely
turned off.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               24 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 25, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Instant Message, Instant Girlfriend

BYLINE: By ROGER HOBBS.

Roger Hobbs, a runner-up in the Modern Love college essay contest, recently
completed his freshman year at Reed College in Portland, Ore.

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; MODERN LOVE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1542 words


FOR several years I had a problem unusual among Internet geeks: I had too much
success with women. I used the Internet as a means of communication with women I
had already met offline in order to overcome my social awkwardness and forge
romantic relationships.

Sounds healthy? It wasn't.

It started in my sophomore year in high school. I went to one of those big
Eastern public schools that pumps out students in a way that would make
19th-century industrialists throw their top hats into the air and shout
''Huzzah!'' Even we students thought of ourselves as a faceless mob of
subproletarians waiting for the next episode of ''American Idol'' to take away
the pain of our meaningless existence.

I was at the bottom of the barrel: a plump, silent, painfully awkward dweeb who
clung to his Latin textbook as if it held the secrets to existence. The only
good thing that happened to me that year was meeting Chelsea.

We talked for maybe 5 minutes about video games between classes, and of that
time I spent 4 minutes and 59 seconds dripping in nervous sweat and trying to
swallow my stutter. Whenever I tried to say something charming, my sentence
drooped off with an invisible ellipsis. My words of wit fell flat, and my
skillful cultural allusions deteriorated into a stream of loosely associated
quotations from ''Star Trek.''

I was the quintessential nerd with the quintessential nerd problem: I was
uncharismatic and I knew it. By the time the bell rang for the beginning of
class, I had seen her favorable grin mutate horribly into a thousand-yard stare.

I knew that look well. I had seen it before in the eyes of every person confused
by my appearance or put off by my manner.

I had to scuttle the conversation and find a way to salvage my bruised ego, so I
asked for her screen name on instant messenger. After an agonizing moment in
which I prayed to every god in the Dungeons & Dragons pantheon, she gave it to
me on the back of a candy wrapper. As she walked away, I had the 16-year-old
equivalent of a major heart attack.

Back home, I gazed forlornly at the crumpled candy wrapper, wondering if I
should contact her. Descending the stairs into my basement computer lair, I
decided that it was worth a shot. What's the worst that could happen? I could
make myself look like an idiot and never have a chance with her again.

This possibility being trivially different from the situation I was already in,
I signed on and said ''hello'' with one of those ever-youthful emoticons. I
gulped hard and buckled down for another tempestuous voyage into total failure.

Then something magical happened.

I don't know what it was exactly. Somewhere in the dark reaches of the Internet
I went through a transformation sequence worthy of a Japanese children's
cartoon. I suddenly shifted from an overweight, overdressed frog to a charming,
handsome, technology-savvy prince.

Online I could shuffle off the nervous coil that had previously bound me to
failure. As soon as my fingers touched the keys, I was not just another face in
an endless crowd. With words on a screen, I would never stutter. I could take as
long as I wanted to think of the perfect answer to every question, and the
perfect response to every flirtation.

As we talked this way, I could feel her warm to me, her words changing to favor
me like a sly smile. Before we had finished our second night of online
conversation, she was my girlfriend. My heart trembled when I saw her message
with those smiley-face words: ''Would you like to go out with me?''

I was hooked. It was as if the Internet had allowed me to turn flirtation and
seduction into a video game. But I didn't know if my Internet charms were just a
fluke or if they were real. I wanted, no, needed to know that the cool person I
became when my fingers caressed the keys was actually me.

Therefore, with a scientific resolve possessed only by physicists and 80th-level
paladins, I set out to repeat my success. I didn't want another girlfriend per
se, but rather I wanted the affirmation that would come with being able to get
another girlfriend.

A few days later I met Rachel during lunch, and after a short conversation got
her instant-messenger screen name. After two days, she, too, wanted to date me.
I was beginning to see a pattern. The more women I seduced, the more often I
could escape my loser identity and become the super-cool cyber Casanova I
thought I deserved to be.

I did it again and again. In five minutes I could persuade a girl to give me her
screen name and a week after that I could persuade her to go out with me. By the
end of the year, I had six girlfriends simultaneously, all maintained through a
complicated system of instant messenger, e-mail messages and heavily
orchestrated dates.

Some of these girlfriends were as nerdy as I was, while others were cheerleaders
and prep-scholars, but the particulars mattered less than the rush of simply
being able to charm a girl into liking me, over and over, and then maintaining
it.

Often I would be chatting online with five girls at once, each conversation a
distinct flirtation (one about puns, another about philosophy); it was like
spinning plates. Many of these girls I rarely met in person, but we had deep and
steady online relationships.

I also went out on actual dates with a select few: movies and museums, dinner
and dancing, and everything else I thought teenage couples should do. Each date
was carefully planned so no other girl would catch me.

Nothing was too challenging. I first seduced my best friend's girlfriend and,
when they broke up, I seduced his new girlfriend. I had a girlfriend in New York
and one in Philadelphia. I had a girl I met on a train and a girl I met in a
nightclub. I had a Republican and a Democrat, an artist and an engineer, a
Christian and an atheist.

Each thought I was theirs, yet I was so caught up in the thrill of it all that I
felt not a pang of guilt. My love life was a technology that I had practiced and
mastered; all I had to do was press the same buttons in the right order every
time, and the secrets of human love would come pouring out.

The Internet was more than just a direct wire to the world. It had become a
vehicle for my desire to be loved.

I kept up the charade for three years as my sense of challenge waned and my
cynicism grew. It was a Sunday night in senior year and I had just returned from
watching a movie with one of my girlfriends when my phone buzzed with a new text
message. It was from Amber, the girl who had been with me longest: ''I love
you.''

I love you.

Those three words shocked me into repentance. I didn't love her back; in fact,
love hadn't even been part of the equation for me. With the help of my computer
I could seduce girls I couldn't even speak to in person, but no amount of smiley
faces, words, or LOLs could make me love someone I didn't. My charm was real,
but my affection was feigned.

I realized I had to undo what I had done before I lost track of what really
mattered to me and to the people I had duped.

I dealt with it the hard way. I sat down at my computer and started ending
relationships, typing again and again those dreaded four words: ''We need to
talk.'' I felt relief as the lie came clear.

Over the next few months my life became a series of break-ups, one after
another, as I emptied my contact-list harem of 19 phony relationships. Sometimes
I broke up with them, sometimes they broke up with me. The result was the same:
freedom. But if the Internet had accelerated my entry into these relationships,
it made getting out of them agonizingly time-consuming.

When two nerds break up in person, the threat of eye contact typically ends the
conversation in minutes. It's painful, but at least it's quick. When two nerds
break up over the phone, it can take about an hour. With e-mail or instant
messages, the fight can last longer than a special edition ''Lord of the Rings''
movie. Eternities dropped off the clock as I waited through the pregnant
silences between every line. I endured this over and over.

DON'T mistake my story for a technophobe's cautionary tale, however. I was
blinded by the common belief that somehow a relationship forged on the Internet
isn't real. When I saw that fated text message -- ''I love you'' -- I realized
the truth. The Internet is not a separate place a person can go to from the real
world. The Internet is the real world. Only faster.

When I flew out to college that autumn, I felt as if I was stepping into
sunshine after four years in the dark. I could start fresh alongside hundreds of
others who were ripe to shed their high school selves. If I could step away from
the lies I had put on the computer screen, I could find a way both to be
charming and true to the person I really am.

Months later I met Lara at a midnight showing of ''The Rocky Horror Picture
Show.'' She sat with me long after the movie was over, enduring exhaustion and a
sticky seat just to be with me.

''Here,'' she said, shifting forward in that subtle way girls do when they're
interested but don't want to make it obvious. In her hand was a piece of paper.
''Here's my screen name.''

I smiled at her. ''Thanks,'' I said. ''You'll be the only person on my contact
list.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID CHELSEA)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               25 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 31, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Defense Secretary Issues Veiled Warning to China Not to Bully Neighbors
Over Energy

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 846 words

DATELINE: SINGAPORE


Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates issued a set of thinly veiled warnings to
China on Saturday, cautioning that it could risk its share of further gains in
Asia's economic prosperity if it bullied its neighbors over natural resources in
contested areas like the South China Sea.

Three years ago at the same lectern here, Mr. Gates's predecessor, Donald H.
Rumsfeld, bluntly criticized China's swift military buildup. Last year Mr. Gates
struck a more conciliatory tone, saying Beijing and Washington had a chance to
''build trust over time.''

Mr. Gates seemed to take a third approach in his remarks to a major regional
Asia security conference here, seeking to lay down clear markers of continued
American commitments to the region while also obliquely criticizing China.

He said that in his four trips to Asia since becoming defense secretary 18
months ago, several countries had expressed concern about ''the security
implications of rising demand for resources'' (translation: China's voracious
quest for new sources of energy) and about ''coercive diplomacy'' (translation:
China's contested claims of resource-rich territorial waters).

Mr. Gates said there were rewards for playing by an international set of rules
in a transparent way. ''We should not forget that globalization has permitted
our shared rise in wealth over recent decades,'' he said. ''This achievement
rests above all on openness: openness of trade, openness of ideas, and openness
of what I would call the 'common areas' -- whether in the maritime, space, or
cyber domains.''

The secretary specifically praised Beijing twice, noting that he had recently
set up a telephone hot line with his Chinese defense counterpart and that the
American-backed, six-party negotiations intended to temper North Korea's nuclear
ambitions ''would not be possible without China's valued cooperation.''

Otherwise, Mr. Gates spoke in a diplomatic code that his senior aides said would
be clearly understood not only in Beijing but also in other Asian capitals and
by the hundreds of security experts attending the annual regional conference
sponsored by the International Institute for Strategic Studies.

Mr. Gates and his aides had debated just how blunt he ought to be in his
address, which opened the Saturday session. In the end, aides said, he accepted
the argument that taking a more direct approach would play to Beijing's
advantage and that a subtler, more indirect tack would win more support among
Asian allies.

In the speech he recalled disputes in the mid-1990s between China and its
neighbors over competing boundary and resource claims in the South China Sea,
tensions that have resurfaced among China, Vietnam, Indonesia and Malaysia.

''We urged then, as we do today, the maintenance of a calm and nonassertive
environment in which contending claims may be discussed and, if possible,
resolved,'' he said.

Mr. Gates, as he did last year at the conference, said that the United States
''seeks more openness in military modernization in Asia. Transparency enhances
confidence and reduces competitive spending.''

He also delivered a scolding reference to China's unannounced destruction of a
satellite in January 2007 when he described how the Pentagon handled a similar
situation much differently in February, alerting others before shooting down a
failing satellite over the Pacific just before it tumbled uncontrollably to
Earth carrying toxic fuel.

Lt. Gen. Ma Xiaotian, deputy chief of the general staff of China's People's
Liberation Army, pushed back during his speech, saying that China was not
engaged in an arms race and that its military spending, compared with other
sectors of its economy, was ''limited and proportional.'' In a clear reference
to America's plan to build missile defense systems, General Ma said deploying
such defenses ''was not helpful'' to regional stability.

Mr. Gates made clear that central to the Bush administration's Asia policy is
maintaining American military might and economic sway in the region.

Indeed, Mr. Gates's first stop on his weeklong visit to Asia was to Guam, where
he took a helicopter tour on Friday to review Pentagon plans to spend $15
billion over the next six years to upgrade and expand World War II-era
installations to accommodate thousands of additional American troops, and to
broaden training missions with regional partners like Japan.

He said Saturday that Washington's policy also focused on empowering regional
allies to defend themselves by strengthening their armed forces and by building
more robust economies and open political systems.

This policy is almost sure to endure no matter which party wins the White House
in the November election, he said.

He showed an unusual flash on anger in response to a question after his speech
about American efforts to deliver relief to cyclone victims in Myanmar, saying
the United States has tried 15  times to get the Burmese leadership to allow
more foreign assistance, but to no avail.

''We have reached out, they have kept their hands in their pockets,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               26 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nude Student Photos Spur Internet Warnings

BYLINE: By MARGARET FARLEY STEELE

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1241 words

DATELINE: WESTPORT


UNTIL learning last month that some of their middle school and high school
students were sending nude photos of themselves over the Internet, families in
this wealthy community thought that their children were getting enough
instruction about  the potential risks of cyberspace communication. Now parents
and school officials are working to develop more effective teaching tools.

News of the photos rocked this community, coming in an unusually candid letter
from the superintendent, Elliott Landon, who said the job of making sure
children understood the  risks of Internet communications belonged to all of
them.

In a letter sent to all parents in the district, Dr. Landon wrote: ''A number of
students, in the privacy of their own homes, using electronic equipment, have
transmitted to others live images and photographs of themselves in total nudity
and engaging in inappropriate acts while in the nude.''

''I beseech you to work with us to protect your children in this electronic
age,'' he wrote.

In an interview, he said that it was too late in the school year to launch new
programs but that the Westport schools would beef up their cyberspace
initiatives in the fall, seeking additional help from clergy members and trying
harder to impress upon parents the  dangers of inappropriate computer use.

''Our concern is with children exposing themselves to others who have an
interest in child pornography and who will act on it if they can,'' Dr. Landon
said.

He said the school learned of the photos when several students who were
apparently worried about their classmates told school personnel that nude photos
of their friends were being sent around electronically. He said a staff member
at one of the middle schools learned that more than one child was involved and
contacted the police, who said they are investigating to see if child
pornography laws have been violated.

School officials, who say they have worked hard over recent years to convey to
students and their parents the dangers of electronic technology, said they now
see that more work is needed.

''There's a feeling of dismay and a feeling of failure that this could happen,''
Dr. Landon said in the interview.

He has not said which students were involved, nor how many. The Westport police
said they would not comment, because the matter was still under investigation.

''I don't know how widespread it is,'' Dr. Landon said. ''Which school isn't
important. The point is to try to develop trusting relationships with the
kids.''

He said he believed that the children who came forward did it ''so their friends
can be helped and be protected.''

''They either think a friend is behaving inappropriately or could be harmed or
exploited,'' he said.

All the incidents involved computers, not cellphones, said Lt. David E. Kassay,
detective bureau commander of the Westport Police Department.

Dr. Landon said that no disciplinary actions had been taken to date against any
student.

Teachers and administrators were shocked by the developments, Dr. Landon said in
the interview. ''It's not like we haven't warned kids,'' he said.

Dr. Landon said the schools have conducted  workshops for parents, and guidance
programs and meetings for students. The schools have also worked with clergy
members and local agencies, including teaming with the United Way in a  Positive
Youth Development program. ''But still these things happen,'' he said.

Parents were dismayed that children did not seem to be heeding warnings provided
by the schools and others.

''There's lots available to our community about Internet safety,'' said Jennifer
Freedman, co-president of the PTA at the Bedford Middle School, one of the
town's two middle schools. The problem, parents and experts said, is that
children are not always listening.

When she received Dr. Landon's letter, Ms. Freedman said, she took his advice
and shared it with her son, a Bedford Middle School student, and her daughter,
who is in elementary school.

''It's a scary proposition, what's out there,'' Ms. Freedman said.

She said that she appreciated the superintendent's candor. ''I think Dr. Landon
is handling this very appropriately,'' she said. Knowledge gives parents power,
she said, adding that Westport is the type of town where parents actively work
for the betterment and safety of their children.

Dr. Tami Amiri, a Westport psychiatrist, said she admired Dr. Landon for
addressing the problem publicly.

''We've been dealing with this for the past two years,'' Dr. Amiri said,
referring to area mental health experts with young patients who have either sent
or received lewd pictures on their computers or cellphones.

Similar problems are happening all over -- in private schools as well as public,
she said.

Westport, a community with a low crime rate, is known for its high-achieving
schools. The system has one high school, Staples, two middle schools and five
elementary schools. Last month, Newsweek magazine ranked Staples fourth among 13
Connecticut schools on its national list of best high schools.

Obscene transmissions by teenagers are not unique to Westport. Last month dozens
of students at Santa Fe Junior High School in Texas had their cellphones
confiscated by police after nude pictures of two junior high girls were
circulated. Officials said the girls took the photos themselves and sent them to
their boyfriends, who forwarded them to others.

The situation seemed like a replay of one in Hamilton, N.J., where nude photos
that a middle school girl took for her boyfriend made the rounds electronically.
A Hamilton police detective said the matter had been investigated and handled
within the school, and no charges had been filed. ''It was kids doing something
dumb,'' he said.

At a lecture on Internet safety at the Hamilton school last month, the police
warned  parents not to let their children have cellphones with cameras.

In Connecticut,  Trooper William Tate of the state police public information
office said that if a subject of indecent photographs  is under 16, anyone
sending or receiving the images is  subject to investigation in connection with
child pornography laws. The state police are not involved in the Westport
investigation, he said.

Children must learn that any images they send out never disappear, said Trooper
Tate. College admissions officers and large-scale employers often hire state
police computer crime lab technicians or other technology experts to research
candidates' cyber histories, he said.

''The consequences can be big'' for impulsive postings on sites like MySpace or
Facebook, he said.

Dr. Landon said in his letter to parents that the photos were widely
distributed.

''The images that have been transmitted have then been transmitted and
retransmitted to countless others,'' he wrote. ''We believe that these
transmissions and retransmissions have been so extensive as to have spread well
beyond the borders of the Westport community.''

Especially worrisome is the belief that the identities of the students have been
revealed to strangers, among whom might be  sex offenders, he wrote.

Dr. Landon encouraged parents to keep computers in common areas of the home,
with screens visible, and to maintain access to their children's online and
cellphone accounts. ''Randomly check his/her e-mail, text messages and cellphone
photos,'' he wrote. ''Be upfront with your child about the reasons necessitating
your access.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PUBLIC APPEAL: Elliott Landon, superintendent of the Westport
schools, with the letter he sent to parents warning of the risks of Internet
communication and seeking their help in protecting students from those dangers.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. CT2)
 AT RISK: Band members drill at Coleytown Middle School in Westport, where
parents were warned about Internet-related dangers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS
MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. CT1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               27 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 8, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LEBOWITZ, RUTH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 40 words


LEBOWITZ--Ruth. We'll miss you, your show tunes, humor, and your kind heart like
your beloved father. Hard to believe you've left us. Maybe harder for your cyber
-celebrity kitties, Ditzy, Milo, Alison, and Otie. Love and peace now. Susan
Grant

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               28 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 9, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LEBOWITZ, RUTH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 40 words


LEBOWITZ--Ruth. We'll miss you, your show tunes, humor, and your kind heart like
your beloved father. Hard to believe you've left us. Maybe harder for your cyber
-celebrity kitties, Ditzy, Milo, Alison, and Otie. Love and peace now. Susan
Grant

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               29 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 27, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sony Sets a New Course To Bolster Its Electronics

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 574 words

DATELINE: TOKYO


The Sony Corporation  said Thursday that it would make a strong move into
networked electronics and video download services and aim for the top spot in
liquid-crystal display TVs as the company seeks to make the most of its hardware
and software assets.

The company, which sells PlayStation games and Vaio PCs, said it would aim to
double revenue from the fast-growing markets of Brazil, China, India and Russia,
to 2 trillion yen ($18.7 billion) and invest 1.8 trillion yen in  businesses and
technologies as part of a three-year strategy to March 2011.

''So much more opportunities exist outside the core markets of Japan, North
America and Europe,'' Sony's  chief executive, Howard Stringer, told a news
conference.

Sony wants to lift return on equity to 10 percent from an average of about 6
percent over the last three years, and reach the 5 percent operating profit
margin that eluded it in a previous plan, when it reached 4.2 percent in the
year ended in March.

''We believe a 5 percent operating margin represents a baseline to continue to
lead and innovate,'' said Mr. Stringer, the first non-Japanese top executive at
Sony.  ''This is what's considered to be the minimum, acceptable level going
forward.''

Sony's current return on equity is  low compared with global rivals like the
Samsung Electronics Company of South Korea, which reaches 14 percent, and
Philips Electronics, which registers 23 percent, according to Reuters data.

''That target is a sign of Sony's sense of crisis that it could really become a
takeover target if it doesn't lift its R.O.E. to at least over 10 percent,''
said Mitsushige Akino, chief fund manager at Ichiyoshi Investment Management.

Sony trails Samsung in the liquid-crystal display TV market, while locked in a
three-way battle with Microsoft  and Nintendo in the global video game industry.

As part of its move into networked electronics and video distribution, Sony,
which owns Sony Pictures, will start a video distribution service on its
PlayStation Network starting this summer, playing catch-up with Apple.

The company plans to broaden the online video distribution service to other
crucial products, potentially including Bravia flat TVs, by March 2011, and make
90 percent of its electronics product categories network-enabled and
wireless-capable.

Apple and its iPod dominate the portable music player market, which Sony created
nearly three decades ago with Walkman. The Japanese electronics maker also has
been struggling in Apple's shadow in music and video distribution service.

Of the planned 1.8 trillion yen it aims to invest over the next three years,
about half would go to its component and semiconductor operations  --  which
include image sensors, batteries, display devices and Blu-ray disc-related
parts.

Sony said it would aim to bring its TV business back to profitability in the
year to March 2009 by cutting production costs, and strive to be No. 1 in the
L.C.D. TV market in three years.

The company said in February it would take a one-third stake in Sharp's
380-billion-yen L.C.D. panel plant set for completion by March 2010, securing a
major panel supply source on top of its L.C.D. venture with Samsung.

The flat TV and video game operations were Sony's two major earnings drags last
year, diminishing profits earned by its Cyber-shot digital camera and Handycam
camcorder businesses.

Sony is also aiming to make its game business profitable this year.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''We believe a 5 percent operating margin represents a baseline
to continue to lead and innovate,'' said Howard Stringer, chief executive of
Sony, in describing its competitive strategy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAI
KUROKAWA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               30 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 13, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bohemia Takes Its Final Bows

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2059 words


I  WAS late to ''Rent.'' Late to the show, and late to the city it portrays.
When I arrived in New York, in the fall of 1998, bistros and boutiques had
already infiltrated the East Village, gentrification was spreading into the
Lower East Side, and northwest Brooklyn had largely fallen to the forces of the
bourgeoisie.

''Rent'' had already been playing on Broadway for two years, and I wouldn't see
it until several years later. I knew that the show had brought a jolt of young,
romantic energy to Broadway, that it had inspired a cultlike following and that
the sudden death at age 35 of its creator, Jonathan Larson, after the show's
last dress rehearsal at the New York Theater Workshop in the East Village had
given it an almost mythical poignancy.

By the time I saw it, in 2003 or 2004, ''American Idol'' contestants, former
members of boy bands and Scary Spice had settled into the cast. Young people in
the audience, the so-called Rent-heads, were responding to the show with an
almost Pentecostal fervor, crying and clapping at seemingly random moments.

I had a good time, but it was difficult to identify with the heroin- and
AIDS-ravaged dreamers and artists squatting in industrial lofts in the East
Village, in part because I couldn't shake the knowledge that this particular
heroin addict used to have friends named Ginger, Baby, Sporty and Posh.

I've seen ''Rent,'' which closes in September after 12 years on Broadway, a few
times since. Like all shows, it is different every time you see it. New cast
members alter the show, of course, and the original tight direction sags. But
''Rent'' is different in other, more peculiar ways, because it happens to be
about a city that I live in, which has gone through some significant cast and
directorial changes of its own.

''Rent'' is about New York, far more than, say, ''Chicago'' is about Chicago. I
have tried to think up a title that could tap as deeply into New York's
consciousness -- ''Car Alarm, Car Alarm,'' ''There's a Very Angry Woman on the
Subway,'' ''Class Envy!'' -- but nothing comes close. This is a city whose
founding mythology involves not a magic spring or a she-wolf but a sweet real
estate deal, one in which it's still unclear who was bamboozling whom, making it
all the more touchingly New York.

But the city in which ''Rent'' takes place was already vanishing when the show
opened. The number of annual AIDS diagnoses was on the decline, and the city was
in the midst of what would be an unprecedented drop in the crime rate. Brooklyn
had become the preferred frontier for the young, overeducated and underemployed;
Williamsburg was home to hundreds like the narrator of ''Rent,'' Mark Cohen, the
nice Jewish boy from Scarsdale who dreams of becoming a filmmaker while not,
actually, making much in the way of films.

On the other hand, heroin arrests were still on the rise in 1996, and finding
Chilean sea bass on Avenue C continued to be difficult.

Now, 12 years later, it would be impossible to see the show and think it was set
any time in the past decade. Much of ''Rent'' has become downright nostalgic,
almost jarringly so. Several numbers revolve around pay phones and answering
machines (20-somethings with answering machines!). Roger, the gloomy,
HIV-positive guitarist with a nasty case of rocker's block, plays gigs at CBGB,
then a landmark of the New York underground music scene, now a menswear
boutique. A group of lefty hipsters talk politics with no mention of anyone
named Cheney or even the first Bush.

THERE is a fascinatingly antagonistic attitude among the characters toward
virtual reality and what they call cyberland. The creation of a cyber studio on
a lot on East 11th Street is the great evil of the musical, seemingly more
ominous than AIDS or drugs, and yet if ''Rent'' took place today, half the
characters in the show would be blogging.

And as has often been noted, the setting has become utterly foreign. At a
restaurant on 11th Street and Avenue B, the intersection where Mark and Roger
live in an industrial loft and where much of the show's action takes place, you
can now get a nice filet de saumon with potato puree and an herb lemon jus. A
few weeks ago, the Life Cafe, the restaurant on 10th Street and Avenue B where
the young protesters gathered at the end of Act I to celebrate the bohemian
lifestyle, began selling souvenir T-shirts, baseball caps and tote bags.

Did ''Rent'' play a part in changing the neighborhood it celebrates? Probably.
''Rent'' is the ''All the President's Men'' of aspirant hipsters, a great
advertisement for Alphabet City (once and never more to be marked off by the
avenues Awful, Bad, Crazy and Dangerous), where you can come live on dreams and
tofu.

As the neighborhood has gone from a place cars avoided to a Friday night date
spot, a cynical backlash to ''Rent'' has taken place. Film critics appeared to
have been waiting in a batter's stance when the movie came out in 2005. Sure,
''Rent'' the movie was of debatable quality, but a few reviewers took hard
swings at the show itself. The whole idea of creating a musical about the dying
breed of bohemian squatters seemed suddenly offensive and even cynical. That's
silly, of course.

The fact that ''Rent'' the musical sells merchandise and $250 tickets is no more
''ironic'' than the fact that you can buy a copy of ''The Communist Manifesto''
at a corporate-owned bookstore (or that you can see ''La Boheme,'' the Puccini
opera on which ''Rent'' was based, at the Met). That's just how the business
works.

Likewise, it's missing the point to accuse ''Rent,'' despite its characters'
struggles with AIDS and heroin addiction, of being inauthentic. Of course it's
inauthentic. It's a musical. People sing and dance. Could you imagine what an
authentic musical about East Village squatters would look like? (Curtain time:
Whenever.) What about an authentic musical about Irish and Puerto Rican street
gangs, or Navy sailors in the South Pacific in World War II? I'll take the ones
we've got, corny parts and all.

I'd go even further and stipulate: ''Rent'' is a safe, accessible show that at
times struggles, even strains, to put up a dangerous front. The ''Rent''
marketing campaign has tempered that gritty facade in recent years; the show
now, like ''The Phantom of the Opera,'' advertises itself as something you
simply have to see -- and come back to -- because of its place in the culture.

But think about that. Is there a more accurate reflection of recent New York
history? Friendly, clean, low-crime, nonsmoking, trans-fat-free,
cabs-that-take-credit-cards New York? A city we can't honestly pretend is rough
and gritty anymore?

I flattered myself with the tough town's image for a little while, moving to
Fort Greene, Brooklyn, seven years ago, and expecting to find mean streets. I
did find some nice French restaurants and a grocery store around the corner that
sold what seemed to be a dozen varieties of muesli. Great jogging in the park,
too.

THERE are those who still hold onto the dream of danger, but their numbers are
shrinking. Skinny young ex-suburbanites who would swoon at the sight of a pea
shooter walk around Williamsburg wearing T-shirts emblazoned with a silhouette
of a Kalashnikov and the words ''Defend Brooklyn'' (from everyone who came
after, one assumes). Residents of Hell's Kitchen adamantly refuse to adopt the
name Clinton, an old label for the area that real estate brokers tried to bring
back at a time when the Hell's Kitchen description actually applied.

I remember going to Times Square shortly after moving here and seeing, in front
of the since-closed Warner Brothers store on 42nd Street, a large statue of
Daffy Duck (or was it Bugs Bunny?) wearing a trench coat, furtively hawking
knockoff watches. It was an incredible symbol of how New York wanted to see
itself, and how ridiculous the city looked when it tried too hard.

But while ''Rent,'' like the city itself, can reorient its marketing to fit the
times, the show endures. It is a work of art about a particular time and place,
except that unlike a movie or a book, this work continues to be put on live,
night after night for years, as that time and place recede into the distance.

I returned to ''Rent'' a few weeks ago. I felt old. As if everyone in the row I
was sitting in were on a junior high school field trip and I were the chaperon.
But the show felt old, too. Old in an easy, comfortable way. Comfortable is the
absolute last thing that any self-respecting bohemian is looking for, but in the
end, that was the fate of bohemia in New York; it was made comfortable. And
that's what was so striking about the revisit: not what had changed, which is
fairly obvious, but what sounded completely, prosaically, blandly familiar.

Take the lyrics to the song ''La Vie Boheme,'' the show's anthem in defiance of
respectability. It is Christmas Eve. A protest against the development of a lot
on 11th Street populated by homeless people has suddenly turned into a riot.
Afterward the characters gather at the Life Cafe, where they see their former
friend, the sell-out, the compromiser, the cynic, Benjamin Coffin III (that
imperial, insidious ''III''). Benny is behind the development and is having
drinks with his father-in-law, an investor in the project.

After some smarmy back and forth, Benny declares the death of bohemia. The cast
begins its song in response, a hymn to the subversive, the antiestablishment. At
least that's the idea.

''To handcrafted beers made in local breweries,'' Mark sings. ''To yoga, to
yogurt, to rice and beans and cheese.'' Also: ''To riding your bike, midday past
the three-piece suits/to fruits -- to no absolutes,'' and get this: ''To
Absolut.'' Like the vodka.

The song goes on. To Vaclav Havel. To Sondheim, Sontag, Antonioni, Bertolucci
and Kurosawa (sounds like a sold-out Saturday afternoon quintuple bill at Film
Forum). To German wine.

In other words, Park Slope for dummies. That song has become weirdly affecting,
more affecting, to me at least, than ever before. As the drug- and
disease-buffeted dreamers sing about all these things that would soon be popping
up in the aisles at Whole Foods and in the dinner table conversation of Cobble
Hill mommies and daddies, you realize that this is no mock funeral for the
bohemian lifestyle. It's the real wake.

Benny knew it, of course, and was taking good notes, because he won (and he did,
in a big way) when he began singing along, simply incorporating defiance into
his sales pitch. You, too, can live la vie boheme in your $2 million condo on
the Bowery, situated between the yoga studio and the organic food store. Today,
almost nothing in that song seems dated, and that's the sad part.

Occasionally on my way to the shiny new skyscraper on 41st Street where I work,
I pass by the Nederlander Theater. The Nederlanders, like most other property
owners in Times Square, were in the process of renovating it in the mid-1990s,
before ''Rent'' arrived. But the show's producers asked them to stop the
project, so the shabby and half-finished theater would keep that downtown vibe.

And it has, with its graffiti-covered facade and the cast of real homeless
people who often congregate there. As it turned out, the intentionally
down-at-heels look of the theater was not necessary: The tour of ''Rent'' played
perfectly well in clean, nicely appointed theaters around the country. People
come for the story, not the trappings.

NEXT door to the Nederlander, there's a newish boutique hotel; down the street,
a New York Sports Club and the aforementioned skyscraper. Across from the
Nederlander is the Disney-operated New Amsterdam Theater, one of the jewels of
the 42nd Street development project that hosed out the sex shops and porn
theaters and put a shiny, happy face on the block in the 1990s.

Cast and crew members from ''Mary Poppins'' on smoking breaks stand opposite the
Rent-heads lining up for the daily lottery of cheap tickets. It's a bizarre
little tennis match, those theaters across from each other on 41st Street, two
different symbols of what New York should look like.

That match can't go on forever. After ''Rent'' closes in September, the
Nederlanders will finish their long-postponed renovation and the Nederlander
Theater will open for the next tenant, looking as good as new.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At a cafe on Elizabeth and East Houston Streets, the face of
the new East Village is crowding out the old neighborhood. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE
BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.CY1)
On St. Marks Place, increasingly rare relics of another era.
Love letters beneath the theater's marquee on West 41st Street.
 The Life Cafe, where the show's protesters hung out, now sells souvenir
T-shirts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES REQUIEM FOR A
STORIED SLUM) (pg.CY10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               31 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 21, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Risk of Too Much Oversight

BYLINE: By STEPHEN R. HEIFETZ.

Stephen R. Heifetz is the deputy assistant secretary for policy development at
the Department of Homeland Security.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 789 words

DATELINE: Washington


IN a city known for paralyzing bureaucratic turf fights, one of the most
debilitating and potentially disastrous has received scant attention: it's the
Congressional mess that produces tangled homeland security laws. This tangle
obstructs our ability to prioritize risks at the Department of Homeland
Security, where I work alongside more than 200,000 colleagues, almost all of us
civil servants (not political appointees) who will remain in place after the
election.

Congressional committees can help expose and remedy bureaucratic paralysis and
partisan biases, but in this case these committees are the source of the
problem, with both political parties contributing equally to the mess.
Regardless of which party wins in November, the homeland security turf fight has
to be brought under control so that the department can more effectively confront
security risks.

Congress created the Department of Homeland Security in 2002, bringing together
more than 20 separate agencies. This consolidation, however, was not matched by
a parallel consolidation of the Congressional committees that authorize
department programs. Roughly 80 committees and subcommittees oversee the
Department of Homeland Security and its subcomponents.  By way of comparison,
the Department of Defense works primarily with four committees.

To appreciate the challenge we face, it is important to remember that the Sept.
11 terrorist attack was a classic ''low-probability, high-consequence'' event.
In the pre-9/11 era, if experts had generated a list of risks to our country --
various terrorist attacks, hurricanes, contagious diseases and so on -- they
probably would have concluded that terrorists flying planes into skyscrapers and
government buildings was unlikely, in light of the security and logistical
obstacles the terrorists would have to overcome. While those experts would have
acknowledged that such an attack would have grave results, before 9/11,
relatively few people worried about such low-probability, high-consequence
security events. After 9/11, however, many people began thinking about a broad
range of such attacks.

Not surprisingly, when people started to focus on bad things that might happen
to us, they identified a seemingly infinite catalogue of worrisome
possibilities: nuclear, chemical and biological terrorist attacks delivered by
planes, ships, cars or other mechanisms; conventional explosives on mass transit
systems; gunmen in public places; cyber attacks on computer and communication
networks; and natural hazards like earthquakes and hurricanes. This is just a
sliver of the ever-evolving list of homeland security concerns.

But resources are limited and it's not possible to do everything, so we need to
think carefully about the risk: the likelihood of the event and the consequences
if it were to occur. Ideally, we would be able to rationally rank homeland
security risks, and resources would follow. Though some prioritizing efforts are
under way, the process has been made unnecessarily difficult.

Why? Primarily because the dozens of Congressional committees and subcommittees
that watch over the department have their own goals and have refused to give up
authority. The result? Individual committees focus on the risks in their domain
at the expense of comparable -- and perhaps greater -- risks outside.

What's more, a surplus of committees compels agency workers to devote countless
hours to responding to literally thousands of requests and conflicting
Congressional priorities. In 2007 alone, department officials testified at 231
Congressional hearings and provided more than 2,600 briefings to legislators and
their staffs. Some of this time could have been spent devising agency policy.

It would be naive, of course, to think that any department can operate in a
political vacuum. But so long as oversight is spread over so many different
entities, it will be difficult for us to develop -- and put in place -- a broad
risk assessment methodology.

What are the practical effects of this? Well, for example, while we have ranked
the risks of various types of bioterrorist attacks, we still need to find a way
to compare those risks to those presented by, say, cyber-warfare, conventional
explosives or other dangers. This is hard to do when every Congressional
committee believes its subject area is priority number one.

There is an alternative. The 9/11 commission urged Congress to ''create a
single, principal point of oversight and review for homeland security.'' Michael
Chertoff, the department secretary, has echoed this recommendation.

Congress should step back, streamline the number of committees with
responsibility for homeland security -- and give us room to do our job.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDEL RODRIGUEZ)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               32 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 24, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Web Sites Attacked In Ex-Republics

BYLINE: By SARA RHODIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING EUROPE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 130 words


Government Web sites in two former Soviet republics, Lithuania and Georgia, came
under cyber attacks over the weekend, according to Lithuanian officials and an
Internet watchdog group. It was the second time in less than a month that Web
sites in Lithuania had been targets. While the origins of the attacks were not
known, both countries have had tense relations with Russia, and Russian hackers
are believed to have been responsible for earlier, similar incidents.  The Web
site of the Lithuanian tax office was taken down after it was flooded with
information requests, officials said. In Georgia, according to Shadowserver, an
Internet watchdog group, hackers shut down the Web site of the president for
more than 24 hours. The Georgian government would not confirm the cutoff.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               33 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 30, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sony Cuts Outlook After Weak Profit

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 261 words

DATELINE: TOKYO


Sony cut its outlook on Tuesday after its quarterly profit fell 47 percent, hurt
by its struggling mobile phone joint venture with Ericsson of Sweden.

Meanwhile rival Matsushita nearly doubled its profit on rising television sales.

Sony lowered its net profit forecast by 17 percent for the fiscal year ending in
March, citing the slump at Sony Ericsson and weakening prospects for its
electronics division as rivals try to undercut the price of its Cyber-shot
cameras and Vaio PCs.

Matsushita Electric Industrial, the maker of Panasonic products, in contrast,
kept its outlook above market expectations as it cashes in on strong demand for
its Viera flat-screen TVs.

Asked about media reports that Sony was in talks to buy the 50 percent it does
not own in Sony BMG Music Entertainment from  Bertelsmann of Germany, Sony's
chief financial officer, Nobuyuki Oneda, said nothing had been decided,
indicating the two were negotiating.

Net profit at Sony came to 35 billion yen ($325 million) in April-June, down
from 66.5 billion yen ($617 million) a year earlier and below the average
estimate of 52.5 billion yen from three analysts polled by Reuters Estimates.
Sales rose 0.1 percent, to 1.98 trillion yen.

Matsushita reported an 86 percent rise in quarterly net profit to a record 73
billion yen.

Matsushita forecasted net profit to rise 10 percent, to 310 billion yen, in the
year to March, against the market consensus of 300 billion yen. Sony cut its
forecast by 50 billion yen, to 240 billion yen, well below the consensus
estimate of 278.5 billion yen.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               34 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 4, 2008 Monday
                                National Edition

With 2,200 Hours of Live Video, NBC Embraces Online Coverage

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR.

E-mail: sportbiz@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; Sports Desk; TV SPORTS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1085 words


On the final day of the 2006 Winter Olympics, NBC simultaneously televised and
streamed live video of Sweden's clinching victory over Finland for the hockey
gold medal. Gary Zenkel, the president of NBC Olympics, was watching the game on
both screens in his office at the international broadcast center in the
industrial Italian city of Turin.

''I took a picture because I knew we were on the verge of unleashing the
Internet as a coverage platform,'' he said. ''And that's what we went to work at
-- to develop the capability of taking the volume of the Olympics and put it on
the computer screen.''

The hockey game gave NBC a critical if little-seen glimpse at its Olympic
digital future in Beijing and beyond, to Vancouver in 2010 and London in 2012.

So much of each Olympics is unseen. Even with seven NBC networks churning out
1,400 hours of coverage from Beijing, plenty of archery, basketball, canoeing,
judo, tennis, water polo and other sports are still available for viewing.

In China, then, NBC will stream 2,200 hours of live events across 25 sports on
NBCOlympics.com, NBC's Olympics Web site. The network has been spurred on by
technologies that can send out mass quantities of video in high resolution and
confine them to users in the United States, the only territory where NBC's
rights are relevant.

''The user demand for video on the Internet is massive,'' Zenkel said.

Users will be able to watch the events on up to four screens at a time during
each day of competition. When the athletic venues are quiet, the Web site will
repackage events already seen online and on NBC's TV channels into 3,000 hours
of on-demand encores of full events and highlights.

The viewing experience on NBCOlympics.com will differ from the TV standard. The
games will not be slickly produced or described by pairs of announcers; instead,
users will see the standard world feed that is sent to all broadcasters, and
bloggers will serve as play-by-play voices and  analysts. Users will also have
access to statistics, athlete biographies and other information as they watch
the action.

''We think the experience will be powerful without the commentators,'' Zenkel
said.

TV watchers will witness the expansion of NBC's multiple-network strategy, which
began in 2000 with the addition of CNBC and MSNBC to the mix. NBC, CNBC, MSNBC,
USA, Telemundo, Universal HD and Oxygen (the newest in the fold) will combine
for an exhaustive 24-hour presence that in many cases will overlap during parts
of each day.

NBC's 225 hours of afternoon,  prime-time and  late-night coverage will be an
eclectic mix but will focus on gymnastics, track and field, volleyball, swimming
and diving.

USA (2 a.m. to noon Eastern) will specialize in United States men's and women's
basketball and soccer; CNBC (midnight to 4:30 or 5 a.m. and 5 p.m. to 8 p.m.)
will focus partly on boxing; and Oxygen (6 p.m. to 8 p.m.) will carry equestrian
events and gymnastic recaps. Telemundo (in three daily blocks) and MSNBC (5 a.m.
to 5 p.m.) will show various sports and Universal HD will have 24 hours of CNBC
and MSNBC simulcasts.

Those channels' output will be augmented by two additional ones, created just
for the  Games and devoted to basketball and soccer; they will run in 12- to
14-hour blocks, from around 2:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. and 5 a.m. to 5 p.m.,
respectively, on nearly every day of the Games. The channels are expected to be
in most American cable and satellite homes, NBC said.  The added channels are
further evidence of an evolution to 24/7 Olympic coverage (and of the parent
company NBC Universal's acquisitions of networks), but the online effort is more
of a revolutionary leap. Still, NBC's decision to stream those 2,200 hours is
not a surprise because the cyber-pipelines needed to transmit live video,
offering  greater capacity and efficiency, are in place.

College basketball fans are now accustomed to seeing N.C.A.A. tournament games
online as well as other streamed sports, like  holes at major golf tournaments,
Nascar races and baseball games on MLB.com. ESPN created an entire online
channel, ESPN360, and the N.H.L. runs a multichannel digital network on NHL.com.
NBC last month announced that it would stream its coming season of Sunday night
football games.

Zenkel, who has worked on NBC's Olympics since 1992, said: ''I always hoped that
the Internet would be able to offer what television could not and to give the
user the ability to watch what they might have missed or relive what has created
buzz. As video became a quality experience, I was hopeful that we'd be able to
get to this day.''

After NBC became the sole Olympic broadcaster in the United States in 2000, it
dipped into the Internet with a Web site that was merely informational and
complementary. The Internet had not matured enough to be viable for large-scale
video distribution.

Rick Gentile, a former CBS Sports executive who is now a professor of sports
management at Seton Hall University, recalled NBC officials' voicing their
resistance to a digital future at an Internet conference held by the
International Olympic Committee after the 2000 Sydney Games proved to be a
prime-time ratings disappointment.

''They were adamantly opposed to the Internet's encroachment on broadcasters'
rights,'' Gentile said. ''It was a hold-the-line position and my feeling was,
You're sticking your finger in the dike. You have to make it work before it
engulfs you.''

Now, as he observes NBC's online transformation, Gentile said, ''They've made a
nice course adjustment and they've gone nuts, God bless them.''

But even with the abundance of live streams, one truism remains: prime time on
NBC still rules. Those watching online will not see live gymnastics, track and
field, swimming, diving, volleyball or beach volleyball. That is reserved for
NBC from 7 p.m. or 8 p.m. Eastern to midnight or beyond, when the audience is at
its height and advertisers are paying the most.

If something important happens online, it may find its way into prime time. But
Michael Phelps's races and Allyson Felix' sprints will not be available online
until they are done and available on-demand.

NBC contends that adding an enormous online component will help in prime time.
''We proved to ourselves in Athens that providing as much coverage as we have
the capacity for fuels the buzz in the Games,'' Zenkel said. ''Prime time
benefited from having that coverage on ubiquitously throughout the day in gyms,
in offices and on trading floors.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               35 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 6, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

INSIDE THE TIMES: August 6, 2008

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2223 words


International

USING DECREE AUTHORITY,

Chavez Expands His Powers

President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela used decree powers that were set to expire to
enact a set of measures that seem based on a package of constitutional changes
that voters rejected last year. His actions significantly increase his power and
are likely to open a new stage of confrontation between his government and the
political opposition. PAGE A14

WOMAN DENIED BAIL IN BOMB PLOT

Aafia Siddiqui, a Pakistani neuroscientist who American officials say was a
facilitator for Al Qaeda, was ordered held without bail in a federal court in
Manhattan on charges that she tried to kill American soldiers and F.B.I. agents
in Afghanistan. A criminal complaint says Ms. Siddiqui was found loitering
outside an Afghan police station with documents describing explosives and other
suspicious items in her handbag. PAGE A12

QUIET DAY AFTER A DEADLY ATTACK

A day after an attack on security forces killed 16 people in Kashgar, things
seemed back to normal in the frontier town in China's Xinjiang Province.
Whatever led to the attack -- officials said it was carried out by members of
East Turkestan Independence Movement, or ETIM -- it raised questions about the
viability of Chinese policy in Xinjiang, even as China promotes an image of a
''harmonious society'' for the Olympics. PAGE A6

FOR SOME, OLYMPICS IS NO FUN

While there's plenty of excitement surrounding the Olympics, there's also a good
deal of grumbling. Traffic restrictions have forced drivers to give up their
cars, security measures require subway riders to undergo bag searches, and some
of the city's best-known clubs have been forced to go dark. All the new rules
and restrictions have put an unmistakable dent in Beijing's zeal for the Games.
PAGE A8

BURMESE EXILES TO ASK FOR U.S. AID

A small group of Burmese exiles is scheduled to meet in Bangkok with President
Bush, who has given his backing to what has so far been an unsuccessful struggle
for democracy in Myanmar. Mr. Bush has tightened economic restrictions on
Myanmar after the violent suppression of a peaceful uprising. But some
dissidents say the restrictions, along with harsh criticism of the junta, have
added to a wall of hostility between the nations that limits Washington's
influence. PAGE A10

BEHAVIOR AND THE AIDS FIGHT

AIDS experts say millions of people are becoming infected because world
governments are overlooking studies showing that behavior modification can be
effective in preventing the spread of the disease. PAGE A10

National

F.B.I., FACING CRITICISM,

To Call Anthrax Case Closed

The Justice Department is preparing to declare the 2001 anthrax case solved and
to make its case publicly against Bruce Ivins, a military scientist who killed
himself after investigators linked him to the attacks. Officials at the F.B.I.
are particularly eager to close the case and publicly rebut accusations of Mr.
Ivins's defenders, who say that the bureau may have hounded an innocent man into
committing suicide. PAGE A19

STRUGGLE OVER ATLANTA TREES

Atlantans are proud of their trees, so much so that builders must pay hundreds
of dollars for any tree they uproot, even with the city's permission. So when
Tom Coffin, the city's senior arborist and a vigilant defender of trees, was
fired last week without explanation, residents began asking the mayor's office
to investigate whether Mr. Coffin's dismissal resulted from his stern treatment
of area developers. PAGE A15

FUROR OVER CHANGE IN HOLIDAY

The Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union decided to substitute a Muslim
holiday for Labor Day as one of the paid holidays at the Tyson Foods poultry
plant in Shelbyville, Tenn. But that move has been met with outrage, with some
anti-immigrant bloggers and right-wing commentators urging a boycott. PAGE A20

DASHING HOPES OF MARTIAN LIFE

Rumors swirled over the weekend that NASA had informed the White House of a
major discovery bearing on the possibility of life on Mars. But Tuesday, NASA
called a hasty telephone news conference to announce the tentative
identification of a class of minerals that has nothing directly to do with the
habitability of Mars. ''We are here today to announce a non-announcement,'' a
NASA scientist said. PAGE A20

BAWDINESS, AND A BIG DEAL

When Senator John McCain offered up his wife to compete in the Miss Buffalo Chip
contest in Sturgis, S.D. -- he probably did not know, as an ESPN writer points
out, that the contest often ends in the toplessness of its contestants. And in a
first, MySpace, the social networking site, has signed a deal to provide
real-time video streaming of the three coming presidential debates and the
debate between their vice-presidential picks. The Caucus. PAGE A17

REVISITING NUCLEAR ENERGY

Both Senators John McCain and Barack Obama see expanded use of nuclear energy as
one way to lessen dependence on foreign oil and fossil fuels. Construction in
the industry has been moribund since the 1970s, but market conditions have
improved for the industry as demand for power has risen, and the price of
natural gas, a competing fuel, has jumped. And lately some environmentalists who
had been critical of nuclear power have embraced it. PAGE A16

METRO

SILVER MADE PERSONAL LOANS

To Financing Company

Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, the most powerful defender of trial lawyers in
the Legislature, has in the past year lent at least $50,000 of his own money to
a company that helps finance small law firms that specialize in personal injury
lawsuits. Mr. Silver made two separate loans to the company, Counsel Financial,
according to his latest ethics disclosure form. PAGE B1

FOR A PRAYER ON-THE-GO

For the busy businessman with a personal trainer, personal shopper and an
on-call psychiatrist, there is now another select service: the personal rabbi.
An Upper West Side group called Aish offers four Orthodox rabbis who are
available -- for a mere $10,000 a year -- to, your schedule permitting, guide
you in studying the Talmud and sorting out any spiritual issues. PAGE B1

BUSINESS

ELEVEN ARE CHARGED IN THEFT

Of 40 Million Card Numbers

The Justice Department said that it had charged 11 people in the theft of more
than 40 million credit and debit card numbers of customers shopping at major
retailers, including TJX Companies, in one of the largest reported
identity-theft incidents on record. PAGE C3

FALLOUT OF PENSION CUTS IN EUROPE

Some Europeans have tried to defuse the time bomb posed by their millions of
retirees receiving government benefits. Italy gradually raised the retirement
age to 59, for instance, and France increased the tenure requirement for
government workers to 40 years of service. But inflation and a squeeze on living
standards for older workers are fueling a backlash, leading governments to
reconsider reforms. PAGE C1

SONY-BERTELSMANN VENTURE ENDS

Sony and Bertelsmann said they would unravel their four-year partnership in
music. Behind the deal are divergent views of the future of recorded music. For
Sony, it represents a gamble that after technology-driven upheaval, the industry
will regain its footing. For Bertelsmann, the deal represents a retrenchment
from traditional media to build up its service businesses. PAGE C5 GOVERNMENT
NETWORKS HACKED

A cyber-criminal gang is using software tools normally reserved for computer
network administrators to infect thousands of computers in corporate and
government networks with programs that steal passwords and other personal
information, a security researcher has found. The systematic use of
administrative software to spread malicious software has not been seen widely
until now, security experts said. PAGE C6

Arts

TAGGING ALONG FOR 11 YEARS

With the Godmother of Punk

Patti Smith was born in 1946, wrote poetry, made rock 'n' roll history, and
changed the world, or part of it anyway. And while Manohla Dargis writes that
''Dream of Life,'' a new film about the life of the punk giant, glosses over a
lot of specifics, the portrait of Ms. Smith, created over 11 years, ''feels less
like a documentary and more like an act of rapturous devotion.'' PAGE E1

A MARRIAGE OF DANCE AND AFROBEAT

Fela Kuti, a political gadfly whose Afrobeat rhythms coaxed many feet to the
dance floor, may be a perfect subject for Bill T. Jones, the political lion of
modern dance, and his new Off Broadway musical, ''Fela!,'' which opens in
September. ''There's something about the man that calls out for a very poetic
treatment,'' Mr. Jones said. ''His life is so mythic in its scale.'' PAGE E1

MAGICAL PANTS, STILL TRAVELING

In the three years between the ''Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants'' and its
sequel, the balance of celebrity power has shifted among its quartet of stars.
In 2005, Amber Tamblyn and Alexis Bledel were riding high from the series ''Joan
of Arcadia'' and ''Gilmore Girls.'' Because of ''Ugly Betty'' and ''Gossip
Girl,'' America Ferrera and Blake Lively have pulled ahead. So, will the young
ladies find romance and affirmation? As sure as patched jeans are magical. A
review by Stephen Holden. PAGE E7

Dining

IN LOOKING FOR THE GREENMARKET,

Grab a Cart and Check Aisle 6

Local produce and farmers' markets have risen in popularity, and supermarkets
are starting to catch on. But they have learned that stocking some local fruits
and vegetables is not going to be enough. Now local farms are starting to supply
the bulk for many supermarkets, especially now that freight and fuel costs have
risen past the cost of the cargo. Page F1

DUMPLINGS, PLEASE. HOLD THE DECOR.

Those involved with the restaurant business in New York City are legion, to say
the least: architects, investors, chefs and consultants. The whole process can
seem a little daunting and perhaps overthought, but then there are places like
Eton, in the Carroll Gardens section of Brooklyn. Its simple menu offers a few
types of dumplings and Hawaiian shaved ice, such as green tea topped with red
beans, lychees and condensed milk, pictured above. If they lack in visual
appeal, they more than make up for it in taste. Page F7

Sports

LIKE SANDS THROUGH THE HOURGLASS,

Just Another Day at Packers Camp

Brett Favre climbed into his burgundy Cadillac Escalade and left without comment
30 minutes before the Green Bay Packers were set to begin practice. Huh? It
seems the soap opera surrounding Favre's retirement and subsequent unretirement
continues, with the quarterback asking the Packers to trade him -- to a team in
the Packers' division, no less. Stay tuned. PAGE D1

CAUTION, OR BAD MANNERS?

China's problems with air pollution have been well documented, and much ink has
been spilled trying to gauge how much air quality would affect Olympic athletes.
Four United States track cyclists, apparently erring on the side of caution,
emerged from their plane wearing masks over their mouths and noses -- drawing
considerable attention and criticism from United States Olympic officials, who
thought it might embarrass the host nation. The masks, though, were also
distributed by United States Olympic officials. PAGE D1

POSSIBLE SHOWDOWN OF CHAMPIONS

Curlin, the reigning horse of the year, will forgo a turf campaign and the Prix
de l'Arc de Triomphe in Paris, his owner Jess Jackson said. Instead, Curlin will
make his next start on the dirt in the Woodward on Aug. 30 at Saratoga in New
York. Jackson also left open the possibility that Curlin would compete this year
in the Breeders' Cup Classic on Oct. 25 at Santa Anita in California and next
year as a 5-year-old. The Classic appears to be the most likely spot for a
showdown between Curlin and Big Brown, as Big Brown's ownership group has
already committed to the $5 million Classic race. PAGE D6

Obituaries

LOU TEICHER, 83

The classically trained pianist was something of a prodigy, and as part of the
piano duo Ferrante & Teicher, was one of ''the grand twins of the twin grands.''
Their florid and sentimental versions of movie themes and love songs made them
gods of easy listening. ''Although we were two individuals, at the twin pianos
our brains worked as one,'' Arthur Ferrante said. PAGE B7

NICOLA RESCIGNO, 92

He seized advantage of a new interest in opera after World War II and helped
found two major American opera companies, including one in Dallas. ''People
think this is cowboy country,'' he once said. ''They are surprised to find
first-rate opera in a corral.'' The other company was in Chicago. PAGE B7

Editorial

LISTEN TO THE 56,000

When the Federal Reserve asked for comments about its proposed rules on abusive
credit card practices, an astonishing 56,000 poured in. Most were from outraged
consumers. Page A22

OLD MINES, NEW DANGERS

The inspector general of the Interior Department, Earl Devaney, says the
National Park Service has ''put the public's health and safety at risk'' by
failing to clean up or seal off abandoned mines. Page A22

CLEANING UP

Connecticut, which became known as ''Corrupticut'' after recent scandals, can
only benefit from its new public campaign-financing system. Page A22

Op-Ed

THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

A lesson in Climate-Speak while experiencing the awesome majesty of Greenland's
Kangia Glacier. Page A23

CHINA'S GOLD RUSH

In an Op-Ed article, Matthew Forney, an American journalist living in Beijing,
writes that under a plan by Chinese officials to match or surpass the American
Olympic gold medal total, the country's athletes perform best in sports that few
Chinese care about. Page A23

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (A2)
 PHOTOS (A3)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               36 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 10, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rec-Room Wizard

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; VIDEO GAMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1999 words

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, Minn.


THE sounds were coming from the basement: a rapid, staccato clicking of plastic
against plastic, hundreds of times a minute, too quick and orderly to be
described as a rattle and too rhythmic to be considered noise.

In the downstairs den of his family's home, Chris Chike was sitting in an easy
chair with a toy guitar across his lap. While his eyes were trained on a
big-screen television inches away, his hands were frantically working the
bruised plastic instrument held together with masking tape. His left hand was
tapping manically at five colored buttons on the guitar's neck, while his right
hand made graceful leaps between the neck and a large black button on the
guitar's body, where a real musician would be strumming at strings.

His movements were precisely choreographed to the action on his television set,
where color-coded musical notes stampeded down the neck of a simulated guitar in
time to a relentlessly bombastic heavy-metal ballad called ''Through the Fire
and Flames.'' Some 1,191 notes would whiz by before Chris missed a single one.

This is the now-familiar ritual of Guitar Hero, the video game series that lets
players (and spectators) replicate the adrenaline rush of a rock-music concert
as rec-room Eric Claptons and Pete Townshends press buttons in time to popular
songs, scoring points as they show off their hand-and-eye coordination if not
actual musicianship.

If Chris were not otherwise occupied, he could tell you that he is, by several
objective measures, the most talented Guitar Hero player in existence: not only
good enough to have attained numerous high-score records, but so skilled that he
has parlayed his peculiar blend of athleticism and showmanship into online
celebrity and a fledgling career designing and endorsing his own line of video
game hardware. But at the moment, another barrage of notes was about to descend
on him. ''The chaos,'' he said, ''begins right now.''

Despite his preternatural dexterity, Chris, who turns 17 on Sunday, would seem
to be just one more avid gamer who has helped make the Guitar Hero franchise a
towering success. It has sold more than 20.7 million copies worldwide since its
debut just three years ago.

Yet to the video game business Chris represents just the kind of player -- the
freakishly talented one-man spectacle -- who could bring more revenue and
legitimacy to the industry, and prove once and for all that video gaming is as
much a mainstream American pastime as going to the movies or watching
television.

''A lot of people still have this perception of gamers being spotty 13-year-olds
stuck in their bedrooms,'' said Keith Pullin, the editor of the gamers' edition
of the Guinness World Records book, which recently declared Chris the best
Guitar Hero player on the planet. ''But Chris is a great example of how you can
be a wholesome person and still be good at games at the same time.'' All of
which can be a little overwhelming to a soft-spoken young man who's still not
sure how he wants to define himself.

''When a new person will come around,'' Chris said, ''my friends will be like,
'Hey, did you know this is the No. 1 kid in the world at Guitar Hero?' And I'm
like  ---- '' He hid his head in his hands. ''That's not what I want to first
tell people when I meet them.''

In his daily life Chris is a senior at the nearby Century High School; he is 6
foot 2, boyishly handsome, a soccer player, a long and high jumper on the
varsity track team and painfully shy in conversation, particularly about his
plans for college. ''I don't really like to think about it,'' he said in a
pregame interview, ''because I like to procrastinate.''

But to millions of Internet users he is better known as iamchris4life, the
Guitar Hero wunderkind whose astronomical scores and YouTube videos of his
gaming exploits are, to these fans, as thrilling as actually playing the game.
In messages sent to Chris's account on the Xbox Live network and in notes posted
on his personal YouTube page they declare their devotion:  ''yer god.'' ''do u
wanna marry me?''

The youngest of four siblings, Chris has owned almost every home video game
console since the 1990s-era Super Nintendo (all bestowed on him by his father,
Anthony, 52, who runs a computer business, and his mother, Claudia
Knowlton-Chike, 50, a general manager for GE Healthcare).

In recent years Chris became particularly adept at rhythm-based games like Dance
Dance Revolution, in which players step on a special mat in time to onscreen
arrows, and he began posting videos of his dance moves on YouTube. (At his
mother's request he videotaped himself from his shoulders down.)

He also breezed through the hardest levels of the original Guitar Hero, released
in 2005 for PlayStation 2, and its 2006 sequel, Guitar Hero II. When he posted
screen shots of his accomplishments at Web sites like scorehero.com, he noticed
his scores were significantly higher than his closest competitors.

His unusual ascent was occurring at a time when the video game industry was
discovering the potential of social games -- which like Guitar Hero are meant to
be played in groups and can be as much fun to watch as to participate in -- to
reach a previously untapped audience.

''It's just like karaoke, right?'' said Kai Huang, the president and co-founder
of RedOctane, the division of the game company Activision Publishing that
releases Guitar Hero. ''People don't have to be the best singer in the world,
but they just love getting up onstage and performing.''

Every Guitar Hero needs a nemesis, and Chris found his in a song called
''Through the Fire and Flames,'' a track that appears in the game Guitar Hero
III: Legends of Rock. Performed by the British power-metal band Dragonforce,
''Through the Fire and Flames'' (or simply ''TTFaF'' to die-hard gamers) is a
brutal tour de force of finger-tapping, consisting of 3,722 notes over seven and
a half minutes. The song is available only to players who have completed all the
other tracks in the game, and they are not expected to master it so much as
simply to survive it.

''It's what we would consider the pinnacle of difficulty,'' Mr. Huang said.
''The guitar shredding in there is just insane.''

Over a period of weeks and months Chris practiced the song in the family den,
surrounded by walls decorated with his mother's homemade Western shirts, family
photographs and a picture of his maternal grandparents with President  Bush. He
completed the song to 96 percent accuracy, then 98 percent, but kept falling
just short of perfection.

Then, late on the night of June 3, with his $80 video camera recording him for
posterity, Chris played the song flawlessly. His hands still trembling, he
shouted a few expletives and raced to upload his footage on YouTube, where the
online world had already been tipped off to his accomplishment when his
astonishing score was automatically uploaded to an Xbox Live leader board.
Within a few hours, Chris estimates, the video of his perfect ''TTFaF''
performance had been viewed more than 10,000 times; it has since been watched
more than 2.1 million times -- a particularly astounding tally for what is
essentially a video of someone pressing buttons.

By now the legend of iamchris4life was widespread. In March he was invited by
Guinness World Records to visit New York and play ''TTFaF'' for a live crowd,
which he did with 97 percent accuracy. (''I was kind of disappointed that I
couldn't do my best,'' Chris said.)

This event, in turn, caught the attention of theAnt Commandos, makers of video
game hardware in Ontario, Calif., which struck an agreement (negotiated by Ms.
Knowlton-Chike) for Chris to be its public face. He now lends his gaming
expertise to design sessions for a forthcoming line of Guitar Hero controllers,
and his cafe au lait looks -- he is the son of a white mother and a black father
-- to advertisements and packaging for Ant Commandos products.

''Internally we call him our Tiger Woods,'' said Raymond Yow, the company's
chief operating officer.

Another name frequently invoked in connection with Chris is Tony Hawk, the
skateboarding pioneer who parlayed his abilities into a multimillion-dollar
empire of endorsed products,  performance tours and, yes, video games, bringing
the once-unfamiliar category of action sports with him into the spotlight.

The American video game scene sorely lags behind other nations' in generating
and appreciating personalities who would be the field's equivalent of Mr. Hawk.
In South Korea, for example, the top players of strategy games like StarCraft
are regarded as rock stars, with entire television channels dedicated to
covering their tournaments and competitions.

But American gaming culture may be approaching its own turning point. ''We need
that lightning-in-a bottle moment,'' said Michael Arzt, a former marketing
executive for the Gravity Games, an action-sports event, who is now the general
manager of International Cyber Marketing, which runs a worldwide video game
competition called the World Cyber Games.

Mr. Arzt said American gaming needed the equivalents of Mr. Hawk's 900-degree
skateboard spin at the 1999 Summer X Games, or Carey Hart's motorcycle back flip
at the 2000 Gravity Games, to break through as a truly mainstream sport.

''We're not there yet, but it's starting to happen,'' Mr. Arzt said. ''The video
gamers are getting a little more savvy.''

Chris would sooner die a thousand deaths than discuss, say, the many Advanced
Placement courses he will be taking this fall, or his score on the ACT.  But put
a fake guitar in his hands, and he becomes a different, dynamic person. Watching
his Guitar Hero sessions, on video or in person, you can easily be hypnotized by
the synchronized movements of his fingers as they bounce upon the diminutive
plastic fretboard. He is clearly not making music with the instrument, but his
performance is a feat of coordination in its own right.

And he is learning to add occasional flourishes to his act: tapping out the
grueling solo to Lynyrd Skynyrd's ''Free Bird'' while he looks at the ceiling,
or holding his guitar controller behind his back, just to prove he's memorized
it. (''Some things never leave your mind,'' Chris explained.)

While Ms. Knowlton-Chike serves as her son's agent and business manager, she
said she trusted Chris to decide for himself which events and opportunities he
will participate in. ''He makes good choices,'' she said. ''There were nights
when I used to go downstairs and say, 'Hey, turn the game off and go to bed.'
But he knows how to manage himself.''

For example, she said, Chris agreed to appear at a gaming event in October in
Amsterdam only after finding out that it would not conflict with his school
schedule.

He is also sorely tempted to buy himself a full-size Dance Dance Revolution
arcade machine, which would cost several thousand dollars. ''We're learning to
pay for things when we have the money,'' Ms. Knowlton-Chike said.

Chris is hopeful that his endorsed line of Guitar Hero controllers (scheduled
for release later this year) will sell well. But he is also concerned about
balancing his senior-year schoolwork and the time he spends with his friends,
who he said were perhaps not as scholastically motivated.

''They're like, 'Yeah, senior year's the easiest because you can slack off,' ''
Chris said. ''That can't be my case.''

Having demonstrated his prowess at Guitar Hero, Chris switched over to another
music game called Rock Band, which lets gamers play drums in addition to guitar.
He sat down behind a small plastic drum kit and proceeded to pound out an
immaculate recreation of Keith Moon's percussion from the Who's ''Won't Get
Fooled Again,'' improvising a few embellishments to the solos.

Despite the display he had just given, Chris said he wouldn't make a good
musician. ''I think I probably could if I tried,'' he said. ''But I'm not the
rock punk type. I'm not a drummer boy. I just play video games.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chris Chike of Rochester, Minn., has the Guinness Book of World
Records endorsement as the top Guitar Hero player.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLEN
BRISSON-SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 From top, a scene from Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock, Chris Chike with his
guitar, and other scenes from the game.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLEN BRISSON-SMITH FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. AR18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               37 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 12, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Global Trail That Revealed A Cyber-Ring

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE; Eric Dash and Tom Zeller Jr. contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1737 words


As an international ring of thieves plundered the credit card numbers of
millions of Americans, investigators struggled to figure out who was
orchestrating the crimes in the United States.

When prosecutors unveiled indictments last week, they made a stunning admission:
the culprit was, they said, their very own informant.

Albert Gonzalez, 27, appeared to be a reformed hacker. To avoid prison time
after being arrested in 2003, he had been helping federal agents identify his
former cohorts in the online underworld where credit and debit card numbers are
stolen, bought and sold.

But on the sly, federal officials now say, Mr. Gonzalez was connecting with
those same cohorts and continuing to ply his trade, using online pseudonyms --
including ''soupnazi'' -- that would be his undoing. As they tell it, Mr.
Gonzalez had a central role in a loosely organized online crime syndicate that
obtained tens of millions of credit and debit card numbers from nine of the
biggest retailers in the United States.

The indictments last week of 11 people involved in the group give a remarkably
comprehensive picture of how the Internet is enabling new kinds of financial
crimes on a vast international scale.

In interviews over the last few days, investigators detailed how they had
tracked Mr. Gonzalez and other members of a ring that extended from Ukraine,
where a key figure bought and sold stolen numbers over the Internet, to Estonia,
where a hacker infiltrated the servers of a Dallas-based restaurant chain.

The criminals stored much of their data on computer servers in Latvia and
Ukraine, and purchased blank debit and credit cards from confederates in China,
which they imprinted with some of the stolen numbers for use in cash machines,
investigators say.

''This was the largest hacking and theft of credit and debit card information
ever successfully investigated and prosecuted within the United States,'' said
Craig Magaw, special agent in charge of the Secret Service's criminal
investigative division. ''This case shows that there are no more boundaries.''

Mr. Gonzalez's Miami lawyer, Rene Palomino Jr., disputes the charges and says
his client is merely a ''kid'' who lived with church-going parents before
starting work as a government informant. Mr. Palomino said the indictment
''represents serious and substantial legal and factual challenges for the
government to prove at trial.''

The story begins five years ago in Miami, along the stretch of Route 1 called
the South Dixie Highway. Starting in 2003, national retailers with outlets
there, including BJ's Wholesale Club, the Sports Authority, OfficeMax, DSW and
Barnes & Noble, began falling victim to ''war-drivers'' -- drive-by hackers who
searched for holes in the security of wireless networks.

According to last week's indictments, those hackers were Mr. Gonzalez and two
Miami accomplices, Christopher Scott, 25, and Damon Patrick Toey, 23.

Investigators say the conspirators began their largest theft in July 2005, when
they identified a vulnerable network at a Marshall's department store in Miami
and used it to place a so-called sniffer program on the computers of the chain's
parent company, TJX, in Framingham, Mass. The program pulled out data like
credit card numbers from the network traffic.

Fifteen months later, the company, which also owns TJ Maxx stores, admitted that
up to 45 million credit and debit card numbers had been  exposed in the
prolonged attack. It has already cost TJX more than $130 million in settlement
claims with banks and afflicted customers.

The Secret Service -- which is charged with combating financial fraud in
addition to protecting public officials -- had until that point focused its
attention on the resellers of stolen card numbers.

In October 2004, the agency concluded Operation Firewall, an 18-month
investigation into members of the Shadowcrew Web site, where blocks of purloined
card numbers, known as dumps, were bought and sold. Twenty-eight people were
arrested, and a hub of the shady underworld of ''carders'' -- typically
unemployed, technically sophisticated and highly arrogant young men -- was shut
down.

Assisting with that investigation was Albert Gonzalez, a Cuban-American from
Miami who had been arrested in 2003  on credit card fraud charges in New Jersey
and agreed to cooperate with authorities to avoid jail time. According to the
Secret Service, Mr. Gonzalez helped agents surreptitiously access the Shadowcrew
site and pose as interested buyers of stolen information.

''In order to infiltrate those organizations you have to be established,'' Mr.
Magaw said. ''You cannot just get on criminal boards and start dealing with
high-level players. He provided us with that ability to do that on Shadowcrew.''

In the wake of Operation Firewall -- and the expanding wave of credit card theft
emanating from south Florida -- the Secret Service began to focus on how the
members of Shadowcrew and other carders were obtaining stolen credit card data.

They focused on a ring of people, most of whom had never met in person, who were
working together in cyberspace and breaking into corporate computer systems
nationwide.

Secret Service agents from the San Diego field office homed in on Maksym
Yastremskiy or ''maksik,'' 25, from the Ukrainian industrial city of Kharkiv.
Agents believed that he was among the largest distributors of stolen debit and
credit card numbers in the world. Mr. Yastremskiy, an indictment unveiled last
week in San Diego alleges, earned over $11 million plying his trade in 2004-6
alone.

In July 2007, the Secret Service learned that Mr. Yastremskiy was traveling on
vacation to Turkey and the agency coordinated his arrest by the Turkish police
outside a nightclub in Kemer. The Turkish police provided a copy of the hard
drive from Mr. Yastremskiy's laptop to Secret Service agents, yielding
significant breakthroughs in the case.

In addition to millions of stolen credit and debit card numbers, investigators
found a sniffer program similar to the one used  that year to capture credit
card transactions at 11 restaurants in the Dave & Buster's chain. That attack,
unlike earlier ones, was not conducted through war-driving. Instead, Aleksandr
Suvorov, 24, an Estonian hacker, remotely accessed the chain's computers by
exploiting errors in the way it set up passwords, investigators say.

Agents brought the sniffer program to the Computer Emergency Response Center at
Carnegie Mellon University, where experts compared it with  another program
found during the investigation of the earlier breach at TJX and found they were
two versions of the same underlying code. Agents now knew conclusively that the
same gang was responsible for both crimes.

They now had to figure out who Mr. Yastremskiy was working with in the United
States. A forensic analysis of his computer yielded records of conversations
over the ICQ chat network between Mr. Yastremskiy and a cohort represented only
by the user number 201679996.

In short, jargon-punctuated messages, this person took credit for supplying the
software used in the Dave & Buster's attack and expressed alarm when the gang's
exploits and collaborators were being exposed by investigators.

In the end, it was a reference to a ''Seinfeld'' character that helped Secret
Service agents untangle the mystery. Agents connected the ICQ user name to an
e-mail address at a Russian-based Internet provider, soupnazi@efnet.ru, a
reference to a cantankerous soup maker in the program.

Records from Mr. Gonzalez's 2003 arrests showed he had once used that e-mail
address, and confidential sources told Secret Service agents that Mr. Gonzalez
still used the ''soupnazi'' nickname, along with another, ''segvec.'' Tying the
bow even tighter, the mysterious ICQ chatter had referred to himself  as segvec.

The agency says it immediately stopped using Mr. Gonzalez as an informant and
began investigating him, in part by tracing his financial assets through online
accounts. In their indictment last week, the authorities said that Mr. Gonzalez
and his two Miami-based conspirators were storing millions of credit and debit
card numbers on servers in Latvia and Ukraine, and imprinting some of those
numbers on blank A.T.M. cards supplied by collaborators in China. They used
those cards to withdraw hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash.

Government lawyers also said that Mr. Gonzalez had used his position as a Secret
Service informant to warn fellow conspirators about ongoing investigations. They
say he appeared to have been involved in most aspects of the ring's operations.

Secret Service agents arrested Mr. Gonzalez on May 7 at the luxurious National
Hotel in Miami Beach, where he was staying with his girlfriend and,
investigators say,  trying to hack into the wireless networks of nearby
businesses. According to the indictment, the authorities found in the hotel room
two laptops, more than $20,000 in cash and a Glock 27 firearm with ammunition,
although the arrest was peaceful.

They found another computer, a hard drive and a currency counter in a
one-bedroom condominium Mr. Gonzalez owned in a working-class Miami
neighborhood.

Neither Mr. Gonzalez nor his parents were available for comment, though Mr.
Palomino, his lawyer, said the family was shaken. ''Here is the attorney general
of the United States announcing the charges against your son and telling the
whole world that he is looking at life in prison,'' he said. ''It's
shellshock.''

Mr. Gonzalez is now in jail in New York, on charges related to the Dave &
Buster's theft. His two Miami conspirators are expected to turn themselves in to
the authorities in Boston soon, the Secret Service says.

Meanwhile, the Justice Department  is negotiating for the extradition of Mr.
Yastremskiy from Turkey, where he is imprisoned. The Secret Service coordinated
the arrest of Mr. Suvorov, the Estonian, at an airport in  Frankfurt  last
March. He is now in a German jail.

Members of the financial services industry are applauding.

''We were always trying to get law enforcement to go after these guys for us,''
said a payments industry executive who would speak only  anonymously. ''Over the
last two or three years, the Secret Service has devoted lots of time to it.
This at least sends a message to the criminal side that there are folks coming
after you, even if you are operating outside the United States.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: AN INTERNATIONAL WEB: The Justice Department has charged 11
people with operating an international identity theft ring that stole millions
of credit card account numbers. According to the indictments, here is who was
involved and how most of the crimes were carried out.: TRAFFICKING EASTERN
EUROPE: Stored stolen identity information and used it to make and distribute
fake credit cards.
IDENTITY THEFT MIAMI: Hacked into wireless computer networks of national chains
in the Miami area and stole credit card information.
 MAKING CREDIT CARDS CHINA AND UNKNOWN: Sold plastic blanks and equipment used
to make fake credit cards. (Source: Justice Department) (pg.A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               38 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 13, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 486 words


CYBER ASSAULT Internet experts in the United States said attacks on Georgia's
cyberspace infrastructure began weeks before shooting started between Georgia
and Russia.

IN NEED OF REPAIR The market through which mortgages are packaged and sold as
securities has become damaged, and analysts say interest rates will continue to
rise until it is fixed. [C1.]

BOUNTIFUL HARVEST The Department of Agriculture is forecasting the
second-highest corn yield on record with production of 12.3 billion bushels; the
soybean crop is forecast for a harvest of 2.97 billion bushels, much better than
many had expected in June. [C1.]

UNDERWATER Countless car owners are driving vehicles worth less than the balance
on their car loans, and like desperate homeowners, the sellers of S.U.V.'s are
having to cut asking prices. [C1.]

Rick Wagoner, the chief executive of General Motors, is expected to announce an
expansion of the Detroit automaker's production of small cars at its plant east
of Bangkok. [C7.]

DIGITAL JOURNALISTS CNN said it would add journalists using laptops and
cellphone cameras in 10 cities across the United States to provide more nimble
TV and online news coverage. [C1.]

EASING VOLATILITY A temporary Securities and Exchange Commission rule that made
it harder to short some financial stocks might have helped curb short sales.
Market Place. [C1.]

DRUGSTORE ACQUISITION CVSCaremark said it would buy Longs Drug Stores for $2.54
billion to expand its reach in the western United States. [C2.]

TAX INQUIRY About two-thirds of corporations operating in the United States did
not pay income taxes from 1998 to 2005, according to the Government
Accountability Office. [C3.]

UBS REVAMPS UBS, the Swiss banking giant, announced that it was reorganizing
into three distinct businesses after reporting a large quarterly loss and $5.1
billion in write-downs. [C3.]

BRANDED FILM A documentary about truck drivers is being underwritten by a
division of the Navistar International Corporation to help promote a new truck.
Advertising: Stuart Elliot. [C3.]

TRADE GAP DECLINES The United States trade deficit narrowed in June, helped by
strong exports of manufactured goods and by Americans spending less. [C4.]

EARNINGS TUMBLE ThomsonReuters said second-quarter profit fell 54 percent on
costs related to the $15.9 billion combination of two of the biggest financial
news and data providers. [C4.]

A MORTGAGE BRIGHT SPOT Financing for multifamily housing is starting to pay off
for the beleaguered mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. [C5.]

SEEKING ALTERNATIVES When the real estate market comes to a halt, many
developers wait out the downturn while trying to add value to their property by
getting it rezoned. [C6.]

PROFIT AT RETAILER TJX, the owner of the T.J. Maxx and Marshalls retail chains,
said its profit more than tripled in the second quarter as cash-strapped
consumers sought bargains. [C6.]

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               39 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 17, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tiny Talents

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA HEFFERNAN

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE MEDIUM; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1468 words


On the Web's amazing how-to sites, I am studying bar tricks. I should be
learning, once and for all, how to do CPR, but all I really want to know is how
to mix a Singapore Sling, palm a card and tongue-knot the stem of a maraschino
cherry.

The best thing about how-to sites like Howcast, eHow, WonderHowTo,
Instructables, SuTree, VideoJug and ExpertVillage -- huge collections of videos
that offer instruction in Chinese dining etiquette and surviving zombie attacks,
plating fettuccine Alfredo and linking spins in freestyle kayaking -- is that
they revive a lost era of two-bit skills, when Cross pens whirled around thumbs,
Zippos burst in and out of flames and someone was forever trying to show you
how.

My favorite online card-trick virtuosos, especially, recall a certain kind of
20th-century drifter who gave impromptu courses in prestidigitation on trains
and park benches. His many inside pockets were stuffed with the holy relics of
the pre-Google life: a money clip, a pocket comb, a deck of Bicycle cards and
all that smokers' jazz. ''Prestidigitation''? Come on! Even the word is a
nostalgia trip and a way today to wrest ''digit'' away from ''digital.''

Anyway, how-to sites are trippy. Those sorcerers of small things
(''pickpockets,'' you say? con artists?) have their own video shows -- and even
reputable demonstrations contain a hint of mischief. On one site, an actress
named Roxanne Beckford, who once played nonpregnant characters while pregnant,
hosts a video called ''Hiding Pregnancy With Clothes.'' She tries to say it's
not for teenagers who haven't told their parents, but who knows who will
benefit? These sorts of videos provide hacks and shortcuts for everyone and
collectively make life look easy.

As the Web's underpaid teaching corps, how-to instructors are far from being the
old television pedants, the omnipresent psychologists of the 1990s who resolved
daytime-TV showdowns by having people face the jokers who wronged them. Instead,
they tactfully don't ask why you want to learn something -- why declare
bankruptcy? why conceal an office affair? -- and skip straight to how. Free,
usually. Thus, an army of hustlers has become professorial. In dusky colors and
tattoos (or, alternately, pink shirts and overlong ties; most are men), they
maintain a level gaze and project utter self-assurance. ''When you think about
it,'' says a woman's voice on the British site VideoJug, ''putting your lips
onto another person's lips and moving them about is an odd thing to do.'' No
matter. Here's how.

As is currently common practice in the world of online video, producers of
how-tos typically make or collect a set of videos and mount them on a
specialized site. The demos I like these days originate at Kapoof and Easy Bar
Tricks. These sites present a limited number of videos for which producers have
paid almost nothing (to actors, shooters, editors and graphics people). Often --
as appears to be the case with Simon Crack at Free Magic Tricks 4 U -- the
entrepreneur who had the idea for the site turns out to be the boss, talent and
sole employee. This makes sense: it's hard to get your friends to kick in labor
for an online-video project. There's still no promise of revenue, and no one yet
knows what will be a hit on the Web. (''This site really is a labor of love,''
writes Crack on his.)

You'd think the shoestring budget would mean bad videos, but usually the reverse
is true: host sites that are overseen directly by people with pet subjects and
personal styles offer video that far outshines the average scrappy upload to
YouTube. A recent video on Easy Bar Tricks, for example, shows nothing but a
pair of hands, a coin and a bill. With understated amusement, the narrator --
who owns the hands, presumably -- talks the viewer through a bet he can't lose:
he, unlike those he might hustle, can balance a coin on the edge of a bill
folded the long way. As the narrator shows first how hard this is to do, and
then how easy (if you know the trick and ''the laws of physics''), the hands in
the frame are both expressive and supersteady. The physical world seems very
manageable, especially if you know where its jokes hide. The trick demo becomes
a little William Carlos Williams vignette. In fact, the very best way to see
virtually any video is almost always on its home site. Producers play video to
best advantage there, situate it amid other material of interest and often
attract informative and focused discussion sections.

But these home sites -- with interchangeable names like Magic Tricks, The Magic
Teacher and Cyber Magic Tricks -- are not always easy to find. Producers don't
exactly rack up hits as they wait for people to stumble on goofy Web addresses
that have no priority on Google. And would-be patrons of small sites don't know
what they're looking for when browsing the Web for something to do. That's why
the big video sites (YouTube, above all) function best when they increase a
user's chances of glimpsing new stuff. You think you're looking for aerial shots
of Ireland on YouTube, but the site has other ideas: how about Michael Londra
singing ''Danny Boy,'' Roy Zimmerman doing the Beatles as Irishmen, Kathy
Ireland posing for Sports Illustrated in 1992?

For the person in the mood to learn, the big how-to clearinghouse sites borrow
tactics from YouTube and keep users zinging around through various disciplines.
The good news is that there are so many how-to videos that the concept is
capacious. Visit eHow, and you're awakened to how much you have to learn. It's
exciting. Want to relieve a foot cramp, become pregnant, charm someone? Don't
get bogged down in worries. Just watch the videos.

The major demo sites also try to give credit to production teams -- or I should
say that production teams try to ensure that they get credit, since their deals
with these big sites are typically modest. (About the best they can hope for
from the clearinghouses is exposure for their videos and maybe a thousand
dollars in royalties if something really takes off.) As a result, producers try
to work their names into the video frame by any means possible -- using overlay
ads, ads affixed to the end of the video or T-shirts on the talent that make the
Web addresses clear to viewers.

Last month, a hacker-friendly venture-capital firm called Y Combinator published
a list of ''Startup Ideas We'd Like to Fund.'' No. 13 was ''online learning,''
which -- the firm proposed -- could build on popular online test-prep courses.
If entrepreneurs are looking for faculty, they might also consult the how-to
sites, where magicians might be retrained for science demos and actresses could
drill students in memorizable poetry.

The guides and gurus look as if they were born to this kind of short film. But
the tricksters are the best. They can't have enjoyed especially steady or
high-paying employment in the years before Web video got off the ground. So
they're ready for their close-ups. And centuries' worth of tricks involving
coins and corks finally have a modern showcase. I'll absolutely be spending the
rest of Web summer school with Wayne Phelps, Malik Haddadi and Brandon Nowasky,
a motley crew of magic men prone to epigrams like ''This card trick's called
Pinky Does It because . . . the pinky does it.'' Come September, prepare to be
amazed.

Post a Comment at The Medium <check>

Points of Entry

THIS WEEK'S RECOMMENDATIONS

DEMO DERBY: Currently, the clearest use for original online video is
demonstration. Better even than advertising. Much better than entertainment.
To admire the range of undertakings onwhich people will claim expertise --
oh, and to learn something -- see the big demo sites first, which include
Expert Village, Instructables,    SuTree, eHow,    WonderHowTo and Howcast.
Their holdings are growing every day. You might even upload your own video.

DECLUTTERING: Slightly more specific how-to sites, devoted to how to,    say,
get rid of things (from I.B.S. to ghosts), can be useful, and often have    a
more coherent tone than the wacky single-subject sites, as well as a considered
advertising layout that doesn't drive you bananas, as the ones studded    with
sponsored links tend to. Get Rid    of Things -- ''a people's guide to better
living''    -- is well worth a look, as are the sister sites How    to Clean
Things and How to Write Good.

THE NITTY-GRITTY: Web sites like law.justanswer.com    (for legal advice) and
Black Hair    Planet leave nothing to chance. You know you want to know about
makeup and    hair -- and virtually nothing else? DailyMakeover.com    is your
site. Breaking and entering? Free-lock-picking-guide.com.    How to subdue your
enemies? GracieAcademy.com    -- for the basics of Ultimate Fighting ''ground
and pound''    tricks. Yikes.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Kevin Van Aelst)
 Drawing (Drawing by Christoph Niemann)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               40 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 24, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Conference On the Risks To Earth, Few Are Optimistic

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 669 words

DATELINE: ERICE, Sicily


This ancient hilltop town, rife with Roman, Greek, Norman and other influences,
is hosting a very modern gathering: a conference on global risks like
cyberterrorism, climate change, nuclear weapons and the world's lagging energy
supply.

More than 120 scientists, engineers, analysts and economists from 30 countries
were hunkered down here for the 40th annual conference on ''planetary
emergencies.'' The term was coined by Dr. Antonino Zichichi, a native son and a
theoretical physicist who has made Erice a hub for experts to discuss
persistent, and potentially catastrophic, global challenges.

The participants were not particularly optimistic. They presented data showing
that the boom in biofuels was depleting Southeast Asian rain forests, that ''bot
herders'' -- computer hackers for hire -- were hijacking millions of computers,
and that the lack of progress over handling nuclear waste was both hampering the
revival of nuclear energy and adding to terrorism risks.

The meetings, which end Sunday, were sponsored by the Erice-based Ettore
Majorana Foundation and Center for Scientific Culture and by the World
Federation of Scientists in Geneva. Both organizations are led by Dr. Zichichi
with what the physicist Dr. Richard L. Garwin, a longtime Erice conference
participant and expert on nuclear weapons, affectionately called ''imperious''
zeal.

Dr. Zichichi, 78, controls every aspect of the sessions, including the seating
in the seminars and the wine selections at the nightly dinners.

His goal is to foster what he calls ''a science without secrets and without
borders,'' mixing disciplines and cultures, and to laud veterans and emerging
talents in hopes of propelling breakthroughs.

He said past successes included focusing attention on the need to reduce nuclear
stockpiles and developing the first detailed analysis of flood risks along the
Yellow River in China.

The threat of cyberattacks was also a focus of this year's meeting. In a session
on information security, Hamadoun I. Toure, the secretary general of the
International Telecommunication Union, warned that pervasive computer use, while
offering the prospect of a global ''knowledge society,'' also made billions of
individuals into potential superpowers.

''Every single brain on earth is equal and can trigger an attack,'' he said.

Jody R. Westby, the chief executive of Global Cyber Risk, a Washington-based
consulting company, warned that governments were not doing enough to anticipate
attacks. She said that the United States, while investing heavily in classified
work on communications networks, had only one small program doing advanced
research on the vulnerabilities in the private networks that handle the brunt of
government communications and information management.

In a workshop on the northward spread of mosquito-borne ailments, participants
discussed the growing gap between wealthier and poorer nations in dealing with
health risks.

After presentations on recent outbreaks of the tropical chikungunya virus in
Italy, Baldwyn Torto of the International Center of Insect Physiology and
Ecology in Nairobi, Kenya, suggested that too much of the discussion was focused
on girding Europe against further outbreaks. A better approach, he said, would
be to attack such diseases in the tropical spots where they originate.

At a final gathering on Saturday, Bill Fulkerson of the University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, said that meetings in the next several years would likely concentrate
on the technological and scientific needs of developing countries that are
trying to expand their economies without diminishing resources.

The daunting nature of the problems did not seem to blunt the experts'
determination to look for answers.

''What option do I have?'' said Richard Wilson, 82, a Harvard physicist and an
expert on nuclear power and environmental risk. ''I could go down to Hilton Head
and take a little club and knock a ball around the course, but I don't find that
a very attractive thought.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dr. Antonino Zichichi, a physicist, ran a conference in Sicily to
discuss global risks like cyberterrorism and climate change. ANDREW C.
REVKIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               41 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 29, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Internet-Age Detective on the Trail of Gymnasts

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT; Juliet Macur contributed reporting from Shanghai and
Xuemei Tang contributed research from Beijing.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1355 words


Mike Walker does not care much about gymnastics, and he did not pay much
attention to the Olympics.

But when he heard stories about electronic records reportedly bearing the
disputed ages of Chinese gymnasts vanishing from the Internet, he saw an
opportunity to test his computer hacking skills.

''I didn't get excited until I read about documents being available and then
blocked,'' said Walker, a 32-year-old computer security specialist who lives
near Washington. ''That set all kinds of alarm bells in my head in terms of
going and finding records. It is something I like doing.''

After about three days of on-and-off cyber-sleuthing last week, Walker found
copies of a spreadsheet that had previously been posted on a Chinese government
Web site. It listed the age of the Chinese gold-medal gymnast He Kexin as 14,
not 16, as it says on her passport.

Walker promptly started a blog, and his first post was titled ''Hack the
Olympics!'' It included copies of his find and details of how he uncovered the
information. The attention his post garnered -- it received a total of 1,500
comments on his blog and on the technology news site Slashdot -- helped revive
the debate over whether He, who won an individual gold medal on the uneven bars,
and other Chinese gymnasts were old enough to participate in the Olympics. Since
1997, rules have required that a gymnast turn 16 in the year of the Olympics to
compete in those Games.

Chinese officials have insisted that all the country's gymnasts were the
appropriate age. On Sunday, they blamed a paperwork error for the conflicting
records of He's age. The International Olympic Committee has asked the
international gymnastics federation to investigate.

Giselle Davies, a spokeswoman for the I.O.C., said in a phone interview Thursday
that the federation had not yet completed its inquiry. She would not go into
details about the documents involved in the analysis.

Federation officials said last week that they had asked the Chinese Gymnastics
Federation for passports, birth papers, national identity cards and family
residence permits for five of the six members of the Chinese women's team. Four
Olympic medals, including the team gold in women's gymnastics, are at stake.

''I don't think there's any update just yet because they got documents that were
in Chinese and they were seeking to verify them,'' Davies said of the
international federation's investigation of the Chinese women's team. ''We don't
have a specific time limit or timeline set for it.''

Phone calls to the federation's headquarters in Switzerland went unanswered
Thursday.

Walker said he believed that the documents he found belied the latest claims of
Chinese government officials. And for the last 10 days, he said he had been
playing a sort of cat-and-mouse game with people he believes are trying to erase
digital tracks that may point to further evidence that some Chinese gymnasts
were under age.

On Sunday, Walker posted a link to another file that suggested that the Chinese
gymnast Jiang Yuyuan was also under age. Suspecting that the file would
disappear, he titled the post ''Ready, Set, Censor!'' and challenged readers to
be ''faster than the delete button.'' By Wednesday, the file had disappeared,
but not before Walker and others made copies on sites that included the Internet
Archive, a San Francisco-based nonprofit, which takes periodic snapshots of the
Internet and stores them.

Walker is not the only blogger to have found documents raising questions about
the ages of China's Olympic gymnasts. Others in the United States and China have
uncovered news articles and government documents suggesting that He, Yuyuan and
another gymnast, Yang Yilin, did not meet the minimum age requirements. The New
York Times first found and reported on July 27 about the existence of online
documents suggesting that He and Yuyuan were under age.

But Walker's painstaking documentation of his cyber-sleuthing efforts have
thrust him into the spotlight, especially in the United States. He has appeared
on Fox News and been interviewed by other television networks and major American
and foreign newspapers. Other hackers, some in China, have continued to send him
tips on where to dig for further evidence that the gymnasts may be under age.

Somewhat sheepishly, Walker, whose blogging name, Stryde Hax, is a playful
reference to his last name and his hacker chops, said he did not mean to steal
the spotlight from others. ''It was not my intention to rebreak a story,'' he
said.

The efforts of people like Walker are the latest sign that a new generation of
individuals see ''information gathering as a participatory contact sport,'' said
Jonathan Zittrain, a law professor at the Harvard Law School and a co-founder of
its Berkman Center for Internet and Society. ''I think that is a positive
sign.''

Despite the work of the Internet Archive, the lack of a complete and
authoritative Web archive makes it possible for digital information to disappear
forever, Zittrain said. At the same time, he added, the debate about the age of
the gymnasts shows that it is increasingly difficult to erase files, especially
those that begin in relative obscurity and quickly end up in the public eye,
like the various spreadsheets containing the registration of Chinese athletes
with sports agencies.

Walker and others owe their discoveries in large part to Internet search engines
like Google and Baidu. Search engines visit, or crawl, sites across the Internet
periodically to build an index that users can search. Most search engines also
keep a copy, or cache, of the pages they index. Because some Web sites are
crawled infrequently, say every few weeks, a file may remain in cached form long
after it has been removed from the Web site where it originally appeared.

That is what happened with the documents that Walker and others found. But it
took some digging. After much trial and error, Walker conducted a search on
Google for spreadsheets on Chinese Web sites that contained He's name and the
year 1994. Walker got one result, a registry of athletes from the General
Administration of Sport of China. When he clicked on the link, the file was no
longer on the site. Walker was able to view the cached version, but He's name
was not listed.

That raised suspicions for Walker and other bloggers that Google could have
modified the cached file, perhaps at the request of Chinese authorities. Google
denied it. The company said that it caches only the first few hundred kilobytes
of a spreadsheet. The file in question was large, and He's name did not appear
in the portion that Google had cached. (Walker said he was satisfied with that
explanation.)

Walker had better luck with Baidu, a Chinese search engine, whose cached copy of
the athletes registry included the entire spreadsheet. It listed He's birthday
as Jan. 1, 1994, which would make her 14. The cached page has since vanished
from Baidu, probably because Baidu has crawled the site again and updated its
cache accordingly.

By Walker's account, bloggers have uncovered at least four other official
documents that show He's age as 14.

Not everyone believes the evidence. Comments on Walker's blog point to other
information suggesting the Chinese Olympic gymnasts are all 16 or older. And
many in China are contemptuous of the claims that the gymnasts could be under
age.

Zittrain said it may be difficult to resolve the matter definitively. For
documents that were born in digital form, like those hackers and bloggers found
online, ''it may be harder to know what is authoritative especially if it has
changed,'' he said.

For Walker, the experience has shed new light into the challenge of concealing
information in the digital age.

''If you look at an adversarial relationship between people trying to control
the distribution of information and people trying to seek the information, both
sides have new tools,'' he said. One side ''can modify and remove information,
leaving almost no trace. But the people who are seeking the information have
global reach, anonymity and infinite distribution.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: He Kexin won gold on the uneven bars. But some documents
suggested she might not have been 16, as her passport showed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
CHANG LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
   Mike Walker,whose blogging name is Stryde Hax, found copies of a previously
posted spreadsheet that listed He's age as 14.  (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL TEMCHINE
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               42 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 30, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Multiple Visions of Soul Music's Past and Future

BYLINE: By NATE CHENIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW RAPHAEL
SAADIQ AND JANELLE MONaE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 573 words


An R&B fanatic with a glitch-prone time machine would have felt right at home in
the Highline Ballroom on Wednesday night. For the rest of the crowd it was a
game of capricious adjustment as Raphael Saadiq, a retro-soul specialist, and
Janelle Monae, a cyber-soul fabulist, offered multiple visions of the music's
past and future. Both artists were openly obsessive in their pursuits, and both
managed to bring the room with them.

Mr. Saadiq has a history of nostalgic revisionism, as a member of Tony! Toni!
Tone! from the late 1980s through the mid-'90s,  and more recently as a
songwriter and producer. His fetching solo debut, in 2002, bore the title
''Instant Vintage,'' which sums up his golden ideal. But his new album -- ''The
Way I See It,'' due out on Columbia next month -- pushes the retro angle more
insistently. And Mr. Saadiq brought the same qualities to his show, an
ostentatious throwback carried by hard-working charisma.

He took the stage to a vamp from ''100 Yard Dash,'' one of the new album's best
tracks. His band, nine pieces counting the horns, conjured a classic Motown
vibe; his attire, a cream-colored suit with a skinny black tie, served the same
purpose. And on the next tune, a shuffle called ''Love That Girl,'' Mr. Saadiq
and his backup singers engaged in a routine of snaps and half-spins, echoing the
Temptations in swerve as well as style.

Mr. Saadiq is unabashed about such pilfery, in the way that peacocks are
unabashed about plumage. He offered a few other songs with a Temptations sound
-- ''Just One Kiss'' had the backup singer Erika Jerry ably filling in for Joss
Stone, who sings it on the new album -- and just as earnestly evoked Stevie
Wonder and the Jackson Five. When he left to change into a black suit, the band
played the woozy riff from ''I Want You (She's So Heavy),'' a late-period
Beatles tune.

As a diligent entertainer, Mr. Saadiq dipped into more recent history, with a
brisk medley of Tony! Toni! Tone! hits. (He seemed to treat this as an
obligation.) Playing a few songs from ''Instant Vintage,'' he was looser:
''Charlie Ray'' took on a Funkadelic bounce, and ''Be Here'' sprawled into a
psychedelic jam.

What was missing there, and throughout the show, was Mr. Saadiq's wickedly sharp
electric bass playing. When he picked up the instrument for an encore, ''Skyy,
Can You Feel Me,'' it was a reminder of strengths that had gone buried all
night.

By contrast, Ms. Monae left no stone unturned in the opening set, which drew
from her willfully eccentric new debut album, ''Metropolis: The Chase Suite''
(Bad Boy/Atlantic). A song cycle ostensibly set in the year 2719, the album
casts its heroine as Cindi Mayweather, an android wanted by the authorities for
crimes of human feeling.

Ms. Monae was true to that outlandish theme in performance, right down to the
jerk-jointed dance moves. ''Are you bold enough to reach for love?'' she wailed
in her second hyperkinetic song of the set, ''Many Moons.''  Elsewhere -- on a
D.J.-enhanced fanfare called ''Sincerely, Jane'' -- she deftly connected future
terrors to present-day ills.

Her energy dipped only once, on a solid but uninspired version of Charlie
Chaplin's ''Smile,'' sung with sparse accompaniment from her guitarist,
Kellindo. But that was hardly a momentum killer: the mini-set ended a couple of
tunes later with Ms. Monae surfing the crowd, calling up emotions with no time
stamp besides the present.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The retro-soul specialist Raphael Saadiq performing on Wednesday
at the Highline Ballroom.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               43 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 7, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths STEUBER, CHARLES P. (CHUCK)

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 621 words


STEUBER--Charles P. (Chuck). Shipping Pioneer and Founder of the National
Croquet Center, Dies...Charles P. (Chuck) Steuber died at home, surrounded by
his family, the morning of Wednesday, August 27, 2008. He was 87. Born December
26, 1920 in Milwaukee, WI, he was the son of Charles H. Steuber and Alma Paul
Steuber. He was educated at Hartford and Riverside schools in Milwaukee and
majored in chemical engineering at the University of Wisconsin where he was also
a member of the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity. Chuck started his career with Union
Carbide and by 1947 was marketing director for Union Carbide's European sales
and instrumental in establishing their European headquarters in Geneva,
Switzerland. In 1949 Chuck married Margaret (Peggy) Morris, also from Milwaukee,
and the newlywed couple lived in Geneva until Chuck finished his career with
Carbide and returned to New York to start his own company, while Peggy raised
their eventual family of three children.

In 1951 Chuck founded a company that became a pioneering merchant firm in the
transportation, storage and distribution of petrochemicals. At that time, all
chemicals were transported around the world in 55 gallon drums. In the 1950s a
few companies experimented with modifying existing plain steel petroleum tankers
to transport some chemicals in bulk. Then, in 1961, Chuck built the world's
first tanker with individual pumps and lines to an array of specialized tanks
designed to maintain the high quality specifications of most products in the
petrochemical industry. The ship was christened the S/S Alchemist and was the
progenitor of all the ships that service the global industry of today. Chuck was
also a pioneer in the bulk storage of petrochemicals. He built several
facilities around the world, the largest of which was Eurotank in Antwerp,
Belgium and became the largest such facility in Continental Europe. The Steuber
Group of companies were also involved in the marketing and distribution of
chemicals with firms located throughout Europe, the United States, Asia and
Australia. After living in Pelham, NY for 27 years, Chuck and Peggy moved to
Boca Raton, FL in 1983, but kept a summer home in Rye, NY. By then Chuck had
retired, but his venture capitalist and visionary spirit kept him busy with
several projects. He funded what has become a very successful internet
fulfillment company, Dotcom Distribution, which, in a way, aspires to the
pioneering storage and shipping success in the cyber world that Chuck achieved
in the chemical industry. He also became very involved in his chosen sport of
competitive croquet. At that time any substantial tournament play involved
organizing a patchwork of courts at local estates or area Country Clubs and
resorts. The croquet world dreamed of having their own dedicated center for the
greater enjoyment and promotion of the sport. In 2000-2001 Chuck purchased land,
funded and built what became the Charles P. Steuber National Croquet Center. It
is comprised of 12 laserleveled courts, a 18,000 square foot club house on 10
acres of land in West Palm Beach and is today the jewel of the croquet community
at large. Chuck was also a member of the U.S. Croquet Association Hall of Fame.
Chuck is survived by his sisters Marion of Paw Paw, MI and Ruth of Milwaukee,
WI; sons Charlie of Lighthouse Point, FL and Victor of Eugene, OR; daughter
Midge of Jerome, AZ and two grandchildren; Lucas of Portland, OR and Robyn of
Eugene, OR. He was predeceased by his wife of 57 years, Peggy. A private
ceremony will be held at the Forest Home Cemetery in Milwaukee, WI. In lieu of
flowers, the family requests those so inclined make a donation in Chuck's name
to the charity of their choice appreciated.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               44 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 10, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Living to Bomb Another Day

BYLINE: By Ronen Bergman.

Ronen Bergman, a correspondent for Yedioth Ahronoth, an Israeli daily, is the
author of ''The Secret War With Iran.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1372 words

DATELINE: Tel Aviv


''AMONG all the bombs, explosives and guns, the number of martyred dead is
rising. Though this is the will of Allah, it is nevertheless possible to cause
the enemy greater damage without exposing the Muslims to danger. How is it to be
done?''

This question, which appeared as a post in May on the Web site Al7orya, one of
the most important of Al Qaeda's closed Internet forums, is only one example of
the evidence that has been accumulated by American and Israeli intelligence in
recent months of a significant ideological change under way within Osama bin
Laden's organization. Seven years after 9/11, it may well be that we are
witnessing the beginning of the end of suicide terrorism and a shift toward
advanced technologies that will enable jihadist bombers to carry out attacks and
live to fight another day.

Although Islamic suicide terrorism dates back to the anti-Crusader ''assassins''
of the 11th century, its modern history begins with statements made by Sheik
Mohamed Hussein Fadlallah, the spiritual compass of Hezbollah, in an interview
published in 1983. ''We believe that the future has surprises in store,'' he
said. ''The jihad is bitter and harsh, it will spring from inside, through
effort, patience and sacrifice, and the spirit of readiness for martyrdom.''

A short time later, Sheik Fadlallah's bodyguard, Imad Mughniyah, organized a
series of murderous suicide attacks -- first against Israeli military targets,
than against the American Embassy in Beirut and finally, of course, against the
barracks of the American-led multinational force in Lebanon, causing nearly 300
deaths. From there, it was a short march to 9/11.

Despite countless attempts by Western intelligence agencies, and the many
projects by psychologists trying to draw the profile of the average suicide
terrorist, we have failed miserably in finding a solution to the ''poor man's
smart bomb.'' Now, however, attrition may achieve what the experts have not:
after years of battle in two main arenas -- Iraq and Afghanistan -- Al Qaeda's
suicide-recruitment mechanisms are beginning to wear out.

While the terrorist group has been careful not to mention it in its official
statements, it is no longer uncommon to find jihadists in their chat rooms and,
according to Western intelligence sources, in interrogations,  stating that
young men are reluctant or simply too scared to take part in suicide attacks. At
the same time, military blows against Al Qaeda's training structure since 2001
have meant that the number of extremists with combat experience is decreasing,
and that new recruits are harder to train.

The startling cost in lives of its operatives in Iraq and Afghanistan has
motivated Al Qaeda's technical experts to start seeking technical solutions,
primarily on the Internet, that would render suicide unnecessary. These
solutions mostly revolve around remote controls -- vehicles, robots and model
airplanes loaded with explosives and directed toward their targets from a safe
distance.

This turn to technology, however, is not devoid of religious aspects: although
dying in battle is undisputedly holy, many scholars claim that any intentional
taking of one's own life is forbidden, thus outlawing suicide attacks
altogether. Even religious rulers who endorse suicide attacks consider them to
be a last resort, to be used only when all other means are exhausted.

''Martyrdom operations are legitimate, and they are among the greatest acts of
combat for Allah's cause,'' said Bashir bin Fahd al-Bashir, a Saudi preacher and
one of Al Qaeda's most popular religious authorities, in a recent sermon. ''But
they should not be allowed excessively. They should be allowed strictly on two
conditions: 1. The commander is convinced they can definitely inflict serious
losses on the enemy. 2. This cannot be achieved otherwise.''

The meaning of such dictates is clear: carrying out suicide attacks when there
are alternatives that would allow the bomber to survive should be considered
''intihar,'' the ultimate sin of taking one's own life without religious
justification.

Avoiding suicide has become the major topic on Al Qaeda's two main Web platforms
for discussing the technological aspects of jihad, the forums Ekhlaas and
Firdaws. ''Those overpowering Satan's seduction are few, and we sacrifice those
few since they may win us Paradise,'' read a posting on both sites this summer
on the subject of ''vehicle-borne improvised explosive devices.'' It continued:
''Yet, keeping them alive is beneficial for us, since every one of them is
tantamount to an entire people. So we must find a way to save those lives and
harness that zeal.''

The post led to a vast and heated online discussion among extremists,
illustrating the new complexity of the topic. As the jihadists on these sites
move from discussing ideology to the practical aspects, it becomes clear that
their biggest technological challenge will be moving on from the radio-wave
technology that has proved highly successful in remotely setting off homemade
bombs against military convoys in Iraq to the more delicate task of getting the
explosive to its target and then detonating it without being exposed.

Unfortunately, Al Qaeda seems well on its way to gaining such an ability.
Chatter on these sites has tended toward discussions of the various types of
remote-piloted aircraft able to carry the necessary weights, as well as specific
robot designs, including models that police forces use to dispose of explosive
devices. One extremist pointed out the ease with which such robots can be
acquired commercially.

Also, in a document posted last month at Maarek, the most sophisticated jihadist
forum for discussing explosives manufacturing, a prolific technical expert
calling himself Abu Abdullah al-Qurashi suggested training dogs to recognize
American troops' uniforms, then releasing other dogs carrying improvised
explosive devices toward American soldiers so the bombs can be detonated from a
safe distance. The author begins with the following words: ''I.E.D. operations,
but this time, with dogs. Yes, dogs! Brothers, some may find my words fantastic.
But, believe me, we should better let a dog die, than let a Lion of Islam die!''

To get a feeling for how Western militaries and security services plan to
counter this next wave of terrorism, I talked to Gadi Aviran, the founder of
Terrogence, a company made up of former members of Israel's intelligence
community and special military units that gathers information on global jihad as
a subcontractor for intelligence agencies in Israel, the United States and
Europe. ''All of these secretive discourses in the password-protected cyber
forums are of the same spirit,'' he told me. ''Mujahedeen's lives are fast
becoming too valuable to waste and although this seems like good news, the
alternatives may prove to be just as difficult to deal with.''

So, while an end of suicide terrorism might seem like a good thing for the
troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, the bad news is that the extremists seem to be
well on their way to mastering all sorts of new technology, much of which, such
as using dogs and remote detonators, is simple and cheap.

Most counterterrorism experts estimate that for military forces to devise and
deploy countermeasures to a new insurgent strategy usually takes two to five
years. Moreover, in the case of remote-control systems, improvements in
technology mean that the signal-blocking systems now being used by Western
militaries may no longer be effective.

Another hurdle Western forces may face is that a new emphasis on remote
execution would significantly change the profiles of the terrorists. The
uneducated, enthusiastic youths from weak economic backgrounds who have formed
the bulk of Al Qaeda's followers -- and whom our intelligence services have
spent a decade identifying and neutralizing -- will give way to a new type of
activists: electricians and robotics experts will join the qualified chemists
who make the explosives in order to carry out non-suicide attacks.

The good news is that suicide bombing seems to be on the wane. The bad news is
that Western forces will almost certainly face a new breed of highly educated
Qaeda terrorist.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TAMARA SHOPSIN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               45 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 18, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Design Bloggers' Fall Picks

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1813 words


JENNIFER BOLES DWYER, 36, ATLANTA PEAKOFCHIC.COM Jennifer Boles Dwyer is an
admirer of Charlotte Moss, Sybil Connolly and Parish-Hadley, and a booster for
classic English decorating and its effluence: demilune tables, good lighting,
books by Bunny Williams, Brunschwig fabrics. Hers is a personal blog -- in other
words, no advertising -- with about 2,000 daily subscribers, she said, and 1,500
additional ''readers.'' (One of them, Stephen Drucker, the editor of House
Beautiful, hired her as a contributing editor.) Ms. Dwyer, who has been helping
run the family business (which makes printing presses), turned to the blog as an
outlet for her interest in design history. ''My goal,'' she said, ''is to
encourage people to look to the past while embracing the new and modern. You can
find a lot of inspiration in the past. It's how you present it that makes it
new.''

JOSH RUBIN, 34; EVAN ORENSTEN, 42; AMI KEALOHA, 30; TIM YU, 27 (FROM LEFT); NEW
YORK COOLHUNTING.COM Despite the geekiness of its 90s name, Cool Hunting shows
off some pretty cool stuff, like a body-temperature-regulating jacket from Helly
Hansen; the faux-nai ve paintings of Michael Swaney, a Barcelona-based Canadian;
and a ''saddle stool'' made from an actual saddle by Fernando Akasaka, a
Brazilian furniture designer. Josh Rubin, who has silver replating let us
restore and beautify your silver bbeen a Web and CD-ROM designer, started the
site as a de- sign-source archive for his own use (he used blogging soft- ware,
he said, because it was well-suited to making an archive). Five years later,
Cool Hunting has been redesigned for advertising and, as of Wednesday, has
amassed 5,152 entries. Its general theme, said Mr. Rubin, who lives in Chelsea
with Mr. Orensten, two dogs and some Jean Prouve chairs, ''is the
obsessive-compulsive process.'' Last month, he added, it had more than 330,000
unique visitors.

HOLLISTER HOVEY, 29, BROOKLYN HOLLISTERHOVEY.BLOGSPOT.COM Hollister Hovey's
year-old blog is a labor of love, written at night after her day job in a
healthcare pub- lic relations firm. Her aesthetic is an eccentric ver- sion of
decaying WASP-y, Teddy Roosevelt by way of John Derian. (Ms. Hovey's apartment,
she said, ''may be the least PETA- friendly home in Brook- lyn,'' because she
has embellished it with a herd of vintage animal heads -- a sheep, a springbok,
an an- telope and more -- and a zebra skin rug.) The blog's mandate, she said,
''is to help the classics have a place in this cyber-world filled with
ubiquitous modern design.'' Diaristic and appealingly personal, recent posts
include photos of old stock certificates, thoughts on the Ralph Lauren fashion
show, and a ''yard sale'' at Chatsworth. The blog receives about 500 visitors a
day, Ms. Hovey said, with 84 subscribed to her newsfeed, a number that includes
her father. ''He seems to think I'm e-mailing these all to him directly,'' said
Ms. Hovey, ''like little missives about my life. He responds accordingly,
'Thanks for the update. Love, Dad.'''

STEPHANIE MURG, 28, NEW YORK CITY STEVE DELAHOYDE, 29, CHICAGO
MEDIABISTRO.COM/UNBEIGE According to its founding editor, Jen Bekman, UnBeige
was named in honor of the late graph- ic designer Tibor Kalman, who dismissed
off- white and beige as the color choices of those afraid to offend. ''By
definition,'' Kalman once said, ''when you make something no one hates, no one
loves it.'' Part of the Mediabistro group of blogs, the three-year-old UnBeige
is on its fourth and fifth editors, Steve Delahoyde and Stephanie Murg. They
were hired, Ms. Murg said, because of their interest in what she described as
''imperfections, quirkiness, insanity, unpredictability.'' The blog is an arch,
pop culture-oriented Web magazine, a Gawker for those who are as com- fortable
discussing Charles Gwathmey's addition to the Art and Architecture Building at
Yale as they are deconstructing Metallica album covers.

MAXWELL GILLINGHAM-RYAN, 42, NEW YORK CITY APARTMENTTHERAPY.COM Soothing,
prescriptive and communal, four-year-old Apartment Therapy reflects the
personality of the man who co-founded and runs it, Maxwell Gilling- ham-Ryan, a
Waldorf school teacher turned design therapist, author and Internet
entrepreneur. It is focused on urban life and is quietly evangelical on topics
like slow food, tiny offices, and green homes. It is also huge -- the Apartment
Therapy banner waves over four other blogs, like the ecologically minded Re-Nest
-- and claims more than 2 million unique visitors monthly. ''We believe the home
is the most important space any of us have,'' said Mr. Gillingham-Ryan, who
moves among a barn, a yurt and a small Manhattan apartment with his wife, Sara,
a food writer, and their daughter, Ursula, age 2. ''We support regular folks who
want to make it beautiful, organized and healthy, day in, day out.''

HARRY WAKEFIELD, 47, MONTREAL MOCOLOCO.COM More like a traditional magazine than
a blog, MoCo Loco (MoCo is short for modern and con- temporary) is slick and
adult, and focused squarely on modern architecture design and art, a Dwellish
site of pre-fab housing and high- design objects from around the world. Now five
years old, it has 28,000 subscribers to its daily news feed, said Harry
Wakefield, its editor and creator, and gets up to a million pages views a month.
''In 2003 I couldn't find a design blog I wanted to read, so I started one,''
said Mr. Wakefield, who has worked in magazines and advertising. ''I live in a
tiny house with my wife and two small people I affectionately call 'the
destroyers,''' he said, ''which is why most of my favorite MoCo objects are on
the blog, not at home.''

GRACE BONNEY, 27, WILLIAMSBURG, BROOKLYN DESIGNSPONGEONLINE.COM Design Sponge is
the indie girl band of the design blogosphere. Devoted to crafty, handmade
things like felted sculptures, letterpress stationery and hand-drawn wallpapers,
it has a girly sensibility with an edge, and a particular interest in the work
of independent designers working in its creator's neighborhood. Maintaining the
blog is the full- time job of Grace Bonney, who is also a contributing editor at
Domino and Craft magazines. There are con- tests, podcasts and design guides to
cities beyond New York, like Portland, Me., all sweetly laid out on an end- less
linen runner with a lacy border, giving the site the feeling of a Martha Stewart
Living for millennials -- 30,000 of them each day, Ms. Bonney said.

HAND-BLOWN GLASS EYES $500, Esque Studio (esque-studio .com; 503-289-6392). For
those who ''don't mind that eerie feeling of being watched.''

PAPPA WOODEN SKYPE PHONE $300, Hulger (hulger.com; 877-487-6274). ''Natural
materials used for cutting-edge technology.''

DANCING BELLY CHAIR $2,300, Establishment (establishmentnyc.com; 212- 242-6565).
''A curious object to look at. We're into this one because it's like nothing
we've ever seen before.''

SQUIRREL RING BOX $120, Jonathan Adler (jonathanadler.com; 877- 287-1910). ''Its
tail is a little deco and its face a little nut- ty. The fact that the acorn is
a secret box is genius.''

BETWIXT FABRIC $57 a yard, F. Schumacher & Company (fschumacher.com; 800-523-
1200). ''Classic and snappy.''

HADLEY LAMP $1,690, Christopher Spitzmiller (christopherspitzmiller .com;
212-563-1144). ''The shape of the lamp is fantastic, but on top of that
gilt-finished base with the pointy feet? Divine! It's a lamp with a lot of
pizzazz.''

PARCHMENT COFFEE TABLE $1,300, Currey & Company (curreycodealers .com;
877-768-6428 for information). ''The classic waterfall shape and rich parchment
finish make this work in contemporary and more traditional homes. And it costs a
lot less than an orig- inal Jean-Michel Frank.''

GARDEN PLAN TRAY $135, New York Botanical Garden Shop (nybgshop.org;
718-817-8911). ''A nice change from the usual, un- adorned lacquer tray.''

CAST IRON OTTOMAN $750, Coleen & Company (coleenandcompany.com; 310-839-2908).
''Can't all in- door furniture go outside?''

MARBLE SODA CANS $120 each, ASB Workshop (asbworkshop .com; 415-864- 3300).
''Pull the tab and the top comes off. True Pop Art.''

SQUARE SHADE STEEL LAMP $1,800, Darr (shopdarr.com 718- 797-9733). ''Looks like
Thomas Edison may have fiddled with it.''

ELOUISE TWIG VANITY MIRROR $1,800, Excalibur Bronze Sculpture Foundry
(excaliburfoundry.com; 718- 366-3444). ''Lets you feel like a lady, but
maintains the industrial quality.''

ATOCHA DESIGN RECORD CABINET $12,500, Jenni- fer Levin Atocha (atochadesign
.com; 212-647- 0225). ''Solves a storage problem and honors the desire to
collect.''

AURA PAINT IN WENGE about $57 a gallon, Benjamin Moore (benjaminmoore.com;
800-672-4686). ''It's dark but warm.''

BASKET BIKE $3,400, A.N.T. Bikes (antbikemike.com; 508-429-3350). High-tech with
''vintage aesthetics.''

STRIEE HANDPAINTED WALLPAPER $464 for a 3-by-9-foot panel, from de Gournay
(degournay .com; 212-564-9750). Like ''the canvases of Mark Rothko.''

PERSPECTIVE MIRROR $129, CB2 (cb2 .com; 800-606-6252). ''Shattering re-
flections into multiple views, for the lazy Cubist.''

ARRY ALLEN ROLLER STOP $190, Area- ware (areaware .com; 212-226- 5155). ''A
doorstop, bookend, comically large paperweight or nostalgic accent piece

IRE AND ICE COFFEE TABLE $9,900, EcoSmart Inc. (ecosmartfire.com; 310-
914-3335). ''The design world loves a good juxtaposition.''

CUCURUKU CUCKOO CLOCK $350, CGF Group Design Italia (momentoitalia.com; 212-366-
1777). ''The essence of the cuckoo.''

SARA CIHAT CHANDELIERS $12,000 and $6,000, The Future Per- fect
(thefutureperfect.com; 718-599-6278). ''Mixes traditional chandelier materials
and post-modern shapes.''

NEW MUSEUM LAMP $1,200, Sherwood Forlee (skforlee.com; 212-380-6951).
''Functional architecture for our night table.''

CANDLESTICK # 5 BY RON GILAD $429, Design- fenzider (designfenzider .com;
212-791- 2877). Focuses the eye on ''the mystery and beauty of the flame.''

NEW MUSEUM LAMP $1,200, Sherwood Forlee (skforlee.com; 212-380-6951).
''Functional architecture for our night table.''

INDUSTRIAL HAND DINNERWARE $1,000, Heather Mae Erick- son
(homepage.mac.com/heathermaerickson; 419-344- 8351). ''Looks like it's
manufactured, but it's handmade.''

HANDMADE WALLPAPER About $16 a yard, Alan the Gallant (alanthegallant.com;
011-34-934- 67-66-46). ''A welcome change from all of the damask.''

NEON CLUB CHAIR About $17,000, Lee Broom (leebroom.com; 011- 44-20-7820-0742).
''A fantastic albeit extravagant move toward contrasting classic lines with
something edgy and more industrial.''

EARTHENWARE DISH AND BOWLS $12 to $52, Up in the Air Somewhere
(upintheairsomewhere.com; 646-229- 9680). ''Feels beautiful and solid, not thin
and precious.''

NESTING STEPSTOOL $1,400, Paul Loebach (paulloebach .com; 646-489-2749). ''A
great way to play around with bright shades without taking a huge risk.''

DIAMOND MIRROR $3500 Piet Houtenbos (piethoutenbos.com; 646- 249-8900).
''Straddles the line between elegant and edgy.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (F4
F6
 F7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               46 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 20, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Group Describing Itself as Sunni Defaces the Web Site of Iraq's Foremost
Shiite Cleric

BYLINE: By SAM DAGHER; Nazila Fathi contributed reporting from Tehran, and John
Schwartz from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 705 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD


The official Web site of the Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, Iraq's most
influential and revered Shiite religious leader, was defaced and then blocked in
what appeared to be a sectarian-motivated cyber attack on Shiite-related sites.

A statement signed ''Group XP'' was posted on the home page of the Ayatollah's
Web site,  contending that the attack was on behalf of Sunni Muslims. The group
said it had carried out similar attacks on other Shiite sites in the Persian
Gulf and Iraq. It was not clear whether the attack began Thursday or early
Friday, but by late Friday Ayatollah Sistani's Web site was offline.

At least one other site related to one of Ayatollah Sistani's religious
organizations, www.al-shia.com, was affected. But an alternative address,
www.sistani.com, was still operational.

The Iranian news agency Fars reported that Group XP had blocked access to almost
300 Shiite-related sites on Thursday and Friday. Neither this claim nor an
Iranian assertion that Group XP was based in the United Arab Emirates could be
verified independently. Several Iranian news sites said late Friday that many of
the Shiite and Iran-related Web sites that had been attacked were running
normally again.

''Today we erase your site as we have done with other Rafidha sites,'' said the
statement posted on Ayatollah Sistani's site in the attack. Rafidha, which means
rejecters, is an insult often used by Sunni extremists to describe Shiites. The
statement also accused Ayatollah Sistani, who was born in Iran, of promoting
sexual deviance and an Iranian agenda in Iraq.

It added that any Web site with material that was contrary to hard-line Sunni
teachings would be ''punished.''

In defacing Ayatollah Sistani's site, the cyber attackers added to it a YouTube
video clip of the American comedian Bill Maher ridiculing a religious opinion,
known as a fatwa, by Ayatollah Sistani on whether certain positions of sexual
intercourse were permitted for married couples.

The ayatollah's office in the holy Shiite city of Najaf declined to comment on
the cyber attack. Hamed al-Khaffaf, one of the cleric's closest aides, who is
based in Beirut, also declined to comment.

Fars also reported that a counterattack of sorts had been carried out against
''two major Wahhabi Web sites,'' referring to the puritanical strain of Sunni
Islam that is dominant in Saudi Arabia.

Several experts said the defacement and blocking of the Shiite sites seemed
fairly standard, the kind often committed by rival computer gamers. They said
the attacks were smaller and less sophisticated than a cyber attack that
accompanied five days of fighting between Russian and Georgian troops last month
or a cyber attack that struck Estonian Web sites in 2007 after the authorities
moved a bronze statue of a Soviet-era soldier from a park in Tallinn.

''The Web site defacements, this is pretty standard stuff now for state-on-state
or any sort of politically motivated attacks,'' said Bill Woodcock, the research
director of the Packet Clearing House, a nonprofit organization that monitors
Internet traffic. He also said that tracing the origins of any online attack
could be difficult.

But in a region where the rift between Sunnis and Shiites has grown deeper since
the start of the Iraq war five years ago, even a cyber clash is likely to fuel
tensions and mistrust.

Ali al-Najafi, the son of Grand Ayatollah Bashir al-Najafi, another Shiite
cleric based in Najaf, condemned the attacks on the Shiite sites.

''We regret these actions by people who are trying to hide the truth and want
only their voices to be heard,'' Sheik Najafi, who is also a cleric, said in a
telephone interview.

Web sites of several Shiite clerics in Najaf, including Ayatollah Sistani's,
have been attacked before. Ayatollah Najafi's Web site was briefly blocked six
months ago, according to Sheik Najafi, his son.

Ayatollah Sistani, 78 and reclusive, held a rare meeting in August with a group
of Iraqi reporters at his home in Najaf to dispel rumors that he was seriously
ill.

During Saddam Hussein's rule, the ayatollah did not get involved in politics.
But after the United States' invasion in 2003, he has emerged as one of the
country's most powerful figures.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               47 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 13, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Korean Star's Suicide Reignites Debate on Web Regulation

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: SEOUL


Choi Jin-sil, a movie star, was the closest thing South Korea had to a national
sweetheart.

So when Ms. Choi, 39,  was found dead in her apartment on Oct. 2 in what the
police concluded was a suicide, her grief-stricken homeland sought an answer to
why the  actress had chosen to end her life.

The police, the media and members of Parliament immediately pointed fingers at
the Internet. Malicious online rumors led to Ms. Choi's suicide, the police
said, after studying memos found at her home and interviewing friends and
relatives.

Those online accusations claimed that Ms. Choi, who once won a government medal
for her savings habits, was a loan shark. They asserted that a fellow actor,
Ahn Jae-hwan, was driven to suicide because Ms. Choi  had relentlessly pressed
him to repay a $2 million debt.

Public outrage over Ms. Choi's suicide gave ammunition to the government of
President Lee Myung-bak, which has long sought to regulate cyberspace, a major
avenue for antigovernment protests in South Korea.

Earlier this year, the Lee government was reeling after weeks of protests
against beef imports from the United States. Vicious antigovernment postings and
online rumors on the dangers of lifting the ban on American beef  fueled the
political upheaval, which forced the entire cabinet to resign.

In a monthlong crackdown on online defamation, 900 agents from the government's
Cyber Terror Response Center are scouring blogs and online discussion boards to
identify and arrest those who ''habitually post slander and instigate cyber
bullying.''

Hong Joon-pyo, floor leader of the governing Grand National Party, commented,
''Internet space in our country has become the wall of a public toilet.''

In the National Assembly, Ms. Choi's suicide set the country's rival parties on
a collision course over how to regulate the Web. The governing party is
promoting a law to punish online insults; the opposition parties accuse the
government of trying to ''rule cyberspace with martial law.''

The opposition says that cyberspace violence is already dealt with under
existing laws against slander and public insults. But the government says that a
tougher, separate law is necessary to punish online abuse, which inflicts
quicker and wider damage on  victims.

To battle online harassment, the government's Communications Commission last
year ordered Web portals with more than 300,000 visitors a day to require its
users to submit their names and matching Social Security numbers before posting
comments.

The police reported 10,028 cases of online libel last year, up from 3,667
reported in 2004.

Harassment in cyberspace has been blamed for a string of highly publicized
suicides. Ms. Choi made headlines when she married a baseball player, Cho Sung
Min, in 2000. But tabloids and Web bloggers were relentless in criticizing her
when the marriage soured and she fought for custody of her two children.

TV producers and commercial sponsors dropped her. The general sentiment was that
her career was over.

But in 2005, she made a comeback with a hugely popular soap opera called ''My
Rosy Life.'' In it, she dropped her cute-girl image and played a jilted wife who
throws a kick at her errant husband, but reconciles with him when she learns she
has terminal cancer.

This year, she broke another taboo by successfully petitioning a court to change
the surname of her two children to her own.

But in an interview with MBC-TV in July, which was broadcast after her death,
she said she ''dreaded'' the Internet, where posters had insulted her for being
a single, divorced mother. The police said she had been taking antidepressants
since her divorce.

In South Korea, volunteer counselors troll the Internet to discourage people
from using the Web to trade tips on how to commit suicide and, in some cases,
how to form suicide pacts.

''We have seen a sudden rise in copycat suicides following a celebrity death,''
said Jeon Jun-hee, an official at the Seoul Metropolitan Mental Health Center,
which runs a suicide prevention hot line. Mr. Jeon said the hot line had
received 60 calls a day, or twice the usual number, since Ms. Choi's suicide.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Choi Jin-sil, an actress, was the subject of online attacks.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SEO KYUNG-RI/NEWSIS, VIA REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               48 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 21, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Beware the Digital Zombies

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

DATELINE: REDMOND, Wash.


In a windowless room on Microsoft's campus here, T. J. Campana, a cybercrime
investigator, connects an unprotected computer running an early version of
Windows XP to the Internet. In about 30 seconds the computer is ''owned.''

An automated program lurking  on the Internet has remotely taken over the PC and
turned it into a ''zombie.''  That computer and other zombie machines are then
assembled into systems called ''botnets'' -- home and business PCs that are
hooked together into a vast chain of cyber-robots that do the bidding of
automated programs to send the majority of e-mail spam, to illegally seek
financial information  and to install malicious software on still more PCs.

Botnets remain an Internet scourge. Active zombie networks created by a growing
criminal underground peaked last month at more than half a million computers,
according to shadowserver.org, an organization that tracks botnets. Even though
security experts have diminished the botnets to  about 300,000 computers, that
is still twice the number detected a year ago.

The actual numbers may be far larger; Microsoft investigators, who say they are
tracking about 1,000 botnets at any given time, say the largest network still
controls several million PCs.

''The mean time to infection is less than five minutes,'' said Richie Lai,  who
is part of Microsoft's Internet Safety Enforcement Team, a group of about 20
researchers and investigators. The team is tackling a menace that in the last
five years has grown from a computer hacker pastime to a dark  business that is
threatening the commercial viability of the Internet.

Any computer connected to the Internet can be vulnerable. Computer security
executives recommend that PC owners run a variety of commercial malware
detection programs, like Microsoft's Malicious Software Removal Tool, to find
infections of their computers. They should also protect the PCs behind a
firewall and install security patches for operating systems and applications.

Even these steps are not a sure thing. Last week Secunia, a computer security
firm, said it had tested a dozen leading PC security suites and found that the
best one detected only 64 out of 300 software vulnerabilities that make it
possible to install malware on a computer.

Botnet attacks now come with their own antivirus software, permitting the
programs to take over a computer and then effectively remove other malware
competitors. Mr. Campana said the Microsoft investigators were amazed recently
to find a botnet that turned on the Microsoft Windows Update feature after
taking over a computer, to defend its host from an invasion of competing
infections.

Botnets have evolved quickly to make detection more difficult. During the last
year botnets began using a technique called fast-flux, which involved generating
a rapidly changing set of Internet addresses to make the botnet more difficult
to locate and disrupt.

Companies have realized that the only way to combat the menace of botnets and
modern computer crime is to build a global alliance that crosses  corporate and
national boundaries. On Tuesday, Microsoft, the world's largest software
company, will convene a gathering of the International Botnet Taskforce in
Arlington, Va. At the conference, which is held twice a year, more than 175
members of government and law enforcement agencies, computer security companies
and academics will discuss the latest strategies, including legal efforts.

Although the Microsoft team has filed more than 300 civil lawsuits against
botnet operators, the company also relies on enforcement agencies like the
F.B.I. and Interpol-related organizations for criminal prosecution.

Last month the alliance received support from new federal legislation,  which
for the first time specifically criminalized the use of botnets. Many of the
bots are based in other countries, however, and Mr. Campana said there were many
nations with no similar laws.

''It's really a sort of cat-and-mouse situation with the underground,'' said
David Dittrich, a senior security engineer at the University of Washington
Applied Physics Laboratory and a member of the International Botnet Taskforce.
''Now there's profit motive, and the people doing stuff for profit are doing
unique and interesting things.''

Microsoft's botnet hunters, who have kept a low profile until now, are led by
Richard Boscovich, who until six months ago served as a federal prosecutor in
Miami. Mr. Boscovich, a federal prosecutor for 18 years, said he was optimistic
that despite the growing number of botnets, progress was being made against
computer crime. Recent successes have led to arrests.

''Every time we have a story that says bot-herders get locked up, that helps,''
said Mr. Boscovich, who in 2000 helped  convict Jonathan James,  a teenage
computer hacker who had gained access to Defense Department  and National Air
and Space Administration computers.

To aid in its investigations, the Microsoft team has built elaborate software
tools including traps called ''honeypots'' that are used to detect malware and a
system called the Botnet Monitoring and Analysis Tool. The software is installed
in several refrigerated server rooms on the Microsoft campus that are directly
connected to the open Internet, both to mask its location and to make it
possible to deploy software sensors around the globe.

The door to the room simply reads ''the lab.'' Inside are racks of hundreds of
processors and terabytes of disk drives needed to capture the digital evidence
that must be logged as carefully as evidence is maintained by crime scene
investigators.

Detecting and disrupting botnets is a particularly delicate challenge that
Microsoft will  talk about only in vague terms. Their challenge parallels the
traditional one of law enforcement's placing informers inside criminal gangs.

Just as gangs will often force a recruit to commit a crime as a test of loyalty,
in cyberspace, bot-herders will test recruits in an effort to weed out spies.
Microsoft investigators would not discuss their solution to this problem, but
said they avoided doing anything illegal with their software.

One possible approach would be to create sensors that would fool the bot-herders
by appearing to do malicious things, but in fact not perform the actions.

In 2003 and 2004 Microsoft was deeply shaken by a succession of malicious
software worm programs with names like ''Blaster'' and ''Sasser,'' that raced
through the Internet, sowing chaos within corporations and among home computer
users. Blaster was a personal affront to the software firm that has long prided
itself on its technology prowess. The program contained a hidden message mocking
Microsoft's co-founder: ''billy gates why do you make this possible? Stop making
money and fix your software!!''

The company maintains that its current software is less vulnerable, but even as
it fixed some problems, the threat to the world's computers has become far
greater. Mr. Campana said  that there had been ups and downs in the fight
against a new kind of criminal who could hide virtually anywhere in the world
and strike with devilish cleverness.

''I come in every morning, and I think we're making progress,'' he said. At the
same time, he said, botnets are not going to go away any time soon.

''There are a lot of very smart people doing very bad things,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A graphic representation of computers captured by a robotic
network to spread spam and snoop for financial information.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART
ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 T. J. Campana, seated, Richie Lai and Richard Boscovich lead Microsoft's war
against botnets, networks of captive computers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               49 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      October 23, 2008 Thursday 00:00 EST

Peer Cruelty and Parental Frustration;
Movie Review | 'Ben X'

BYLINE: JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

SECTION: MOVIES

LENGTH: 327 words



HIGHLIGHT: There's not a moment of warmth or ease in "Ben X," Nic Balthazar's
punishingly cacophonous debut.


There's not a moment of warmth or ease in "Ben X," Nic Balthazar's punishingly
cacophonous debut (adapted from his own novel) about an autistic Flemish
teenager and the bullies who torment him.

To Ben (the newcomer Greg Timmermans), school is a nightmare of peer cruelty and
home - in the form of an insistently solicitous mother (Marijke Pinoy) and an
absent, hangdog father (Pol Goossen) - a vortex of parental frustration. To
cope, he escapes into an online fantasy universe where his heroic avatar spends
hours immersed in a popular video game alongside a generously endowed virtual
honey known as Scarlite (Laura Verlinden).

Integrating live action with Ben's gaming exploits, "Ben X" crawls inside a
troubled mind with more stylistic commitment than narrative competence. Ticklish
issues of educational mainstreaming and cyber-bullying are ill served by an
atmosphere of emotional sterility and visual hysteria, and the film's outlandish
conclusion feels manufactured for the sensitivity module of teacher-training
courses.

Trapped behind a ceaseless, urgent monologue and wildly darting eyes, Ben is a
symphony of agonized alienation. Yet however representative of the chaos in his
head, the film's relentlessly paranoid aesthetics come off more as a formal
exercise in social dissonance than an empathetic study of human suffering.

BEN X

Opens on Friday in Manhattan.

Written and directed by Nic Balthazar; director of photography, Lou Berghmans;
edited by Philippe Ravoet; music by Praga Khan; production designer, Kurt
Loyens; released by Film Movement. At Cinema Village, 22 East 12th Street,
Greenwich Village. In Flemish, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 33
minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Greg Timmermans (Ben X), Laura Verlinden (Scarlite), Marijke Pinoy
(Mother), Pol Goossen (Father), Titus De Voogdt (Bogaert) and Maarten Claeyssens
(Desmedt).

PHOTO: Laura Verlinden and Greg Timmermans in "Ben X."(PHOTOGRAPH BY FILM
MOVEMENT)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               50 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 24, 2008 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'BEN X'; Pg.
15

LENGTH: 316 words


There's not a moment of warmth or ease in ''Ben X,'' Nic Balthazar's punishingly
cacophonous debut (adapted from his own novel) about an autistic Flemish
teenager and the bullies who torment him.

To Ben (the newcomer Greg Timmermans), school is a nightmare of peer cruelty and
home -- in the form of an insistently solicitous mother (Marijke Pinoy) and an
absent, hangdog father (Pol Goossen) -- a vortex of parental frustration. To
cope, he escapes into an online fantasy universe where his heroic avatar spends
hours immersed in a popular video game alongside a generously endowed virtual
honey known as Scarlite (Laura Verlinden).

Integrating live action with Ben's gaming exploits, ''Ben X'' crawls inside a
troubled mind with more stylistic commitment than narrative competence. Ticklish
issues of educational mainstreaming and cyber-bullying are ill served by an
atmosphere of emotional sterility and visual hysteria, and the film's outlandish
conclusion feels manufactured for the sensitivity module of teacher-training
courses.

Trapped behind a ceaseless, urgent monologue and wildly darting eyes, Ben is a
symphony of agonized alienation. Yet however representative of the chaos in his
head, the film's relentlessly paranoid aesthetics come off more as a formal
exercise in social dissonance than an empathetic study of human suffering.

BEN X

Opens on Friday in Manhattan.

Written and directed by Nic Balthazar; director of photography, Lou Berghmans;
edited by Philippe Ravoet; music by Praga Khan; production designer, Kurt
Loyens; released by Film Movement. At Cinema Village, 22 East 12th Street,
Greenwich Village. In Flemish, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 33
minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Greg Timmermans (Ben X), Laura Verlinden (Scarlite), Marijke Pinoy
(Mother), Pol Goossen (Father), Titus De Voogdt (Bogaert) and Maarten Claeyssens
(Desmedt).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Laura Verlinden and Greg Timmermans in ''Ben X.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY
FILM MOVEMENT)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               51 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 9, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Cybercafe Lives

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA HEFFERNAN

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE MEDIUM; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1248 words


Two years ago, I spent a night in a smoky Bagus Gran Cyber Cafe in Tokyo, which
is a kind of no-tell motel for information consumption. It was heady.
Semireclined in a dim cubicle before a magnificent spread of consumer
electronics and media, I struggled to take advantage of every appointment (game
console, DVD player, fast Internet, books, magazines), as I was paying by the
hour.

I hoped to replicate the experience of Japanese habitues who told me they find
in the media-immersion pods profound relief from the burdens of social and
professional life. As one social critic explained, they afford a bliss that
comes from role-playing and self-forfeiture, from becoming (in his unforgettable
words) ''No-face man, no-ID man, no-pride man.'' Here's what happened to me: I
played video games, wrote e-mail, watched movies. I puzzled over the low
lighting, appreciated the minimal interaction and eventually fell asleep.

The Gran Cyber Cafes in Tokyo are on high floors of buildings in dense, flashing
commercial neighborhoods. When trying to imagine a comparable business in the
U.S. -- an urban space where you pay by the hour for use of superb technology in
a communal atmosphere that is nonetheless compartmentalized -- it never occurred
to me to look in New York's East Village, where at street level a cafe called
Web2Zone has been thriving since Sept. 9, 2001.

So what's an American media-immersion zone like? From the street, Web2Zone,
which is owned by the Korean company Samsung, looks like a standard-issue
college-crowd cafe (it's close to New York University). An outfit called Fusion
Wraps keeps a few tables and offers a menu unusual only for featuring bulgogi.
From the sidewalk, you can peer through Fusion Wraps to the dark yonder: all
told, 10,000 square feet of floor space with rows of workbenches with computers
on them.

This is the musty business model of the Internet cafe, allowing patrons to rent
time on its computers. Web2Zone was even named ''Best Internet Cafe'' by The New
York Press, though that honor takes on a slightly different hue when you realize
that the category has been facing obsolescence for more than a decade. Most
recently, the rattiest old cybercafes in Queens have been shut down, following
too-frequent fights among hotheaded video-game patrons. And the once-glamorous
@Cafe in Manhattan was already boarded up by 1998! ''The notion of a cybercafe
-- a place for Net surfers to socialize on a tide of gourmet coffee -- is at
odds with how most people want to use computers, even in their leisure time,''
Michel Marriott observed that year in The New York Times. ''Those who Web surf,
read e-mail, write or program or do just about anything else on a computer often
do so in solitude.'' Today, with superpowered handhelds, we imagine digital life
as something that no longer requires devoted surfaces, mouse pads or
uninterrupted stretches of time.

But that's not true if you're a gamer. At Web2Zone, more than half of the house
is devoted to games -- multiplayer, interconnected games, most visibly, whose
cinematic images play across the site's best equipment on computers situated in
clusters on round tables.

On any given day, young men -- ''from around,'' a manager told me, implying
something about class I couldn't entirely pinpoint; ''not local or N.Y.U.'' --
can be found sitting close to the front of the house and the natural light.
(Regulars apparently choose their machines and stick with them day after day.)
The table near the stairs and the cafe -- not the more private tables, way back
in the murk -- seems to fill up first, and the guys sit together, though they
could easily spread out. The lofty acoustics of Web2Zone half-swallow the game
sound effects, and the ambience is hushed and overcast.

The most popular games at Web2Zone include an oldie called Counter-Strike and,
of course, the ne plus ultra M.M.O.R.P.G. (massively multiplayer online
role-playing game): World of Warcraft. It's not clear whether Web2Zone regulars,
absorbed in their games, are competing against people in Seoul, in Chicago or at
arm's length.

The staff at Web2Zone gets most excited about the tournaments held there. The
tournaments are sponsored by companies like Blizzard Entertainment, which makes
World of Warcraft and the rest of the Warcraft series. On a recent weekend, 14
major gamers -- young men with managers and expense accounts -- were flown in
from around the world for a showdown. Typically, gamers pay about $35 for the
day to participate, while others pay $5 to watch the games, mostly on monitors
downstairs.

Why do the tournament gamers show up in person, when the cafe's almighty LAN
connection (Web2Zone is the largest LAN center on the East Coast) exists
entirely so that people don't have to be face to face to compete? Andrew Ko, who
has been a manager at Web2Zone for two years, half-laughed when I asked. ''You
have to defend your reputation,'' he said. Which also means, I guess, descending
from the game's wonderfully Norsey universe of Azeroth to greet your earthling
mates.

Web2Zone seems to have nice crowd; the manager tells me they only occasionally
tell loud gamers to cool it. Customers regularly tell surveys they don't need
any more privacy than is offered by the workbench layout; they don't seem to
crave the cubicles and capsule rooms with bucket seats that are the pride of
such spaces in Japan and Korea. ''Half of the people who come here don't have
computers, or they have bad connections,'' Ko told me. ''The other half, they
just like being in a public place. They like having the cafe within reach. Our
regulars know each other.''

Participants in social networks and any kind of massive-multiplayer-online
existence often feel suspended between total isolation at their screens and
howling online crowds. The next incarnation of the cybercafe should take into
account that people will pay not only for coffee and online minutes but also for
the reassurance that in their cyberjourneys they might find traveling companions
whose faces -- in line for a Red Bull or a margarita? -- they might even see.
Finding a way out of isolation and into productive fantasy and social
connection, without being eaten up by virtual swarms, may be the video game
we're all playing.

Post a Comment at The Medium

--------------------

Points of Entry

THIS WEEK'S RECOMMENDATIONS

WOWEE: On Nov. 13, Blizzard Entertainment will release World of Warcraft: Wrath
of the Lich King. Check it out atworldofwarcraft.com. ''Such a game is not
merely consumed, or even played,'' wrote Seth Schiesel of the massive
multiplayer game in The Times. ''It is inhabited.'' Are you ready to move in?
Schiesel also recommends a new non-Blizzard game: Warhammer Online: Age of
Reckoning. Warhammer evidently improves on the WoW formula with an interesting
''public quest'' framework that brings far-flung players together to accomplish
shared goals.

ZONED OUT: Take stock of how gaming and Internet use has evolved since the first
Web2Zone, opened in the U.S. in 2001, by checking one out (at 54 Cooper Square,
with more branches said to be opening someday) and at Web2zone.com. The
Counter-Strike 1.6 tournament is this weekend!

WORLD OF WEBCRAFT: Many of the visitors to Web2Zone are tourists, looking for a
home away from home where they can print out plane tickets or send e-mail.
Traveling? Fodors.com can find you a wireless hotspot almost anywhere and offers
tips about staying online around the world.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN VAN AELST)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               52 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 9, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Union Square Co-op

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY; With ELSA BRENNER, SUZANNE HAMLIN and LISA PREVOST

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; ON THE MARKET; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 104 words


UNION SQUARE CO-OP

$675,000

MANHATTAN: 105 East 15th Street (between Union Square East and Irving Place),
#74

A one-bedroom one-bath apartment in a prewar elevator building with Cyber
Doorman service. Ken Barkoff, Barkoff Residential (212) 777-3662;
www.barkoffre.com

MAINTENANCE: $1,012 a month

PROS: The living room has a south-facing bay window. Prewar details include
original moldings, transoms, and a wall of closets in the hallway. The bedroom
has windows facing north and south.

CONS: The kitchen has very little permanent counter space. The bathroom is more
or less in original condition and could use updating.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATE GLICKENSBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               53 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 19, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Drink Backed by a Sports Hero (Wielding a Mean Game Controller)

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 774 words


DR PEPPER  plans to announce on Wednesday that, for the first time, it is
promoting a professional athlete on bottles that it will distribute nationally.
But the shaggy-haired athlete on the label is not a traditional sports star:
he's a 21-year-old who has a three-year, $250,000 contract to play video games.

Dr Pepper is featuring the Halo 3 player Tom  Taylor, who goes by Tsquared,  on
the labels, which will appear on about 175 million 20-ounce bottles from January
to April.

It may seem a strange promotion for a national brand like Dr Pepper. But video
games are hugely popular with young men, who are playing them instead of
watching television and reading magazines. Marketers are trying to advertise
their products to this group by sponsoring tournaments or placing advertisements
within the games themselves. (The Obama presidential campaign, for example, put
ads on virtual billboards in the game Burnout Paradise.)

Mr. Taylor may not have the name recognition of, say, Derek Jeter, but he
resembles him  in other ways: he has a contract with the sports association
Major League Gaming, puts in up to 15 hours a day practicing his Halo 3 skills,
has an endorsement deal with Dr Pepper and has a high profile among gamers.

''It's not like I'm Tom Cruise or Usher walking down the street or anything like
that, but it's gotten to the point where you have to look your best when you go
out,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''I carry a Sharpie around, like Peyton Manning,''

With the new labels, Dr Pepper is trying to grab the attention of gaming fans,
who at Major League Gaming are largely men in their teenage years and early 20s.

''We think there's an opportunity to bring more people into the Dr Pepper
franchise,'' said Terry Hockens, brand manager for Dr Pepper.

Dr Pepper struck the deal with Major League Gaming, a New York City company that
organizes teams and competitions. This year, the league has 50 professional
teams, each specializing in one of five multiplayer games, including Halo 3 and
Call of Duty 4. The teams compete in six tournaments throughout the year
(amateurs can play at some), and a typical tournament draws 12,000 to 15,000
spectators over three days, according to the league.

Fans can watch the competitions online at MLGPro.com. They can also track each
team's performance at M.L.G.'s sister site, GameBattles.com, which has 2.5
million registered users.

Brands like Dr Pepper, Stride gum, Old Spice and Panasonic have signed on as
league sponsors, which means they have signs and booths at events, promotion on
the league's Web site and permission to use its  logos in their marketing.

''The successful marketing of major stars is what sports leagues have always
been about,'' said Matthew Bromberg, the chief executive of Major League Gaming.
''What's really going on here is for tens of millions of young men, the
aspiration to be a pro gamer is the new dream of sports stardom,'' he said.

The Dr Pepper label promotion is  the biggest retail program for the league, Mr.
Bromberg said.

The promotion lets consumers enter bottle-cap codes online to win points in
tournaments and chances to win prizes like T-shirts and televisions.  The labels
featuring Mr. Taylor will appear on regular and diet 20-ounce bottles.

About 80 percent of the total number of Dr Pepper bottles on sale during the
promotion will feature the special labels,  Ms. Hockens said.

Dr Pepper has had other label promotions, including one for ''Indiana Jones and
the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull'' this year, and has run regional sports-themed
promotions, like one for the Dallas Cowboys. However, this is the first sports
promotion with national distribution.

Dr Pepper began its league sponsorship this year. ''Initially, we were looking
for a new way to reach our target audience, and we knew that gaming as a genre
was extremely important to our target audience,'' said Richard Lyons, the
manager of the interactive team at Dr Pepper.

League executives suggested that Dr Pepper sponsor not only the organization but
also a team, and Dr Pepper marketers liked the four members of the team Str8
Rippin, including Mr. Taylor.

''They really are rock stars in their own little world,'' Mr. Lyons said.

Interestingly, the league itself does very little promotion: no online ads, no
television ads, no print ads.

Still, said Billy Pidgeon, a games industry analyst for the market research firm
IDC, the group ''has the highest visibility'' of any online gaming league in the
United States. Competitors include the World Cyber Games, with sponsors
including Samsung and Xbox 360, and the Electronic Sports League.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The video game team Str8 Rippin competing in August. One
member, Tom Taylor, right, who goes by the nickname Tsquared, will be featured
on Dr Pepper labels next year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LINDS PANTHER)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               54 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 20, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Black Friday Calls for a Strategy Session

BYLINE: By MARTY KATZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Circuits; BASICS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1167 words


HERE is how Black Friday works: In order to start the holiday shopping season
with some gusto, retailers turn the day after Thanksgiving into another national
holiday.

Some popular products, particularly personal technology ones,  are marked down
to levels that turn ordinary people into a rabid horde of bargain seekers, ready
to camp out overnight and do in-store battle over limited inventory.

Given this year's economic climate, with retailers desperate to increase sales
and shoppers looking for even steeper discounts, Black Friday 2008 is hoped by
both parties to be, in the words of Nigel Tufnel of Spinal Tap, ''none more
black.''

What motivates people to put down their Thanksgiving forks and knives and head
over to the shopping center to wait through the night? The promise -- and
sometimes even the reality -- of phenomenal savings. This year, there has
already been much chatter about  $99 GPS units for sale at Target, $200 Blu-ray
DVD players at Circuit City,  $250 netbooks at Amazon and, as always, ever
larger and more affordable flat-panel televisions, like the $900 42-inch 1080p
LCD models for sale at Best Buy.

The thing to remember is this: Such amazingly priced products will probably be
hard to find. They serve as the bait to get you through the door. A given store
may have only five or a dozen items at  such a deal, and the frozen few at the
head of the line will be sure to snap them up.

That does not  mean the rest of the store does not have marked-down merchandise;
it just means the discounts  may not be as drastic as on those marquee products.

For a significant drop in price, it may be worth it to brave the crowds, but how
can you be sure Black Friday shopping will be  worth your time?

Fortunately, you can do some reconnaissance. Start with these simple facts:
Retailers have to advertise their sales to motivate people to show up. These
ads, often newspaper inserts, usually appear on Thanksgiving or the day before.
But those inserts were printed weeks before they were folded into your paper.
Enterprising deal hunters and loose-lipped workers have been known to obtain
early copies of these ads to see what will be marked down and where.

The Internet has made sharing this information wildly easier. Entire Web sites,
like Bfads.net, Black-Friday.net and FatWallet.com, are set up to collect
intelligence on reduced prices, organize it into easy-to-compare lists and post
it for all to see. These sites also have well-populated forums where veterans of
Black Fridays past can discuss this year's deals and strategies for dealing with
them.

A grain of salt may be needed at some sites. Some content is based on
less-than-official sources, prices may change and decoy ads may pop up. But even
the retailers are jumping into the act, some releasing ads weeks ahead, hoping
more will show up Friday morning. Most official ads will be viewable online on
company sites by Wednesday, and some closely held ''secret specials'' will pop
up online throughout the holiday period.

Once your research is done, you can go into a store with a list in hand and make
a beeline for the products you want.   Some shoppers scout retailers' layouts in
advance, but on the big day, so-called door-buster deals may be hidden in
unlikely places.

Many Black Friday shoppers will shop in teams to cover more stores or
departments within a store. Or if your shopping is focused on a few related
items and you want to get in and out as quickly as possible, you can have one
person stand in the checkout line immediately  while the other retrieves
products.

It is also not a bad idea to stay in contact with your partner by cellphone.
Some die-hard shoppers will also be in contact with makeshift Mission Control
back at home: a team member sitting at a computer with access to
price-comparison sites like PriceGrabber.com or Google.com/products. (Those with
Web-enabled cellphones can do this themselves.) If you encounter an unexpected
product or price, you can verify whether it is a good deal on the spot.

When you find a seemingly sweet deal, entering the Universal Product Code online
should yield a list of prices, descriptions, reviews and dealer reliability
ratings. This number is printed under the item's scannable bar code and on shelf
tags, and is 12 digits long, including the smaller digits at the beginning and
end. You can also try the Stock Keeping Unit code, which is the manufacturer's
model number-and-letter designator.

Then there's the school of thought that the best approach is an end run around
the whole Black Friday enterprise. There are two ways to do this. One is to cool
your heels until the Monday after Thanksgiving, known as Cyber Monday, when
online retailers offer discounts similar to those at brick-and-mortar stores,
minus some of those rare door-buster discounts. Rules of availability still
apply, and there are the matters of shipping time and cost, but it is something
you can do from home or on your lunch hour with relative ease.

The more involved way to get Black Friday prices on other days is to take
advantage of retailers' price-match  and price-adjustment policies. Some stores
will let you buy, say, a digital camera today and refund you the difference if
the price drops over the next two weeks. Some will extend this to competitors'
prices as well.

This is not always easy, as some retailers have Black Friday exemptions. Check
policies ahead of time online or at stores, perhaps chatting with or obtaining a
note from a manager. Wal-Mart, for example, does not offer a refund if a
purchased product goes on sale later, but matches regional rivals' sale prices
for a new purchase. A determined strategist may see an item's price dive at Best
Buy on Friday and find the item has sold out, then pick it up on Saturday at
Office Depot for the sale price.

Also keep in mind that some products may just seem the same. Retailers can
wriggle out of direct comparisons by selling items only slightly different from
rival models  carrying different U.P.C. and S.K.U. numbers. It is the same way
mattress and camera stores have long avoided apples-to-apples comparisons, with
products varying just a teeny bit from the competition, perhaps just in color.
PCs with the same model number might vary in processor or RAM specifications.
And some Black Friday specials may be numbered uniquely at the factory for that
day.

For many shoppers, Black Friday has as much to do with the  spectacle of it all
as it does with the savings. But in these pinched economic times, it should not
be hard for a determined shopper to find the product he or she wants at a lower
price -- whether on Black Friday or Normal Wednesday.

Yes, a few real bargains can be won by those braving the predawn chaos, but
camping in the cold is not essential if you have done your homework. This year,
a growing army of shoppers will adopt another 1980s movie bit of advice (in this
case, from ''WarGames''): The only winning move is not to play.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ALEX EBEN MEYER)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               55 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 20, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

OFF THE DRIBBLE The Real O'Neal Puts His Cyber Foot Down

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 615 words


Shaquille O'Neal had a problem. An Internet impostor using his name was sending
messages to unsuspecting Shaq fans. So O'Neal did what any sensible, 7-foot-1,
muscle-bound mammoth would do. He started tweeting.

''This is the real SHAQUILLE O'NEAL,'' came the message from The--Real--Shaq,
via Twitter.com, early Tuesday morning.

A clarification was in order because, for the last several months, someone
registered as ShaquilleONeal was sending frequent messages, or tweets, to
hundreds of subscribers.

The synthetic Shaq sounded a lot like the real O'Neal. His blurbs were
whimsical, boastful and creative, even adopting O'Neal's unique grammatical
flourishes.

''My tweets are Shaqalicious,'' ShaquilleONeal wrote Nov. 11.

''Andrew Bynum's knee is like Erika Dampier ... fragile,'' ShaquilleONeal wrote
Sept. 30, dealing a two-fisted insult to the Lakers' Andrew Bynum and the
Mavericks' Erick Dampier.

The real Shaq -- who could fill an almanac with clever quips -- could hardly
have said it better. Now he is. O'Neal opened his own Twitter account this week
to connect with fans and to take back his identity.

''Somebody out there was trying to use my language and trying to speak for me,''
O'Neal, sounding more amused than offended, said Wednesday night in a telephone
interview. ''Rather than have that happen, I thought I'd do it myself.''

O'Neal added: ''It's a fun thing. It's a way for fans to connect.''

The faux Shaq account was discovered last week by Sports Media Challenge, a
consulting firm that works with O'Neal. Kathleen Hessert, the firm's owner, was
initially thrilled. She had been pushing O'Neal to Twitter with fans. She found
the oddball references to the Pythagorean theorem and the Big Cactus to be very
Shaq-like.

''It was a very good impersonation,'' Hessert said.

A closer inspection revealed the forgery. The ersatz O'Neal, for example,
claimed to be sending tweets from the bench during a game -- a virtual
impossibility.

That was the point, said the man who created the account. Ward Andrews, the
33-year-old Suns fan behind ShaquilleONeal, said he included the occasional
outlandish claim as a tip-off.

''All the longtime followers, over 500 followers, they know it's a joke,'' said
Andrews, who owns a Phoenix design and marketing agency. ''I really didn't have
any intent to pull people's leg. It was just to entertain.''

In response to Hessert's complaint, Twitter pulled the plug on ShaquilleONeal
this week. (The archive of pitch-perfect tweets remains online, at
twitter.com/notShaqONeal.)

Hessert said she wanted to protect the O'Neal brand. A Twitter spokesman said
that impersonating people violates the company's terms of service.

''We do allow parody,'' said Biz Stone, a Twitter co-founder. ''If it's not
clear and there is some confusion, we do get involved.''

Stone said this was the first instance of celebrity impersonation that he knew
of. Twitter is considering ways to certify accounts, so fans know when they are
hearing from, say, the real Britney Spears (who does, in fact, tweet).

A number of celebrities use the service, including the actor Greg Grunberg
(''Heroes''), the singer Dave Matthews and John Hodgman (the ''P.C.'' in the
Apple Computer ads).

Meanwhile, Shaquille O'Neal is tweeting with the unbridled zeal of a
12-year-old. He posted 17 times Wednesday, making references to Oprah, yoga,
Kobe and fettuccine. He had 1,131 subscribers as of Wednesday night -- up from
40 in the morning.

And he had a message for Andrews and any other sham Shaqs out there.

''I just want to say, 'Nice job,' but now let the professional take over,''
O'Neal said in an interview. ''There can only be one me. Uno mas me.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shaquille O'Neal has moved into the Internet territory of his
impersonator, ShaquilleONeal.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               56 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 20, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

ON NYTIMES.COM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 291 words


Slide Show: The Models Of Next Year

Photographs from the Los Angeles auto show, which is opening against a backdrop
of tumult in the automobile industry. Also, overviews of notable new models.

nytimes.com/autoshow

The New Old Age

Aging Parents In Financial Trouble

In 30 states, adult children are legally responsible, on paper at least, to pay
for food, clothing and medical care for indigent parents.

nytimes.com/newoldage

AUDIO: TECH TALK

This week: shopping tips for Black Friday and Cyber Monday bargain hunters; a
crop of new mini-digicams; ''zero-day attack''; Tivo's pizza delivery service
and more.

nytimes.com/techtalk

UrbanEye

Honoring Rushdie

In her latest video, Melena Ryzik attends the annual Moth Ball in New York,
where the author Salman Rushdie was awarded the 2008 Moth Award.

nytimes.com/arts

On the Runway

Remembering Valentina

Cathy Horyn discusses the emotional flashes that have reminded her of Valentina,
the Russian-born designer, like the dresses worn by Michelle Obama.

nytimes.com/ontherunway

INTERACTIVE: SHOPPING

With Anthony Giglio

Click around with Anthony Giglio, a sommelier and bartender, as he shops for
essential bar items and accessories for holiday entertaining.

nytimes.com/home

RECIPES FOR HEALTH

This week, Martha Rose Shulman provides five ways to prepare sweet potatoes, a
Thanksgiving staple that can be the basis for healthy meals and snacks year
round.

nytimes.com/nutrition

Opinion

Timothy Egan  Beggars Banquet

Where will the bailouts  --  which are turning citizen against citizen and the
haves against the have-nots  --  stop?

nytimes.com/egan

VIDEO: OP-ED: IN THE DARK

A simple solution to New York's pending budget gap: Turn the lights off.

nytimes.com/opinion

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE RECTOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               57 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 26, 2008 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 732 words


9 P.M. (History) THE WHITE HOUSE: BEHIND CLOSED DOORS It's a museum, a place of
business, a home and one of the most photographed sites in the country. In this
90-minute special President and Mrs. Bush, right, give the first extended
televised tour of the presidential residence since Jacqueline Kennedy invited
cameras inside in 1962. Stops include the Lincoln Bedroom and the Oval Office,
and we're taken behind the scenes at an official state dinner. The program also
looks at White House history, from its burning by the British during the War of
1812 to the construction of the West Wing by Theodore Roosevelt and the
modifications undertaken during the Truman presidency. Leslie and Leigh Keno of
''Antiques Roadshow'' offer insights on the White House's historic furnishings
and decorative arts.

9 P.M. (Fox) THE MORNING SHOW WITH MIKE AND JULIET The Jonas Brothers and Trace
Adkins perform; Paula Deen gives recipes for Southern Thanksgiving dishes; and
how to avoid identity theft on Black Friday and Cyber Monday.

9 A.M. (CBS) THE DOCTORS  A look at some of the most extreme makeovers of the
nonhouse variety to be seen on television.

4 P.M. (ABC); 7 P.M. (55) THE OPRAH WINFREY SHOW  Viewers suggest creative ways
to spend less over the holidays. Then it's Thanksgiving 101 as Cristina Ferrare
offers step-by-step recipes for turkey, stuffing and pumpkin pie.

8 P.M. (13, 49) MONARCHY: THE ROYAL FAMILY AT WORK Four guests savor meeting
Queen Elizabeth II at a garden party at Buckingham Palace. In rural
Northumberland Prince Charles and his wife, the Duchess of Cornwall, tour an
organic farm and meet two Angus calves born around the time of their marriage
and named -- you guessed it -- Charles and Camilla. At 9, the queen's children
talk about the roles they were born into.

8 P.M. (CBS) THE NEW ADVENTURES OF OLD CHRISTINE Christine (Julia Louis-Dreyfus)
is able to withstand criticism from her mother (Brenda Blethyn) at Thanksgiving
after discovering they share a secret.

8 P.M. (Discovery) TIME WARP High-speed photography allows frame-by-frame
examinations of stunt bicyclists and, at 8:30, Boston College cheerleaders.

8 P.M. (Fox) BONES  Brennan (Emily Deschanel) tries to cope with the hiring of
her estranged father (Ryan O'Neal, left) as a teacher at the Jeffersonian.
Meanwhile, the team looks for clues in the murder of a former marine who was
providing child care for a wealthy family.

8 P.M. (MyNetworkTV) THE 2008 WORLD MAGIC AWARDSNeil Patrick Harris hosts this
two-hour ceremony honoring those with the slickest tricks up their sleeves.
Magicians and special guests include Ed Alonzo, Franz Harary, Lance Burton, Greg
Gleason, the Amazing Johnathan, Hans Klok, Kirby and Bambi VanBurch and Florian
Zimmer. Awards will be given in 13 categories, including escape artist, classic
magic, contemporary magic, original cabaret magic, comedy illusionist, stage
magician and magician of the year.

8 P.M. (NBC) ROSIE LIVERosie O'Donnell, host of this hourlong variety show,
sings and dances alongside Liza Minnelli and does musical numbers and comedy
sketches with Ne-Yo, Alanis Morissette, Kathy Griffin, Jane Krakowski and Alec
Baldwin.

10 P.M. (ABC) DIRTY SEXY MONEY While the Darlings are away for Thanksgiving,
Clark the chauffeur (Shawn Michael Patrick) gives a sexy news reporter (Rena
Sofer) his version of events. Meanwhile Letitia (Jill Clayburgh), who is under
house arrest, holds a Ferragamo fashion show at the Darling mansion. And a
socialite (Donna Mills) has some choice words.

10 P.M. (Bravo) TOP CHEF The contestants are challenged to satisfy the appetites
of Foo Fighters on a tour stop in Syracuse. Grant Achatz, who was recently named
best chef in the United States for 2008 by the James Beard Foundation, is the
guest judge.

10 P.M. (FX) SONS OF ANARCHY In this season ender, the club members must
re-evaluate their brotherly bonds after a tragedy.

10 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER A fatal construction crane collapse leads detectives
to suspect an attempted murder.

10 P.M. (Sci Fi) ESTATE OF PANIC The contestants must navigate an indoor
blizzard, an electrified room and a demolition site.

10:30 P.M. (Comedy Central) CHOCOLATE NEWS David Alan Grier spoofs a rapper's
television show for children, an endorsement deal between Beyonce and a
cosmetics company, an interview with Ludacris and bottled water from Africa.
KATHRYN SHATTUCK

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               58 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 30, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Under a Tented Roof, an Unknown World Beckons

BYLINE: By SUSAN GLAIRON

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PERSONAL JOURNEYS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1234 words


I   WALK carefully in the cool night air, focusing a kerosene lantern on the
stone-paved path. Suddenly a figure approaches, one arm outstretched, his
checkered red blanket gently flapping in the wind.

''Soap,'' he says as he stretches his arm toward me.

The sudden appearance of the Masai man almost startles me, and it takes a moment
to realize what he's offering. I take the two hotel-bathroom-sized bars, and he
immediately retreats into the darkness. I continue walking to the toilet and
open the door to find another lantern conveniently hanging above it,
illuminating the surroundings. The toilet is clean,   has a seat --  a somewhat
rare commodity in Kenya, in my experience -- and flushes. Afterward I place the
soap next to the outdoor sink on a shelf made from twisted branches, then tilt
my head and stare at the endless stars as cool water trickles down my fingers.

Such moments of quiet fascination are common during my two-night stay at
Oldarpoi Maasai Safari Camp, a permanent furnished tented camp just outside
Masai Mara National Reserve. It is on the edge of one of the world's greatest
wildlife safari parks, yet is largely unknown by most travelers to this part of
Africa. (A Kenyan friend recommended our guide, and he recommended the camp.)
The 40-acre camp, which opened in December 2006 and is solely owned and operated
by the local Masai community, is built with all the comforts of home, including
hot showers, beds with pillows, sheets, blankets and mosquito nets, and porches
with armchairs. A station by a generator that supplies lights and refrigeration
for the dining area allows cellphones and digital cameras to be recharged.

The camp's modern accommodations sharply contrast with the Masai villages just a
short drive down the road. There the Masai people live in enkajis, cow-dung huts
shared with  calves, and Masai children walk barefoot through the dung-strewn
village. Here poverty exacerbated by droughts have greatly reduced the Masai's
livestock, and of the more than 45,000 Masai people living in the area, 78
percent earn less than $1 per day, according to research conducted by the I See
Maasai Development Initiative (www.iseemaasai.org). The mission of the
organization  is to empower the Masai people economically by advocating for
education and by leading a campaign to eradicate such practices as female
genital mutilation.

Nelson Ole Reiyia, a well-traveled, college-educated Masai man whose life
teeters between the Masai world of his childhood and an urban life in Nairobi,
hopes the camp will address some of the tribe's poverty issues in a
self-sustainable way, instead of relying on donations from abroad. Mr. Reiyia,
one of the camp's founders, says that camping and meal fees go toward educating
impoverished Masai children and creating a rescue center for girls escaping from
female genital mutilation, a practice, he says, that forces girls as young as 9
into marriage and prevents them from receiving an education.

The lack of education, Mr. Reiyia says, has made it difficult for the Masai to
compete with other educated Kenyan tribes like the Kikuyu or Kalenjin. In
addition, the Masai traditionally rely on their cattle and other livestock for
survival, and as traditional grazing land is reduced through wildlife
conservation and agricultural practices, the Masai's ability to sustain
themselves has also been greatly reduced. With illiteracy and limited skills ,
the Masai cannot find gainful employment, he says. ''The Masai would have to
rely on other people to work in their district as teachers, nurses, etc., and
this importation of skilled labor does not have to be the case if the Masai
fully embrace education,'' Mr. Reiyia says.

Each morning the Masai staff prepares tea, along with a breakfast of eggs,
sausage and toast. They make our beds, put a padlock on the zipper that closes
our tents and watch over the camp while we visit the park, oohing and aahing as
we watch gigantic herds of zebras and wildebeest run by. At night they cook our
dinner and while we eat, staff members light our lanterns and build a campfire.
They sit with us at the fire circle, eager to share information about their
lives.

During our second day, we are offered an opportunity to visit the enkang, the
homestead where staff members grew up. It's another way for the Masai people to
earn money by charging an entry fee, and I'm not sure I want to watch a show
created for tourists. But the people are so joyful and so eager to share
information about their lives that I am suddenly glad to be in the midst of an
indigenous culture that has not given way to modern times.

First the men perform a welcome dance for us outside the village, in which they
jump as high as they can, and my teenage son, Eliot, joins in the fun. Next the
women emerge singing, grabbing our hands and leading us into the village. Our
host, Samuel Ngotiek, an educated Masai man in his 20s, informs us we can take
any photos and ask any questions. He takes us into the enkaji, and as our eyes
adjust to the darkness, he shows us where the calves sleep inside with the
owners.

As we leave the hut and squint into the sunlight, I can't help but notice the
''store'' that the Masai have arranged for our family of four, a long line of
blankets filled with a variety of Masai jewelry, key chains and knives. I can
feel their hope and anticipation as we watch a group of men make a fire from a
wooden stick rotated on a board. As soon as they light the fire and give us a
chance to try, we are suddenly engulfed by their desperate attempts to sell us
something, even the stick and board that started the fire. Even though I only
purchase one item, a beaded Masai wedding necklace, they are immediately
gracious and thank us for coming.

Although Mr. Reiyia has spent his adult years in Nairobi, he wears traditional
Masai clothing when returning to the camp. He says it's comforting to sleep in
the tiny huts he remembers so well as a child.

''I feel completely at home whenever I return to the manyatta,''  Mr. Reiyia
says, referring to the homestead. ''All the good memories of my childhood are
rekindled every time I sit next to the wood fire in the center of my mum's
enkaji. I am a warrior of two worlds, the modern cyber and the traditional
natural lifestyle of the Masai.''

IF YOU GO

Oldarpoi Maasai Safari Camp (254-721731927; info@iseemaasai.org) is located at
Sekenani, Masai  Mara National Reserve, about 145 miles from Nairobi and 10
minutes by car from Masai Mara's main gate.

Safari guides are still largely unfamiliar with Oldarpoi Maasai Safari Camp. You
can arrange ground transportation through Pure Destinations Tours and Safaris
(www.pure-destinations-safaris.com; info@pure-destinations-safaris.com), part of
the I See Masai Development Initiative; or through the experienced guide
Johnstone Kirimi (254-721683700; jkirimifamily@yahoo.com).

The cost at the camp is $70 a person per night, including three meals and
lodging in a furnished tent ($10 a person to pitch your own tent, without meals,
or $35 with meals).  Safari tours offered by Pure Destinations and Mr. Kirimi
are $150 a person per day, including transport from Nairobi in a safari van with
a pop-up roof, meals, furnished tent camping at Oldarpoi Maasai Safari Camp,
park entrance fees, payment to drivers and guide and taxes. Visits to Masai
villages not included.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Staff members at Oldarpoi Maasai Safari Camp in Kenya rest by
the fire circle after their morning chores. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN GLAIRON) MAP:
KENYA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               59 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 1, 2008 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Architects Of Shopping Frenzy

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR.

E-mail: carr@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words


This weekend, news reports were full of finger-wagging over the death by
trampling of a temporary worker, Jdimypai Damour, at a Wal-Mart store in Long
Island on Friday. His death, the coverage suggested, was a symbol of a broken
culture of consumerism in which people would do anything for a bargain.

The willingness of people to walk over another human being to get at the right
price tag raises the question of how they got that way in the first place. But
in the search for the usual suspects and parceling of blame, the news media
should include themselves.

Just a few days ago, the same newspaper writers and television anchors who are
now wearily shaking their heads at the collective bankruptcy of our mass
consumer culture were cheering all of it on.

In a day-before story, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution advised readers to leave
the children at home, at least the ones not big enough to carry the loot,
because they will just slow you down: ''Strollers and crowds just don't mix,
though we know a few shoppers willing to use four wheels and a child as a
weapon. Younger children may also be seduced by the shopping mania and pitch a
tantrum that slows your progress. That said, teens and young adults can be an
asset to a divide-and-conquer shopping strategy. And you'll have someone to help
carry the bags.''

An article distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News sounded as if the
writers were composing a sonnet for fishing or camping until they got to the
punch line: ''Nothing rivals the thrill of waking up before the sun, or that
sprint through the store for the perfect present.''

Another article distributed by the news service said that ''some hard core
shoppers will be up before the sun, banging on store windows as the official
start of the holiday shopping season begins. Weak economy, pshaw! There are
sales out there.''

In the wake of death by shopper, Newsday, the daily paper on Long Island, wrung
its hands in the opinion page blog: ''Was this deadly rush to lower prices an
illustration of the current economic malaise (people mobbing Wal-Mart because
they fear they can't afford higher prices elsewhere) or just proof that even a
recession can't suppress stuff-lust?'' Then it added, rather unfortunately,
''This awful death is another Joey Buttafuoco-like stain on the too-often sordid
image of our island.''

But on the run-up, Newsday offered a ''Black Friday blueprint,'' with store
openings listed so shoppers could plot strategy, including noting that at 5
a.m., the Green Acres Wal-Mart would open and customers could expect to buy a
42-inch LCD television for $598. Many continued to pursue that particular
bargain even as Mr. Damour lay dying.

The New York Times had an article in its Circuits section on how ''Black Friday
Calls for a Strategy Session,''  but the overall coverage was far from frantic,
reflecting grim economic realities.

It's convenient to point a crooked finger in the wake of the tragedy at some
light coverage of some harmless family fun. Except the coverage is not so much
trite as deeply cynical, an attempt to indoctrinate consumers into believing
that they are what they buy and that they should be serious enough about it to
leave the family at home.

Media and retail outfits are economic peas in a pod. Part of the reason that the
Thanksgiving newspaper and local morning television show are stuffed with soft
features about shopping frenzies is that they are stuffed in return with ads
from retailers. Yes, Black Friday is a big day for retailers -- stores did as
much as 13 percent of their holiday business this last weekend -- but it is also
a huge day for newspapers and television.

In partnership with retail advertising clients, the news media have worked
steadily and systematically to turn Black Friday into a broad cultural event. A
decade ago, it was barely in the top 10 shopping days of the year. But once
retailers hit on the formula of offering one or two very-low-priced items as
loss leaders, media groups began to cover the post-Thanksgiving outing as a kind
of consumer sporting event.

''Media outlets have been stride for stride with the retailers,'' said Marshal
Cohen, chief retail analyst for the NPD Group, a market research firm. Speaking
on the phone on Friday evening after nearly 24 hours of working the malls, he
suggested, ''Something like this was bound to happen at some point. The man who
died at Wal-Mart was, from what I understand, a temporary employee and had no
idea what he was dealing with.''

Given that early shoppers stomped him to death and later arrivals streamed past
him as he was being treated, he could not be blamed for failing to understand
the ungovernable mix of greed and thriftiness that was under way. Black Friday
blows a whistle many of us cannot hear -- I would rather spend some quality time
with my dentist than stand in the dark chill waiting for a store to open.

Some people think of Black Friday as an abundance of holiday generosity, but in
a survey conducted by the International Council of Shopping Centers and Goldman
Sachs, 81 percent of the respondents said that they planned to shop for
themselves, an army of self-seeking Santas.

News outlets that advised consumers to sharpen their elbows for the big day were
selling something that has, in an online world, lost most of its value. If you
want to define your self-worth as buying a $300 laptop, you can use the Web and
a down cycle in the gadgets business to come out a winner. (Black Friday is now
followed by Cyber Monday, another cynical construct that suggests that you can
beat the system by buying things on the right day.)

''This is a tired American ritual that has had its day even before this
happened,'' said Kalle Lasn, editor of AdBusters, a magazine and Web site that
promotes the day after Thanksgiving as ''Buy Nothing Day.'' ''It accrues to the
benefit of the media to somehow promote all of this craziness. There is
something very sick about it.''

Buying stuff in the teeth of recession represents a vulgar but far too common
impulse. Consumption is a core American value, so much so that President Bush
suggested  people head to the mall after the attacks of Sept. 11 as an
expression of solidarity.

The message is persistent. After the current housing collapse turned a lot of
the financial system to red mist, we're told we have a crisis of consumer
confidence and need to stimulate spending. Again, there's something sensible,
even vaguely patriotic, about buying stuff, even after people used cheap credit
to spend themselves into a ditch.

Even consumption may have limits. Mr. Cohen said that in his 32 years
interviewing consumers in malls during the holiday season, he had never heard
what he did this year. ''People really have no idea what they want,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 3, 2008



CORRECTION: The Media Equation column on Monday, about the news media's role in
promoting Black Friday, and a summary of the column in Inside the Times on the
same day, misspelled the given name of a Wal-Mart employee who was trampled to
death at a store in Long Island on Friday. He was Jdimytai Damour, not Jdimypai.


PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               60 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday

Consumed

BYLINE: SANDHYA NANKANI

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1304 words



HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students consider the phenomenon of Black Friday and
then research and debate the idea that Americans are "programmed" to shop.



Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students consider the phenomenon of
Black Friday and then research and debate the idea that Americans are
"programmed" to shop.

Suggested Time Allowance: One to two class periods

Activities / Procedures:

1. WARM-UP/DO NOW:
Students respond to the following quotation from Mad magazine: "The only reason
a great many American families don't own an elephant is that they have never
been offered an elephant for a dollar down and easy weekly payments."
Ask: What do you think the speaker is trying to say about American consumers? Do
you agree or disagree with this statement? What are your observations about how
and why we shop as a culture? As individuals? Then expand the conversation to
the phenomenon of Black Friday, the biggest shopping day of the year. Ask: How
does this statement make sense in the context of Black Friday? Why do you think
would someone would get up at 5 a.m. to go shopping on the day after
Thanksgiving? Have you ever shopped on Black Friday? Why or why not? What are
your observations or experiences with this shopping day? What dominant images
come to your mind when you think of this day?
Wrap up by telling students that they are going to read a news article that
examines Black Friday in 2008 in light of the economic recession and a death
that was caused by a stampede of shoppers.


2. ARTICLE QUESTIONS:
As a class, read and discuss the article "A Shopping Guernica Captures the
Moment," focusing on the following questions:
- What iconic images or scenes of the past century does the writer, Peter S.
Goodman, evoke in his description of Black Friday? What is the purpose?
- Who does the author say is responsible for the phenomenon of Black Friday?
Does he think it is a positive or negative aspect of American culture? Why?
- What special significance did this year's Black Friday hold for shoppers,
businesses and even policy makers?
- To what does the writer compare the American economy? Do you agree or disagree
with this simile?
- What has the government's position been on spending in recent years?
- What is the challenge facing American consumers right now?
- Why do you think the article's headline includes a reference to the Picasso
painting "Guernica"? What does that suggest?


3. ACTIVITY:
Tell students that they are going to debate the following argument made in Mr.
Goodman's article: "For decades, Americans have been effectively programmed to
shop. China, Japan and other foreign powers have provided the wherewithal to
purchase their goods by buying staggering quantities of American debt. Financial
institutions have scattered credit card offers as if they were takeout menus and
turned our houses into A.T.M.'s. Hollywood and Madison Avenue have excelled at
persuading us that the holiday season is a time to spend lavishly or risk being
found insufficiently appreciative of our loved ones."

The specific question will be: "Are we 'effectively programmed' to shop?" Divide
students into two groups. Assign one side the "pro" position and the other the
"con" position.
Have students use the "Buy Buy Holidays" handout to collect evidence for or
against the idea that we are programmed to shop. Direct students to think about
consumer culture and Americans' buying habits in the context of the recession,
focusing on how and why we shop as a culture, considering both needs (food,
clothing, etc.) and desires (luxury and other unnecessary items), as well as how
people generally split their actual purchases along these lines. How much do we
buy necessities versus indulgences? Do advertisements and other cultural forces
persuade people that a "want" is actually a "need"?

Once students have compiled their arguments and evidence, regroup and moderate
an in-class debate. Ask each student group to begin with a 60- to 90-second
statement, starting with a quote that encapsulates their argument. Wrap up by
having students discuss how their views on holiday shopping and Black Friday
have changed or stayed the same.

4. FOR HOMEWORK OR FUTURE CLASSES:

Individually, have students read Andrew Revkin's Dot Earth blog post "Black
Friday: Buy Nothing or Make Something?" It asks consumers to consider the merits
of buying locally made gifts or crafting presents themselves, given the recent
death on Black Friday and the recession.
After they read the post, have students write paragraphs addressing the
following question: "What have you made or fixed that provides at least a hint
of self-sufficiency, thrift or environmental integrity?" Then have them create a
list of do-it-yourself gifts they would like to receive or might be able to
make, even something as simple as holiday cards or baked goods.
In a future class or project, have students pick one item from their list and
create it, build it or cook it. Host a D.I.Y. holiday fair or exhibit in your
classroom where students shop using a barter system.


Related Times Resources:


     ·    ADDITIONAL TIMES ARTICLES AND MULTIMEDIA:
          Slideshow: The Ritual of Black Friday
          Article: Media and Retailers Both Build Black Friday
          Article: Mourning a Good Friend and Trying to Make Sense of a Stampede

          A profile of Jdimytai Damour, a Wal-Mart employee who was trampled to
          death on Black Friday in 2008.
          Article: A Gimmick Becomes a Real Trend
          A look at Cyber Monday, the online equivalent to Black Friday.
          Dot Earth post: Buy Nothing or Make Something?
          A post on Mr. Revkin's blog that explores the efforts to balance human
          affairs with the planet's limits.
          Article: The Singer Solution to World Poverty
          A 1999 article by the philosopher Peter Singer, who argues that
          spending money on luxury items is morally wrong.
     ·    LEARNING NETWORK RESOURCES:
          Lesson Plan: The Science of Selling
          Using the Lessons of Science in Advertising
          Lesson Plan: Getting Green for Christmas
          Examining the Bottom Line for Holiday Cheer
     ·    ARCHIVAL TIMES MATERIALS:
          Army vs. Navy: A Dimming of Splendor
          An article from Nov. 29, 1975, that is thought to include one of the
          first references to Black Friday.
          On the Day After Thanksgiving, It Is Suddenly Christmas Eve
     ·    An article from Nov. 26, 1965, on the popularity of shopping on the
          day after Thanksgiving and the expensive items that were for sale that
          year.
          Spending It: The Hunt is On for the Toy That Will Make Parents Panic
          An article from Dec. 7, 1977, on retailers' efforts to predict what
          will be the "it" toy of the season.
     ·    TIMES TOPICS:
          Black Friday

          Retail Stores and Trade
     ·    OTHER RESOURCES:
          http://news.yahoo.com/nphotos/retail-outlets-Black-Friday/photo//08112
          9/480/29d413c957c34deb9ec491d8e8c3da00//s:/ap/20081130/ap_on_bi_ge/hol
          iday_shopping
          Associated Press: Black Friday
          A graphic that shows recent trends in holiday shopping on Black
          Friday.
          http://www.ritholtz.com/blog/2008/12/spinning-black-friday-retail-sale
          s/
          Spinning Black Friday Retail Sales
          The CNBC commentator Barry L. Ritholtz analyzes recent reports about
          Black Friday sales figures.
          http://www.adbusters.org/campaigns/bnd
          Buy Nothing Day
          Adbusters.org's campaign and Web site for the international Buy
          Nothing Day movement.

          Black Friday Quiz
          Trivia quiz about this annual event.
     ·
     ·    Interdisciplinary Connections:
     ·    Fine Arts
     ·    Examine and analyze Picasso's painting "Guernica" in light of the
          headline of today's article.
     ·    Language Arts
     ·    Investigate the origins, connotations and various applications of the
          term "Black Friday."
     ·     Academic Content Standards:
     ·    Grades 6-12
          Economics Standard 4 - Understands basic features of market structures
          and exchanges.
          Language Arts Standard 1 - Demonstrates competence in the general
          skills and strategies of the writing process.
          Language Arts Standard 4 - Gathers and uses information for research
          purposes.
          Language Arts Standard 8 - Demonstrates competence in speaking and
          listening as tools for learning.
          Language Arts Standard 10 - Understands the characteristics and
          components of the media.



     ·    A Shopping Guernica Captures the Moment


LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               61 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 4, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Online Boom That May Not Last

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 614 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


In a rare bright spot for the retail industry, e-commerce sites had a strong
holiday weekend, with online sales from Friday through Monday up 13 percent
compared with last year,  according to data released Wednesday by comScore.

The Monday after Thanksgiving was the second-heaviest online spending day on
record, comScore said, behind only Dec. 10, 2007. Online sales climbed to $846
million, up 15 percent from the previous year.

''It was higher than I would have anticipated, but I'm not entirely surprised,
just because the level of discounting was so aggressive,'' said Andrew Lipsman,
a senior industry analyst at comScore, which tracks a variety of Internet data.

Still, strong Web sales are unlikely to bail out the retail industry, which is
contending with a recession and a sharp decline in consumers' wealth. E-commerce
now accounts for only 7 percent of overall sales, according to Shop.org, the
e-commerce arm of the National Retail Federation. And online sales were down 2
percent for the season so far -- the first decline since the Web became a
significant retail channel.

The Monday after Thanksgiving -- which Shop.org calls Cyber Monday -- has been a
bellwether for online holiday sales. Sales growth on that day has historically
fallen within two percentage points of total online sales growth for the season.

This year will be a different story, Mr. Lipsman said. ComScore has predicted
that sales will be flat this season, and the firm is not changing its forecast
as a result of sales Monday.

''There was evidently some pent-up demand,'' said Scott Silverman, executive
director of Shop.org. ''The consumer could have said, 'I'm going to do most of
my shopping this day,' and we could see a drop-off for the rest of the season.''

The online sales growth over the weekend mirrored offline sales, which the
National Retail Federation said increased 18 percent over last year. Many
retailers will give precise figures Thursday in their November sales reports.

Online, the virtual big-box stores, which had some of the steepest discounts,
got the most visits. On Monday, eBay, Amazon, Wal-Mart, Target and Best Buy were
the top e-commerce sites, Nielsen Online said.

At PayPal, which is used to process almost all eBay sales, the number of
transactions Monday was up 27 percent from the year before, said Jim Griffith,
whom eBay calls its marketplace expert. To lure shoppers, the auction site is
promoting $1 holiday ''doorbusters.''

The most popular product sold on eBay Monday was the Nintendo Wii game console
-- 3,017 were sold for an average price of $349. The Wii Fit, an add-on device
for the console, was also popular, with  1,305 units sold for an average $143.

Amazon.com had strong sales of consumer electronics and toys, said Sally Fouts,
a spokeswoman for the company. Deals included a Logitech universal remote
control, marked down to $137.28 from $249.99, and a Canon digital camera, down
to $159.94 from $299.99.

Beauty products accounted for a surprisingly large slice of sales Monday, said
Sucharita Mulpuru, an e-commerce analyst at the research firm Forrester.
''Cosmetics are doing really well this year, because it's those affordable
luxuries,'' she said.

Average order values have been smaller this year, Ms. Mulpuru said: ''It may not
be a sweater, but it's a scarf.''

One reason that shoppers finally filled their online shopping carts might be
that there are five fewer shopping days between Thanksgiving and Christmas this
year than last. ''People have to spend a certain amount of money during
Christmas,'' Ms. Mulpuru said, ''and that money was not spent in November, which
means it has to be spent in December.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amazon.com was among the busiest online retailers Monday, taking
orders to be filled in Fernley, Nev., and other warehouses. EBay, Target and
Best Buy also brought in a lot of traffic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT SADY/ASSOCIATED
PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               62 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 4, 2008 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 425 words


CONCESSIONS The United Automobile Workers union said it was willing to change
its contracts with struggling automakers to help them secure $34 billion in
government loans.

With sales of Saturn vehicles falling, General Motors said it was ''exploring
alternatives'' for the brand that once was considered a symbol of its future,
which would mean selling it or relegating it to a smaller niche in the
automaker's lineup. [A1.]

General Motors is asking bondholders to exchange their bonds for new ones, plus
a stake in the company. [B4.]

DOWNWARD SPIRAL Shares in the Fortress Investment Group plummeted 25 percent, to
$1.87, after the firm said that it had temporarily suspended redemptions at its
largest fund. [B1.]

MORTGAGE RELIEF The Treasury's efforts to jump-start the housing market led to a
surge in mortgage refinancing activity, and officials are considering new ways
to entice buyers. [B1.]

GLOBAL SLOWDOWN India is feeling the cutbacks in America and elsewhere, as
high-tech companies and outsourcing firms tighten their belts by freezing
salaries and laying off workers. [B1.]

PUBLISHING LAYOFFS Random House announced a sweeping reorganization aimed at
trimming costs, while Simon & Schuster said it was cutting 35 jobs. [B1.]

BIG LOSS Harvard reported that its endowment fund lost 22 percent of its value,
or about $8 billion, in the last four months. [B1.]

TWO IN ONE Motorola and Kodak worked together to produce the Motozine ZN5, a
camera phone that deserves attention. State of the Art: David Pogue. [B1.]

CYBER MONDAY SALES The Monday after Thanksgiving was the second-heaviest online
spending day on record. [B3.]

HOLDING STEADY Despite the drumbeat of bad news, Wall Street stayed relatively
quiet, with stocks moving in and out of positive territory before climbing
higher in the afternoon. [B4.]

PUTTING ON THE BRAKES Automakers in Germany are scaling back production while
trying to dodge the politically sensitive topic of layoffs. [B5.]

TURNING INWARD Comments by the chairman of China's sovereign wealth fund suggest
state-run institutions have no appetite for Western banks. [B5.]

CLIPPING COUPONS Faced with a faltering economy, some marketers are increasing
the number of coupons they offer. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B7.]

'CHEAP PUBLICITY' Small businesses are holding special events to draw customers
into their stores during tough times. [B8.]

CUT THE CABLE BILL Most Americans still watch shows on their televisions, but
broadcasters have made it easy to find their shows free online. Basics. [B9.]

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               63 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 6, 2008 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thieves Winning Online War, Maybe Even in Your Computer

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1468 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Internet security is broken, and nobody seems to know quite how to fix it.

Despite the efforts of the computer security industry and a half-decade struggle
by Microsoft to protect its Windows operating system, malicious software  is
spreading faster than ever. The so-called malware surreptitiously takes over a
PC and then uses that computer to spread more malware to other machines
exponentially. Computer scientists and security researchers acknowledge they
cannot get ahead of the onslaught.

As more  business and social life has moved onto the Web, criminals thriving on
an underground economy of credit card thefts, bank fraud and other scams rob
computer users of an estimated $100 billion a year, according to a conservative
estimate by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. A  Russian
company that sells fake antivirus software that actually takes over a computer
pays its illicit distributors as much as $5 million a year.

With vast resources from stolen credit card and other financial information, the
cyberattackers are handily winning a technology arms race.

''Right now the bad guys are improving more quickly than the good guys,'' said
Patrick Lincoln, director of the computer science laboratory at  SRI
International, a science and technology research group.

A well-financed computer underground has built an advantage by working in
countries that have global Internet connections but authorities with little
appetite for prosecuting offenders who are bringing in significant amounts of
foreign currency. That was driven home in late October when RSA FraudAction
Research Lab, a security consulting group based in Bedford, Mass., discovered a
cache of half a million credit card numbers and bank account log-ins that had
been stolen by a network of so-called zombie computers remotely controlled by an
online gang.

In October, researchers at the Georgia Tech Information Security Center reported
that the percentage of online computers worldwide infected by botnets --
networks of programs connected via the Internet that send spam or disrupt
Internet-based services   -- is likely to increase to 15 percent by the end of
this year, from 10 percent in 2007. That suggests a staggering  number of
infected computers, as many as 10 million, being used to distribute spam and
malware over the Internet each day, according to research compiled by PandaLabs.

Security researchers concede that their efforts are largely an exercise in a
game of whack-a-mole because botnets that distribute  malware like worms, the
programs that can move from computer to computer, are still relatively invisible
to commercial antivirus software. A research report  last month by Stuart
Staniford, chief scientist of FireEye, a Silicon Valley computer security firm,
indicated that in tests of 36 commercial antivirus products, fewer than half of
the newest malicious software programs were identified.

There have been some recent successes, but they are short-lived. On Nov. 11, the
volume of spam, which transports the malware, dropped by half around the globe
after an Internet service provider disconnected the Mycolo Corporation, an
American firm with Russian ties,  from the Internet.  But the respite is not
expected to last long  as  cybercriminals regain control of their
spam-generating  computers.

''Modern worms are stealthier and they are professionally written,'' said Bruce
Schneier, chief security technology officer for British Telecom. ''The criminals
have gone upmarket, and they're organized and international because there is
real money to be made.''

The gangs keep improving their malware, and now programs can be written to hunt
for a specific type of information stored on a personal  computer. For example,
some malware uses the operating system to look for recent documents created by a
user, on the assumption they will be more valuable. Some routinely watch for and
then steal log-in and password information, specifically consumer financial
information.

The sophistication of the programs has in the last two years begun to give them
almost lifelike capabilities. For example, malware programs now infect computers
and then routinely use their own antivirus capabilities to not only disable
antivirus software but also remove competing malware programs. Recently,
Microsoft antimalware researchers disassembled an infecting program and were
stunned to discover that it was programmed to turn on the Windows Update feature
after it took over the user's computer. The infection was ensuring that it was
protected from other criminal attackers.

And there is more of it. Microsoft has monitored a 43 percent jump in malware
removed from Windows computers just in the last half year.

The biggest problem may be that people cannot tell if their computers are
infected because the malware often masks its presence from antivirus software.
For now,  Apple's Macintosh computers are more or less exempt from the attacks,
but researchers expect Apple machines to become a larger target as their market
share grows.

The severity of the situation was driven home not long ago for Ed Amaroso,
AT&T's chief security official. ''I was at home with my mother's computer
recently and I showed her it was attacking China,'' he said. '' 'Can you just
make it run a little faster?' she asked, and I told her 'Ma, we have to reimage
your hard disk.' ''

Beyond the billions of dollars lost in theft of money and data is another,
deeper impact. Many Internet executives fear that basic trust in what has become
the foundation of 21st century commerce is rapidly eroding. ''There's an
increasing trend to depend on the Internet for a wide range of applications,
many of them having to deal with financial institutions,'' said Vinton G. Cerf,
one of the original designers of the Internet, who is now Google's ''chief
Internet evangelist.''

''The more we depend on these types of systems, the more vulnerable we become,''
he said.

The United States government has begun to recognize the extent of the problem.
In January, President Bush signed National Security Presidential Directive 54,
establishing a national cybersecurity initiative. The plan, which may cost more
than  $30 billion over seven years, is directed at securing the federal
government's own computers as well as the systems that run the nation's critical
infrastructure, like oil and gas networks and electric power and water systems.

That will do little, however, to help protect businesses and consumers who use
the hundreds of millions of Internet-connected personal computers and
cellphones, the criminals' newest target.

Despite new technologies that are holding some attackers at bay, several
computer security experts said they were worried that the economic downturn will
make computer security the first casualty of corporate spending cuts. Security
gets hit because it is hard to measure its effectiveness, said Eugene Spafford,
a computer scientist at Purdue University.

He is pessimistic.  ''In many respects, we are probably worse off than we were
20 years ago,'' he said, ''because all of the money has been devoted to patching
the current problem rather than investing in the redesign of our
infrastructure.''

The cyber-criminals appear to be at least as technically advanced as the most
sophisticated software companies. And they are faster and more flexible. As
software companies have tightened the security of the basic operating systems
like Windows and Macintosh, attackers have moved on to Web browsers and
Internet-connected programs like Adobe Flash and Apple QuickTime.

This has led to an era of so-called ''drive-by infections,'' where users are
induced to click on Web links that are contained in e-mail messages. Cyber
-criminals have raised the ability to fool unsuspecting computer users into
clicking on intriguing messages to a high art.

Researchers note that the global cycle of distributing security patches
inevitably plays to the advantage of the attacker, who can continually hunt for
and exploit new backdoors and weaknesses in systems. This year, computer
security firms have begun shifting from traditional anti-virus program designs,
which are regularly updated on subscribers' personal computers, to Web-based
services, which can be updated even faster.

Security researchers at SRI International are now collecting over 10,000 unique
samples of malware daily from around the global. ''To me it feels like job
security,'' said Phillip Porras, an SRI program director and the computer
security expert who led the design of the company's Bothunter program, available
free at www.bothunter.net.

''This is always an arm race, as long as it gets into your machine faster than
the update to detect it, the bad guys win,'' said Mr. Schneier.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: A Moving Target: The amount of malicious software, known as
malware, detected on the Internet has risen sharply over the last two
years.(Source: F-Secure) Chart details bar graph. (pg. A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               64 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 8, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Online Customer Is Spending Less

BYLINE: By JEFF VANDAM

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DRILLING DOWN; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 176 words


For all the significance attached to Cyber Monday, the unofficial start of the
online holiday shopping season on the day after Thanksgiving weekend, this
year's numbers were hardly inspiring. Chase Paymentech's Cyber Holiday Pulse
Index reported an increase for Cyber Monday 2008 of less than 1 percent in
revenue, although it also recorded 14 percent more total transactions this year.

What gives? The answer lies in the average value of each purchase by online
shoppers, down 12 percent from last year. Chase's index, which surveys 25 of the
largest 150 retailers on its Internet payment processing network, showed that
the average shopper spent $7.19 less per transaction on Cyber Monday this year
over last -- reflecting deeper discounts than usual, thriftier shoppers or both.

''It's a distinct finding that we didn't predict,'' said Mia Shernoff, executive
vice president for marketing at Chase Paymentech. ''It's reasonable to say that
that's the beginning of the ramp-up, but it's not the big day in the same way
that Black Friday is.''

JEFF VANDAM

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART: $51.62 Average value of a transaction on ''Cyber Monday''
2008.
 $58.81  Average value on Cyber Monday in 2007.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               65 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 9, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Panel Presses to Bolster Security in Cyberspace

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 607 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


License plates may be coming to cyberspace.

A government and technology industry panel on cyber-security is recommending
that the  federal government end its reliance on passwords and enforce what the
industry describes as ''strong authentication.''

Such an approach would probably mean that all government computer users would
have to hold a device to gain access to a network computer or online service.
The commission is  also encouraging all nongovernmental commercial services use
such a device.

''We need to move away from passwords,'' said Tom Kellermann, vice president for
security awareness at Core Security Technologies and a member of the commission
that created the report.

The report, which offers guidance to the Obama administration,  is a strong
indictment of government and private industry efforts to secure cyberspace to
date. ''The laissez-faire  approach to cyber-security has failed,'' Mr.
Kellermann said.

Restricting Internet access is one of a series of recommendations that a group
of more than 60 government and business computer security specialists will make
in a public presentation, ''Securing Cyberspace in the 44th Presidency,'' on
Monday.

The report  has been prepared during the last 18 months under the auspices of
the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington  policy group,
after a number of break-ins into government computer systems.

''The damage from cyber attack is real,'' the report states. ''Last year, the
Departments of Defense, State, Homeland Security, and Commerce, NASA and the
National Defense University all suffered major intrusions by unknown foreign
entities.''

The report describes a laundry list of serious break-ins ranging from the
hacking of the secretary of Defense's unclassified e-mail to the loss of
''terabytes'' of data at the State Department.

The group recommends the creation of a White House cyber-security czar reporting
to the president and the consolidation of the powers that have largely  been
held by the Homeland Security Department under the Bush administration. The
report argues that cyber-security is one of the most significant national
security threats and that it can no longer be relegated to information
technology offices and chief information officers.

The commission included the top Democrat and Republican members of the House
Homeland Security subcommittee that oversees cyber-security. The chairmen of the
commission included Jim Langevin, a Democratic congressman from Rhode Island;
and Michael McCaul, a Republican congressman from Texas.

Scott Charney, corporate vice president for trustworthy computing at Microsoft;
and Harry D. Raduege Jr., a retired Air Force lieutenant general  who is
chairman of the Center for Network Innovation at Deloitte & Touche, were also on
the commission.

The report calls for  new laws and regulations governing cyberspace.

''We believe that cyberspace cannot be secured without regulation,'' the report
said. The proposed regulations included new standards for critical
infrastructure providers like the finance and energy industries, as well as new
federal product acquisition rules to force more secure products.

The report does not entirely reject the work of the Bush administration. It
cites the creation of the Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative,
adopted by the government as part of a presidential memorandum issued last
January as a good starting point for remaking the nation's cyber-security
strategy.

That effort has led to a commitment by the federal  government to spend more
than $30 billion in the next seven years to enhance computing security.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               66 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 14, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Terror' Is The Enemy

BYLINE: By PHILIP BOBBITT.

Philip Bobbitt, a law professor at Columbia and the author of ''Terror and
Consent: The Wars for the 21st Century,'' is a former senior director at the
National Security Council.

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR TRANSITIONS;
Pg. 10

LENGTH: 872 words


GENERALS are not the only ones who prepare to fight the previous war. Our
experience with 20th-century nation-based terrorists -- the I.R.A. in Ireland,
the P.K.K. in the Kurdish areas of Turkey, ETA in Spain's Basque country, the
F.L.N. in Algeria and others -- still dominates much of our thinking about how
to deal with 21st-century global terrorists. Indeed, the lack of new concepts
may well be as deadly to our national security as any lack of vaccines.

New approaches to dealing with global terrorism must first be integrated into
our foreign security policies generally. Allies in Europe must be reassured that
the United States will not violate the human rights accords to which we are a
party. We must also devise  a policy that aligns the interests of Afghanistan,
India and Pakistan while isolating the terrorists that threaten them all. We
must seek common ground with many states around the world against our universal
threats -- global terrorists and pirates, the proliferation of nuclear and
biological weapons and civilian catastrophes -- even if, in other contexts,
these nations are our adversaries.

The ''war on terror'' is not a nonsensical public relations slogan, however
unwelcome this conclusion may be to Pentagon planners or civil-liberties
advocates. The notion of such a war puzzles us -- after all, who would sign the
peace treaty? -- because we are so trapped in 20th-century expectations about
warfare. But success in war does not always mean the capitulation of an enemy
government (as we have seen in Iraq); rather, it varies with the war aim.

In a war against terror, the aim is not the conquest of territory or the
advancement of ideology, but the protection of civilians. We are fighting a war
on terror, not just terrorists. That is evident from the list of targets in the
attacks in Mumbai, India, in which national liberation terrorists from Kashmir
were apparently the outsourced operational arm of a global network with far more
ambitious, and more anti-Western, objectives. The Mumbai terrorists did not even
bother to issue demands; what they sought was terror itself.

Mexico is potentially our Pakistan -- a failing state on our border that can
provide  haven for our adversaries, at least some of whom will be privatized
terrorists. Imagine a poorer, less-democratic Mexico; then imagine it harboring
extortionists with a small arsenal of deliverable nuclear or biological weapons.
This may be a long-term threat, but it requires immediate assistance and
cooperation.

But Pakistan is our Pakistan, too, and not just India's or Afghanistan's
problem. ''Homeland security'' is a dangerous solecism when we are fighting a
global adversary that moves easily across borders. If terror is our adversary,
then our own health system, for example, is only as secure as the most
vulnerable health system overseas that might spawn an epidemic that could
quickly reach our shores.

We must use available international institutions -- like the International
Criminal Court, to which pirates and other terrorists could be rendered --
whenever possible. Yet we must not shrink from augmenting them, for example, by
creating a global body similar to NATO including other democracies, by enlarging
the United Nations Security Council to include other great states, and by giving
new security responsibilities to the Group of Eight.

Our legislators need more foresight, stockpiling laws for emergencies just as we
stockpile vaccines. Perhaps the most obvious would be a provision to replace
members of Congress who might be killed or disabled in such numbers that the
House of Representatives itself is unable to act. This could easily have
occurred on 9/11 if the fourth plane had struck the Capitol, which would have
plunged the country into months of martial law.

Finally, the Obama administration can have no higher priority than forging links
with the private sector to protect  what has become the electronic foundation
for contemporary life. Unless the government, perhaps through insurance
mandates, can persuade private companies to harden themselves to cyber-attacks,
the deregulated and fragmented owners of our digital backbone will inevitably
underfinance such protection.

This last observation points to the interrelation between the three arenas of
the war on terror: 21st-century terrorists, the commodification  of weapons of
mass destruction, and the increasing vulnerability of highly developed nations
like our own. Educating our public about this new tripartite threat will place
enormous demands on our political leadership.

The presidential election was  the end of the first phase of the war on terror.
Preventing any attacks on the United States since 9/11 is something for which
the Bush administration must be given credit, but credit must also go to the
American public, which decisively rejected  offshore penal colonies, spurious
rationalizations for warfare, secret torture chambers and contempt for the
constitutional and international  laws that would forbid such practices. Indeed,
by selecting a former law professor as its new president, the country has
thoroughly dismissed the notion that law is an obstacle rather than a guide to
achieving security.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KATHERINE STREETER)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               67 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 19, 2008 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Where Too Much Is Never Enough (and Black Is Still the New Black)

BYLINE: By KAREN ROSENBERG

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW
'GOTHIC: DARK GLAMOUR'; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 978 words


''Gothic: Dark Glamour'' at the Museum at F.I.T. is a fashion show with fangs.
Its appeal is practically guaranteed, as modern-day vampire stories fill big
screens (''Twilight'') and small (''True Blood''),  and the arbiters of chic
decree that black is back.

Organized by Valerie Steele, the director of the Fashion Institute of
Technology's museum, the show unfolds in a nightmarish mise-en-scene conceived
by the British artist and set designer Simon Costin. The clothes have been
installed in a labyrinth of haunted palaces, ruined castles and cemetery-gate
enclosures. Naturally it all takes place in F.I.T.'s cryptlike basement
galleries.

The gloom and doom can be overpowering, but Ms. Steele and Mr. Costin understand
that too much is never enough for the goth devotee. And it's impossible to
upstage the clothes, with their capes, corsetry and fetishistic hardware.

As uniformly macabre as it is, ''Gothic: Dark Glamour'' resonates with several
groups. Fashionistas will relish the chance to see famous creations by Oliver
Theyskens, Ann Demeulemeester and other avant-garde designers. Readers of Poe,
Shelley and other Romantic literature will enjoy seeing gothic characters and
settings come to life (or undeath). And the eager consumers of adolescent
vampire fantasies, from ''Buffy the Vampire Slayer''  to ''Twilight,'' will
thrill to the clothes' sex-and-death subtext.

Contemporary art aficionados, on the other hand, may find the show old news.
During the goth art trend, which peaked in the early 2000s, Chelsea was filled
with werewolf heads, fake blood and coded references to murderous satanic
subcultures. In sculptures by Banks Violette and David Altmejd and video
installations by Sue de Beer, goth references conferred outsider status and
expressed a morbid mindset that seemed appropriate in the aftermath of 9/11.

The word gothic, which originates with third-century Germanic warrior tribes,
has come to signify a macabre, antimodern aesthetic, one that encompasses (among
other genres) Medieval monasteries, decadent and Romantic novels, Hollywood
horror movies and the Victorian steampunk subculture. At F.I.T. an antechamber
to the main gallery displays fashions representative of three gothic muses:  the
victim, the widow and the vamp.

In the victim category are filmy gowns that could have been worn by the swooning
subject of Henry Fuseli's 1871 painting ''The Nightmare.'' (A reproduction is on
view.) In the widow category is Victorian mourning dress: suffocatingly
high-necked, monochromatic black ensembles. In the most spectacular category,
that of the vamp, is a scarlet dress by Eiko Ishioka made for Francis Ford
Coppola's film ''Bram Stoker's Dracula.'' Its cascading bustle suggests spilled
blood.

These archetypes reappear throughout the main gallery.  Rodarte's red-stained
chiffon gown, inspired by Japanese horror movies? Ethereal goth. A slim,
bias-cut number by John Galliano for Christian Dior? Classic vamp.

Also in the show's first section is a fascinating curio cabinet of gothic
accessories, among them a bat-shaped belt buckle, a brooch made from a pigeon's
wing and a bottle of laudanum. Some objects date from the Victorian era, others
from current collections; it can be difficult to tell which is which.

The labyrinth of the main gallery begins with a section called ''Night,''
devoted to streamlined, elegant designs. Here a black leather jumper with a deep
cowl neck by Ms. Demeulemeester, known as the Dark Queen of Belgian Fashion,
offsets slinky dresses by Karl Lagerfeld and Giles Deacon.

The outfits in the ''Ruined Castle'' section evoke what the scholar Chris
Baldick describes as ''an impression of sickening descent into disintegration.''
Hussein Chalayan's shredded and deconstructed corsets stand out, as does a dress
by Yeohlee with curved seams that take the form of Gothic arches.

In the background of ''Laboratory,''  mannequin zombies press their faces
against a latex scrim. An infamous hunchback dress by Rei Kawakubo and a leather
prosthetic corset, which both create the illusion of deformities, are found
here. Kei Kagami's torturous-looking shoes, inspired by a London cemetery,
complete the show's creepiest section.

In ''Batcave'' outfits are displayed in glass cases fronted with two-way
mirrors; the lights are on a timer, affording only brief glimpses of the
clothes. Here you are introduced to niche goths like the graver, or goth raver;
the cyber-goth; and the elegant gothic Lolita of the Harajuku district, a center
of youth style in Tokyo. Many of these tribes coalesce around music scenes, a
phenomenon detailed in Jennifer Park's catalog essay, ''Melancholy and the
Macabre: Gothic Rock and Fashion.''

To her credit, Ms. Steele recognizes that the goth aesthetic encompasses much
more than fashion. Yet she closes the exhibition with an emphasis on the
philosophical alliance between fashion and death, quoting Coco Chanel's
statement, ''Fashion must die and die quickly, in order that it can begin to
live.'' That explains the perennial parade of black clothes on the runway, but
not the enduring, cross-cultural phenomenon that gave rise to Horace Walpole's
novel ''The Castle of Otranto'' and Harajuku's gothic Lolitas.

A few other questions come to mind: why does the show focus almost exclusively
on women's clothing, when the catalog devotes so much space to the elegant (and
implicitly homosexual) figure of the vampire-dandy? Where did that aristocratic
image (epitomized by Bela Lugosi's Dracula) come from, and why does it still
have such a hold on the popular imagination? The current national mood begs for
a deeper understanding of the relationship between luxury and death, handbags
and coffins.

''Gothic: Dark Glamour'' continues through Feb. 21 at the Museum at F.I.T.,
Seventh Avenue at 27th Street, Manhattan; (212) 217-4560, fitnyc.edu.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 20, 2008



CORRECTION: An art review on Friday about ''Gothic: Dark Glamour,'' at the
Museum at F.I.T., misstated the date of the Henry Fuseli painting ''The
Nightmare,'' which is shown in a reproduction in the exhibition. It is 1781, not
1871. (Fuseli died in 1825.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The mannequin wore black: a gown by Riccardo Tisci. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY IRVING SOLERO/MUSEUM AT F.I.T.)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                               68 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 21, 2008 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Financial Time Bombs

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUELFER and JIM RICKARDS.

Charles Duelfer, the former director of the Iraq Survey Group, is the author of
the forthcoming ''Hide and Seek: The Search for Truth in Iraq.'' James Rickards
was general counsel of the hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management and oversaw
its rescue by the Federal Reserve.

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS TRANSITIONS;
Pg. 11

LENGTH: 672 words


THE economic crisis has made it painfully obvious that the United States economy
has become very vulnerable to broken gears in the global financial system. But
this is not simply a financial or economic problem -- it is a grave national
security risk, and our government must treat it as such.

Historically, Washington's national security and financial apparatuses have
operated independently. Intelligence analysts have focused on explicit threats
posed by weapons and conflicts. Those parts of the government charged with
ensuring economic health have a different mind-set, monitoring   capital markets
where they assume threats are not malicious, but competitive in nature. This
needs to change.

For a model, consider the evolution that took place in the 1990s with respect to
cyber-threats. While this was initially the preserve of information technology
experts and companies, government officials came to recognize the enormous
potential threats to the power grid, the Internet and government computer
systems.

In terms of economic security, however, a complicating factor is that financial
experts and national security officials view risk in very different ways. The
meltdown on Wall Street is largely a result of an overriding incentive to see
risks as low. The group dynamic among financial houses was to lend more under
more precarious conditions -- if you didn't, a competitor would, and he would
generate greater near-term returns, lure more investors and get a higher bonus.

Conversely, the national security community, tends to maximize risk assessments.
Aerospace companies sell more weapons if the threat is judged to be increasing.
National security analysts don't get jobs if they say there is no danger. It's
all about playing up risk -- sometimes too far, as the miscalculation over Iraqi
weapons of mass destruction threat showed.

Despite these divergent views of risk, the talents of professionals in the
capital markets and national security experts must be combined if America is to
identify and respond to financial threats.

For example, while China has behaved appropriately during the global financial
crisis, there is no doubt that its enormous reserves give it de facto veto power
over some of Washington's interest rate and exchange rate policies. What would
we have done if Beijing had responded differently? And the desires of Russia
(then fighting in Georgia) were a consideration during the Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac bailouts, because it is one of the largest holders of government
agency debt.

Al Qaeda has declared that damage to the American economy is its second most
important goal after mass casualties. Presently, who would warn the White House
if foreign entities made a concerted attack on our financial system? Who is
charged with detecting such activity?

The Obama administration needs to place a new priority on the national security
implications of capital and commodities markets. The National Security Council
needs to draw together the powerful talents and tools from segregated agencies
to tackle the problem.

Our spy agencies alone lack the direction and specialized expertise to provide
the real-time market analysis required. It calls for talent more likely found
among hedge fund managers and open-market traders. After all, the data does not
need to be captured clandestinely -- much is readily available from exchanges,
brokers and other open sources. Quick analysis -- with the sorts of quantitative
engines traders use, redesigned for national financial security objectives --
may be the most critical aspect.

There is a tremendous range of global threat indicators that can be gleaned from
careful scrutiny of trading activity. For example, in August 2006 an unexplained
decline in certain airline stocks took place shortly before the arrests in
Britain of terrorists plotting to blow up trans-Atlantic airliners.

The global financial meltdown is going to give our enemies new ideas to create
economic havoc. We don't have much  time to plan our response.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NICK DEWAR)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
